
    ----CITATION----
        Chesebro', Caroline, (1825-1873). Susan, the Fisherman's Daughter, or, Getting Along, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6040 wright2-0513v2
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               SUSAN, The Fisherman's Daughter;
               OR, GETTING ALONG.
               A BOOK OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
            
            
               
                  "Know thyself."
               
            
            BY CAROLINE CHESEBRO', AUTHOR OF "DREAM-LAND BY
               DAYLIGHT," "ISA, A PILGRIMAGE."
            TWO VOLUMES IN ONE.
            
               NEW YORK:
               J. C. DERBY, 119 NASSAU STREET.
               BOSTON:
               PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.
               CINCINNATI:
               H. W. DERBY. 1855.
            
         
         
         
            
               ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by J. C. DERBY, In
                  the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
                  District of New York.
               THOMAS B. SMITH, STEREOTYPER & ELECTROTYPER.
               216 William Street.
            
         
      
      
         
            Susan, the fisherman's daughter, or, Getting along, vol. 2
            GETTING-ALONG.
            
               I.
               BUT here is Susan Dillon on our hands still, and in some way she must be taken to
                  the beach.
               Very respectably she shall go, in the Baldwin carriage even.
               But what is the child thinking of?
               The caravan of yesterday? No. The fact that last night Mr. Baldwin called her "my
                  daughter"? No indeed.
               Without betraying herself as the listener of that conversation between Isidore and
                  David which went on in the library, it became at length possible for her to name
                  the name of Stella Cammon. She could ask David if the lady about whom he rallied
                  his sister at the breakfast table was her Stella. And was she then remembering
                  what Mr. Falcon had promised, that he would himself go with her message to Miss
                  Stella, because there was not time for her to go that morning, for the carriage
                  was already waiting to convey them to Harlem, and Susan was not to return to St.
                  John's? In spite of all the friendly opposition they made, Susan had decided that
                  on that day she would return to the beach. It was somewhat extraordinary, or at
                  least noticeable, that David, some time after he learned her decision, changed his mind about going to pay his respects to
                  his father's old friend, and at the last moment followed the rest of the family
                  into the carriage.
               Yes—Susan was, above all things, thinking of what she had heard of Stella
                  Cammon—was drawing pictures of Stella for herself, and enduing her with every form
                  and glory of human beauty; for had not David praised that beauty? and had not
                  Isidore denied its existence?
               But the child was thinking of other things beside... Of Mr. Falcon's promise, that
                  he should speedily come down to tell her about Stella, and of the quickness and
                  eagerness with which Clarence had said that he would come too. And of other
                  things. Of the gifts she was conveying in the basket that was stowed away under
                  the coachman's box—the nice things for her father, and herself, and for the house;
                  but especially, among these things, of the volume David gave her—the very book
                  from which he read those poems to her in the garden yesterday.
               She was glad that she was going home. Who is it that asks why? Perhaps it was
                  because of the instinctive conviction that home was the best place for her. It may
                  have been the fear that made her shrink and tremble so when David's eyes were on
                  her. Must he not know how she had thought of him? It may have been Mr. Baldwin's
                  constant "Susy," or that more rare and remarkable "my daughter," which excited and
                  troubled her, and she wished to be beyond the sound of the words.
               But then, oh busy, childish brain! there were still other things to think
                  of—scores of them. The Harlem visit was immediately at hand; and she must needs
                  trouble herself vastly about that. What a grand, stiff, overwhelming air it was
                  Isidore assumed now! and how Susan troubled herself thinking of it, and of what
                  the probable end would be; for Isidore was so different from the folks at Harlem,
                  and then the contrast between the cottage and the Hall!
               Their going from St. John's had been regulated by the hour at which they would
                  probably arrive at Harlem. The bell rung for twelve o'clock as they drove through
                  the village; and, to her great joy, Susan saw the children of the school running
                  down the street, and Mrs. Chilton just going in at her gate.
               This was the morning of the green-note tribulation.
               What Susan exactly anticipated from the visit it had been difficult to tell; but
                  she erred greatly when she anticipated trepidation in the heart, or embarrassment
                  in the eyes of Mrs. Chilton. It was a heart that had grown in the atmosphere of
                  fashionable life—they were eyes which had seen the utmost display of those
                  wonders; and it was not likely that such an arrival or interview as this at hand
                  would disconcert her.
               She was equal to the occasion, to speak in popular language. She received the
                  guests precisely as she would have done twenty years ago, when it was hers to
                  reign and rule. They understood, each and all of them understood, Isidore in
                  somewhat of consternation, that the relation between Mr. Baldwin, the self-made,
                  and herself, was precisely the same, now in her poverty, that it had been in the
                  days of her wealth. Her charm of manner contrived to throw an illusion over those
                  humble rooms, and her poorly-clad, but graceful, patrician self. The old-time's
                  conscious power was again in her faded face— in her speech, in her gesture.
                  Isidore was not here to bestow patronage or to exhibit the grace of condescension,
                  but to learn of an apt teacher, of one who was strikingly alive to her advantages.
                  Her son and daughter were with her, but she was the centre of the group. What
                  smiles she had, as if, for all the world, Miss Scroggs had never seen the light,
                  and a green note had never been written,
                  nor a dirty boy been found to bear it! What grace she had! as if the palm of
                  empire were still hers, and her conduct the creed of the faithful! What speech was
                  hers! No necessity for resignation did it recognize —no cause for lamentation; in
                  this first interview nothing appeared but the perfect grace of a thoroughly
                  cultivated woman of the world; the lofty dignity, or rather the haughty pride, of
                  one whose place was high among the social dignitaries of the land, whose favor was
                  life, and more than life, to all aspiring wealth outside the magic circle.
               It was she who made the impression on her visitors that day, and perfectly she
                  understood it—perfectly she understood herself and them. And the result of the
                  visit was, that the party from St. John's re-entered the carriage and continued on
                  their way to the beach, with such opinions as would inevitably be deepened and
                  confirmed into enthusiasm, when they were thought over and talked about.
               What he had seen and heard warmed up old Ishmael's heart, roused his pity, and led
                  him on to make a generous resolution. Isidore, too, was charmed with young
                  Chilton, and expressed some interest in the pale young lady, who seemed to be in
                  such feeble health. As for David, he contented himself with reclining in his
                  corner of the carriage and watching the delight of Susan's face as she listened to
                  all these amiable things that were said of her friends in Harlem. The visit she
                  had held so much in dread had ended in rejoicing, and now she looked back upon it
                  and saw nothing of its tribulation—as a rare day of festival if would remain in
                  memory.
            
            
               II.
               OUR little Susan must go up and report herself to Mr. Leighton. It is but three
                  days... it is an age!
               As she goes about the cabin, opening the doors and windows, so that the fresh,
                  warm sunlight may come in, thinking of all she has seen and heard in these past
                  days, again and again comes up before her mind the student in the mill. He will
                  have so many questions to ask about her visit... and what shall she tell him?
                  There is so much to tell!
               Think of your return home from your first visit to "the city," my own dear,
                  next-door, country neighbor!... But perhaps you had no old student who, you knew,
                  was waiting for your coming, at least anticipated it, in the topmost chamber of an
                  old red mill! Ah, but there was some blessed old soul that you loved or feared,
                  perhaps both, to whom you must unbosom yourself, on whom you must throw the burden
                  of all your experience.
               Mr. Leighton would be sure to question her in such strange ways! She could not
                  prepare her answers in advance. He would not be content with hearing of the sights
                  that she had seen—about the Hall, and the gardens, and the caravan—if he only
                  would! but he would not. She shrunk from appearing before that tribunal.
               And so she lingered and delayed.
               Down on the lowly door-step she seated herself, and looked around upon the
                  barrenness of the coast, and out upon the sea. The sound of the dashing waves
                  filled her with melancholy.
               Reader, had you a childhood?... There have then, certainly, been days, hot
                  Saturday afternoons, blessings on their memory! when you toiled over hills, and
                  waste places of dead level, for the sake of losing yourself in the greenness of the dark forest, where the
                  treasures of moss, and mandrakes, and sorrel were. You and your little friend, may
                  heaven bless you both, if your little friend is still among the living, and you
                  unbereft, wandering in the lonely woods, have followed the winding of the stream,
                  where, along its humble pathway through the woods, it bore its burden of fallen
                  leaves; and in your wanderings you have come at length upon an opening where the
                  trees were cut away, or had fallen, or for some reason were not, and you noticed
                  there, surely your young eyes did, how the majestic heavens found their reflection
                  even in that tiniest of brooklets. You followed it on, do I not know you did,
                  still on, through new shades, and more dense, until finally you came, you and that
                  little friend, with her hands full of flowers and her bosom of the green, moist
                  wood moss, until you came suddenly upon a horror of stagnation—a place were the
                  bright waters were impeded in their progress, choked by leaves and stones, by some
                  unnatural obstruction, turned aside and spread out in a marsh! and with a
                  shuddering foreboding of foul worms, and snakes, and toads, you went hastily away.
                  Do I not know? Have not I also been getting along also, all this while, do you
                  think, oh reader?
               Was such stagnation, was such death as this before our Susan? Some such imagining
                  was floating through her fancy. Some such question as this she asked herself, as,
                  sitting in the silence, the crowds of city streets, the many and varied voices she
                  had heard, passed through her mind. Monotonous roar of ocean, where was now thy
                  music? She had heard the roar of carriage-wheels, the clash of human voices! and
                  the music of life was in them. Give to a child a drum, will not the roll that he
                  beats out-sound all the music of nature to him?
               The soft, bewildering beauty of the gardens belonging to the Hall, the green and
                  scrupulously-kept lawn—and all the greenness here was in the little place of
                  graves— oh! how lonely, how desolate it looked!
               She had taken her books from the place where she kept them. She opened them again,
                  and tried to fix her thoughts upon their pages. But the pages were blank before
                  her eyes. She had brought out another book with these, the volume of poems David
                  gave her. Aloud she repeated those which he had read for her. For the rest she did
                  not care. And thus the afternoon passed away, and no visit was made to the
                  Mill.
               Mr. Leighton learned that she had arrived that day. He saw the carriage as it
                  passed up from the cabin along the road to St. John's. And all that afternoon he
                  waited impatiently for Susan to come and report herself to him; but at night he
                  smiled at his surprise and impatience, and repeated before he slept some one among
                  the many articles of his faith concerning woman.
               At night old Walter returned home. Susan went down and met him at the water's
                  edge. Here was a listener to whom she might talk and not fear, of the three days
                  of grace and glory she had spent away from him. He would ask her no searching
                  questions, and would very likely fall asleep before she was half through the
                  wondrous story. To him Susan talked till dark, and by that time both had taken
                  supper, and both were ready for sleep.
            
            
               III.
               BUT at ten o'clock the next morning Susan went up to the Mill.
               Mr. Leighton saw her as she came. He stood and watched her from the round window
                  of his tower. Susan saw him—perhaps he was looking for her and expecting her. Half
                  in doubt she went slowly on; and when she
                  arrived at the mill-door and the stair-case, she stood there irresolute. But he
                  had no such design as to descend and meet her—she listened, but there came no
                  sound of his footfall.
               Nay, even when she went up the stairs, and knocked at his door, he kept her
                  waiting longer than a moment—long enough for her to wonder why, after she had
                  filled her father's pipe for him, and brushed his best clothes, and spread them
                  out on his bed for him when he should be ready to dress for Sunday, why, after she
                  had told him that she would go up if she might to see Mr. Leighton, and he had
                  said, "Go," why she went and changed her dress, and boots, and put on that new
                  bonnet. It was these fine things that so much confused her—that coarse, black
                  straw bonnet, and decent muslin dress! why the Queen of Sheba, when she went to
                  visit Solomon, was not more thoroughly aware of all her grand apparelling than our
                  poor Susan.
               He at length did open the door, and the magnificent apparition did not attempt to
                  speak; she merely held up her books before him.
               "Well! well! my dear!"
               So he greeted her—and taking her books out of her hands, he crossed the room and
                  deposited them on the table; then returning, took up his cap.
               "I have missed you. See, Susan, was there ever worse confusion? No! no! I'm not
                  going to let you in here. It is not a fit place for you on account of the
                  dust!"
               He would never have thought of that, said Susan to herself, if I had not been so
                  foolish as to come up dressed in this style.
               "We will go to the beach and enjoy the breeze," continued he. "Have you really a
                  lesson to recite?"
               The idea seemed to please him, and Susan perceiving that, began to feel a little
                  less uncomfortable in her garments of civilization.
               "Are you glad to get back home again?" asked he, as they went down the stairs.
               What should she say, if not yes to that?
               Actually at the moment she was glad, because the belief seemed to give him
                  satisfaction.
               He had, doubtless, been lonely during her absence—she said—he must have been. She
                  argued concerning him as if solitude were not his main object in coming to this
                  barren and waste place.
               "But, child, are you not going to tell me what you think of life now?"
               That was his first question as they walked together along the beach in the
                  sunshine.
               Once or twice, as we know, during the past days, Susan had looked upon herself as
                  admirably prepared to answer a question like that—should he ask it again she
                  should find no difficulty in replying. Had he asked it, as Mr. Falcon did, while
                  she was amidst the excitements of the city's sounds and shows, she had found no
                  more difficulty in answering the one man, than the other; but here—she knew
                  nothing, she could say nothing. Nothing to the purpose at least; speak she did,
                  but with more despair even than she felt at his first asking when she came back
                  from Harlem; she said:
               "What do I know of it, Mr. Leighton?"
               True, indeed, what did she know of it?
               "But you will tell me, at least, what you have been doing?"
               She made but a confused story of it—but for the answers his questions themselves
                  afforded her, it had been still worse.
               "It is beautiful," said he more than once, with a sad earnestness, sufficiently convincing; "it,"
                  whatever that might signify, must be beautiful.
               "But then," said he gravely, "if you like those things, and companionship so much,
                  this monotonous quiet will be past endurance."
               He had a cordial response to that suggestion in Susan's silence.
               She must needs betray herself to the last degree, however, when he said:
               "But you can escape from it," he exclaimed.
               "How, Mr. Leighton?" she asked too quickly, too eagerly.
               "Get married!" he responded dryly.
               Was there no saint or angel near her to help her, that she should "grow scarlet
                  and grow pale," and look away, and seek to hide her face from the man who was
                  reading every page of her heart, every sentence of it, as a man may read a child's
                  book of fables, all whose meaning he comprehends, while the poor infant sees only
                  the pretty pictures, and the curious print?
               "That is the way girls do, you know. They are tired of living at home. No great
                  wonder—they are tired of old things, old people as well, and long for new—or else
                  they are poor, and afraid of the future; and everybody gets married, you know.
                  It's a sort of disgrace not to be married. It is the way of the world, and you are
                  not going to set up yourself in opposition to that, are you, Susan?"
               So! he had discovered the thought hidden deep in her heart, at which, since she
                  first understood it, she had hardly dared look again. But to have it dragged into
                  a light like this! There was nothing for her to say. Her secret thought was hers
                  no longer. And he continued, with a cold, firm, unpitying voice:
               "David Baldwin, I should judge, is a fine fellow! What do you think of him?...
                  What do you know about life?... a good deal I should say. You are like poor Eve
                  driven from Paradise, with a knowledge of good and evil that is, to say the least,
                  rather astounding. You know quite enough about life for one of your years, I
                  should say. And here you are, actually envying Miss Baldwin her place! Be content.
                  Do you know yourself so little as to suppose that you could go dawdling through
                  life in a round of gaudy, tawdry pleasures? Did you ever hear of Icarus? If you
                  are willing to fly on waxen wings... why—" the notion seemed to him too absurd to
                  carry out into further speech.
               Here he had been comparing that divinely-beautiful life to a prison life; that
                  life which was perfect liberty to perfect folly! This, as he meant it should,
                  stirred the child up to answer; she had no wish to fly, she said. Only there was a
                  difference in paths.
               "Fifteen years," he answered, "as good as thrown away. Nothing come of them. I
                  will not believe that! It is not yourself, it is something else less true and good
                  that has the heart-ache on account of other people's trumpery. It is not you who
                  are crying for velvets and satins, good dinners, and flattery and lovers. It is
                  quite another person. You, in reality, scorn all these things. That's the reason
                  you are unhappy; because this something, which is not you, is presuming to torment
                  you with such foolish, tiresome reflections... Because you certainly know that
                  your position is one of ten thousand." You are not really going to be so foolish
                  as to slight or misconstrue your privileges... No doubt you can do so if you have
                  set your heart that way, and you will find plenty of company on that road. It is
                  all true, as John Milton said, 'There be delights, there be
                  recreations, and jolly pastimes that will fetch the day about from sun to sun, and
                  rock the tedious year as in a delightful dream,' but was it for these things, think you, that you
                  were born? Were you carried through infancy, guarded through childhood, are you
                  growing up into womanhood, for the amusement you may get? for sports and
                  eating?"
               Leighton's eyes bent upon Susan. She stood trembling—she said not a word. She was
                  afraid of him, but more afraid of herself. And he, perceiving this, made good his
                  opportunity.
               "I claim you for other purposes—for better things."
               "What things?" said a low, faint voice.
               "The service of Truth. Come up above the crowd."
               He paused now for her answer. It burst passionately from her.
               "Oh, if I had but Nep! even a dog! but to be alone as I am!"
               With this flash the cloud closed again, and became dark as before.
               "Alone!" Leighton slowly repeated the word, and his voice changed; so changed,
                  that the commotion in the child's heart was stilled, hearing it.
               "Alone. That is a word whose meaning you do not know. Speak it not—think it not.
                  You are not alone. You cannot be. Heaven and earth are full of friends for you. Is
                  not your eye single? can you not see the angels all around you?"
               "No," said Susan, "it's not true, Mr. Leighton. I have no one. I can't cheat
                  myself, and think I have. Where would be the sense if I could?"
               "Let alone the sense. Common sense is mischievous and time-serving. You are but a
                  child. There are some things in the world beside what you have seen within a day
                  or two. The reason why you are unhappy is, that you have nothing to engage your
                  attention. I mean, none of those things that absorb the attention of girls of your
                  age. You are where you are; so, of course, that cannot be helped. You must make
                  the best of things as they are. You have wakened a little too suddenly—you are
                  somewhat confused." Mr. Leighton spoke cheerfully; but it was a different sort of
                  cheerfulness from that which Mr. Falcon diffused around him, wheresoever he went,
                  like an atmosphere. There was more than a drop of bitterness in it.
               "Your eyes," said he, "are yet too weak for the broad light. It hurts them, as it
                  does the eyes of the unfledged bird. The old familiar things which should be so
                  precious to you, look strange, small, quaint, mean. You would sell them cheaply.
                  You are disposed to underrate them. Behold that mighty and restless element before
                  you, teeming with wonders, exhaustless in capacity and riches—this shining
                  beach—these innumerable grains of sand! Can you discern these things? Do you see
                  them? Do you know how many secret doors are here, which some eye must yet detect,
                  and some hand certainly open? Have you nothing to do with these mysteries and
                  discoveries? A little way from here is a large, showy house, that any one can see
                  and understand—a clown or an idiot, just as well as you; it is full of splendid
                  decorations, and that is the house for my little Susan! Why, what can my little
                  Susan be thinking of? You have not burrowed in the earth so long as to have become
                  blind as a bat. You must not play at cheating yourself—it is dangerous sport. You
                  are not to dream of the delights of sloth. Did you ever dream of the mirage of the
                  desert, how it lures, and misleads, and disappoints the thirsty traveller? There
                  are living fountains in your way. Be wise, and drink of them, Susan."
               "Salt water!" exclaimed Susan, "and I hate it."
               "You still look back with longing—"
               "Yes, with longing. It is the truth. I will go home, Mr. Leighton. I shall only
                  vex you, if I stay. I am too foolish for
                  you to talk with. You are laughing at me; but I have told you the truth. I would
                  be glad to be rid of myself, but I cannot. I will rid you of it, though."
               "Stay!" The voice was so authoritative and so calm, that Susan could not resist
                  it. "I know you better than you know yourself," he continued. "I understand you
                  better. If you go away, it will sometime be a bitter grief for you to think of. Do
                  not disappoint me... Yet I will not compel you. Go, if you will not stay."
               Susan went back, and took her former place among the rocks beside him.
               "If you know, tell me," she said.
               "You are like neither Mary nor Minerva," said he. "You are not wise, and you are
                  not meek and lowly. But you are less unlike either of these prototypes than the
                  most of women, who squander life, and all its precious things, as if they were put
                  here for no other earthly purpose. You have fallen into a terrible error. I will
                  tell you, for you should know, how girls are trained in that system of things
                  which has somehow attracted your curious admiration. You shall see what a
                  phosphorescent light it is that has gleamed out of a rotten state of things, to
                  cheat you, poor little one. They are, the unfortunate creatures, sent to
                  school—shut up in hot houses while they are infants, that they may be out of the
                  way. And they continue at school when they are older, because they must be
                  educated. What they get is called education. They study everything in the course
                  of ten or twelve years—they get a shadow of all sorts of sciences that ever were
                  heard of—and are finally turned out on the world 'finished,' brimfull of
                  irreverence, and an insolent belief in their qualifications to take the conduct of
                  their life into their own hands. Then they get married, on account of a good voice
                  for singing, or a pretty face, or the fortune they may have from their honest,
                  hardworking father, or some such thing; but not more than one woman out of ten
                  thousand for a pure, good love's sake. The next thing you hear of the ninety-nine
                  hundred, they are sending another race of unfortunate little children into the
                  hot-houses which did such rare work for their fathers and mothers. If you knew
                  more of such things, you would believe what I say, that, among the women brought
                  up after this fashion, some of them are as badly off in one respect as inebriates.
                  They happen to be immortal beings, and their dissatisfaction with the things they
                  have drawn into their souls to furnish it must show itself—they cannot get rid of
                  their craving for something better. They sometimes find out precisely what it is
                  they want; but, in one case of ten thousand, they have not even then the needful
                  courage or strength to apply the remedy. This is the life, of fine show and real
                  misery, that you would choose. This is what you covet. You! oh, woman! child! what
                  shall deliver you? are you not a whit better than these? Is it actually nothing
                  that you have grown up here in solitude, shielded by these rocks from the fortune
                  that has at last discovered how to tempt you, whose worthless gifts you
                  covet?"
               Susan thought of Isidore, and recalled what she had heard of Stella Cammon. Cold
                  and unbelieving, she stood reflecting on his words.
               "I am no better off than the others."
               "Very well," said Mr. Leighton. His voice was cold—she must explain herself, and
                  she hastened to do it.
               "These rocks are not as beautiful as gardens full of flowers, and groves of trees.
                  I do not think I am so very rich."
               "Perhaps not," quietly responded the teacher of this refractory pupil. The poor
                  hope that had taken up its sling
                  wherewith to break the gigantic theory of Leighton, stood with nerveless purpose.
                  He bent now to expostulate.
               "But make the best use of what riches you have. Why, because you have only your
                  own store, should you despise it? That is all that any person has. It is not
                  position, nor circumstance, least of all is it gold or silver, it is the man who
                  rules the world, and appoints destiny. An infant cannot manage a sword; all
                  warriors were once helpless, in their infancy. Make the best use of what good you
                  have. I do not say it is the best good in the world; but I say it is the best for
                  you. It is quite as much as you know what to do with, apparently. I should like
                  you once to see that there is not the profoundest wisdom in a body's throwing
                  himself against a wall and dashing his brains out in the hope of forcing his way
                  through it. You covet those Baldwin advantages. Now listen to me. Ask yourself why
                  you covet them, and see if you can think of an answer that you can give me without
                  shame. You are quite as well off as any soul in that house. Your means are few and
                  cheap; theirs elaborate, costly. It is quite worth your while to make an
                  experiment. I wish I could have prevented your envy of Miss Isidore. I wish you
                  had proved yourself incapable of that. I wish I could have kept you from falling
                  in love with David. But perhaps it is well that you should have the experience,
                  since you are as you are."
               The Theory of the man was evidently pursuing the Hope with a sardonic leer.
                  Leighton's intellect was in search of phenomena. No gentle emotion bade him spare
                  the child.
               To Susan, trembling, seeking to hide her glowing face, and the tears that rolled
                  hotly down her cheeks, this was terrible. It was showing her to herself with a
                  sneer It was compelling a child to be a woman; a lonely-hearted, dreaming child,
                  to become a solitary, scornful, doubting woman. For, in laying bare the secret of
                  her heart, he compelled her to some sort of action—she could not calmly endure
                  that dissection of his sharp, pitiless eyes. She must defy or yield to him.
                  Persist in disbelieving him, or submit to his guidance.
               She could not command words expressive of rapture or thanksgiving wherewith to
                  reply. Her heart had been wounded; it ached and bled, for life was there. It was
                  no doubt a healthful operation, this blood-letting; but not the most delightsome.
                  It was a circumcision of soul for which she was not prepared. It was recognition,
                  after some sort, but not such as she could appreciate. He called on her to crucify
                  imagination—he was for hurling into instant darkness all the fair fictions in
                  which she had delighted.
               "May I go and get my book?" she said at length.
               Leighton bowed, and Susan started off towards the mill.
               "I will come and recite to-morrow," said she, turning back, after she had gone on
                  alone a few paces.
               Again he bowed, and she went on, alone.
            
            
               IV.
               SUSAN went home. She returned into her chamber. The night passed away; the morning
                  broke. Day found her where the night had left her—faint with watching the hopes
                  that had been slain.
               Yet, early in the day, she was again in the topmost room in the round tower,
                  reciting to her tutor. Before him she stood; not in yesterday's agitation, but
                  with composure. Unto him were known all her thoughts. Gone was her shrinking
                  dread. He should teach her what to do
                  with all those thoughts—he had searched her mind and heart—he should pay a price
                  for that knowledge. This, in substance, if not in form, was the conclusion at
                  which Susan had arrived; the conclusion that encouraged her to go up to her
                  recitation, that fortified her to endure his scrutiny.
               When he gave back the books to her, the recitation being over, he took Susan's
                  hand, as she received the book, in his, and looked into her face. Not with the
                  look of yesterday; but with less severity. He had relented somewhat. Yet, she
                  inquired still in vain for anything like pity there. He did not think she stood in
                  need of pity. The fact that she had come up to this recitation, that she had thus
                  recited, proved to him that whatever else she might need, his pity would not be
                  demanded.
               "You thought me cruel yesterday," said he; "do you still?"
               Susan made no answer. He dropped her hand; it did not fall nerveless to her side,
                  but helped its mate in holding the heavy books. This movement did not escape Mr.
                  Leighton. With a rapid, perplexed motion, he passed his hand across his
                  forehead.
               "I intended kindly," he said. "You are not still thinking that you are unhappy,
                  are you, Susan?"
               She was not sufficiently in doubt to think about it—she knew. He read that in her
                  ingenuous face.
               "Whatever you may think," said he, again, "be assured of this, you do not know
                  what it is to be unhappy. You are wide awake. Why give yourself over to the
                  influence of nightmare? Oh! living soul, take care! You are trifling
                  terribly."
               So caught and wrapped was she in the flame of glance and utterance, that she had
                  no strength for speech, no word to say.
               "I have driven it out of your head, I see," he said, in a softened tone.
                  "Something you were going to say, what is it?"
               Somewhat hurried was the question she asked:
               "Am I what I was when you found me here, Mr. Leighton? tell me truly."
               He did not answer, but sat gazing at the child. Under the survey she became
                  impatient.
               "Truly—tell me truly."
               "You have had some royal guests to entertain since then," said he. "There have
                  been angels at your tent-door, and you have not, I believe, inhospitably turned
                  them away. You know, perhaps better than I, if they have done any good thing for
                  you in turn. You are older by a few weeks as we count time. Yes—and changed
                  somewhat, but not altogether from the original I found. But you have taken a fancy
                  to ornament, which I should not care to see cultivated. Savage women, do you know
                  it? are fond of beads and ornaments of tin and pewter, and gay ribbons."
               "Am I a savage woman?"
               "I apprehend that you are in quite as much danger on account of the fire-water as
                  the gewgaws."
               "I don't know what you mean, Mr. Leighton."
               "You are trying to persuade yourself that I surely cannot mean that your head and
                  heart are having a conflict—whereas that is exactly my idea. Yesterday, but not
                  to-day, it surely cannot be true of you to-day, you were thinking of nothing but
                  the people at St. John's, and of all their glory. Had the opportunity been yours,
                  A you would have put on Miss Isidore's chains, and for a little while you would
                  have carried them But the gilt would have worn off, the gold become dim. You would
                  have tried to break the chains. How you would hate the slight but powerful, the
                  petty shining chain that bound you down
                  to custom, and compelled you to feign worship of sham! You are no more fit to pass
                  into that sphere, and walk its round, than Hercules was fit for spinning. The
                  'ghost of a linen decency' would never terrify you into the attitude of an
                  impostor. As to the fire-water temptation, you have not shown in your recitation
                  to-day that you are proof against it. If I allowed you to have your own way, you
                  would destroy yourself—my books would be your sepulchre. The sun wants you out of
                  doors. Dost thou know thyself, oh thou of little faith?"
               "I thought I did."
               "No doubt—so does a butterfly when it hangs wrapped in its chrysalis. You know
                  nothing: you should be happy on account of that. You are in great danger of taking
                  your own standard for that of every other person. Keep off that treadmill."
               Still gentler was his voice, sadder his countenance, as he continued after a brief
                  pause: "Do you remember the story of Pygmalion? No woman in the world whom he
                  could love. Not one that answered to the pure, brave spirit of which he dreamed;
                  for whom he looked with a hope and longing—that was ever disappointed—among the
                  women of the world. How he brought out from the depths of his own soul an idea
                  that he clothed in form so pure that it was worthy of his reverence—so beautiful
                  that it evoked the love he had longed to lavish on some human heart. And how the
                  kind goddess, pitying the poor estate of the image maker, gave his work the
                  'breath of life.' Do you remember?"
               "I remember, Mr. Leighton.
               "And what of it—you say. Well I know what it is that the young love. Repose is
                  death to them. Activity wins them to friendship, binds them to love. Well I know,
                  resolution, repose, achievements... could they but discern cern the issue towards
                  which these alluring incitements tend!... Strife... pursuit... victory! the heart
                  of youth springs forward eagerly at the mention of these words... —You start in
                  life with precious recollections for guardians... I came here to labor, to find
                  rest and strength—I found something beside these... A stone in which a divine life
                  was hidden. I saw and understood it—and loved it. I thought it blessed because it
                  was so bound and sealed. I would not have brought it into a more common human
                  life—I should not have desired that it might in this way be given to itself. I saw
                  tenderness, truth, and strength in the hidden life... Unsolicited the stone is
                  touched, the life awakens to a confused perception of itself. It perceives though
                  it does not understand its vitality. It knows not what to do with such an
                  abundance—I love it not the less for this, but the more—and I am troubled for it
                  the more. Do you know why I love the life? Because it is a true one. Look things
                  in the face, Susan. See them as they are. Never, never throw the mantle of your
                  charities over any deformity of truth that you may thereby respect and love it.
                  There are high and great principles always waiting for your love... There are
                  tender, true, brave souls—" again, as in the last few minutes he had done
                  frequently, he paused—he seemed to be saying these things as if in spite of
                  himself. The truth within him was greater than the man, she would compel him to
                  lend her his voice; "men and women on this earth, wheat growing with the tares in
                  the same wide field. When you seek, you will no doubt find them. Love them. You
                  will love them all the more, I think, if they are receiving the jeers of the
                  faithless and wicked. Join hands with them, and strive, as they are striving, to
                  achieve in yourself and in others a true life. I hope for you none the less that
                  you have been dreaming ing. You but fell
                  into the prevailing error, and showed the fearful contagion of corrupt taste. But
                  is it not out of reason that you should choose tinsel in place of gold? —admire
                  the raiment rather than the life? I hope for you none the less that in your youth
                  you pine for love. You need not pine—for the loving there's love everywhere.
                  Continue to believe all the blessed things that are said of truth, and purity, and
                  beauty; for all things are possible with these. Dream on—dream on, Susan; but
                  dream wisely. Dream that the reverent and heroic soul will arrive at its millenium
                  yet—that there will yet be a rising in the valley of dry bones. Remember that I
                  promised it, if ever you feel inclined to doubt about it. Then, if your hand has
                  become palsied, it will feel the life-blood quickening and nerving it again. If
                  your faith is dead, it will come to life again. Remember the dead... all hail to
                  you of the living!"
               He kissed her on her forehead.
               "When I am gone, little one," he said, "remember these words; and never forget
                  your mother. Promise me. Be like her."
               Susan promised him; looking out on the great ocean, beholding in the distance a
                  ship going out to sea, she promised.
               Large drops of rain, from clouds whose gathering she had not observed, dashed
                  against the window; warned by this token of storm, Susan arose to go.
               "Indeed it is time that I should return to my work," said Mr. Leighton, turning to
                  his desk.
               Slowly Susan moved towards the door, went out, and descended. But when she had
                  reached the outer door of the mill, she remembered her books, and went back for
                  them. Mr. Leighton did not hear her coming; but when she stood again upon the
                  threshold, he looked up suddenly ly. She had broken upon the solitude of a man in
                  tears. She got her books, and went out without speaking—he did not call her
                  back.
            
            
               V.
               MR. LEIGHTON was undoubtedly a very wise man. Susan Dillon did not question the
                  wonders of his wisdom. She did her best to follow after his counsel—to understand
                  it in the first place, and then to obey it. But to all the influence of his
                  teaching a counter influence was steadily opposing itself.
               There was for her thought a new epoch, beginning with that drive to St. John's,
                  when David Baldwin had doffed the magnificence of the accomplished man of the
                  world, to assume the unpretending manner of the kind friend. So went her
                  apprehension.
               Inhabitants of volcanic regions date from the last eruption; dwellers among
                  mountains from the last "slide." Souls also from the convulsions which have shaken
                  them—dawnings of light—meteoric displays—the baptism of fire—the eclipse.
               Mr. Leighton's warnings availed nothing. Studiously Susan gave herself to her
                  tasks. But she found that voice in every line, that face in every thought. Love
                  tore asunder, the raiment in which he had wrapped prophecy, and she saw within the
                  radiant form—more beautiful than Adonis—and she fell down and worshipped.
               It was the love of a child, though her childhood had passed away. It was not
                  passion—it was something holier, nobler. She would have died for him—could have
                  been led on, step by step, to even that sacrifice, had events so guided. She would
                  have toiled, have suffered for him; but her love did not define itself. She anticipated nothing. She was conscious of
                  it, but not greatly hopeful for it—not hopeful at all, indeed—had no prophecies
                  for it. She built up no personal future with that love for the corner stone. It
                  was merely the exhaustive, deep love of a child.
               Bear with her, and wreak not the vengeance of a smiling scepticism on me, as a
                  writer of incredibilities, reader. For you also have known, if you had any
                  childhood —into what woman's face shall I look, expectant of denial?—have also
                  known something, in less or large degree, of this. There is more of idol-worship
                  than God-worship in the heart of youth, account for it as you will, by natural
                  depravity of the heart, or fault of education. A fact it is; nothing worth to the
                  life student, it is true, if it be not worth everything—worth nothing, if not
                  worth everything, to those who hold, of all on earth, the most responsible of
                  offices, the father and the mother of a household.
               God, afar in his heaven, throned an unmeasured height about the skies, was to be
                  loved; and Susan had heard of Him, and knew well the requirement. The Bible, her
                  own mother's Bible, from which she used to read to her children those wonder-tales
                  about the patriarchs and the prophets, this Book was lying on the table where it
                  had lain for years, and sometimes, but not often, Susan opened it and read aloud
                  to her father when he had leisure to listen, and was not too much wearied. But
                  since the mother was gone, the life seemed also to have vanished from the
                  volume—the light of faith did not shine brightly from her heart upon those pages
                  when the light of her love was withdrawn. Because her mother's reverent voice
                  found once loving utterance for those sacred stories, they had been, in her
                  lifetime, full of light, and life, and beauty. But He whose name was on the
                  volume's every page, was now become to all purposes a dead god to Susan. She found
                  him no more in His book, than in those ancient fables which she had so often read.
                  He was afar on His throne, governing His world, He or Jove—or some great Power.
                  What had He to do with her, or she with Him?
               Let no reverent spirit lift its eyes in amazement at this portrayal, as if I were
                  carelessly recording the experience of an exceptional character to no earthly good
                  or purpose. I am making mention of a fact in human experience, around which will
                  cluster—few are the thoughtful sentient readers of whom this much may not be
                  said—memories which make the saddest, strangest memories of the world's heart.
               The time had come when all the heathen gods, who had long been her nearest and
                  best friends, and the God of all gods, must alike give place for this other whom
                  she had found worthy of a throne and her worship!... She found him everywhere.
                  Omnipresence she gave him; and omniscience also, when his eyes were upon her.
               From the depths of clouds—that unknown world which he inhabited, for a great
                  mystery enshrouded him in that domain to which he was raised so high above her—his
                  eyes fell on her and discerned her thoughts. She heard his voice in the roar of
                  waters, a mightier tone than every other. The sunlight had his smile, the darkness
                  his composure; day his brightness—night his glory. Never could she be alone again,
                  for he was in the world.
               The adoring Christian soul, the utmost development of the pure, loving, human
                  heart, will best understand, because it only can comprehend this fact of Susan
                  Dillon's history. The soul that nowhere in life, or history; or nature, can
                  discover barrenness or darkness, because it beholds the ineffable Light filling
                  all in all, will be most tender and compassionate of this child who has halted on the outermost verge of essential
                  Being. He, seeing how her soul is satisfied with the atom of glory and joy that
                  has come to her, will perceive and know that the resources, which are never
                  exhausted, must have a better good in store for her, the instant that she shall
                  say, "it is not enough"—"more life and fuller"! He, calm in his deep faith, will
                  not even pause or descend to question, shall not this deeply-loving life 'come up
                  higher,' not transferring, but developing its love, until by human steps it shall
                  ascend and behold at last in very truth the glory of the Father? He will not ask,
                  for the deep things of a Christian's faith are simple facts of knowledge. He
                  knows, cannot avoid knowing, Susan Dillon's destiny.
            
            
               VI.
               THE Baldwin visit at Harlem was a vast theme for Mrs. Chilton's contemplation; and
                  not less vast for her son Horace.
               There were dreams of "family compacts"—of success in ambitious enterprises—of a
                  new leadership in society—in short, of resurrection from the death of life in
                  Harlem. These were dreams not to be told, but to be evolved after another
                  manner.
               From the hour of that visit the mother and the son came into new relations with
                  each other. They might be a longer or a shorter time, according to their quickness
                  of perception, in coming into a clear understanding of this unity, but the unity
                  was a fact—they were henceforth one in their aim and hope.
               The undisguised interest Mr. Baldwin took in Horace, the cordial questioning he
                  unceremoniously made in regard to her son's architectural taste and inclination,
                  aroused the mother's attention, awakened her interest, and resolve. His mother's
                  reception of the guests, her bearing towards them, his perception of her as the
                  mere, fine, high-bred, fashionable lady, (it was the first time in his life that
                  he had seen her in relation with people who were moving in the circles where she
                  once had moved,) aroused the son's pity, his respect. She should be delivered from
                  Harlem and obscurity—she should take the place for which nature and culture had
                  designed her.
               With these new thoughts, bearing thus towards each other, it was not probable that
                  words would always be found wanting to express them. There were hints at a removal
                  to St. John's—long reflections on the feasibility and propriety of the plan—and
                  then discussions as to the way in which it could best be carried out. There were,
                  besides, mutual hints that Leah's school must be abandoned, and other speculations
                  as to the future. Mrs. Chilton and Horace came, by reason of these thoughts,
                  gradually into open communication of them. Not of them in their whole bearing—the
                  whither to which they led neither of them had sought out in speculations, to the
                  last result; but they were more slow in unfolding their desires and convictions to
                  Leah. Somehow, whenever a true life is thrown among false ones, it must, though
                  its law be kindness, though its course be unobtrusive, so rebuke those falsities
                  as, though they perceive it not as a rebuke, to make them uncomfortable; the
                  lives, whatever be their external relation, cannot in an inward manner coalesce.
                  So was it in this family. This quiet continuance in well-doing they could not take
                  as evidence of stupid incapacity to recognize the goods of this world. Leah was,
                  on the contrary, day by day laboring for them. But, she was laboring in the faith
                  of those who remember that, though you may buy two of them for a farthing, not a
                  sparrow can fall unnoticed to the ground. And this it was that passed beyond their
                  comprehension, and shut them up to her.
                  She never could so knock at the door of their hearts that they would open to her.
                  Never would they so open to her that she could come in and break the bread of life
                  which sustained her soul with them.
               Horace Chilton had never dreamed great dreams, he had never formed vast projects,
                  he had not—great has our mistake been if we have conveyed any such impression
                  heretofore—he had not the requisite power of conception nor the needful energy of
                  will. Though he penetrated into the mazes of his mother's unspoken hopes and plans
                  with what he chose to deceive himself by calling scorn, he nevertheless reflected
                  much upon the new thoughts they gave him. For, though he had not suspected it, his
                  ambition was an ambition that would at any instant have relinquished its
                  aspirations for the assurance of worldly fortune. He knew not that this was true
                  of himself, because he could not understand how very far beyond self, thought of
                  self or hope of self, the aspiration of the true artist goes. It was this
                  incapacity that had occasioned his entire misconception of himself so long. What
                  he wanted was fame, not the perfections which ensure it. He wanted fortune, ease,
                  luxury, gay company, high living— more. But how could he nerve himself so far as
                  to wear body and brain to shreds in working for these things? Had he no faculty
                  for speculation? Had he not the courage to risk time and eternity, I mean Life,
                  (not blood and bone, however,) by a leap for riches? Horace Chilton had much of
                  grace and personal beauty. He had seen his mother coming into new relations, to
                  him at least, gracefully as a queen; he wondered no longer at her long repining;
                  he shared her discontent. How could he effect her deliverance and his own? Was
                  there more than one way for a youth like him?
               By degrees, and not by slow degrees, he came to regard the chosen profession, the
                  profession to which he had fancied that his genius had predestined him, in a
                  secondary light, but as, possibly, the amusement of his future years... not as the
                  labor of life—the sacred altar for the holiest sacrifices. Leah must give up her
                  school. By the effect produced on his own mind, and on his mother's, he understood
                  how such an occupation, pursued by her, would forever mar the family's best
                  interests. And he had resolved upon a method by which it would be possible for her
                  to suspend all labor. These were the costly tools his father gave him! a mine he
                  could not work—treasure as good as buried. We have already heard his first
                  reflections on this point.
               Mr. Baldwin, during his visit, had spoken, or rather had remotely alluded—and
                  Horace had since interpreted it into plain speech—so had his mother—to the
                  interest he felt in the young man's success, and had said something of a friend of
                  his who was an engineer in St John's. In such close connection had he spoken of
                  these things, that Horace, without hesitation, had proceeded to build his plans on
                  this foundation; which, we do not assert, would have been either disgraceful or
                  marvellous, had not his plan for the erection of the superstructure been utterly
                  mendacious.
               From these processes of argument, however, in the brain of a youth, these known
                  and unknown processes, the reader will be quite assured of one thing that Horace
                  Chilton, wherever he goes, will be sure to get along in life beyond all
                  peradventure.
               That Leach was prepared to join in plotting for these ends, we hardly need deny.
                  That she was blind to the new spirit infused into the house with that visit from
                  St. John's, would argue far more dullness on her part than I am willing to admit.
                  That she was quiescently patient with it
                  all, that it did not make her heart sink in shame, and rise in indignation, who
                  will believe?
               Too pure to enter into, she was sure to discern so much as this, that a new
                  element was infused into the family mind. She did observe, she could not fail to
                  reason about, the new unity, harmony I did not say, that prevailed between Horace
                  and their mother.
               She was then hardly surprised when Horace, one night, not long after the momentous
                  visit, said to her:
               "When does your term end, Leah?"
               "Next Wednesday," she told him.
               "I am glad of that. You'll not open it again this summer," said he, as if that of
                  course were her plan, and a settled point in everybody's mind.
               "Oh, yes," she answered.
               "But mother and I think that you should have a rest. It will be time enough for
                  you to take the school again in the fall, if you are bent on it."
               "That would be foolish. I had better keep on, than have the school broken up and
                  scattered."
               "Now, Leah, don't be foolish. Show a little gratitude; but for me you would never
                  have had the school, and I think we have tormented mother long enough. Let your
                  rival have the benefit of the youngsters this season."
               "I had rather not."
               "Why had you rather not?" asked Horace impatiently. "When you come to the profit
                  of the thing, why it's such a mere trifle that—that—really it is not worth
                  mentioning."
               Horace hesitated saying this. He had not quite forgotten the substantial help that
                  "mere trifle"—of which he spoke so contemptuously—so cruelly, because he said it
                  to her—had proved. From her no answer came to this remark; and he was obliged,
                  presently, to go on, that the uncomfortable silence might be broken.
               "Do you agree to it? You are not going to be so foolish, certainly, as to fight
                  against your own interests! Recollect, I am a medical man! and I say that you need
                  rest. You are getting languid, and pale, and faded. Your violent headaches are a
                  warning; take care of yourself in time. Look at Miss Scroggs, and take
                  warning."
               "Horace, don't speak so of that woman; laugh at me if you must. I have no feeling
                  about that, but the Scroggs wore herself out taking care of her old grandfather
                  who died this morning. Her shadowy face and body tell a story for her that should
                  make you respect her at least. As for myself," she continued with less spirit, and
                  the momentary flush fading from her cheek, "I am not afraid of my looks—my work is
                  not hard enough to make any decided change in them. I had rather go on with the
                  school."
               "Then, really, I don't see any other way for you than to give a little larger
                  scope to your self-denial," said Horace, speaking lightly. "For how are you going
                  to manage mother and I? We are dead set against any more schooling this summer;
                  now don't be cross about it, there's a dear, but tell me what you honestly think
                  about it?"
               "Why you know what I think, Horace."
               "Have you forgotten the heat in that shed of a schoolroom, last summer?" he
                  asked.
               "No—but you remember we had another door and window opened this spring."
               "Well; we won't talk about it. It is not worth an argument. There is no necessity
                  for the school this summer, and that argument, I'm sure, is direct, and appeal to
                  your common sense. You are not going to kill yourself. That is the conclusion we
                  have come at. Two against one—you will make a bad job of it."
               
               "How shall we manage? how shall we get on then?" asked Leah.
               "You are so set in your ways, I think I'll not tell you just now. We will talk no
                  more about it to-night."
               And no more would he talk about it. Not that he was annoyed; if she inferred that,
                  it was because he wished her to do so; he felt ashamed to lay before her the
                  expedient to which he was about to resort; the disposal of those precious tools.
                  How instantly she would reject the plan on her own behalf, how much she would
                  oppose it on theirs, he well knew. His sister was not so ambitious to get on...
                  That infant-school teaching was a small business, it is true, when compared with
                  the government of a nation, or the great achievement of an artist—but it was a
                  work worthy of a seraph, compared with the occupation to which her brother was
                  beginning to aspire.
               Never until now had Leah suspected the power, or the purpose, of her brother, but
                  now she said, "I had rather know your plan than be thinking that you could have
                  any in view that you would not be glad to let me share."
               This approach to the truth was not calculated to make Horace more communicative,
                  but the reverse. He had placed himself in a position from which, when the
                  awkwardness of its novelty, and some faint confused suspicions of its
                  impregnability were gone, he would obtain a clearer vision than he now had, and be
                  less troubled with doubts of himself. Very soon those doubts would all be turned
                  over to her charge—on that meek scapegoat he would be sure to fling all blame of
                  ill-success, if ill-success should attend him—he could henceforth make no
                  confidant of her—he had no hope, no aspiration that he would not shrink from
                  unveiling to her... How lonely they left her to go on the way of life! Into what
                  solitude the loving heart was driven.
            
            
               VII.
               IN due time, and it was not a long time after Susan's return home, Mr. Falcon and
                  Clarence Baldwin made their proposed visit to the beach.
               We may best understand it, and its results, from the following letter, which Mr.
                  Falcon wrote to a friend on his return:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR JACOBUS,—I have seen Mark Leighton. You will be about as much
                              startled at this intelligence as if I had somewhere encountered an
                              attaché from 'the undiscovered country.' I came home bent on
                              despatching this fact to you by telegraph; but as I drew out the paper
                              for the purpose of jotting down the facts—it seemed to me that I
                              should, in so doing, only occasion a tumult of unnecessary excitement.
                              And besides, he is not, as you might infer, alive for me, or for you.
                              The man is dead, sir, dead to us, I say. I grieve at this—it makes me
                              melancholy. But I must state it in plain words; or you would be
                              posting down here, and if you came you would not see Mark
                              Leighton.
                           "I was at the sea-beach with my young charge—of whom more in a future
                              paragraph, therefore keep your eyes open, do, dear Momus! to the end
                              of this lucubration;—and it happened, in the course of the afternoon,
                              that I strolled along the sandy beach and came upon a man.
                           "A lofty, commanding person, thin, almost to ghastliness, from
                              incessant energy of thought: head bent forward, hands clasped behind
                              him, striding on as if to a martial tune. You see;—you remember. I
                              followed in his steps, not carelessly, not thoughtlessly;—you know I
                              could not walk in Mark Leighton's steps ignorantly. He evidently did
                              not hear me approaching. He
                              was lost in thought, sir—you understand again. I did not wait till I
                              could see his face before I decided that this was he. Some time ago,
                              looking into some old school-books he had given the fisherman's
                              daughter to study, I learned his whereabouts... What is time? The
                              quarter of a century has gone since we were young men together—but I
                              was as aware of him, walking in his shadow, as though we had parted
                              but an hour before.
                           "And as I drew nearer to him, I said, 'five and twenty years.' I
                              endeavored to give my voice its old tone—but its elasticity was gone,
                              it stubbornly maintained its long-established harshness. 'We parted,
                              sir,' said he, looking up, recognizing me, completing my sentence, and
                              striding on. 'Are you so implacable, Mark Leighton?' I asked. At this
                              he halted, turned and faced me—then, 'Go your way, Falcon,' he
                              said—and of course I obeyed him.
                           "And that is the amount of it. To him I am only the fanatic beside
                              myself with delusions; an unsuccessful rival; and, in some sort, an
                              enemy.
                           "But is he the happier man on account of his caution, and superior
                              skill, and wonderful knowledge that has prevented him from all the
                              cheats of fancy? He is not a happy man. His wisdom has not given him
                              any better consolations in life than I had drawn from my mistakes and
                              'follies.' Every harsh point of his character, that momentary glance
                              was as convincing as daily intercourse would make it, every harsh
                              point stands out in a more bold relief. And yet, unbeliever as he is
                              in human nature, this little daughter of the fisherman is learning of
                              him and from his old school books, day by day. Think of that! that is
                              Mark Leighton. This metaphysician, transformed, by only a slight
                              variation, from what we knew him, would have been a character for
                              history; a theme for the age. But he had, above all men I ever knew,
                              with the exception of myself, the faculty of fighting against his own
                              interests. Not a perfect man in, perhaps, any sense; he has disdained
                              evil; but he has not fought against it. He has stood aloof from
                              personal contact with it; but, before his manly dignity, pride, and
                              sense of honor compelled him to do this, the fortress already was
                              taken; a spy had crept into it,—and now, I am sure of it, he stands
                              not towards God in the attitude of rebellion, nor in that of a
                              penitent; he calmly ignores the possibility of being either. If he
                              were more actively rebellious, our literature would have a greater
                              name, whether for good or ill, greater I mean in the sense of
                              world-wide prominence, than it can now boast of. If he were a
                              Christian, the religious world would have an apostle terribly
                              efficient in its camp. But, as I say, he is neither, and therefore, as
                              I believe, a disappointed man, not knowing how he has missed of the
                              position which manifestly he set out to obtain.
                           "So much for him. He has beaten the dust, and I the air; yet, even
                              shorn of all its beautiful delusions, my part is the better one—the
                              buds of hope, even if they are nipped before blossoming, prove
                              something—they, or their successors, will some time expand, without
                              danger of frosts. But away with such old worn-out themes as Leighton
                              and you and I. I had something to say to you about the fisherman's
                              daughter.
                           "Buy a tract of land, old friend, set your laborers at work on the
                              unpromising field. If they light upon a gold mine, the poor earth will
                              be sure to get a mighty deal of credit, and interest, and affection.
                              If your affections can at this day be indeed in the least magnetized,
                              so as to become of the earth earthy. This child, Susan, has much
                              sweetness of manner, lovely eyes, a fine brow, and a strong character.
                              The people among whom I am thrown might, or they might not, under
                                 circumstances other than
                              the present, take a special interest in her. But as the facts are, she
                              is the gold mine.
                           "I told you that I was for the present living in the family of Mr.
                              Baldwin, and a recklessly dissipated family it is. The father, and
                              this poor fellow, Clarence, are hardly a make-weight for the senseless
                              career of the other son, and the daughter. I told you, besides, of our
                              first visit to the beach. That event, looked at through the light of
                              the present, was wonderful. If I am not mistaken, Clarence's passion,
                              or whatever you may call it, for Susan will prove his perfect cure.
                              When her name is mentioned to him, as now it is continually, it is
                              proved beyond all question—newly proved by every new experiment—to be
                              the magnet that draws out other thoughts, all other thoughts and
                              affairs, mentioned directly or merely suggested, into fuller, more
                              perfect connection. This experimenting daily proves more successful.
                              It fascinates me wonderfully. We take her name for the point, and go
                              on, chiefly occupying ourselves with drawing out his recollections of
                              the past and—what has been, until the application of this magic
                              wakener of thought, more difficult—recollections of the recent, as
                              well as of the distant past. For to establish his memory anew in its
                              natural strength and coherence, is, as I have before told you, the
                              essential thing. That accomplished, all is done. What hosts of men we
                              have known, oh, Momus! who stood quite as much in need of the
                              operation of this miracle of love as he!
                           "It would, of course, be impossible for you to detect in Susan's face
                              the beauty that he sees there, or to find in her voice the melody that
                              he discovers. But the music and the beauty are both there, doubtless.
                              They only need the discernment.
                           "It is hoped that some arrangement will be made soon, which will allow
                              the daily, the constant intercourse of Clarence and Susan. They must
                              grow into each other; their life must become incorporate, one, or we
                              fail. It is not possible that Dillon, the fisherman, could be
                              persuaded to make his residence in the Hall; but we build up a hope
                              that something may be effected, according to our need, out of the fact
                              that, last winter, the old man suffered severely from a rheumatic
                              attack. So we go, helped on our way by each other's infirmities! If
                              all we hope is given us, the last ten fruitless years—no, I will not
                              call them fruitless (they have wrought their result in myself, if not
                              elsewhere), but they have not proved greatly yielding—will be crowned
                              to me. To have brought this youth to life, is, you will allow, a
                              god-like work—such, certainly, as needed the direction and aid of God
                              himself, for which I have not ceased to pray.
                           "Jacobus, what art thou doing? Gird up thyself now, like a man, and
                              answer me these three things. Art thou regretful that thou didst never
                              take unto thyself a wife?... For I have seen a woman who has made me
                              long for a home... Should a man marry in his boyhood? or will it do to
                              venture when the ways are set that they cannot be moved? There is a
                              light fall of snow on my head, which no spring will remove, but my
                              heart is warm beneath. Snow keeps warm the roots of living things in
                              winter. And, man, are you prosperous and happy? Farewell, Jacobus. You
                              will never ask me again if I have seen Mark Leighton. You will never
                              speculate more about the disappearance of his wife. It was the setting
                              of a great hope to behold him; for I had hoped, in spite of myself,
                              through all these years, for, I know not what.
                           
                              "Thine,
                              FALCON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               VIII.
               THIS visit, of which Falcon writes, was more momentous than she guessed to Susan:
                  every way more momentous.
               In the first place, the actual results that followed Mr. Falcon's observations on
                  Clarence in this re-union—which were duly reported to Mr. Baldwin; for with a more
                  manifest significance than before, the old man now habitually pronounced Susan his
                  daughter; and taking Falcon into counsel, they went into a solemnly-deliberate
                  consultation as to the best ways and means to be pursued in order to secure the
                  result at which they were now aiming.
               And then Mr. Falcon had told Susan that he had seen Stella Cammon; and he brought
                  down the message that the beach was soon to have another visitor, who had not
                  looked upon the ocean since she was a child. That intelligence caused Susan to be
                  joyful; and her joy made her forget herself, and drew her out, and together with
                  her pitying regard, led her into long, gay conversations with poor Clarence, who
                  listened to her, as indeed he might, as to an angel bringing glad tidings of great
                  joy to him. For her mind was projecting itself into, through, the darkness of his
                  mind.
               And then, moreover—oh, moreover! when the visit was over, and they were gone,
                  there was something, some one, besides these, of whom Susan could but think. In
                  her hands she held a package which David Baldwin sent to her. She to whom the
                  garden flowers seemed so precious, did she rejoice in this bit of a white parcel
                  more than in the rose-tree, and the pots of fragrant heliotrope, and gorgeous
                  fuscias, that Clarence brought home with him in the carriage for her?
               Was not their beauty before her eyes, and their fragrance floating around her?...
                  but they only served to heighten the delicious dream into which the few words of
                  David's note had carried her! Again, and again, and again, she read it—and when
                  she knew it all by heart, she laid it in her bosom. Yet how often she drew it
                  forth again, just to look at the beautiful white perfumed paper—the elegant
                  writing—the crest on the seal—his initials stamped upon the page, making it doubly
                  his and her own!—had he not given it to her?
               There was nothing in the note—it only began with "Dear Susan," and contained a few
                  words of commonplace. He asked her if she were not coming up to make another visit
                  at the Hall, and said something about driving down that he might have a sail with
                  her some day—that was all; but little as it was, enchantment lurked in the words;
                  from out them grew rare visions—she did go up and visit at the Hall again... and
                  to the beach came he.
               And she built a bark, the dreaming child, such as never stood upon the docks, nor
                  in the brain of a ship-builder, and she hung above it shining sails, and out upon
                  the shining sea they went together, she and David Baldwin; the sea was calm,
                  motionless, and glowing in the sunlight, and yet—oh, mystery!—a breeze swept swift
                  and strong above the deep, and filled the sails; and the light bark danced along
                  the water far out upon the sea, and the shore faded away—its bleak and barren line
                  was lost to sight; and there, alone beside him, she sailed afar into the sunlit
                  eternity of love. And, without a book, he read there lovely poems to her in this
                  her own world of the sea, as there in his world of the stately garden once. And
                  she forgot that she was poor—she wondered not if she were fair—he was all in
                  all—the beauty, and the wisdom, and the glory of the world.
            
            
               
               IX.
               BUT the summer will slip away from us, while in this vagrant way we stroll about;
                  and our little household at the Elms will get quite beyond our sight, if we are
                  not speedily mindful of them.
               Our Stella has not yet received her summons to the country; for Violet and her
                  baby continue to receive the hospitalities of the lady of the Elms.
               On gorgeous wings, and full of song, the summer hours are fleeting over the young
                  mother; and Miss Watson, watchful and observant, has beheld the renewal, the sweet
                  miracle of spring in that young life, over which a cruel frost had fallen.
               It was Violet's first summer in the country. That it should be spent under Miss
                  Watson's auspices, was it not somewhat remarkable? That the wise woman should have
                  been able to enter so thoroughly into the joy of Violet, this was not strange; but
                  that she should sympathize with her in it—that her investigations should all have
                  been suspended, and by the same cause, in the same yielding to the enthusiasm of
                  her guest, was, perhaps, not quite what we might have looked for. Yet this was
                  true. The innocent joy that welled up, unrestrained, from the heart before her
                  eyes, the reviving strength and spirits of Violet, proved irresistibly infectious;
                  it was better to sit in the arbor built in the shade of the wood, and read the
                  wife's face while it bent over one of Silsey's letters, than to pore over all
                  philosophies, from the most "positive" to the most subtle of all moonshiney
                  embodiments. Miss Watson, though she did not lose thought of Stella, was in no
                  haste to make a change of guests. The Sabbath quiet of a peaceful, happy heart she
                  was in no haste to be rid of, for the sake of contact with the restlessness of
                  Stella Cammon. The delicious spell was subduing to the spirit, as that soft blue
                  haze which subdued the hard, abrupt outlines of the distant hills, making the
                  landscape harmonize with the sun's steadfast radiance; she was in no haste to
                  forego the rest of Violet's presence—the repose was sweet to her.
               And who can tell how full, to overflowing, was the cup of which Violet here
                  drank?
               Song burst from her lips, by joyous, irresistible impulsion; she must give
                  utterance to the gladness of her heart.
               How she starts up the echoes from the heart of her audience—doing what, mayhap,
                  you, oh famous singer, cannot do; for nothing but the voice of actual song can do
                  it, inspiring every listening bird to echo, making how divine a chaos! How they
                  chatter, and laugh, and weep in that chorus! their hearts are so full, their joy
                  is so exultant and intense, it must laugh, it must weep itself out into hearing
                  and sight. Does your triumph, fair lady, compare with this? Does the exultant
                  sense of your achievement take the place, usurping all the manifold sweet
                  satisfactions of a responding sympathy?... Sympathy! has it not vanished from
                  parlor as from church? When the fire comes down again upon the altar, and, in its
                  divine contagion, spreads among the congregation, it will stop not there, even to
                  the melting away of the icy pillars on which our social temple stands —it shall
                  spread and convey itself. Oh, flame, that shall be mightier than the strength of
                  him who drew down the walls and roof upon the heads of the mocking and scoffing
                  people—oh, power and indignation mightier than Samson's, assert thyself, and come!
                  the singers in the wood are waiting, the prisoners and captives wait their
                  thousand years of ransom—come! they wait to echo the song upon their lips, with
                  hearts, lo, these many ages waiting for deliverance—come!
               
               The baby's eyes grow bluer, heavenlier every day; and health smiles in the face
                  that, verily, to the mother's eye, is the face of an angel. It reddens in the
                  cheek and lip—fills out the small, wan face; the soft, brown hair has a sunny glow
                  upon it, the strengthening voice a merrier sound. She lies upon the long, soft,
                  shining grass, and makes astronomical observations with a reverent wonder that
                  tells the story of her origin, without the aid of any preacher. The "Conflict of
                  Ages" might well suspend, and the ages learn a lesson from that infant's upturned
                  eyes. She creeps among the beds of flowers, for Miss Watson has a garden which she
                  cultivates assiduously while she is in the country, and on her knees, among these
                  blossoms, Viola might put a botanist to shame. The caterpillar, and the beetle,
                  and the spinning spider, too—not one of them escapes her investigation. Why, what
                  a very naturalist the baby is!... Oh, Viola, fair flower in the garden of Nature,
                  be ever reverent, believing, wondering, as now, and what frost of earth could
                  blight thee? what summer heat could smite thee? what late could compass, or what
                  sin betray thee?
               Silsey, in his letters—which are so frequent, that Violet has long since been
                  compelled to forego all speculations on the point, and, without any troublesome
                  sense of presumption, she looks for them every forty-eight hours—Silsey, in these
                  letters, is also at the Elms, and Violet believes herself imparadised.
               It is early in the morning. There was a gale last night, and Miss Watson has a
                  deal of work to do, tying up the prostrate sweet-peas and morning-glories. Violet
                  sits on the door-step of the cottage, and sorts the flowers. She is to make a
                  bouquet of white rose-buds for Miss Watson—for this afternoon is the funeral of a
                  neighbor's child, and Miss Watson is never unmindful of any occasion of domestic
                  joy or sorrow in the families around her.
               More than one tear has fallen on those buds since Violet gathered them—often she
                  pauses in her work and looks from them to the little one close by her side, and
                  thinks—she thinks more and more sadly. If Viola were not there... if it were all
                  horrible silence around her in place of the slender sweet voice that is learning
                  her name, and repeats it over and over, knowing, with a child's deep intuition,
                  since the sound was first uttered in her ear, that it is of all names the most
                  dear and blessed she shall ever learn to speak. If somebody in her place were
                  arranging those white buds for another little child—if she were sitting in a
                  darkened room beside a little bed where Viola was lying, blind and deaf even to
                  her mother... cold, 'dead.'
               Violet quite drops the flowers from her hands, as she persists in thinking of
                  these things, and now she catches up the child, and holds her in her arms, and
                  folds her to her bosom, as if there were no power that could take her away.
               Miss Watson coming towards the house beholds and interprets the sudden act—she
                  sees the weeping mother, and says quietly to herself, in the peacefulness of her
                  conviction, "blessed be nothing," and she turns away that Violet may not have the
                  sense of witnesses in this betrayal of her love and her weakness.
               Poor, loving Violet, pure-hearted, tender mother, it is indeed the penalty; but
                  ask her, oh thou wise one, if she would be without the fear born out of all life's
                  truest, deepest forms, if she would be without even such fear, if to escape it she
                  must forego the love that makes it!
               In the midst of this outburst of feeling comes happily the mail carrier, and
                  leaves at the gate the letter for which Violet looks this morning. She hears his
                     voice speaking to Miss Watson, and she
                  "makes an effort," and the light cloud breaks and vanishes before the brightness
                  of the sun, which in these days is shining on her heart. But Miss Watson does not
                  come, and by-and-bye Violet begins to wonder at it—not suspecting that her hostess
                  is merely waiting till there shall be no chance of surprising her in tears—and
                  that Miss Watson's low and musical voice was pitched at that high key in which she
                  just now spoke to the carrier-boy, solely to the end that Violet might emerge from
                  her momentary depression.
               And so Violet illustrates, even in this way, as all nature does all spirit, her
                  own free will, and at the same time Miss Watson's providential management, for
                  rising at length she goes with Viola in her arms, in search of Miss Watson, and
                  the letter. Of the latter she is over-quick to catch a glimpse as it lies on the
                  frame-work of the climbing rose, where the lady but now laid it. But Violet does
                  not immediately speak of it—and the lady allows it to remain there until she has
                  finished her morning gardening, and then, suddenly, she adverts to the letter as
                  though it had been for a time forgotten. All this while, however, she has been
                  watchful, and even studiously so, of the control that Violet has been exerting
                  over herself, and the manner of discipline with which she has exercised herself on
                  account of her recent weakness; unmindful or ignorant of the fact, that when she
                  was weak then she was strong—in a true apostolic sense.
               If Viola were sleeping now in the cradle which Miss Watson had borrowed for the
                  occasion of this visit to the Elms, her mother would delay until the baby wakened
                  before she opened this letter. But now she has Vola, wakeful, in her arms, and
                  Miss Watson says, "I have to go down the hill for a moment; when I come back, you
                  shall tell me all the gossip our friend has written you;" and at that, Violet,
                  feeling very grateful indeed, goes back to the door-step and reads the letter
                  aloud to her child. What letters are they which he writes to her! They are an
                  ever-recurring wonder to Silsey's wife. Every sweet and beautiful thought he has,
                  and there seems to be no end to them, he gives her. And she can understand them
                  all. There is nothing to puzzle her in all this prodigal display of beauty; yet
                  she ever reads with trembling—growing ever more conscious that what he gives her
                  is a gift free as it is rare; she can make no claim upon him—in the hour when he
                  suspends his gifts... she can make no demand—none such as Miss Watson might make,
                  or any other woman who equalled him in any other capacity beside that of loving.
                  She trembled while she drank this rich and teeming cup. What secured it to her?
                  What assured her that it should never, while yet they both lived on this earth, be
                  dashed away from her lips? Had she no surety in the mere fact that she was such an
                  one as, in the reception of the great joy, ever looked to heaven in a grateful
                  acknowledgment? That she never took into her heart, or hands, one of the gifts of
                  life without an instant thankfulness that recognized the Giver? Was there no
                  surety in this that the human love enfolding her would never droop unclasped, and
                  leave her alone? Had she any need of other surety of her power to bind him to
                  faithfulness, than her attitude towards Heaven gave?
               There was then no waning of the star, no lessening of the joy, thought Miss
                  Watson, as she, coming up the hill, heard the voice of the young mother which had
                  broke from its low reading of those loving words into a melodious song... the
                  spell had still duration—the charm efficience.
               "And what have you to give me from that budget?" she asked, approaching Violet
                  through the house, for she had returned
                  home by a path which brought her unseen to the cottage.
               "Silsey is coming down—it may be to-day!" answered Violet, and after a momentary
                  hesitation she extended the letter to Miss Walton. "You can read it," she said,
                  "there is nothing in particular—no news."
               "Read me such passages here and there as you will. I am too tired," was the
                  answer—for Miss Watson had perceived the reluctance with which Violet, in spite of
                  herself, made the offer. "Silsey always refreshes me—he gives great thoughts."
               But there were no great thoughts, nothing in fact but the most beautiful and
                  tender sentiment, in this letter, or in anything that Silsey wrote his wife.
                  Sometimes in a paragraph he would propose some problem for Miss Watson's solution;
                  and it was pleasant to note on such occasions the not very ingenious rapidity with
                  which his wife read the message. As if it were all plain as the alphabet to her
                  mind, when she really understood not one word of it. And yet she was free to
                  confess as much as this to herself, and to her listener, the moment after.
               And now, when Miss Watson would not take the letter, and looking through the pages
                  the wife saw nothing that she might detect, as of any worth separate from the
                  rest, she began at the beginning and read the whole aloud. With trembling voice,
                  and low, she read. How heard that listener? Did not her heart beat more quickly,
                  for she knew that she was standing in the very sanctuary of love? The grand hymn,
                  not less grand because sung so lowlily, this resonant hymn she heard was the very
                  strain that she in her own youth had sung. She had labored since then among the
                  worldly, and argued among debaters, but, so well she remembered that hymn, she
                  could have sung it through without a solitary false note that day.
               Not a word said she when Violet folded up the letter ter, and bent her fair young
                  face down nearer to her child's.
               From her who trod with awed spirit and hesitating step along this sacred path of
                  life, pausing oft, and looking with uneasy eye upon the path by which she came,
                  and that which spread before her, we will go back to the sea, and to another life,
                  that strives, also according to its nature, for the freedom that, though
                  unwittingly, was likewise Violet Silsey's highest aim and need.
            
            
               X.
               "WHAT sort of people are you down here? I always thought that the old mill
                  deserved a ghost, Susan, but I never supposed I should dash my brains out
                  ingloriously, trying to get a glimpse of it. Come, come, Susan, leave your dough!
                  one would think you had a regiment on hand to feast, by the way you work. I assure
                  you I'm no gourmand. Come out, and tell me what monster it is you have caged up in
                  our old play-house... Ah me! what a place for play it was, though!"
               This was the voice of the rare vision that had burst upon Susan the day after Mr.
                  Falcon's visit. She had come down with Miss Judith Mar from St. John's, and had
                  prevailed upon Miss Judith to return to town without her, promising that she
                  herself would follow her thither on the following Monday—it was now Saturday.
               Susan, who was at work in the kitchen, hearing the laughing voice, for Stella had
                  set out an hour before for a long stroll by herself, came out to the
                  door-step.
               "You've been up to the mill, Stella!" she exclaimed, in evident consternation
                  remembering the aversion that Mr. Leighton had, in more ways than one, manifested
                  to receiving company. "What did you see?"
               
               "Nothing an inch before my eyes. I contrived to climb up the stairway—it's darker
                  than it used to be, Susan... but I went on, thinking I should come to the light at
                  length. The door stood open, I missed a step and fell in, head first, making an
                  oriental obeisance. I broke my neck doing it, as you see, which proves that this
                  style of genuflection is not natural to me."
               "Your forehead is bleeding! You have hurt yourself!" said Susan, alarmed, for as
                  Stella removed the handkerchief from her forehead, she saw that it was stained
                  with blood.
               "Yes; the orientalism does n't agree with me. I never was good at bowing before
                  images. But the adventure was really worth something. And you see it is only a
                  scratch."
               She repeated the assurance, Susan looked so anxious, and, for another reason than
                  the oozing blood, so troubled.
               "Did you see—"
               "Him? Yes! verily, verily."
               "Did he speak to you? Did you go in? What did he say? Wait till I get something
                  for that cut, and then tell me."
               "He bade me, the hobgoblin did, bathe it in cold water, and I would prevent
                  discoloration."
               While they were applying the remedy, Stella said:
               "Why did you not tell me about Bluebeard?"
               "I did not send you to the mill," said Susan. "How did I know you would go?"
               "What!—well if you had not been so worried about that sweet-cake, which is burning
                  at this blessed moment in the stove, I believe—run and see, for this breeze is
                  likely to make me as voracious as a thorough-bred fish."
               When Susan came back the next minute, her face glowing with the haste she had
                  made, Stella said, with a graver face and accent:
               "Where should I have gone, if not there? It is one of the holiest places in the
                  world to me. And so is this house—and you are one of my best friends. You know
                  why. Your blessed mother, and poor dear Tom, and you, and this beach, make the
                  brightest and happiest of my childish recollections. Have you time to sit here
                  without stirring again for half an hour?"
               "Yes."
               "Then tell me, you have not half told me yet, tell me about your mother and Tom.
                  And Susan, let me sleep in Tom's own room while I stay. I loved him dearly, Susan.
                  Not like you, maybe, but he was just as dear to me as you. I used to think of him
                  so much—how you used to deck me out with those shell ornaments! He called me a
                  queen then... I remembered him when I grew older, and went to school. I thought
                  how he was growing up to be a great, strong, manly fellow, and so handsome, so
                  different... dear me!—oh you don't know how often, when I have been lonely, and
                  home-sick, and forlorn, I have thought of you all!"
               Not once while she spoke thus did Susan look up into Stella's face. The voice was
                  sad music, and Susan's tears fell fast hearing what the voice said. Stella shed no
                  tear, but less power of self-restraint, less control of her emotions, would have
                  seen her in passionate weeping swayed only by such emotion as rent and tossed her
                  heart at this moment.
               Susan did not immediately reply to these questions and words. Stella understood
                  the silence, and did not hasten her.
               But at length Susan went through the whole story of her losses, and from the first
                  word to the last Stella listened, and frequent tears told how the story came to
                  her... Still reverie and retrospection were not her chief faculty this day, and
                  soon far other thoughts, which concerned
                  the living present, thronged upon her, and ere long these found a witness for
                  themselves.
               "You know the tenant of the mill; for he called me Susan. He thought it was you. I
                  must go up there by broader daylight."
               "If he will let you," said Susan.
               "Is there any doubt about that? That will be delightful! What is the man, a
                  scholar? It was such a treat to look into his den; the books and the dust—and he
                  such a strange looking person."
               "Did he say anything?" asked Susan, not a little curious, since Stella would talk
                  about him, to know how he would appear to her.
               "Yes—he asked me where I was going, and where I came from. And of course I
                  satisfied his curiosity."
               "What did you say? do tell me."
               "I told him that I came from a very respectable place, but that I was not so clear
                  about where I was going. It seemed to me from the evidences, that I was on the
                  verge of Pluto's dominion—for he was smoking like a volcano—and there he sat,
                  immovable, till I had picked myself up. Then he condescended to come down from his
                  throne and examine my poor abused forehead by the light of his pipe. I wish you
                  could have heard him recommend the cold-water application. He laughed in my face,
                  and I laughed in his. Don't look so horror-struck... He was very curious to learn
                  if I came from Susan. He will be down to discover. Wait and see. What did you call
                  him?"
               "Mr. Leighton," said Susan, who had not before mentioned his name.
               "But tell me about him."
               All that Susan had to tell was briefly said—but the story was interrupted by her
                  father's coming home.
               Stella's spirits were unflagging. She played chess with Dillon, repeated poetry,
                  told anecdotes, and sang songs, and kept the old man from dozing long after his
                  usual hour of retiring.
               "Is not your Mr. Falcon the kindest man that ever lived?" she asked Susan, when
                  she kissed her good-night.
               "He is, indeed," answered Susan.
               "How happy you are with your father. Do you think Aunt Judith would make a good
                  wife for Mr. Falcon? we should have some one at the head of our house then. A
                  great thing it must be to have a father!"
               "Yes," said Susan thoughtfully, as if the fact had not occurred to her before, "it
                  is..."
               "Everything goes on after such a fashion, where there are only women. Indeed, I
                  have sometimes found myself driven to such an extremity that I rejoiced in the
                  chances that threw me in among the branches of a certain family of Trees that I
                  know of, when they were tossed about in a regular gale. But good-night. Go to
                  bed—what a time we will have to-morrow!"
               "I wish," said Susan, halting yet longer and looking seriously, with pity too, at
                  Stella, who was laying aside her ornaments, "I wish your father had lived,
                  Stella—"
               "Dear child, don't speak of it," said Stella quickly.
               "Why, don't you?" Susan lingered yet longer to ask.
               "I! well, no matter, Susan. You know well enough.. how would you manage to do
                  without your father?"
               "I have always had mine, though. I could not live—"
               "Yes, you could," said Stella, interrupting her. "You could live if you were deaf,
                  and dumb, and blind, and idiotic to boot—people often do. I've seen some such—very
                  respectable people they were too. Oh, you know nothing about what folks can do,
                  and be, and bear, and still live on. There, go to bed, and see if you can dream
                  any worse dreams than I shall about Bluebeard."
            
            
               
               XI.
               YES—she would do that.
               She thought of it while lying wakeful on her bed, smiling joyously to herself,
                  even as on the wakeful last night she had also smiled. What great things had
                  happened in the last two days? David's note, and now Stella's actual self! She
                  would open her heart to Stella. Stella must know that David Baldwin had written to
                  her—and what he had written she must likewise know. Stella had seen him—she surely
                  must have something to say about such a man.
               Still revolving this determination, with the first moment of opportunity the next
                  morning, Susan showed the note.
               When Stella opened it, and glanced at the signature before noticing the contents,
                  she looked up at Susan with a quick, curious glance. "He writes a very pretty
                  hand," she said; and then rapidly, so rapidly as to make it appear almost
                  carelessly, she read the note, and returned it... "Shall we go and hunt up Mr.
                  Leighton?"
               "He will not want us in his study," said Susan, not vexed at the reception her
                  confiding mood had met, because it was impossible that she should be vexed with
                  anything that her guest could say or do—but disappointed and wondering.
               "Well, we can walk along the beach, and we may meet him. Your father told me, for
                  I asked him about it, that you would be going to recite to him."
               "It is Sunday—I never recite Sundays," said Susan; "and he won't want us," she
                  continued, more decidedly, but blushing that she should be speaking with so much
                  spirit to Stella Cammon, before whom, in spite of childhood's dear, familiar
                  recollections, she stood in awe as in a queenly presence.
               "He will not want us," she said—nevertheless when Stella, laughing, vanished from
                  the house, and went wandering along the strand, she made haste to join her.
               At length, after an hour's promenade, Susan's flushed face betokened to Stella,
                  who turned to show her the shells she had been gathering from the sand, that what
                  she hoped was really at hand, and then she heard the sound of Leighton's
                  voice.
               "Don't go, stand here and let him come to you," urged Stella; "he will do so if he
                  thinks you do not hear. And he ought to come and inquire after my broken
                  head."
               Her prophecy was a true one. In a few minutes Mr. Leighton came towards them.
               "We will have a little sport with Bluebeard," whispered Stella as he came, and
                  stooping down, she caught a pebble from the sand, and slung it far out amid the
                  waves. The next second another went whizzing past, sped by a more powerful hand,
                  far out beyond the distance hers had made. Again she essayed, and again, hurled by
                  a stronger hand, went far beyond a larger pebble still. Without a word Stella made
                  a third and greater trial, more successful in result than either that had been
                  made before, and as she did so she turned her flushed face in triumph towards her
                  rival.
               "Sufficient for the day," said he.
               "Because it is Sunday, or, you will not contend with me, sir?" asked Stella in a
                  deferential tone, and yet betraying more dignity and pride in her voice than Susan
                  had noticed before.
               "Oh, no, neither because of the day nor the sex. I have very nearly put my arm out
                  of joint, and am quite willing that you should bear off the honor."
               "I should have chosen to fight the fight out."
               Then with the utmost gravity Mr. Leighton sped another other pebble after those which had gone before, but
                  less vigorously—he would give her a fresh victory.
               "Soften my defeat," said he, turning from the sea to Stella, "by saying that you
                  were not much hurt last night."
               She lifted the braided hair from her forehead and showed him the discolored circle
                  hidden by it. "I plead guilty—I entered the forbidden closet," she said.
               Leighton smiled at the allusion. He was in the presence of beauty—was he beyond
                  its influence? he perceived, did he feel it?
               "If you were shut up in a round tower like that, and condemned to solitary
                  confinement, how would you like it?" asked he.
               "Of all things, sir; I should like nothing so well."
               "With no one to praise and flatter you?"
               Susan understood well the grave and penetrating look he fixed on Stella, and
                  remembering how those glances had ever affected herself, she looked to see how
                  Stella would meet them—she could not quite see, could not at all understand that
                  they fell like arrows against a helmet of steel.
               "There would be no one to praise or flatter you in such a place as that.
                  Impossible!"
               "That may be the very reason."
               "Ah?... I believe you."
               "Do you indeed, sir?"
               "You are not indignant because of my words—you do not resent them?"
               "Am I not indignant, sir?"
               "Are you?"
               "So indignant that I will not prove it to you."
               "I believe that, on the bare assertion. This is Miss Stella, of whom you have told
                  me," said Mr. Leighton, turning to Susan. "Young lady, were you brought up in a
                  boarding-school, or in barracks?" There was an amusing contrast in the gravity of
                  tone with which he addressed Stella, the deference of his bearing, and the
                  interest and surprise that hid itself, but hardly, in the depths of his eyes.
               "In barracks," answered Stella.
               "So I supposed. Waked up in the morning at the sound of the trumpet, and falling
                  asleep amid strains of martial music. And you are regularly enlisted. Have bravely
                  committed yourself to the fortunes of war, beyond a doubt. What banner may be
                  floating over your tent-door?"
               '"I am not solicitous for an elysium painted on a shield which others may see me
                  brandish in the contest; but I desire to bear upon my shoulders a real, not a
                  painted weight, of which I may feel the pressure, but which may be imperceptible
                  to others.' I bow to the sage who said that... find me a device, sir—I would have
                  a banner of my own."
               "The red cross of the crusader might befit," said Mr. Leighton; the tone of each
                  speaker's voice had greatly changed in their last words.
               "Can I work out my salvation thus? Last year I would have taken the black veil if
                  I could have done so. Would that have been salvation?"
               Here again was she pouring out her soul in another stranger's ear, or rather here
                  was she again exposing the deep unquiet of her soul. She was not one, as the
                  reader very clearly perceives, to go into the silence of uncommunicable thought,
                  and there work out, in fear and trembling, the problem of salvation. Once risen in
                  spirit above conventionalities, this question of her life was not to work out its
                  answer in silence and secrecy. Every strong life with which she came in contact
                  must give her such aid as was in its power.
               
               From her questioning of Mr. Leighton, the reader likewise, and rightly, will infer
                  that Stella was not altogether satisfied with the counsel of the nun, nor with
                  that of Miss Watson. She looked at Mr. Leighton—would he understand the meaning of
                  this sudden burst of confidence?
               Yes, he did understand it—he knew what to make of it, but his response to it was
                  delayed.
               "Years, and heaven and earth have taught you nothing to say," she demanded;
                  sorrowful was the voice. "Do you not know what it is I am seeking?"
               "Who are you?" he demanded; but the words were gently said.
               "An orphan girl—Stella, if you like the name."
               "And are you in great trouble, that you come to me?"
               "No. Every thing is before me that is before any woman. I am not rich, it is true,
                  but neither am I poor. I am not the fashion, but I have position, and some
                  influence, I dare say. If I had replied to you that I was brought up in a
                  boarding-school, would you not have despised me just on account of that? So I said
                  I was brought up in barracks. But I should have said in a convent."
               Mr. Leighton seemed lost in thought. As long as she spoke his eyes were fixed upon
                  Stella, but as soon as she was silent he turned partly away, and stepped forward
                  from the place where he stood, as if to shake off some spell.
               And then, for the chrysalis was broken, and there would be no rest again till the
                  life within it had come fairly forth, she went on:
               "I told you I thought last year of going into a convent—to remain. Perhaps you
                  supposed that was jest... I meant it. I wanted to do something. I'm not content to
                  dwell in decencies forever. I'm not content to fill a place merely because I
                  happen to be in it; to turn on a pivot through one little circle all my days. Now,
                  if I am merely tempted by the devil I would like to know it... But, sir, if it is
                  the Spirit of Christ's teaching that occasions this unrest, and compels me to
                  refuse a dead faith because there is such a thing as a living one, can your
                  experience decide? I know you think it strange that I should speak in this way,
                  unless you listen as one soul should to the voice of another."
               At last he spoke—and how he spoke! Never but once before that day had Susan heard
                     that voice.
               "I do not think it strange. I do forget that you are young, and I am old. I can
                  accommodate myself to the pressure of your need. You need no apology; you need far
                  more. What do you mean by a dead faith?"
               "Faith in churches, and creeds, and symbols!"
               "Yet you would have bound yourself irrevocably to them. You would have tortured an
                  expansive nature, that was designed to grow."
               "I had not then the knowledge that they are not life; or rather, against my
                  knowledge the most potent influences arrayed themselves. They were life, I had
                  been taught—or I had been left to deduce as much from all that was taught me—and
                  if they were life, I should certainly have it in abounding fulness. If prayer to
                  saints is the thing, I should have a shrine for every word, a saint for every
                  thought. But was not my God thus divided infinitesimally? Could I ever lift myself
                  up in any measure towards him, as all in all? There were galleries, rising tier
                  above tier, heaven high, filled with saints, and I could not get above the topmost
                  range. I must sweep them away, if I would look up to Him... If, when Christ gave
                  his blood, and said, 'Drink ye all of it,' he meant to infuse into
                  our veins of heart and of brain his own life—to make us one with him, workers as
                  he worked —then, having received it, I want the opportunity and sphere which the reception supposes. I am not
                  willing to halt in the city for purposes of dancing, and feasting, and compliment,
                  while He goes up into the mountain bearing His cross. I would choose to be slain
                  with Him. I would choose to be crucified."
               "Is there no vast spiritual pride in this aspiration?"
               He was sounding her depth, and her answer pleased him, when she said
                  impetuously:
               "Is every longing that proves life an inch deeper than beasts might suspect or
                  fathom, to be charged with pride, sir?"
               And he answered, again interrogatively, "Is there no crucifixion implied in the
                  bending to necessity? Is there no sacrifice in that concentration of anguish
                  reserved to an awakened spirit, in the conviction that His Spirit must be for a
                  time bound, and withheld from action?"
               "I cannot understand these things so, sir," said Stella, her voice echoing the
                  mildness of his, or subdued by it from its passionate tone. "The desire to work
                  implies the capacity and the field, does it not? I am persuaded that there are
                  labors in which I may exhaust my life. And life was given us for cultivation and
                  exhaustion of its present resources, was it not? I am certain that I can render
                  some other service than—"
               "Than that of Obedience? Are you so sure? The very Christ you seek to serve WAS
                  Obedience. He was not an assenting, but an obedient man."
               "Yes—obedient to the penalties of His mission. What loyal worker is not? Have you
                  no more to say?"
               "What would you, young lady?"
               "Serve Him."
               "Wait, then, till He calls you."
               "Has He not called?"
               "Then He has showed you the way, to walk in it."
               "Is not this His voice that will not let me rest? The very voice that sent
                  messengers for the dumb beast, because He had need of him."
               "Follow, then, the messenger. Why do you not? What stranger by the wayside has a
                  right to interfere? None but yourself can hear the voice. The voices that come
                  from heaven to chosen souls are but thunderings to the baser sort surrounding
                  them. They only hear the report of the electric communication. We cannot interpret
                  such things for each other. Be not rash in your interpretations. I believe that
                  you are sincere, since you actually thought of removing all that makes life
                  beautiful to youth, for His sake, which is certainly the last thing that would be
                  demanded of you."
               "And you have nothing more to say to me, sir?" said Stella, half turning from
                  him.
               "Nothing—unless—" This word arrested her step, as, in silence, she was about to go
                  away.
               "Unless you have some special gift—a predominating tendency to some one kind of
                  labor. If you have, my counsel is, use it in the way that will tend farthest to
                  bring honor on woman as woman. The Christ you claim was born of woman."
               "And Him I would preach."
               "And do you not recollect, that since the world has stood, that gospel has been
                  preached in deeds more efficiently, more honestly and fearlessly, than in words?
                  Study, reflect, endure. You are yet young for other service than this. Perhaps in
                  this life you will never be sufficiently matured for any other service. You would
                  probably do more harm than good at this time, if you found a sphere of activity.
                  You are too inexperienced to become an outlaw to any purpose. You would be snared
                  in the first trap that was set for you. Bear the cross of submission till you are
                  strong to bear a heavier. Do not doubt that it will then be found wanting."
               
               "Such as it is, I thank you for your word. I will do what I can with it. Good
                  morning, sir."
               "That is what a woman calls seeking for light," thought Leighton, as he stood
                  watching the departing figures of Stella and Susan. "She is a brave, strange
                  girl—but so far wrong that there will be no getting her in the right way again.
                  She is as dogmatic as the veriest pedagogue that ever wielded a birch rod. A
                  tragic element in her composition, too. A very pretty specimen of lava sent up by
                  some raging volcano of circumstance, no doubt. Fine stuff for a convent! Too
                  honest for a tragedian—too honorable for a fashionist;—too spiritual for a
                  mobocracy—they would trample on her in the very first victory to which she led
                  them triumphant, in their brutish capacity of oversight. Unfit for use—unfit for
                  disuse; incapable of receiving the calm of the sage, and the joy of the
                  worldling—there is no hope for her. She was born under an adverse star, that girl,
                  and her doom is an eternal frustration. Poor child—how beautiful she is, she
                  speaks like a queen, and looks like one, every gesture speaks for her."
               Susan followed Stella as she turned away, and walked down side by side home with
                  her to the cabin.
               As they went, Stella did not once speak, nor in any way paid heed to the child,
                  until they had come to the cabin, when, entering first, and leading the way into
                  Tom's room, she said, but in soliloquy as it seemed:
               "That is the utmost a man can be induced to say. I mistook him. He looked like a
                  person who has thought and experimented a good deal, but he does not understand
                  me. 'Wait!' He does not know the age... Susan, I want to lie down here in the
                  shade and rest; sit where I can see you."
               Poor Susan, troubled and astonished by all that she had heard, sat down and folded
                  her hands. A Sabbath peace was in her posture, but no such peace was shining in
                  her face. Into the secret of the disquieted questioner before her, she could not
                  enter. She was moving in another circle—was the inhabitant of another sphere—yet
                  was she not proof against the disquiet—indeed it infected her. She felt ill at
                  ease in Stella's presence—troubled, not confiding but fearful. Her guest, from
                  being the day's glory and delight, became its unrest and its shadow.
               "You are to forget all that I have said to-day," said Stella softly, at length,
                  laying her hand on Susan's head, for she was not at a loss to understand the
                  thoughtfulness and silence into which Susan had fallen. "We are recommended to try
                  the spirits, and Mr. Leighton looked so spiritual that I could not help it. I
                  never should think of talking in such a strain to your Mr. Falcon, if I had a
                  thousand opportunities... Of course we make all the opportunities we have... I
                  never could make one for such a talk with him. Mr. Falcon is a different man, and
                  a very good man. If his name happened to be William, everybody would call him
                  Bill. That means he is a popular man. I know very well I have made a great fool of
                  myself this morning. Any woman is a fool who thinks that she can be helped out of
                  such a strait as I felt myself in an hour ago. No one can help us—no woman at all
                  events, and no man... except it may be, Susan,—God knows what would become of us
                  if we lost our faith in that—the man Jesus...... Who is that? Is not that Mr.
                  Falcon's voice?:.."
               Lifting herself from the bed on which she had thrown herself, Stella listened, and
                  Susan listened, but heard nothing; but to satisfy her guest she went to the
                  cabin-door, and saw Falcon coming up the beach on horseback, her father walking by
                  his side.
            
            
               
               XII.
               JOHN FALCON was not so much amazed when informed of the guest in the cabin as he
                  might have been, had he not heard before he left St. John's, that Stella Cammon
                  had gone down to Dillon's.
               If I stated here in the beginning of this chapter, which shall be a brief one,
                  that the desire to see her again had quite as much to do with the visit, as its
                  other and secondary purpose, to examine Dillon on the subject of removal to St.
                  John's, I should not have wandered hopelessly from the real truth of the case.
               And to all of them it was a blessed Sabbath-day. For Falcon brought down with him
                  for every one a blessing—they were receptive of the joy that flowed like a river
                  peacefully through his nature; a broad sunny meadow, was that nature—with the long
                  grass where insects might chirrup and sport, where the humblest of field flowers
                  looked up to the sun, where berries ripened, where great trees cast their
                  shadows—for the nature was peace; it had its own inherent joy, the joy which is
                  inevitably communicative whensoever a receptive life goes wandering through the
                  meadow; the winds of heaven, and the sunlight, and heat, have free course there;
                  whosoever will may see it, breathe it, and rejoice in it—and know it is the peace
                  that passes understanding; the joy that is secure—because independent of all the
                  world can give or take away.
               A blessed day they made of it. For them the sun shone in his glory, and lighted up
                  the waves, and made the beach sand sparkle;—at the tent-door an angel had gone in
                  and found a welcome and refreshment.
               Mr. Falcon was the last person who could draw from Stella an involuntary burst of
                  feeling such as Mr. Leighton had listened to. He bore about with him no mark of
                  painful study. One could not discern from his manner or speech, that life was a
                  theme that vexed him. His attitude was that of a manly worker, who saw before him
                  tasks to be done, and he did not spare himself, or turn the labor over to
                  another.
               When he spoke of the work in which he had been engaged during the last week, and
                  narrated some touching experience of which he had learned in his explorations
                  among the emigrants, he spoke from his heart—his humanity explained itself in the
                  pathos of his voice, and in the words of his narration. High praise he had for the
                  Sisters of Mercy whom he had encountered in his labors.
               Much he lauded their perseverance and courage, and his eyes while he spoke these
                  things were fixed on Stella. With a well-bred show of interest, intended to hint
                  at a concealed indifference which she was far from feeling, Stella listened. And,
                  as if to avoid the appearance of actual rudeness, compelled herself to speak
                  occasionally. But under all this exterior a soul was listening to his speaking, as
                  if for life or death.
               No room for doubting had she here. It was an enfranchised soul that spoke, and
                  she, in bondage, listened.
               Never, as he had said, would she make an opportunity to speak to him as she had
                  done to others. Whether he had been born into, or grown into the condition which
                  now was his, unmistakably his, she did not question now and here. And awed sense
                  of the fact that she was in the presence of no distorted life, of no fragment of a
                  life, held her fast. She could not escape it. No broad, world-comprehending system
                  of belief, like this which his bearing and his words indicated, had she ever met
                  before. She shrunk back within herself, silenced—conscious, in the pride with
                  which she veiled the weakness of her wavering faith and hope, that it was but an
                     emotional pride that had constrained
                  her heretofore in so many ways and times to exhibit it. In her smiling face, and
                  gay words, a passing careless eye would have detected nothing more than dead lives
                  often evidence. The exuberant health, and apparently unflagging flow of cheerful
                  spirits, seemed ample provision for defence against the dismal dreams of
                  hypochondria. And truly were so: her trouble was not the darkness of a vision, but
                  the apparent inscrutableness of a palpable confusion, a visible disorder. In the
                  gay dance of life she had fallen up against startling realities. Who could explain
                  them? This man would answer with a smile—would answer, would smile—she felt
                  assured of this—but at the same time there was in her soul a deep conviction of
                  another truth of which, till now, she had not caught sight since she was a child,
                  and frolicked on the beach—since as a young maiden giving over her heart so fondly
                  and confidingly to the nun who taught her, she had gone trusting all she met,
                  pouring out the wine of life upon a soil where weeds grew so abundant that a
                  serpent found in their midst a hiding-place, and made a nest for habitation.
            
            
               XIII.
               AND yet when he was gone, Stella, excited beyond the possibility of sleep, arose
                  from her bed after midnight, and, seated in the quiet of Tom's chamber, wrote a
                  letter full of disquietude, one long interrogatory to Miss Watson. And with it she
                  went out noiselessly into the moonlight.
               The beach glistened like a vast bed of silver in the light—solemn was the roar of
                  the sea—the night was full of awful peace—along the waves spread a movable path of
                  light, the reflection of the moon, a broad highway meet for spirits.
               Here, on the solitary beach, with bared head she walked, the wind tossing her hair
                  at will, and night, and circumstance, and time, were in that hour as nothing to
                  her.
               Leighton in his study, he had not yet retired, saw her. He had thought of her all
                  day.
               He had not been quite unmoved by the words she had spoken to him on that Sabbath
                  day. Though disposed to regard her disquiet as but another evidence of the
                  restlessness and imperfection of the female character, yet above and beyond this
                  he felt a decided interest in her. He could not prevent his sympathies from
                  extending towards her. She had appealed to him so directly that, though she had to
                  his mind conclusively proved her ignorance of the things of which she spoke, she
                  had roused him as he had not been roused for years, though thrown by the
                  occupation of his professorship so continually among young, inquiring minds. His
                  sympathies reached towards her feebly, but certainly. Vivid was the recollection
                  she had served to call up, of the struggle through which in his own youth he had
                  passed. How he had finally conquered, he well knew. This recollection inspired him
                  with a gentler pity than he had felt for her before.
               When he saw her walking alone on the sand he went out.
               Stella saw him as he came from the mill—she was advancing towards him—and she
                  neither stood still in indecision, nor turned back from the path, but steadily
                  went forward.
               "I thought I gave you an opiate this morning," when he came near, he said.
               "Some drugs stimulate me," she answered; "opium never tranquillizes me. Your
                  opiate, sir, failed of its proper effect."
               
               "Then it was either an under, or an over dose; which, I wonder?"
               "You think the latter, from my being here at this hour; the house was so close I
                  could not sleep."
               "I have been thinking of what you said about the convent... did you actually think
                  of making a nun of yourself? or was it, as I suppose, a figure of speech merely
                  implying the desperate and dangerous strait of doubt through which you were
                  passing?"
               "I meant it just as I said," answered Stella.
               "And if you wanted a church now, you would cleave to Rome—is not that it?"
               "Yes, it is so. I want something else. I have climbed on in my way, as I told you,
                  disputed at every step I took. I have gone up through the church, using altar, and
                  saints' niches, and the gorgeous windows with the martyrs painted on them, for
                  stepping-stones, and even the crucifix—why was the spiritual cross made into such
                  a human perversion as a crucifix? And at last, when I have come to the roof... I
                  look down beneath, and see—"
               "It is a dizzy pinnacle," said Mr. Leighton; "awfully fearful for an unbalanced
                  adventurer; what do you see?"
               "The homes of the city in inextricable confusion far below. Up, above, what I
                  thought was heaven when I was a child—but the spiritual heavens are not there. If
                  I fall down among these homes, even if I were not dashed in pieces, I should die—I
                  should lose my life. I think the slumbering listener who might have heard the
                  apostle preaching, but went to sleep rather, and fell from the window to the
                  ground, and was taken up for dead, and only recovered by a miracle, means
                  something.
               "Yes, certainly," answered Mr. Leighton.
               "You would not, for the sake of giving a person a mere quiet life, you would not,
                  would you, shut him up out of the light and air? Is it not better to grow? Is it
                  so important that a person should cleave to the faith in which he has been
                  educated, whether it answers the purpose of his soul or not? Does not nature
                  assure us that the law of growth is a vital law? The caterpillar and acorn assure
                  me. I long for growth; this tangled undergrowth hinders me—this damp darkness is
                  full of poison. I must grow."
               "Assuredly you must," he said quietly.
               "But these great trees in the forest, with their branches twined and crossed far
                  above me, seem to warn me that they will not let me through. They will compel me,
                  then, to an obstinate pushing in some other direction. They will make a deformity
                  of me. Why should I confess? I have no faith in the virtue of a priest's
                  absolution: or why should I pray to saints? bead-telling, and all the rest of it?
                  I believe nothing in it. I was born for no such service."
               "No—I perceive that you are intensely Protestant."
               "And is it not plain to you that I cannot stand still where I am? I must either go
                  back, and, with the utmost devotion, entire submission, give myself up to that
                  Church, work for it, live for it, die for it, be absorbed in it... know nothing
                  but the Church, desire nothing but its interests... love nothing except according
                  to its dictates—or, I must leave it utterly and forever. I have tried to look that
                  large liberty in the face, but it awes me—I—I almost fear it. It is a new country
                  to me, sir, and I know not what is in it."
               "It is the ideal land of youth. Go not in thereat. You are of a temperament that
                  needs the limitations of the actual, the positive. Better for you to remain in the
                  transept than climb up in the manner you have described. All that is required of
                  you is manifestly this—conformity merely conformity."
               
               "To what?" asked Stella.
               "To what you know."
               "I know nothing."
               "That the Church has, in all ages, afforded protection and peace to those who
                  sought shelter of her."
               "Sir?"
               "You know this, do you not? The catechism taught it you, and your experience has
                  proved it to be true. You evidently know nothing of the land that lies beyond the
                  borders of the Church. Now, why be so unwise as to resign what you have
                  ascertained for—you cannot tell what... Neither can I."
               He paused—Stella was silent. She pondered his words, and at last rousing herself
                  and looking up at him, she said, almost triumphantly:
               "Yes! I can tell you, sir. And you, if you would, could you not tell me? But it
                  matters not—I see I shall not—" she hesitated—" get much good of you," she
                  concluded with a sigh.
               "Tell me," said he, in spite of himself, deeply interested in her words, "have you
                  striven to retain the faith in which you were brought up? Since you began to doubt
                  its validity, have you ever striven to conquer such doubts?"
               "Oh, it seems to me, sir, you should not ask me that. It has cost me so much since
                  I left that road beaten by the passage of ages."
               "You have renounced it altogether, then? You will not return?"
               "I cannot."
               Mr. Leighton hesitated. "Women," said he, at length, speaking slowly, "women
                  renouncing the fancies of faith hardly know what they do. And you, who seem full
                  of poetic, passional impulses—it seems to me... your renunciation would be
                  incredible if I could persuade myself self that you are fully aware of it. You go
                  to a priest and confess your faults, he counsels you, and in a great name absolves
                  you from the penalty. What can be more consoling?" Did the impatient gesture of
                  the listening girl escape the speaker's eyes?... "You offer up your prayers before
                  the shrines of saints—your heart ascends to the abode which your imagination has
                  prepared for them. You behold them, in their celestial glory, interceding for you,
                  and those you love, with Him who is above all. What can be more beautiful? You
                  purchase heaven by your good works. It is yours—a safe investment—you can count on
                  the payment with certainty. You are, besides, encircled by guardian angels.
                  Consider whether all this enchanting order of things is to be lightly set aside,
                  ignored, for the sake of coarse, barren, meagre fact! for the things you see and
                  handle! Allowing that the circle engirdling heaven and earth, thronged with
                  beautiful imaginings, be nothing more than the creation of the brain, what an
                  immense renunciation is it you exact of yourself—of a woman!"
               "Sir... is there not sufficient splendor—for what do you take me?—is there not
                  sufficient attraction and majesty in simple fact to satisfy a soul? If I suspect
                  the validity of a theory, is it not as good as lost to me? If I question the
                  veracity of a thought, does it console me that it is adorned, and has for
                  centuries been adorned, with unquestioned beauty? Is a woman, necessarily, so
                  dependent on outward show of beauty that, having it assured, she can quietly
                  submit to inward and essential corruptions? I hold that the power which enchains
                  the soul is that which lies in the heart of truth. And in no shape it may choose
                  can it disguise itself beyond the detection of the eye that seeks and loves
                  it."
               "You make little of the heritage to which you were born," said Mr. Leighton, but
                  her answer pleased him; the very honesty
                  of her speech roused his involuntary respect. She was a woman, but after another
                  type than that against which all the sentiment of his nature spoke out in bitter
                  scorn. He fancied that this girlhood bore no faint resemblance to another that
                  long ago converted him for a brief season to a warm-blooded humanity. "But," he
                  continued, "you have narrowed and restricted your faculties to that contemplation,
                  when it is, in fact, but one feature in a vast and complicated system. It is a
                  stumbling-block in your way. Do you honestly desire that I should remove it?"
               "Go on:" in this charge was a full warrant.
               "You have stranded on the shoal of the unconditioned which has wrecked, or rather,
                  I should say, proved the great hinderance to the free working of many a mind. The
                  Church is the embodiment of an idea—the idea that involves the Infinite and the
                  Absolute. You have lost yourself in a maze where you may wander forever in a vague
                  consciousness of miserable mistaking—why? because you are beyond the ken of actual
                  knowledge in that dominion where you are. You have tormented yourself with
                  abstractions which were none the less fatal to your inward peace, and the
                  harmonious development of your nature, but the more fatal, on the contrary,
                  because of their sensuous arrayment. Symbols have disturbed your peace, because
                  you were sufficiently thoughtful of them to seek for the mystery they personated.
                  You have ignorantly worshipped, and that you can do no longer. In that fact I see
                  the proof that worship is no longer possible with you. Worship as the Church has
                  it, I mean. Drop the idea of the Church then, altogether." Stella started in
                  surprise—but in the next moment the passing likeness of his counsel to that given
                  by Sister Theresa disappeared. "Drop that idea, and all that is contained in it;
                  come back from the dominion of dreams into the actual world. Seek no longer for
                  infallible truth, content yourself with seeking to know that which can be known
                  —which is all. Your possessions will then satisfy you— for they will have
                  substance."
               The hour and the speaker may, full as much as his words, have conspired to shake
                  the soul of the listener to whom these things were thus proposed.
               "What will they be?" she asked in great hope. Was he not preaching deliverance to
                  the captive? What was the truth this wise man was advancing that roused her, and
                  made her hope to shine from the dark eyes full of pleading and of wonder, turned
                  toward him? Into what fair new kingdom would he convey her, where she would be
                  free from what she felt had bound her quite too long?
               "The amazing glories of this material world—the laws that govern all being—the
                  science of nature. Study these. One might venture to predict that this knowledge,
                  fairly ascertained, would lead you into possession of large liberty, and enduring
                  joy, since you can possess these things if you know them; since no fate can compel
                  your renunciation, or affect your right. Vex your righteous soul no longer with
                  thoughts which are of no value since they have for you no ascertained result. Your
                  own mind is the interpreter, for you, of the universe. The world is yours because
                  you know it; or, it may be yours because it is possible for you to know it... But
                  you require to act—you need to labor—and that, if I mistake not, you desire to do.
                  Seek, then, and you shall find; knock, it shall be opened to you; ask, you shall
                  receive. The requisition, you perceive, is incessant. Your energies are called
                  upon. The poverty of sloth is beyond the reach of charities. Occupy your field,
                  and cultivate it, and you shall find it ere long white with harvests; but, you
                  must lift up your eyes to see them, and stretch forth your hand to gather them
                  into your granary. If you are willing to
                  forsake a splendid, pompous dream for mere fact, an intangibility for a positive
                  possession, there is nothing in the way. And you actually resign nothing. For you
                  enter on an inheritance that is comprehensive of all things the moment you enter
                  the dominion of reality."
               Here he paused—and to himself he said, "She can receive this. She has energy of
                  thought, and of will. She will grasp at it. But it will be curious to observe the
                  use she will make of the truth. I think she is, in fact, sufficient for these
                  things. That she can forego the pictorial heavens for the substantial earth. But
                  it matters not. She will doubtless have a struggle before she delivers herself, if
                  she does ever, from the delusion of her besetting sin."
               Stella roused herself from the reflections his words had occasioned. The agitation
                  of her face betrayed the disturbance of her soul. She tried to speak, but she said
                  nothing.
               "Are you able to receive it?"
               "It leaves me very poor."
               "It finds you so perhaps, it will not leave you thus. Consider what your
                  possessions really were."
               "But, if I thought them worth much."
               "You did not think them so; were you not struggling to be clear of them? I have
                  merely indicated the way in which this was possible."
               "Ah, but it seems to me the most childish superstition were better than this."
               "To fall down before images?" she hesitated, and evaded.
               "Not before images, but the idea—an abstraction, if you call it so—that is more
                  satisfactory than the husk that contains it. I do not complain of the idea, sir,
                  but the substitution that it finds, and for which it is mistaken."
               "Then I have nothing for you clearly. I mistook you."
               "No, not altogether."
               "You will perceive then, perhaps, that some fault must pertain to the idea, some
                  imperfection; and an idea to be adored should certainly be peerless in
                  perfections; it must, I say, be in some way faulty, have a flaw, or such vast,
                  cumbrous, ungainly machinery as you feel compelled to set aside, could not have
                  emanated from it, and taken the place of it."
               "But it did not emanate from the idea."
               "Whence then did it come?"
               "It grew out of ignorance and incapacity to receive a pure idea—and then pride
                  came in, and sustained the substitution."
               "Then clearly the idea, as you term it, is in fault—is insufficient, and more than
                  that, it is dangerous; it leads into the veriest foolishness of thought and act.
                  It is deadly error; because it sustains itself at such an enormous abnegation of
                  right and duty. An idea that could by any unfortunate measure so conceal itself,
                  or be so concealed, as to delude its victim by a presentation of what was not it,
                  but separated by a heaven-wide distance from it, is certainly not an idea that you
                  would care to sustain, or adore. Deliverance from its dominion and subtlety was
                  what I understood you to be seeking. But, if you prefer it to the deliverance—of
                  course it is all right and proper... There is no wrong if you cannot estimate
                  it."
               "No—" said Stella, clinging to her thought with the grasp of a drowning person;
                  while she spoke with solemn deliberation. "You do not, I think, understand me. I
                  cannot live without the idea, but I want it to be taken out from the place where I
                  find it. I protest against the dress they give it. And after all, it may be well
                  to have been brought into such connection
                  with it as I have been, as something you said just now intimated to me; but, I
                  shall not have any peace until I get rid of all these questions and disputes. And,
                  if I see the idea, it may perhaps be as well for me to remain where I am. I shall
                  not pray to the saints, nor put faith in things of superstition. But I thank you
                  for what you have said, though it does seem terrible; why, it is impossible to
                  think of giving up all I have believed in since I knew anything! But then," she
                  added quickly, "you will perhaps say I have never known anything. Believed then,
                  if you like the word better."
               "Still," said Mr. Leighton, "it were altogether better, even as physicians
                  recommend a change of air and scene to invalids, it were better for you to quite
                  cease thinking of these matters. Go into another country— you greatly need the
                  change. Take up the book of facts and things, and get knowledge. Study into the
                  relation of things, learn the harmony of the sciences. Grow in reality; a steady
                  tree, that strikes its branches far into the light, and its roots deep into the
                  earth, is better than a sickly plant, that spindles into the shadowy air, and is
                  itself more a vision than a substance. Stop talking about the Church, and stop
                  thinking of it also. It were far better for you."
               "But, it seems to me, it is not the Church, but God, of whom that would deprive
                  me," said Stella, in a subdued tone. "It is He whom I sought, and do seek."
               "And there we are again. If you go into the dominion of the absolute, you must be
                  propelled by means of material machinery, which you will find inevitably fails of
                  its purpose. The powers you have are adapted to the grasp of the conditioned. You
                  are happy only when you put them to their proper uses; you are wretched, you are
                  disappointed at every turn, when you put them to a service vice they were not
                  designed to serve. The crying folly of the world is the use to which it compels
                  the implements in its hands—ignorant foregoing of the vast patrimony in its hands
                  for—for what—tell me what is given in exchange?"
               "Peace," said Stella, after some hesitation.
               "Which, in such connection, is another name for sloth," said Mr. Leighton. "Still,
                  if you call it peace, and believe in it, it is sufficient for you. But you desired
                  activity; you wanted this morning some work to do. No branch of scientific inquiry
                  are you excluded from—the diligent student will have no time for entertaining
                  questions of unimportant moment; he will, of all things, shrink from bondage to
                  one idea. Listen to that, and believe it... You are thinking now of the needful
                  restraints of the Church. Is there not an all-sufficient security against
                  temptations to carnal sins in the pure truths which are the centre of natural
                  facts, and the sum of science? What mind, besotted by any sort of evil, can nerve
                  itself to such seeking as is rewarded with discovery? The restraints of the Church
                  are good in their place, but they are bonds for childhood, when compared with the
                  rebukes and demands of science. The Church is the conscience of the
                  churchist—heaven and earth of the whole man. If you would have unity within
                  yourself, if you would have harmony, let me tell you you shall have it, but not by
                  any creed, nor for any code's sake."
               "I am ignorant, I know, in all these things," answered Stella. "I know nothing
                  about science. I have not studied far, or much; but, tell me, is that the only
                  reason, the true reason, why it would seem such a desolate, barren world if I left
                  out of it the Idea of a Creator, who revealed himself once in Jesus Christ? Is
                  that the reason why I should feel weak and helpless if I had not His example ample? Would life have such grand and
                  awful significance if I did not see Him everywhere present and active? —if I had
                  not His inscrutable wisdom, to which I might refer all the dark things that
                  trouble my understanding? You have done me good. I will obey your teaching so far
                  as this: I will emerge from the dotage of churchism; I will study as a human being
                  should; I will try to read with my own eyes some of these great mysteries. But
                  what you call the 'Absolute,' the 'Unconditioned,' the Infinite, you must leave
                  me. God in Christ must remain. I cannot go on without that pass-word. I should
                  distrust the paths that opened to me without it. This, if it is the result, the
                  first-fruit of an erroneous education, I cannot do without. Take away everything
                  else—the whole dominion of angels, I can spare them—and all the beautiful
                  imaginings of poets, and those of religionists also—I do not need them, I believe;
                  they have not done much except to confuse me and clog the action of my intellect.
                  But I cannot do without the Supreme and Eternal Idea, and its revelation in
                  creation and redemption."
               "Nor would I have you. I merely sought to relieve you of a mistake. Receive the
                  idea, then, as you can, if it stands not a gigantic impediment in the door of your
                  mind, keeping out the sunlight and the air."
               "Nay," she said, "it brings the sunlight and the air; if it has not, it will." A
                  long pause followed this word. At length Leighton said:
               "You promise me, then, that you will strike now into a new path, and make much of
                  your life while its vigor and freshness remain?"
               "I will."
               "And you will be fearless in your renunciations?"
               "I will give up all but my life."
               '"Peace be within thy walls, and plenteousness within thy palaces.' But,
                  recollect, a beggar's notion of abundance differs from a prince's. Away with
                  discontent and pining! The world is yours, if you will take it. Vex yourself no
                  longer—it is the sense of wrong-doing that makes the misery of discontent. The
                  unexplained, un-examined consciousness of infamous deserving, that stings the
                  heart of the envious. Go no more to man or woman for strength, or counsel, or
                  wisdom. Your need has its answer and supply, if you will take it—no one can
                  discover it for you, or give it to you. And what I have now said to you is in
                  itself of no manner of use, excepting as it can suggest to you the real law of
                  your being. I do not know it, nor do you; but some word that I have said, if you
                  will think upon it, will suggest all that you most need. If," he added, "if you
                  were my child, I could do no more for you—you are as independent of me as I of
                  you."
               He said no more; and when he was done, Stella only answered:
               "I thank you."
               Until daybreak she remained there on the beach, restless as the ever-moving waves,
                  walking up and down the sand, thinking over all that she had heard—striving with
                  herself, and making daring resolutions—recalling to mind the fact, and now and
                  then staying herself upon it, that this man had not, in all he said, in all his
                  exhortation, startling as his words at first had seemed, not once had he proposed
                  a thought that appeared now as an obstruction to the fulfilment of her desire to
                  labor in, amongst, and for her fellows. Indeed, the very fact that he would narrow
                  her sphere, and curb her thoughts, seemed to necessitate all activity of
                  charities, to call her to exertion in whatever avenue of social life she chose to
                  enter.
               By daybreak she had come to some new conclusions; the long meditation in that
                  solemn solitude had done her good—it had
                  at least delivered her from one idea and given her instead, many.
               She waited here for morning, alone. Shortly after he had spoken the words last
                  recorded, Mr. Leighton left her and went his way; but not to slumber, nor to work
                  at his desk, nor to indulge in quiet contemplation.
               Had Susan gone up to the mill that morning before she set out with her friend for
                  Harlem, where Stella was to take the St. John's stage, she would have found no
                  entrance. Yet Mr. Leighton was there, and wakeful, and in his heart a thought was
                  throbbing.
            
            
               XIV.
               WE left the family of Mr. Tree in a sad condition in regard to worldly fortunes.
                  No event occurred to prevent the progress of the tide that now bore down upon
                  them. Credit and reputation were gone. Not only the inventory was completed, but
                  the sale of the household goods took effect, for Mr. Tree was determined that
                  nothing should be reserved or kept back for the comfort of a household so
                  dishonored, from the claims of the office which Mortimer Maurice had
                  despoiled.
               A little house was taken for the family in an obscure quarter of St. John's; and
                  Will began his writing, and Lucia her own peculiar work. The motive which impelled
                  her was indeed quite different from that which had induced her to labor before the
                  fall of the family; but it was a not less holy motive. Instead of aiding Vane,
                  which had been her purpose, she had now her father's and mother's comfort in view.
                  The artist could not be strengthened in his purpose, nor aided in his foreign aim,
                  by any help of hers; the sphere of her effort might be lowlier, but it was holier
                  than before.
               And still she thought of Vane, of the struggles he had made, of the difficulties
                  he had met, which could not baffle him. Sometimes these thoughts were not wholly
                  free from envy; but thinking of his career she gained strength also. What was to
                  hinder her following in that same career? He, himself, esteemed her pictures of
                  some worth!
               True to his first impulse, Will has Rosa's child in his support—she lives in the
                  house with them. But Mortimer Maurice and his wife are in more pestilential
                  quarters, left to their own fate, it would seem, and no one can tell what will
                  become of them. But there is a heart that bleeds for them, and an eye that is
                  mindful.
               Mr. Tree, at home, assists Will in the writing he has from the office of the law
                  partners, whose clerk and student he is; and Will himself works day and night, and
                  is happy. As yet, there has been no fresh explosion in the household. Mrs. Tree is
                  faithful to her vows in as far as this, she shares her husband's fortunes still;
                  but she pines for "sympathy" which no one has the time to extend; and she is
                  afflicted overmuch with neuralgia, and so with her the days "drag their weary
                  length along;" and for her eye the "slime of the serpent is over them all."
                  Newport and Saratoga are beyond her reach, and she shuts herself up in her room
                  and laments; for no breath of the air more fresh than any sea breeze ever was, and
                  more reviving, floats along the scorching desert of her being, and not a drop of
                  the water, whose constant flow, and purity, and brightness, communicate the health
                  no mineral water gives, not a solitary drop of this water, I say, falls, or shall
                  ever fall, on her parched tongue.
               Pucelli, the Italian, of whom Lucia had received her first instructions in
                  drawing, was himself a wretched daubist, but he had in his gallery a collection of
                  admirable paintings; and upon his table the student, who sought to learn the art of engraving, or of
                  drawing, or painting, found all the requisite aids. And in Pucelli he found a
                  theorist and master, who understood the rules of art sufficiently to impart them
                  to young students. Though in practice he was execrable, in precept he was
                  thoroughly prepared and disposed to communicate to others of his knowledge, for
                  what he called a reasonable consideration.
               He bore about him all the outward marks of prosperity. The embroidery of his
                  velvet cap was untarnished—his dressing-gown was that of the exquisite—his
                  moustache was curled—his person redolent of sweetest perfumes. He was the most
                  prosperous of quacks, the most successful of impositions. He had begun his career
                  as an artist—had been a portrait painter, a landscape painter, and an historic
                  painter, but had failed, and well-nigh starved in each capacity, until he set up
                  for a teacher, and, by plodding and patience, came into possession of one picture
                  after another; then he turned showman—made a fortune by his exhibitions—and had
                  now settled down in his present capacity; and his school was making a noise, and
                  acquiring a reputation.
               To this school went Lucia Tree, with the purpose, for this was the privilege of
                  all who had been pupils, of making a copy of a picture. Having entered on this
                  study with zeal and determination, she would pause at no half achievement.
               But, as yet, she had met with slight encouragement in her vocation. She was young,
                  and unskillful; and the works she sought to do were the trifles that grew without
                  an effort from the hands of those accustomed to such labors. Those looking for
                  workmen would ask for swift hands, that could throw off results almost
                  spontaneously—who were known as designers; and Lucia's work was slow, and she had
                  acquired no reputation!
               One day, when she went into Pucelli's, to look at the picture which she had
                  resolved on attempting—for, after many fruitless endeavors in other directions, it
                  had become apparent to her that she must acquire some reputation before her labor
                  would meet with adequate reward as she stood before the painting, Vane, who had
                  gone into the room before her, making a slow circuit of the gallery, at length
                  approached her.
               When she entered the room no one was visible, and she thought herself alone; and,
                  before he came to her, she was so surrounded by her own thoughts, that, had the
                  room been crowded with people, she would have been quite as unconscious as now of
                  Vane. The greatness of what she had undertaken seemed to-day as for the first time
                  before her; the chances of success appeared never before so doubtful, her power
                  never so weak. Repeated failures, and return of her unpretending work upon her
                  hands, had disheartened her; the expenses that would be incurred by the necessary
                  outlay, in order that the larger work, which, perhaps, would prove a total
                  failure, might be commenced, was not a good foundation for very substantial hopes.
                  She could only make way against these disheartening reflections by the force of
                  the moral obligations, sense of which had energized her for effort in the
                  beginning. She could not leave Will to struggle alone. She could not disappoint
                  her father, after all her boastful defiance of fortune. She must make new trials,
                  and be brave and constant in her efforts. And here she thought of Vane.
               And just here came his voice. Impulsively, Lucia turned as she heard it—the voice
                  was so near, and she was so surprised; another moment's reflection would have led
                  her to draw her veil, and leave him to interpret the act, rather than he should
                  see how disturbed she was and had been.
               
               The reflection was an instant too late. Vane had seen, and was struck by what he
                  saw; and, after a few words of more formal address, he observed, "I received the
                  parcel of drawings you returned me, Miss Tree."
               "I had no safe place for them, as I said in the note," replied Lucia. "We have
                  moved from our old home since I saw you."
               "And I have been very nearly moved too," said Vane; "but I have put off Italy now
                  for another year's consideration."
               "How could you do it?" asked Lucia quickly; but the sudden and strange light that
                  flitted over her face, which was not a smile, and which certainly was not gloom
                  and disappointment, did not escape him; he heard what it said more truly than he
                  did hear her words, and not one of them escaped him.
               "Oh," said he pleasantly, "I had a young friend, an artist, too, whom I wanted to
                  have in sight a little longer; and then, besides, I am in no such desperate haste
                  for Italy, after all. There is no danger that my enthusiasm will not still be at a
                  white heat, even if I wait a year or two longer. But I have put a limit on my
                  ambition. I have done painting houses, and taken to canvas. And I have a quiet
                  little room, two or three feet square, with a good sky-light; and there I daub
                  away—you should see me!"
               Unless he was blind as a bat, he read in Lucia's face, from which every particle
                  of disturbance had vanished, that she would like very well to comply with that
                  duty he spoke of.
               "Where are you living now?" he asked.
               Lucia told him.
               "That is a long way apart for two artists to live," said he; "but your brother is
                  with you still?"
               When Lucia replied, he said:
               "No one is to see my picture until I return from Italy, if ever I go."
               "But you will go!"
               "I'm not so sure of it. Maybe I can find at home all that Italy would give me.
                  Perhaps. If you will come down some day with your brother to my room, I can show
                  you what I have been doing."
               "Oh yes—we will come. I long to see it so."
               "Do you? I like to hear you say that. But you are an artist as well as I; what are
                  you doing at present?"
               The self-depreciative word on Lucia's lips was not uttered. His self-reliant
                  buoyancy of spirit had in some manner sufficiently communicated itself to her to
                  make her hopeful and strong again—and the sympathy which laborers seek she sought
                  of him.
               "I am trying to work," said she.
               "And how do you make out?" he asked, frankly and instantly.
               "Not well. Nobody seems to think me a very great genius. I have tried shop-men,
                  book-men, and everybody, it seems to me."
               "That is the way of it," said Vane, half-laughing, yet there was a softening
                  shadow in his eyes; "but you are not to give it up with trying. You must do what
                  you set out to do, you know," and he rapidly named several shop-men—had she tried
                  all these?
               Yes—and they had nothing for her to illustrate—nobody wanted designs for
                  anything.
               "If I should go home with you, would you show me what you have done," he
                  asked.
               "I would be so glad to show you," she answered.
               "Then I thank you for that. But why are you standing here before this
                  picture?"
               No hesitation made Lucia in replying:
               "I did not know what else to do—and I was afraid to stop working for fear I might lose some chance—and
                  so I thought I would make a copy of this, and then perhaps some one would see it
                  and buy it, or else give me some other work to do."
               "But it would take you months to paint that picture."
               "I know that. But that would be better than—I know not what to do."
               "Oh well, we will never be quite so foolish as that. I know some good fellows. But
                  perhaps you had rather fight your own way than be helped along? I had an offer of
                  a patron myself to-day. But I did not think much of it. When I want a patron I
                  will hunt up a man whose house needs a new coat of paint—when it comes to art, I
                  must be let alone. But you must see the difference between a patron and the offer
                  of an artist to help his fellow."
               "I shall be glad of help," said Lucia. "I am trying to work for a living—it is
                  very different with me from what it is with you."
               "Is it? But it is a good fortune we both have, is n't it? only you must not spoil
                  it by troubling yourself about three or four yards of canvas yet awhile. I know
                  about your sketches. See! I have a poem this minute that I have to illustrate for
                  a magazine—listen, and I will read it to you—tell me how many good points there
                  are in it for sketches, and we will see if we can agree about it."
               It was a poem of some length, and very striking in its scenery. Lucia listened
                  breathlessly while Vane read it; when he finished it she told him the pictures
                  that might be drawn from it, and the points best fitted for illustration. He
                  listened attentively; when she had spoken, he said:
               "Upon my word you shall do the work, then! I looked the thing over, and could make
                  nothing of it—you have seen through it in a moment. You will do better with
                  allegory than I. Make the sketches if you will, and you can come down with your
                  brother, and we will have a talk about it—and I will show you the picture. If you
                  do the work—why it is yours of course. Don't say a word—you are the only friend I
                  have here—and the only artist that I have any patience with."
               Lucia folded the paper, and retained it—the manner of her doing it said all for
                  her; but she seemed to think there was need for a formal expression of what was in
                  her mind, and she tried to say it—that she was grateful to him for his kindness,
                  that she accepted it as she would have wished him to do had she attempted to aid
                  him—that there was a reason why she must labor, as he doubtless knew, and other
                  words, which he heard, and connected, and understood, not, however, because they
                  were so clearly spoken that he could not avoid it.
               "That is all right," said he, extending his hand, which she accepted instantly as
                  a token of their friendly compact. "You make me think of my mother. You will see
                  her in the picture I have painted. I know how well pleased she would be to know I
                  had such a friend as you. Sometimes I think that you are better than Italy for me.
                  Do you know why? Because you give me what I was always thinking to find in Italy.
                  To be sure I was thinking of galleries of pictures, and the great works of
                  artists, and I don't suppose you will ever do anything quite as great; and I have
                  seen you so few times I am afraid you will call me very bold, but I cannot help
                  thinking of you; you have done me a great deal of good, without knowing it, I
                  suppose; I hope what I say don't offend you. You may think me strange to talk so
                  to you—but I do not say it because I am an artist, or think I am, and so presume
                  to talk bold things to young ladies that other gentlemen would not dream of
                  saying. I hope you understand me."
               
               "Yes," said Lucia, quite as earnestly as he had spoken, "I think I do."
               "And then you know why I am not in such a hurry about Italy. I think if I had gone
                  there a year ago, as I thought of doing, I should not have seen nearly as much as
                  I should if I went now, or a year from now. It seems to me as if I had grown every
                  way since I saw you. Does that sound strange—can you understand?"
               "Yes, I understand, I think—but it sounds strange. Willie sometimes says things
                  like it—not the same, of course, for he's not an artist, and never thinks of
                  Italy; but he says what comes to the same thing, and it makes me happy to hear you
                  say so, for I did not dare think I was of so much use in the world."
               "So you see," said Vane, "the little I can do for you with those fellows, the
                  printers and shop-keepers, is n't much when compared with what you give me. So
                  many new ideas, and all that."
               "Ideas! I never have any! it is Stella Cammon that has the ideas! oh dear, no! I
                  never had an idea."
               "Sometimes folks give to others what they don't have for themselves, you know.
                  Well, we'll never quarrel about that. You say William never thinks of going to
                  Italy, but you do I am sure."
               "I! no, I never did! I go to Italy! Dear me, I was going to say I should be glad
                  if I was quite sure that I should always stay at home."
               "But maybe some day you'll be tired of staying at home; or something or other may
                  turn up, who knows? so that you can go to Italy as well as such crowds of stupid
                  and vulgar people as do go every year. Who knows, now? I think it would be the
                  country for you; yet it makes not so much difference, after all—you will have the
                  best country in the world with you wherever you go."
               "Oh, I cannot tell what you are talking about," said Lucia, perplexed, and
                  earnest. "It is not always the best country. No, I assure you!"
               "Is it not? It would take you a great while to make me believe that. You must not
                  try to prove it to me... Do you not know, it is not what folks think they see that
                  makes a beautiful country? it's what they feel. And that is the very reason that
                  there are happy people and unhappy people everywhere. My friend, the artist I
                  spoke to you about, would be happy in Labrador or Guinea, as well as in Italy.
                  Enough sight better off than some people that put up in the neighborhood of St.
                  Peter's in Rome, or than some others in Florence, who live there in splendor. He
                  carries the most beautiful scenery in the world about with him in his heart, and
                  whatever he paints is sure to have a glory around it, every whit as good as the
                  old masters painted over the heads of the Virgin and the apostles. He is a
                  wonderful fellow, my friend the artist."
               "Who is he?" asked Lucia; wondering on account of that artist.
               "You shall see him, some day. I promise to introduce him to you, when you get a
                  reputation of your own."
               Lucia shrunk back from the thought, abashed—and by no means so well pleased as she
                  might have been.
               "What? you do not want a reputation?" exclaimed Vane, apparently surprised, but in
                  heart well pleased. "You will be sure to get it then. You will have to quit work
                  before you begin."
               "I think there is not so much danger... all I want is work that pays."
               "Oh, what a base motive," said Vane; but he laughed when he said it, and evidently
                  had no idea of turning on his heel contemptuously, leaving her to herself after
                     such an acknowledgment. "Don't you
                  know that genius and poverty go hand and hand, and fame pronounces the marriage
                  service?"
               "That's a sure sign that I shall not be married by fame, for I have n't the
                  genius; and besides, I am going to make a fortune."
               "Oh, what will my friend the artist think of you? I am greatly afraid you will
                  never be presented!"
               At this Lucia, whose eyes had been riveted to the picture before her, looked
                  quickly towards Vane, as if about to expostulate; as if she would utter some sort
                  of defence that should bolster up what good opinion he might have of her—but as
                  she looked, she knew there was no need that she should say it; they understood
                  each other; and so she merely remarked:
               "I must go home and begin this work. I thank you so much for it."
               "And I was going your way," said Vane, following her. "But you must promise me one
                  thing; there are heaps of work to do, and you will very soon have more than you
                  want. I wish that you would promise me one thing."
               "What is it, Mr. Vane?"
               "That you will never put on a sober face, and work yourself to death, as if there
                  was nothing else to be thought of. There is time enough for a good deal of work,
                  and a great deal of play besides—and more than that, there's some missionary work
                  you ought to do, being woman. The moment you show a sign that looks as if you
                  intended to go out of the world in a hurry, I shall raise such a hue and cry, that
                  it will be more than you can do to find a line of work—or a pencil to draw with.
                  Will you promise to have a little regard for your duty to your neighbor, and live,
                  for his sake, as long as you can?"
               "Of course I will promise; how can I help it, Mr. Vane," said Lucia, laughing.
               "Oh, you might help it," said Vane, in a more serious tone. "People make a virtue
                  of forgetting promises extorted from them; besides, they never hold in law, I
                  believe. It would make precious little difference what I said about you, six
                  months from now; but I shall stay and see it out. You will have a reputation,
                  because, as I said before, you cannot help it. You will have to work if you want
                  pay; and if you work, why all the rest is just a natural consequence. Then you
                  will be ambitious, I am afraid—you will want to make a fortune for everybody you
                  ever heard of. And that is the reason that I fear. I could bear to see some women
                  go into the harness—it is a good place for them, but I had rather not see you
                  go."
               "It will be a great deal better for me, though, Mr. Vane. I will not overwork
                  myself, I promise you!"
               "But the difficulty is, people never know when they overwork themselves till the
                  mischief is done."
               "I can ask my neighbor to tell me, then," said Lucia.
               "But will you believe him?" asked Vane.
               "Yes, I promise that, too."
               "Well now, my friend, the artist! I introduce you to yourself this moment. What I
                  said in the beginning I repeat, I know of only one artist: yourself, and, God
                  bless you! I think you know what it means to be a friend. Is this your house? is
                  your father in?"
               When Lucia told him that he was usually in at that hour, Vane paused a moment
                  longer, revolving his thought in his mind, and looking at it with his keen sight.
                  Then he spoke out in his manly way:
               "It is a serious thing for me to form a friendly compact with any one. I do it in
                  solemn earnestness. I suppose you feel the same about it? If you will show me in to your father, I should like to
                  tell him what we have been talking about. He might think it strange—and I know how
                  men feel about such things. I want him to know how I came to be a house-painter,
                  and maybe he would like to come down and see my picture some day; I would be glad
                  to have all your family see it; but I have not shown it to any person yet. If your
                  father is willing, I could come, sometimes, and tell you what I am doing, and see
                  how you get along. We might help each other very much. It would be pleasant for
                  me. I never had a secret in my life. It would harm us if we made this a secret. I
                  would rather say to you this minute, good-bye forever. Do you think your father
                  would understand me?"
               "Come in," said Lucia, "we will see. I think that you can make him understand. I
                  am sure I understand you."
               "You of course do—but men are different—and you are an artist besides, and a
                  woman. Of course you would understand."
               "Don't call me names," said Lucia, leading the way into the house.
            
            
               XV.
               IN the twilight of the day on which they looked for him, came Silsey to the
                  Elms.
               Violet had hushed her baby to sleep, and was sitting by her side, watchful and
                  expectant. Miss Watson, meanwhile, contemplated the heavenly bodies as they
                  appeared one after another in the darkening sky. Her face was sad and
                  thoughtful—her whole attitude was significant of greatly-depressed spirits. She
                  was not calm—there was not such composure in her mind as her face indicated; the
                  least noise startled her. The messenger who, during the last week, had come down
                  to her, night by night, who had conveyed with him back to St. John's the papers
                  over which she had labored, hour after hour, and sometimes until day-break, had
                  not yet come. She was anxious and fearful, in spite of all her effort to rise
                  above anxiety and fear.
               At this hour Silsey came.
               Before the baby fell asleep, Violet had drawn the cradle towards the window, and
                  so placed herself that she could not fail to see the approach of whoever came up
                  to the Elms, and when Silsey appeared above the brow of the hill, and advanced
                  along the winding-path that led through beds of flowers, she had flown from her
                  place by the cradle-side, to meet him.
               Miss Watson, seeing Violet's swift flight, and comprehending it, rose also and
                  went to the door.
               Are you asking how Silsey came, and why?
               Behold him.
               Violet stands near while he looks down into the cradle depths upon the pearl that
                  lies there. Violet sees the tear that falls upon the baby's face, and glistens on
                  it like a diamond... Diamonds on pearls! treasure on treasure! was ever treasure
                  like hers?
               Violet observes, how can she help observing it, that Silsey's eyes follow her
                  wherever she goes, that he smiles on her as he did when his smile first won her
                  heart—it is the self-same smile! she whispers to herself, in a voice that trembles
                  with joy. But she sees more. That he is jaded and worn with toil, that he is pale,
                  that he stoops as he used not to do, that his eyes are larger and brighter than
                  they ever were before; and her heart sinks and flutters. Could all this change
                  have taken place in the short time of their separation? was it possible that it
                  could have been going on before that time, and she not know it? But she smiles
                  again, and is comforted and believing,
                  when Miss Watson says it is because he has pined for his children; that the
                  country is as good for him, and will serve him as kind a turn as it has them; and
                  her house, small though it is, shall give him room; that Violet must not yet go
                  back to the city, but she shall return with him when he returns; and so,
                  explaining her own argument, she claims them both for her guests.
               And more... hear him.
               He tells her—no ear but hers to hear—oh, joy and glory of that solitude!—that he
                  never knew how dear she was to him till she deserted him, so long—for it has
                  seemed a long and weary time since she went away—and that he thanks God for the
                  air, and light, and quiet, which have wrought such blessed change in her and their
                  child! That he has heard her voice singing in his heart during all their absence!
                  He says this, not in wild and extravagant language, nor in cold and careless
                  words, but his arm is round her while they walk the garden paths, by moonlight; in
                  simple, sincere words he says it, such words as a man uses when he thinks
                  earnestly and nobly in his solitude. And in the same mood Violet listens,
                  reverent, humble, and believing.
               But what answer does she make to all his speaking? Mild and simple speech it is—no
                  passion declaims there. They are common words, such as are used to express the
                  commonest thoughts, but intense feeling is in them, to his hearing. She comes
                  to-night too near him for clear and calm inspection—he cannot hold her at a
                  distance to dissect and study. Hereafter it may be that he will go among his books
                  and take to pieces the truths he is feeling now, and, by unlearning, distinguish
                  and portray them—but he cannot, while he hears her voice and notes the manner of
                  her reliance, he cannot now do such machine work as this.
               Violet does not prattle—these simple things she talks of are life to her—and with
                  his soul he listens. He does not tire of her. Yet she moves timidly in her
                  utterance, as though she had not yet lost the dread and fear of pitfalls and
                  stumbling. As though apprehensive, in less degree perhaps than she ever was
                  before, but still apprehensive, that his proud head would suddenly lift itself
                  from its bent, attentive posture, and say in that language she would be so quick
                  to understand, that he had heard enough; that she wearied him.
               She tells him how the time has gone; of the dark woods with paths, where she and
                  Miss Watson have spent so many mornings—of the wild flowers, and the sunsets, of
                  the sail on the river... and of the baby that died yesterday and was buried
                  to-day. And, with a saddened and faltering voice, she told him beside of the
                  fearful thought that so distressed her this morning about little Viola. And how
                  his letter had come and put the fear to flight—and there her voice faltered in the
                  narration, and—Silsey comforted her!
               Later in the evening they gathered in the parlor, Miss Watson and her two guests;
                  and these three nearly filled it. Ajar stood the door of the bed-chamber, in which
                  lay the sleeping baby in her cradle, and near that door the mother sat. In a
                  corner of the room, upon a little table—every article of furniture in the room,
                  was of the smallest and simplest description (Miss Watson did not live by bread
                  alone),—stood a lamp shaded; it cast a softened light through the room, filled far
                  more brightly with the pleasant talk. Silsey and Miss Watson seemed in their best
                  mood to-night—they uttered no word that soared or sounded above or beneath the
                  reach of Violet. Neither had any new discovery or thought to offer about passional catalysis, or any other wonderful phenomena. Violet might
                  have joined with them in the conversation, but she preferred instead to sit where her eyes bent full on Silsey's noble
                  profile, and how she looked! how she listened! Looked and listened... looked and
                  listened... listened... till she began to dream, and at length when she looked up
                  again, bewildered and lost, there stood Silsey with both hands pressed, as if in
                  blessing, on her head. She had fallen asleep while she looked and listened.
            
            
               XVI.
               BUT the next morning! If it had not been for that next morning!...
               It seemed so strange that Miss Watson and Silsey should have so very much to say
                  to each other in the garden—that their argument should be so long continued—and
                  that the hostess should engage in it so seriously, with so much earnestness.
               And yet, that was a painful blush with which Violet acknowledged it, it might
                  possibly be proved that their capacity for friendship was quite beyond her power
                  of apprehension; why could she not ever rise above a paltry fear that some other
                  being in this world could be loved by him beside herself?... Would she, if she
                  could, behold him fettered by so weak a band? Was it not possible for her to rise
                  to their level? Was she not aware that she could not answer to more than the
                  necessities of his heart—that his intellect needed human companions,
                  fellow-students? Violet asked herself these questions, and she struggled to
                  achieve her freedom from the dominion of doubts and fears—to emerge into capacity
                  for deeper trust and holier confidence.
               But it is a hard task that she has set herself. She, in her own way, has her
                  appointed struggle, her possible achievement. She must conquer. So wisely she sits
                  and argues. And her heart is still greater in its resources and capacities than
                  her intellect in its arguments, for she is ready to forgive whatever there may be
                  for her to forgive—everything except the questioning against her, which shames
                  her. That is a sin; she feels it to be so, and the consciousness makes it so; but
                  there is no confession, and the guilt and its concealment make gloom in her heart
                  this bright morning.
               Unmindful of the glory of the early day, they are walking under another sky than
                  that which spreads above Violet and her child—the mother who, seated on the
                  door-step, watches the trees that lift their graceful branches, and sway through
                  the delicious dance, proudly shrinking from the wind's embraces, tossed about in a
                  bewildering excitement, and the river flowing on in the brightness of its morning
                  glory, and the blue sky, beyond which is heaven! They feel a breath from another
                  sphere flowing through their souls. Of royal lineage are this man and woman; but
                  they have been crowned with mortal crowning! and the sovereignty is not quite
                  their own—and the government each feels upon the shoulder is not quite
                  established—they are not the absolute masters of their own riches. Was ever being
                  on this earth save ONE, who, exalted above every ideal perfection, passes the
                  range of all human apprehension?
               They are not united to-day; but they do not dispute—they do not contradict each
                  other. It is not cold courtesy, nor human cowardice, that prevents them, since
                  they are at variance this morning. They are too courageous for hot and angry
                  disputation—too reverent for swift denial of each other's word. They are wise;
                  they know how really slow is the progress of impatient souls, how much the mind
                  that is eager and swift to grasp has to unlearn and unloose. They have learned the
                     utility of toleration—the profound
                  wisdom underlying the injunction, "Slow to speak, swift to hear."
               "As the facts go, nevertheless, he is neither pure nor guiltless," Silsey is
                  saying. "He is a criminal. I do not mean merely according to the common law,
                  though that regards him with abhorrence. He will perhaps manage to evade the
                  penalty of his transgression. His legal innocence, if I understand you, you do not
                  seek to maintain."
               "No—I do not question the authenticity of the facts Herder's enemies bring up
                  against him. They may be true; though I believe them not. But actual criminality,
                  you are certainly aware, depends on something beside the commission of acts. Guilt
                  involves act. It is not act that involves guilt, though the consequences in two
                  supposed cases be the same. Want of the faculty of distinguishing between causes
                  occasions the difficulty of legislation; and a consideration of this fact alone
                  exempts multitudes of judges and jurymen from occupying, in the criminal calendar,
                  the most prominent places. Herder ought to have found in you, not an apologist,
                  not a defender, but an aid and champion. As for me, I cannot join this hue and cry
                  against him."
               "Your sympathies are for some reason elicited."
               "More than my sympathies. I have seen already, in the public prints, all that you
                  can tell me, so far as fact goes. But is there not evidence impalpable, compared
                  with the definiteness of facts, yet not less real—which, indeed, goes beyond fact,
                  at least such as the gaping multitude have received?"
               "Yes, too much, I fear. It is hateful to believe such baseness possible of human
                  nature."
               "And why believe it?" urged Miss Watson.
               "I cannot resist my convictions."
               "Yet you say that public opinion has greatly changed in the course of the
                  trial—the 'facts' then which are brought to light must have produced the change,
                  and are you able to resist their conclusions?"
               "I do not attribute the change in the public sentiment so much to new evidence, or
                  to the evidence of facts newly arranged and presented; but to, and solely to, the
                  effect produced by a series of papers which have appeared in the Daily Bulletin.
                  In some respects they are masterly productions—they have kept pace with the
                  trial—and the public mind has, to a very considerable extent, been drawn in to
                  think with them. The writer, whoever he may be, is firmly persuaded, at least, of
                  one thing, the entire innocence of the prisoner."
               "And does the writer make himself absurd in his defence?"
               "Very far to the contrary."
               "And yet if he be all wrong in his conclusions he must be in his premises. He
                  cannot argue his way logically and arrive at a just issue, having started from a
                  ground known as false ground."
               "He does not prove himself absurd, but you surely perceive that this fact says
                  nothing for the correctness of his view. There is a sort of sublimity in a sophism
                  that succeeds in controlling a man's mind. The public detects nowhere in these
                  papers the conscious face of the personal friend who is moving heaven and earth to
                  save the man he is defending. His arguments are not those of friendship, they have
                  the guise of impartial justice. The writer has taken in hand the cause of a man
                  who but for him would have been universally condemned, proved guilty, and if he
                  does not save him in the end, it will be a remarkable fact... I said the public
                  detected only the voice of justice in these papers, but I—"... he paused.
               
               "You think otherwise," said Miss Watson... you suspect the source?"
               "I do. They have their origin in a heart which is warmed by steadfast intellectual
                  fire to an intensity of heat of which mere emotional affections are not
                  susceptible. I assure you this is true... It is the very magnitude of the writer's
                  delusion that distresses me, because I know that, whatever the result may be with
                  the prisoner, with the pleading friend the case is a hopeless one."
               "Why, Silsey?"
               "It must have sank so low from its high altitude before it could grasp the object
                  it seeks to save. A spirit so mendacious ought not to disturb even to the extent
                  of a hair's-breadth, the vibration of a spirit so celestial as pervades that
                  defender."
               "Silsey, you should be aware that when one man stands out thus in defence of
                  another, not because he has legal ability, and is sure of pay, but for the sake of
                  truth and justice—opposing, single-handed, a crowd of fanatical enemies, that the
                  fact makes a special claim on you, and such as you. You should pay better heed,
                  than your careless denial implies, to the vindication of this solitary voice. To
                  whom is the defence imputed?"
               "I have not heard any satisfactory report. Yet I have myself not felt at a loss.
                  You will do a great injustice to the community, Miss Watson, if you succeed in the
                  acquittal of this man Herder. Even his wife and children would allow that."
               "I shall have done a sacred duty, you mean. His wife and children I have seen.
                  You, are mistaken—to them he is not guilty—he is innocent and suffering," said
                  Miss Watson, so composedly and so firmly that Silsey well understood that he
                  neither could say anything to the point, nor indeed should attempt to say anything
                  further about it. She was persuaded beyond the reach of argument of the innocence
                  of him she was defending. Nothing could disturb her convictions. She set at
                  defiance all proof of his guilt, and had only scorn, or rather commiseration for
                  the condemning multitude.
               In her defence she was betraying, it might be, more of magnanimity than insight,
                  in relation to the man she had loved in her youth—whose false spirit had developed
                  with years, so far as to now entitle him to a place among criminals—but she was
                  doing the needful work in a determined, resolute, powerful way, that was in itself
                  the earnest of victory.
               "The examination of witnesses ceased last night," said Silsey. "Had you heard of
                  it?"
               "The reporter came down. Have you seen this morning's paper?"
               "Yes—and the town is like a pendulum swinging to and fro, in consequence."
               "It will have its quietus in the extra that was issued, I suppose, this
                  evening."
               "Do you imagine that it will reach the mind of the Judge?"
               "It may not do that. But there may be a verdict rendered outside of the
                  Court-House that will appeal to the government. I am not concerned as to the
                  result. I have seen my way so clearly through this case, that I have anticipated
                  every point that has occurred. My articles have been written, for the most part,
                  before the reporter came down to me. And I have had to make very few, and those
                  slight, emendations. What does that prove to you? For I was quite ignorant of the
                  proceedings of a court-room."
               "It proves that the loving heart is full of inspiration. That its instincts are
                  direct; but not that its judgments are right altogether. The individual soul
                  accepts such truth as directly appeals
                  to its wants, and modifies it for practical use. This accounts for the everlasting
                  modifications of thought. It is your necessity to believe in this man's innocence.
                  Why, I do not ask. His guilt may be as apparent as the sun to other minds, but the
                  fact is shrouded in thick darkness to you. To accept the general verdict in this
                  instance, therefore, is what you will not do,—no such thing should be required of
                  you. I see that plainly. The love of most human beings degenerates into passion.
                  It, in your case, puts the very idea to shame."
               Miss Watson offered in no manner a denial to this. She listened without
                  disturbance to it. She was defending one whom she had loved, when he was fallen
                  into dire misfortune, for she believed the needed weapon to be in her hands. She
                  had never regarded the fact as a secret, though it was such, and when Silsey had
                  penetrated it there was no reason, discoverable to her, why she should deny, or
                  seek to hide, the truth.
               Had Silsey, in what he said, given the slightest evidence of a suspicion that he
                  had gone too far, in charging home this love, and its blinding influence upon her,
                  he might have received a different answer. But Miss Watson, knowing, and valuing,
                  his sincerity as a possession on which she might rely, and the more confidently,
                  that he did not hesitate and temporize in expressing his conviction, said:
               "It is idle to attempt to persuade each other. When are you going to thank me on
                  account of all the good things I have done for Violet and the baby?"
               "I have already done it so many times, that words fail me," was Silsey's
                  answer.
               "But all this while you are leaving her alone, and there is little Viola
                  beseeching you to come and have a better talk than we have had."
            
            
               XVII.
               MISS WATSON did not accompany Silsey into the house. In the garden paths she
                  walked, thinking of Herder's doom, which Silsey had pronounced inevitable.
                  Inevitable, for even if Herder were acquitted, such men as Violet's husband would
                  never acquiesce in the decision. Honorable men would refuse to acknowledge his
                  honor, or accept his exculpation.
               With the resolute bearing which grieved and rending hearts sometimes assume in
                  homes where the light of a dear life is going out, smiling down the gloom, and,
                  with cheerful words, talking it down—when the voice were more meet for a groan's
                  utterance, and the eyes readier for tears, with this mein and mood she stood up
                  for the defence of one whom the whole world had deserted. Oh, what a labor of love
                  it had been, the unresting, valiant endeavor to bear this life triumphantly away
                  from the infamy of an adverse verdict! And she had failed... the law might set him
                  free, but in the minds of men this man was a felon forever.
               In vain had she exercised all her gifts of utterance, heaping authority on wisdom
                  for a barrier of defence! In vain has she unveiled the life known to her only in
                  its best years, happily, fortunately for her it was so, in order to establish the
                  plea of insanity which she urged.
               In vain had she, even as Silsey said, moved heaven and earth for him. She had
                  taken up her pen, even as he had said, to write down law and justice!
               And now, why had she labored thus? For his sake? because Herder so well understood
                  the secret that makes life and freedom a blessing?... Because it was her
                  inevitable, and unconquerable impulse. Because she was a woman and had loved, and
                  her soul's faith in Herder was not so
                  shaken that her impulse could be other than to lift her hand and save, if that
                  might be, the life that had been precious in her sight once above all other
                  lives—and still, for her youth's sake, was precious.
               And for even more than this.
               Before going down to the Elms with Violet, Miss Watson had sought out Herder's
                  wife, lost sight of in their many years of separation. She had come to St. John's
                  to remain there during the impending trial of her husband, who was accused of the
                  commission of several large forgeries—and her son was with her.
               Herder himself, Miss Watson had not seen since the week before his marriage, and
                  she did not seek, nor did she desire to see him now. But when the impoverished
                  condition of his family came to her knowledge, she knew her path and work.
               With her own eyes she had seen the poverty; and the instincts of her heart taught
                  her, for her ear heard no complaint, the desperate condition of the house. She
                  learned its needs. As an angel of compassion she stood on that hearth-stone and
                  listened to the brief story which the wife had to tell.
               Herder, as Miss Watson had told Stella, had married her friend—in the house of her
                  friends was she wounded. There was no painful and intensive recollection of this
                  fact in her interview, at this time, with the woman who had supplanted her. It
                  would have been difficult, under other circumstances, for these two women to
                  recognize each other—but not now. Nor was it difficult for the maiden to pity, and
                  for the wife to trust.
               Together they discussed the sorrow that brought them together; and when Herder's
                  wife laid bare her faith in him, her love, and grief, and dread, and called her
                  son, that the guest might see in him what she did see, an almost too perfect image
                  of his father's beautiful and buoyant ant youth, there was meaning in the clear,
                  firm voice, that rung long after in the heart of the mother and son, and in the
                  words it uttered:
               "Fear not—all will be well."
               Miss Watson recalled that deliberate injunction and promise she had uttered, while
                  walking in her garden now alone, and turning her eyes toward the cottage and
                  surveying its humble dimensions, she said, and the words had with her the sanctity
                  of an oath:
               "It is a little place, but large enough. If Silsey's prophecy be true, my home
                  here must take in a larger family—and Heaven help us all. Herder's noble boy had
                  no degenerate father."
            
            
               XVIII.
               EARLY on the Monday morning, according to the promise given to Miss Mar, Stella
                  set out on her return to St. John's. Susan accompanied her as far as Harlem.
               Stella was going back to the city where the Baldwins lived. There were many
                  reflections associated with that thought, sufficient to induce the silence with
                  which Susan trudged along the rough three miles by her companion's side.
               Stella, too, went burdened with thoughts many and strange; and had for herself
                  hardly a word to say. Many a question lingered for utterance on her lip; but
                  whenever she thought to speak them, and looked with that intent to Susan's sad and
                  quiet face, something stayed her. In vain she endeavored to rouse herself for the
                  child's sake, and divert whatever thoughts those might be which brought so many
                  shadows to that honest, ingenuous face; but each effort that she made to do so failed, for her own mind was all
                  absorbed in another train of thought than Susan could appreciate or
                  understand.
               She was going back to St. John's, and she was eager to be there—she was going to
                  test the validity of Mr. Leighton's theory, the value of his instructions. She was
                  going back to labor among books—to get wisdom—and she was eager to be at once
                  where the work might commence.
               Her restless and longing spirit beheld some light eliminating from Mr. Leighton's
                  dark words, for dark they had on their first hearing seemed to her. Instructed by
                  this man, who was himself so hard a student, she was ambitious now to work in the
                  same direction as that in which he was working. In that hour of dawn she had taken
                  a survey of her acquired possessions; how small they were, how few! That magic
                  word, Knowledge, did indeed seem to her capacious of Being—she wondered at herself
                  that it had been possible to remain so long blinded. How strange that, without his
                  assistance, she had not even long ago dropped the enfeebling and perplexing
                  difficulty that had held her in bondage while she sought its solution!
               Open thy triple gates, oh Wisdom! give this pleading girl to come in. She will
                  surrender, oh Knowledge! for thy sake all thou could'st require. Give, oh Keeper
                  of the gates, give to her what thou canst—and let her exhaust life in thy service,
                  if nothing less will satisfy her!
               Stella and Susan did not, however, arrive at Harlem without having interchanged
                  many a word. For at length, in the heat of her reflections, one question after
                  another in regard to Mr. Leighton, calculated to draw from Susan whatever she
                  might have ascertained in regard to his life beyond the beach, found utterance of
                  Stella Cammon. But the all that Susan knew concerning him was little, and of no
                  moment, when compared with the far-reaching curiosity he had inspired in her
                  guest. It was nothing to be told that he had come to the beach early in the
                  summer, and that he read and wrote most of his time—that he had been rarely out at
                  sea with her father—that he was a very wise man, and sometimes very odd. Whence
                  had he come?—whither would he go when he went from the beach? He seemed like a man
                  who was accustomed to solitude, not one who had left wife, and children, and all
                  other ties behind for a brief season of lonely labor.
               Had he a wife? Susan could not tell. She thought not. Of course she could not
                  tell—of course she thought not—and yet it vexed Stella to hear that answer, though
                  she had anticipated it—for neither could she tell. She also thought not, and felt
                  vexed beside, that she should have thought anything about it. As little
                  satisfaction did she derive from every other question that she asked and Susan
                  failed to answer, and finally the unpromising theme was dropped, and some less
                  troublesome, more definite interrogations passed between them, and they drew near
                  to Harlem, and the office, where the stage was already waiting for its
                  passengers.
               After the hurried departure, in which many words which each had meant to say to
                  the other were forgotten, Susan walked down the street on the side where stood the
                  drug-shop in which Horace Chilton spent the greater part of his time. But as she
                  went slowly by, looking towards the counter, and then towards the desk, where he
                  was usually occupied, she saw only the little man, Hopper, and with a quicker step
                  she went down towards the cottage:—arrived there, she was also disappointed: the
                  house was locked, not a sound or token of life was there for ear or eye.
               
               She sat down in the portico to rest and wait, and there Susan remained until
                  towards the middle of the afternoon, when an old man, Mrs. Chilton's next-door
                  neighbor, who had gone into his garden to work, seeing the young girl sitting
                  there, came and leaned against the fence, and taking a deliberate survey of Susan,
                  said, drawing his stump of a pipe from his mouth, and wiping his face with his
                  shirt-sleeve:
               "Who be you waiting for, little gal? The school ma'am?"
               Susan answered in the affirmative, and he responded:
               "You've got a time yet afore you, then, I'm feared. They be all gone up to St.
                  John's, the folks is; and Mrs. Chilton, she telled me if any one came, to say they
                  'd be back by night—not afore. Will you come and play with my little gals till
                  then, hey?"
               The old man laid his hand behind his ear while Susan answered, and declined his
                  invitation, and then rising, she forthwith set out on her homeward way.
               She was going back alone to the beach while all the world seemed to have gone up
                  to St. John's. I must make record of it, for Susan was in all these discontented
                  moments but storing up wrath against wrath—that homeward walk was not a pleasant
                  one to her. It was long, and dull, and tedious—never seemed the way so rough
                  before; often she sat down to rest by the road-side, but she found no rest; the
                  sun, that shot down fierce and burning rays upon her, gave only light to those
                  happy and fortunate ones who had gone to the city... in place of the sullen,
                  monotonous, hoarse roar of ocean, they were within hearing of the unending noise
                  of life. Her walk was lonely, but if it had been lonelier, if she had gone without
                  those spirits that attended her, it had been quite as well for Susan.
               As she drew near the strand, instead of taking the path that led directly to the
                  cabin, Susan chose another, which led her beyond the mill, so that returning
                  homeward again she could not avoid passing by the old red tower.
               What was the wilful impulse that led her thither? Susan did not pause at any point
                  of her progress to ask herself this question. But when her feet struck into the
                  path that would lead her to him, she went on more swiftly than she had gone
                  before.
               Whatever her motive had been, if motive she had, blank disappointment awaited
                  Susan.
               When she went up to the round room, Mr. Leighton was not there.
               No response followed her knock, which was again and again repeated. No absorbed
                  gaze was lifted towards her when at length she opened the door. No face laden with
                  evidences of long-continued toil and laborious thought, looked up to welcome her.
                  He was not there. Nor elsewhere would she find him, though she sought. The sinking
                  heart of Susan Dillon knew this as her eyes glanced round the room.
               There stood the old pine-table beneath the window; but the writing-desk was gone.
                  The pebbles and the shells were on the shelf; but all those books were gone! The
                  trunk stood in the middle of the floor strapped, and ready for removal—he had
                  himself already departed.
               Poor Susan, comprehending too much, yet so little, of all this, stood gazing
                  around her, half weeping, trembling, desolate.
               Slowly she moved across the room, stepping lightly as if walking through a place
                  of sepulture. She looked over her childhood's treasures—one by one slowly took up
                  the shells and stones—they were all there except the few specimens that she had
                  given him one day. Those were removed, and in their place were some old coins he
                  had promised her. I said the books were gone, but in the corner of the room, under the shelf, there was
                  a pile of volumes which Susan had not, in her first glance around the room,
                  observed. She stooped and lifted the uppermost volume, and through her tears she
                  saw her name written in his own hand on the title-page. She laid it down again,
                  and for a moment stood with her face buried in her hands, her head bent on her
                  breast, trembling and desolate; the very world seemed falling into chaos—the earth
                  rending before her.
               To the chair where he had sat, which still stood before the table, she groped her
                  way, like one in the dark; there she sat down—and there on the table before her
                  was a letter he had written to her. He was gone then; never more would he
                  return.
               By the waning light of that day's sun she read:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR CHILD, DEAR SUSAN:
                           
                           "I find that the most difficult task yet remains unperformed.
                           "It has not been easy or pleasant for me to bestir myself in
                              preparation for departure from the coast. Less easy have I found it to
                              say a parting word to you. You will think I have gone away suddenly;
                              but it is not so. I have looked this departure in the face day after
                              day, and felt it drawing nearer—and now I must go.
                           "I could not leave this pleasant spot without speaking a last word to
                              you; yet I should not say the last word, for I hope that
                              I shall often speak to you again. What shall I say to you? What were
                              best I hardly know at this moment; a word of counsel is, perhaps, what
                              you will value most when I am gone.
                           "Uppermost in, your mind at this time, I suppose, is the singular
                              exhibition at which you, unfortunately, were present yesterday.
                              Unfortunately, I repeat—I would not have had you there. But, as you
                              were there, regrets are vain. You heard some very foolish
                              conversation. Yet, for you are not so wise as you will be, Susan, one
                              day it may, perhaps, work to your advantage, the hearing that you
                              gave. For I observed well how you listened.
                           "If ever you are tempted to think and speak as she did yesterday,
                              remember that I warned you against it. That young girl has wild
                              notions in her head, which will occasion her great trouble. Her
                              character is stormy. It would evince prudence on your part were you to
                              keep out of her way until she has become a wiser person. Let her
                              alone; she will learn nothing of you—and you, certainly, can learn
                              nothing of her. Have nothing to do with her, I repeat.
                           "I have selected these books—the Psalms, and Greek Testament, the
                              Dictionaries, and the best of the few volumes of History I happened to
                              bring with me. Leave them in this room. I shall wish to think of you
                              as a student in this chamber. Seek knowledge; it is a divine
                              thirst—happy are you if you feel it. I have observed that you do not
                              greatly thirst—you want friends and sympathy. But now, while you are
                              left here alone with your father, let me urge upon you the duty of
                              studying these books; there is strength in them—they will make you
                              strong.
                           "You are young to be living thus by yourself; but you will not always
                              be alone; prepare your mind for the change—get some good furniture in
                              there, and mark it with your name, so that it shall not be taken away
                              from you.
                           "May you be prosperous! I think you deserve this from my lips. Now,
                              deport yourself as you should do; I need not again tell you how—I have
                              already told you so many times. If we meet again, I shall look to see
                              a woman... And never believe that your attainments, how far so ever they may raise you above
                              all whom you know—no matter what position you hold by virtue of
                              them—never for a moment fancy, while you retain the capacity to go on,
                              that you should be satisfied with what you have wrought and gained.
                              The moment that you do so, you are a slave to yourself.
                           "Think sometimes of the old man to whom you have, without suspecting
                              it, rendered some good service. He can but wish you well. Glad would
                              he be in any way to aid you. But he rejoices to think that you can aid
                              yourself. Whatever he may have striven to impart to you, remember
                              this. He is old—he has had experience; you are young, and without it.
                              He must have learned some things in those many years which you, in
                              your few years, could not have learned. But he is not infallible. He
                              has learned in the old mill that he may have been mistaken sometimes.
                              So you must trust to your own judgment; but be ready always to correct
                              your mistakes when you discover them. Be contented. Hope not too much
                              of life, neither give it frowns and hard words. And keep your heart
                              whole. Let no one rob you of it—give it not away to one, or you will
                              be sure to repent; there are many who need it—keep it for them.
                           "Be strong—be of good cheer. I bear you in mind— I think of you, my
                              young sister. Be all that your good father could wish, and I can ask
                              no more—you should desire no more. That is a high aim—and now act up
                              to it. And so, farewell."
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               XIX.
               NOW the reader is not for a moment to suppose that, profound as Susan Dillon's
                  reverence and gratitude for Mr. Leighton was, deep as was her disappointment on
                  account of his departure, that she accepted all he said in this letter for truth.
                  In special manner did she take exception to his criticism on Stella Cammon. It
                  seemed strange to her, when she contrasted the slighting way in which he spoke of
                  her with the interview that yesterday took place between them. Stella's passionate
                  outbreak had appealed to him not in vain at that time; but he seemed here
                  attempting to deny that before Susan—or before himself, it may be. His cold
                  gravity at that time seemed less frigid and forbidding, even in that contrast,
                  which it might seem would the rather heighten it. Her brightness had, certainly,
                  softened his gloom—had found some rent in his nature by which it swept into the
                  mystery, resistless. Even when he stood as the avenger, hovering over her like a
                  fate, the cloud that panoplied him had lightened—a glow, like broad, bright bands
                  of sunlight, had spread beneath its surface.
               His word of warning came too late to Susan. The net that had floated long upon the
                  waves, was now drawn down out of sight. And Susan felt that the treasure for which
                  she had watched long, was coming in. She was alive, and that which vitalizes being
                  was not withheld from her. Her little skiff, THE WORLD, was filling rapidly. David
                  Baldwin standing at the helm, and Stella, Falcon, Leighton, all on board.
               But though, as far as Stella was concerned, Susan rejected Mr. Leighton's counsel,
                  the studies for which the past weeks had prepared the way, were not neglected by
                  her. She entered upon them with ardent purpose and hope, aware of all the distance
                  that she must go in solitude before she could presume to think of naming herself
                  in the same breath with those others.
               In the mornings, and during the long afternoons when her father was away from
                  home, Susan, in the round room that had
                  been her play-house, stayed and studied. Even in the evenings the work of study
                  went on; if alone, she read—and if her father was at home, aloud to him. But her
                  thoughts did not all seek satisfaction in those pages. Many of them ran inland to
                  St. John's in quest of other nourishment. There was no one near to warn Susan, and
                  she began to dream again, and to remember that word "daughter"—and her dream, like
                  a golden cloud lifting above the sun that has vanished beneath the horizon, shone
                  over the head of one who has long been removed from our sight—of whom we must
                  presently go in search, if haply we may find him.
               Susan's dreaming was too active to take merely such form as this. She kept no
                  journal; but with Mr. Leighton's letter lying open before her for a form, and
                  David Baldwin's note beside it for an apology, many were the letters which she
                  wrote these men. Letters that had, however, no destination save that given by the
                  winds of heaven on which the scattered fragments were flung. Mysterious themes
                  were they on which Susan held this imaginary discourse. Neither of her
                  correspondents, in any case, whatever the topic might be, were allowed to agree
                  with her. Partly to amuse herself, and partly to express thoughts, opinions, and
                  emotions which distracted her, and which must have a vent, and partly in the
                  endeavor of a soul seeking to know itself, to discern truth by looking at it in
                  the contrasted lights of confiding faith, and uncompromising unbelief, she did
                  this. It was a strange occupation, and one, it may be thought, more natural to a
                  mind like Stella Cammon's than one like Susan Dillon's—if Susan's aspiration, her
                  solitude, and her recollections, be not borne in mind. It was far from a worthless
                  occupation. If it fostered certain tendencies of mind and heart which Mr. Leighton
                  would have nipped in the bud, at least it did so openly. The occupation so far
                  engrossed the moments not given to study, and household labor, that she had no
                  time for indulgence in morbid grief, and no chance for deceiving her own soul.
               Not a solitary effort did Susan make after advancement, that had not a direct
                  reference to David Baldwin. She knew his moods, knew them better than many sworn
                  friends, to whom his every-day life was known far more intimately than it could
                  ever be to her. She would come into his circle and that of Stella Cammon—for at
                  length, she dreamed, it would be her fate to come—not like a bit of drift-wood,
                  but lustrous with adornments bought by her own labor. Alas for her, say you? For
                  many a day, life went on so with Susan.
            
            
               XX.
               MR. DE LISLE LAYARD had not mistaken the quality of the soil in which he planted
                  the seed, for whose return and harvest he was well content to wait.
               With what anxious expectation Miss Mar hung her hope upon the promise he held out
                  to her on the night of their conversation, when, returning from the confessional
                  where she had revealed her heart's fear for another, she listened to his
                  astonishing words.
               Since then De Lisle had entered on the duties of his professorship, and, for a
                  time, necessarily engrossed by them, he did not recur to the theme which filled,
                  and continued to fill, the good lady's mind and heart, even to overflowing.
               When Stella went home from her brief visit to the beach and turned her
                  dressing-room into a studio, shut herself out from society, and—did not refuse the
                  good books supplied by Father Francis, which Miss Mar contrived trived to bring in unobserved among the other
                  volumes which were being gathered together in that corner of the house, Aunt
                  Judith rejoiced in this token of what she believed to be going on in Stella's
                  heart. All study, according to her notion, must ultimately lead, if indirectly
                  even, to one inevitable climax. She believed that the blessing had even now come
                  in answer to her prayers, and shortly would present itself in its own proper form.
                  And De Lisle Layard, when he listened to her reports, was greatly afraid that the
                  prayers had been answered.
               He was not a man to rest in an uncertainty, and, difficult as access to Stella
                  seemed now to have become, though, almost daily, he met her in Miss Mar's parlor,
                  he was bent on an investigation of the phenomena on which Aunt Judith's rejoicing
                  hopes were founded.
               For himself, he hardly credited the notion that, because Stella warded off inquiry
                  and evaded questioning, she had become profoundly settled in her opinions. He did
                  not quite agree that, because she was putting off the world in one sense, she was
                  putting on the Church in another. He had an inquiring mind, as I said, and his
                  investigations would be sure to go deeper than Mrs. Mar's, waylaid and beset as
                  they were by her hopes, would do.
               His mind, in the day's varied labor, had received the needed stimulus—and before
                  he went up into John's street, it was still further quickened by an interview with
                  David Baldwin, on which a word of comment must here be said.
               Disgusted himself with the sort of life he had led thus far, and attracted
                  irresistibly towards Layard by various causes, among which, and perhaps chief, was
                  the novelty of such censorship as the professor had seen fit to exercise in his
                  regard, for no other hand had ever laid hold of him so fearlessly to strip him of
                  the disguises of custom and fashion, David did not now wait to be sought of
                  Layard. He was instead the seeker, as Layard had calculated—and many were the
                  hours which the young men spent together—and with perfect freedom they made use of
                  one another.
               Baldwin was fond of an argument; he had thoughts to dispose of—problems to solve.
                  Layard surpassed him in quickness and subtlety of thought, but David was more than
                  Layard's peer in depth of reflection, in purity of intellect, and in warmth of
                  heart. In festive scenes, in market-places, in theatres and churches, they were
                  together, discoursing life's various phases. Here was a novel exhibition. One
                  youth tempting another to a noble life, to honorable exertion, to a resolute
                  divorce from a career of folly! Luring him, by arguments which he well knew how to
                  urge, from ignoble, indolent ease, to noble labor. It was a marvel to see, this
                  guiding... It was a rare process by which this man beguiled himself in striving to
                  get on in his career. He had insight, and knew that he should not be disappointed
                  in his endeavors to awaken Baldwin to a purer morality than that which was
                  observable in him. The virtues of the heir of St. John's Hall in active operation,
                  would have served him, as his degradation, which, though he may never have
                  suspected the possibility himself—he would in another case not have scrupled to
                  use, would have altogether failed to do. Layard's nature disposed him to
                  asceticism; he had no affections—no sympathies, none at least that could ever
                  successfully interpose in any work that he attempted which had for end advancement
                  in station, and possession of power. He aspired to rule men—he wanted their
                  fealty, not their love—yet he had the faculty of winning their love; and that he
                  did not so mistake the means of power as to esteem the faculty a very little
                  thing, the effort he made in David Baldwin's behalf afforded an ample witness. Men
                  rule by virtue of the excellences as
                  well as of the vices and frailties of the governed, and no one had studied further
                  into this fact than Mr. De Lisle Layard.
               Calculating, immovable, his life even now in its beginning of career, was like a
                  river-course, slow-moving on its outer verges, but swift-rushing in its central
                  current. From boyhood his purpose had been clearly ascertained: the attainment of
                  an exalted place among the marked men of his time. And the Church, undeniably,
                  even as he knew, was the place for him. He had a perfect mastery of the forces in
                  himself. And the achievement was not a great one—it was such an one as a cold and
                  selfish nature, if it have a resolute purpose in view and in store, can ever
                  readily accomplish; he could, as well, time granted, work outwardly and with the
                  many, as he had done inwardly with one. He was eloquent, and full of specious
                  argument, and grace of utterance, and clear-eyed to see things in their true and
                  direct bearings. He could lead others and forego the vain gratification of being
                  known as their leader. What might he not achieve, this man thus capable?
               People who are bound to get along in life are, for the most part, never at a loss
                  for stepping-stones—the brooks, rivers, oceans of difficulty, are never
                  impassible—bespattered garments and occasional loss of life are nothing in the way
                  of warning. Who sees the soil in the hurry? Who hears the groan in the rush?
                  Therefore, on with the tubular bridges, hollow, as self, and astounding as sin—on
                  with the bridges of suspension! let them he hung to the height of Haaman's
                  impulse! are not we the People of the nineteenth century, and heaven and earth
                  know, do they not? that we were made for "getting on." Solely and only, oh, men
                  and women, and little children, for getting along! So let us up and at work! Make
                  bridges of each other! push along!... Leap for life, and if you drop not down into
                  the midst of irrecoverable death... the way is surely open! And there, do you see
                  her not? do you hear her not? there waiting for you stands the Mother of
                  Abominations, beautiful in her red garments, beckoning to you on and on! Oh, does
                  she hear you panting in your desperate haste? Is it for this that she stands
                  smiling, while this most Christian century runs straight into her arms?
               But how came we here? let us go back to De Lisle Layard; it is but a step from
                  these reflections back to him.
               There was hardly such panting haste, such impatient desperation, in his style of
                  getting on. He was too self-possessed—the self he had—a thing without positive
                  life, and therefore not difficult to manage, was in his control. He worked it by
                  wires, as a girl does the wonderful eyes of her waxen doll. He said to himself,
                  "I, De Lisle Layard, have something to do, and here I find my material." (Had Miss
                  Mar and David Baldwin never seen the light, his meditation had been the same—he
                  would have found "here," that is, in his immediate vicinity, the material he
                  needed.) "This man I will serve by waking him up, and he shall pay me back with
                  interest. And this good old lady shall have me for her spiritual child... And I
                  will be the leader of an host."
               Now, men who have strong passions, with the worse tendency instead of the better
                  in active force, oftentimes propose to themselves baser measures, and proceed by
                  baser means to carry them into force. They act according to their nature and their
                  light. Layard did precisely the same thing. But whereas they were proud sinners of
                  the worst sort, he bade fair to come out a saint of the very best.
               The notorious thief repented of his sin—rapacity or hunger made him beside
                  himself, but when he saw his crime he
                  acknowledged the transgression. But in that same hour when the promise of Paradise
                  fell on his ear, stood in the same presence the stout-hearted High Priest, strong
                  in his law and order, splendid in his purple garments, so filling in his
                  magnificence all conceivable space, how do you suppose that he should find room
                  for repentance?
               It's not to be supposed that De Lisle Layard viewed his condition and prospects in
                  precisely the same light with us. He had his house to build—he meant not to
                  defraud, to take usury, to extort. But then what a nuisance is a mortgage on a
                  house! It was highly probable that an incumbrance would not rest long on his.
               In his friendship for David Baldwin he had purposely led the conversation in a
                  direction far remote from topics which would seem of most importance to a man of
                  fashion and large expectations. His sole aim seemed to be to direct a fine mind to
                  the most manly enterprises. And David Baldwin could not be unaware of, nor
                  indifferent to this aiming. By degrees Layard so far won the interest and respect
                  of David as to ensure his operation in the rendering of any needful service that
                  could be suggested to him in regard to the professor and his personal affairs.
                  Layard was certain of his helpmate. Even the opposition he met when he prepared a
                  way for the suspicion of his Romish proclivities in Baldwin's mind, the struggle
                  which he perceived, the struggle of doubt, uncertainty, alarm, and determination,
                  assured him of the safe deposit of one portion of the rock upon which his fortunes
                  were to stand. While as yet far removed from this point now attained, he had
                  reckoned securely upon it, he had counted also on the impetus which should succeed
                  a removal of that resting-place.
               It was on the day of which we began to speak, when the long parenthesis
                  interrupted, that the two friends had arrived at this point.
               Deliberately Layard had led Baldwin to a discovery of the fact of his change of
                  creed and plan of life; and in spite of the fact that his forbodeings and fears
                  had all pointed towards this very result, David was greatly astonished thereat. He
                  would not believe the words he heard, until they had been reiterated in his
                  hearing, and even then he went laughing away, assuming a great strength in his
                  incredulity. Layard had looked even for some such demonstration as this on
                  Baldwin's part—he anticipated surprise, unbelief, and some little displeasure, it
                  might be. But he anticipated also a relenting, a pitying relenting. He looked for
                  a serious re-consideration of his case, and thereafter, all that he should
                  need.
               There was another thought connected indirectly with these—another aim in view, to
                  which De Lisle Layard had of late given large room, and liberty, and a deal of
                  speculative consideration.
               Well he remembered Stella Cammon of old, in the years when he had been much to
                  her; those years of childhood, when the mystery that enshrouded herself had
                  troubled her; when, longing for love, before she had spoken her love for him, she
                  had told him her want, and wondered aloud, in his hearing—and envied all children
                  their mothers—not excepting in that envy of longing and love even Lucia Tree
                  having a mother such as she had! He had in those days consoled the orphan child,
                  or attempted to do so. The memory of those days was now with the man. He followed
                  the bent of her questioning, grieving infancy, and beheld, before him, an
                  enterprise. Could not Miss Mar tell him all that he wished to know? who were her
                  parents? where had they lived? where died? Could she not, would she not tell him?
                  It was merely, of course, to add some new joy to the life of Stella Cammon that he sought to discover. Not long ago an
                  unguarded word had dropped from Aunt Judith that convinced him that Stella's
                  parents, so far as she knew, were yet living. Even that word, slight as it was,
                  boldly and broadly as he interpreted it, the poor, inadvertently dropped syllable,
                  gave him all the knowledge he had of the nature of Miss Mar's private conviction.
                  But soon, for that was his intention, he would arrive at the truth in its entire
                  relation.
               The occasion of the visit which he went now to make in John's street had been
                  prepared between Layard and Miss Judith. She had absented herself from the house,
                  that he might have the conversation with Stella which he besought, in obedience to
                  the wish that he would do so which he had previously roused in that good lady's
                  heart. She went from the house before he entered it, hoping for all kinds of
                  reconciliation of difficulties which she could not understand, but which sorely
                  perplexed and tried her.
            
            
               XXI.
               HE would wait in the parlor till Miss Mar's return, he said to the maid who
                  admitted him; and, accordingly, there he waited, not for Miss Mar, but for Stella,
                  until she came down from her study in the twilight.
               His presence in the house was briefly explained. Indeed, it had become so
                  frequent, that it needed no explanation. And Stella would have left the room again
                  presently, after a few courteous words befitting her place and his in Miss
                  Judith's house, had he not called her attention to an old book he held in his
                  hand—a child's book, which he found on the table—one from which they had read
                  together in years long gone.
               She had already turned towards the door, but he spoke as if unobservant of
                  this—indeed, it was his pleasure constantly to ignore every personal slight
                  whatsoever of which Stella was guilty.
               His words arrested her steps, and she retraced them, more curious to know what he
                  had to say about the old book than she herself was aware. For had she suspected
                  the extent of the curiosity, she would have placed herself at once, in fear, where
                  it might not be answered; that is, beyond the sound of Layard's voice. For, during
                  the last few days, Stella had, according to her own belief, been progressing
                  rapidly in the subjugation of the self that the world had fashioned—was returning
                  to the primitive self from which the new growth, of which she entertained high
                  hope, was to spring. Whatever was emotional within her she was endeavoring to
                  subdue; to be rid of her human, and rise to her spiritual self. She mistook the
                  curiosity she now actually felt for the simple desire to test herself, and that
                  indifferentism towards which she was aiming.
               The old book of which he spoke she received from Layard's hands—he rising to give
                  it her. Within his soul, De Lisle smiled to see the cold attention with which she
                  turned the leaves. And when her eyes fell on the fly-leaf, where, in her own
                  childish hand, she had testified that her "dear friend, De Lisle" had given the
                  book, oh, then, he smiled to see the smile that flitted over her handsome face,
                  and the look, half pity, half scorn, of that old self, with which she gave it back
                  to him.
               "How long it was," she said, musing.
               "It made me almost sad thinking of it, as I sat here," returned he. "I could not
                  help going back to the old times; and it seems as though I had been living them
                  all over again. Do you remember the day when I gave you this book?"
               
               No, she did not remember.
               "I had purchased it on account of the pictures—not because I believed their import
                  in those days. The responsibility is yours that I have accepted the Church of Rome
                  for my mother at this day."
               "You have accepted it?" said Stella, betrayed into an impulsive utterance of her
                  surprise.
               "With all my heart," said he. "You have given me a mother."
               "Never!" was on Stella Cammon's lip; he read it in her eyes, but she said not the
                  word. With her the Church was a vanished difficulty, and she duly recalled herself
                  to a consistent holding of this fact. De Lisle could not quite interpret this
                  apparent indifference. If she were a Protestant, why not evince some compunction
                  that her influence had led him into the error from which she had escaped? But she
                  showed no such contrition, and no dismay, in view of the fact he had stated.
               "I remember," he said, in a softened tone, "as if it were a thing of yesterday. I
                  came in—you were in this very room. It was winter. You sat by the fire there on
                  the hearth, in the brownest study that any rosy-cheeked little girl ever had,
                  looking into so bright a blaze as that. I was half-frozen, for there was a
                  dreadful storm; and I ran in so suddenly, you had no warning. Ah, we were not so
                  hedged in by conventionalities in those days as we are now! You were glad that I
                  came that day, for you smiled; and, when Stella Cammon smiled, it was because she
                  thought she had good reason. Do you remember?"
               That she did remember he needed not that she should say. That she was so far back
                  in that past as to lose a sense of the speaker of the present, he knew. And Layard
                  went on, making good use of her abstraction, knowing what word would recall her to
                  the present time, place, and opportunity.
               "But you had not been happy before I came. You had wept, and the doll, for whom I
                  made the cradle and bedstead, lay neglected on the floor beside you. Its face was
                  wet with your tears. And by-and-bye you told me what it was that troubled you—you
                  were lonely—a chance word of some play-mate had taught you how much alone you
                  were. I did not seem so much a brother to you now, nor Miss Mar so much a mother,
                  as once. You were an orphan, you were saying to yourself; and dreadful it seemed
                  to you—no wonder!... But when we looked at this book, we forgot all that—no common
                  virtue was in its pages—and you forgot all that troubled you. See, I colored the
                  pictures—do you remember, with the colors and gum water which you brought? Oh,
                  well—those old times are dead and buried... In view of all that you have done for
                  me, I long to be thought of as your friend again. I say your coldness has
                  disturbed and grieved me. I have often felt, since my return, that ordinary
                  self-respect demanded that I should say little to you. I do not wish to inflict
                  myself on any one—pardon me that this little book has made me to offend. I can
                  only give a child's excuse, I could n't help it."
               In the moment that De Lisle spoke of her desolate childhood, a change had come
                  over his listener. He had opened a sealed fountain that must give forth waters
                  sweet and bitter. He might have reproached himself with cause for that distress he
                  occasioned, but it was easier for him to apologize for a breach of etiquette which
                  was of no moment to either of them, as he well knew. Passing by the story without
                  the slightest reference to it, though the arrow was lodged in her heart, and they
                  both knew it, she said:
               "Have you become a Romanist, De Lisle?"
               
               "I have. And you! oh, be assured, it is much to owe this great recovery to you!
                  You have been an instrument used for this event."
               At this she merely bowed. She had no joy or sorrow to express. No denial of the
                  faith, which he had looked for confidently, nor any well-feigned faith on account
                  of his return to the stronghold.
               There was no room for his consolations or arguments. She said nothing to which he
                  might reply; gave him no assurance on which he might proceed. But his purpose was
                  accomplished—he knew that she was beyond the sphere in which his labors would
                  proceed. And he was startled, unprepared for her, when she said, in a voice so
                  firm, so resolute, that its meaning and impulse passed his understanding.
               "Now, De Lisle Layard, tell me why you have recurred to those events so long
                  passed and forgotten, at least by me?"
               "Pardon me, if I have pained you," said he, in hasty apology.
               "No—it's not that I want," returned Stella. "You meant something by it, of course;
                  but I do not quite see what. What was the necessity for recalling a child's grief
                  to a woman's memory, when the cause of that grief, though not the suffering
                  itself, remains? Justify your words, if you can. Perhaps you have made some
                  discovery, or in some way have ascertained—"
               "I would to Heaven I could make answer according to your desire!" exclaimed
                  Layard—and in earnest he said it. He would like well to arrive at the solution of
                  that mystery.
               "I am, perhaps, not conscious of a desire in that direction. You have adverted to
                  what you were not bidden, with premeditation probably. But it matters not," said
                  Stella, carelessly.
               "That is the very theory I have been maintaining," said Layard. "Strong must be
                  the affections which centre in that excellent lady to whom I also am so much
                  indebted. Her beautiful character is lustrous with rare excellences. To have been
                  under her guardianship leaves one nothing to regret. Parental duties may, in fact,
                  be performed by another to the—"
               "You speak well," said Stella coldly
               "And truly," he was swift to say.
               "Could you speak well, and not truly?" replied Stella, fixing her eyes on him—but
                  not a ray of suspicion beamed from them. That, if anywhere, was darkling and
                  intensifying in her heart, beyond his ken.
               "Very possibly—if it were given me to deceive you," he replied.
               "Are you going into the Church, De Lisle?" She could not prevent the question.
               "I desire to do so."
               "Then you will, of course, as there are no obstructions."
               "I trust there are none—I believe there are none except such as I may find in my
                  own will. Our wills are stubborn powers to deal with," said De Lisle,
                  thoughtfully.
               Here the conversation ended. Stella rang for lights— and when they were brought,
                  she sat down to Miss Mar's embroidery, endeavoring to say to herself, "I was free
                  before now. This is no occasion for particular elation. I have nothing to do with
                  an abstraction like the Church. Protestant and Romanist are but names—things are
                  of a different description." But, in spite of herself, she was aware of rejoicing
                  when persuaded, as she now felt, that she was indeed free from him.
               And when, without recurring to these trains of thought, Layard presently withdrew,
                  before Miss Mar's return, and Stella
                  laid down the work and went up to her books, she consigned herself to them anew,
                  with an enthusiasm and earnestness she had not before felt, for until now, in
                  spite of herself, the act had seemed compulsory, resorted to in self-defence.
               There was nothing more to fear. Layard would go into the Church—become a priest...
                  but what had she to do with him, or with churches? So had she been held a captive
                  to these thoughts, that it was difficult for her to accept and enjoy her freedom
                  from them.
               But with all this rejoicing in a new sense of liberty, there still remained the
                  thought which he had wakened. A thought it was which never had slept soundly in
                  her brain or heart. It had roused to trouble her many times since her childhood,
                  and more than once she had sought an exposition of the mystery; but on that
                  subject, to every hint or question, Miss Mar was deaf and dumb; not since her
                  childhood had it been wakened thus ruthlessly by another. And now that she thought
                  of it, the suspicion was aroused that there was something back of Layard's words,
                  impelling them; it might even be that he had learned recently, or that he had
                  always known, something of her father or her mother. She wished that she had asked
                  him at a time when the question would have come most naturally, if he had anything
                  to say to her of them.
               The doubt was in a hot-bed of hope. It was forced up—it grew. Once she took up her
                  pen to ask him the question; but again it was laid aside. When she should see
                  Layard to-morrow, she would plainly put the question. But this determination she
                  in turn also dropped in vexation, that these things and Layard himself, through
                  them, had still so much power to trouble her. She would rise above them—and she
                  returned to the book she was reading.
               But... as to what he had said about Miss Mar, that began to come in between her
                  and the page—she saw it plainer than she saw the print. Miss Judith had done
                  everything for her, that she allowed; but it was not true that she had been father
                  and mother to her. Grateful for her protection and care was Stella, but even the
                  nun in the convent, Theresa, she said to herself, had awakened deeper affections,
                  and had dealt towards her more lovingly, more maternally, than the good and pious
                  householder in John's street.
               When Stella ceased thinking of these things, which was not till she fell asleep,
                  she had finally resolved on discovering whether, as she believed, Layard had meant
                  this question he had now aroused again, to come to her, as it had come, or merely
                  as the freshener of the old-time recollections.
            
            
               XXII.
               IF the visit of the Baldwins to Harlem was of little moment, save as provocative
                  of speculation in the minds of Mrs. Chilton and her son, and of interest in their
                  temporal fortunes in the brain of old Ishmael, the return visit to the Hall was
                  not destined to terminate so fruitlessly.
               So did it revive the drooping spirits of Mrs. Chilton— so far-reaching were the
                  manifold satisfactions it gave birth to, that she went home in a frame of mind
                  such as might naturally be attributed to the leader of a triumphal procession. She
                  had breathed her native air again; such perfumed air as floats along the
                  colonnade, and through the drawing-rooms and grapery of the great house of St
                  John's—her feet have trodden the luxury of carpets brought from the looms of
                  eastern lands—her eyes have feasted on the damask draped windows, and the costly trifles everywhere
                  apparent—she has sat at a table of feasting once more, waited on like a lady. And
                  after all this exaltation, poor creature falling into ruins, she goes not back
                  repining and envious to the miserable cottage with worn-out reminiscences, but
                  triumphant, as I said.
               For the cottage was soon to lose its occupants—and the cottage knew it, or it
                  might have known it—the Chilton's were going to St. John's to live; and the
                  cottage bore on its face, what the inmates, two of them at least, bore on their
                  hearts an inscription which in the last case would probably be sooner regarded by
                  eyes invisible, than in the former by eyes human, "This House for Sale."
               It had been entirely arranged on the visit. Mr. Baldwin had a vacant house, which
                  he desired to have occupied. Would his old friend relieve him of the care of the
                  place? And he had a friend, an engineer, who at that time wanted a young man in
                  his office to learn engineering. If Horace, his old friend's son, had chosen
                  architecture for his profession, the best foundation that could be laid for his
                  studies was a knowledge of engineering... There was no resistance to be offered to
                  cogent arguments like these. And if there had been, who was to offer them? Horace
                  regarded his fortune as made already, and sat chatting with Isidore as if assured
                  of the fact. Mrs. Chilton had arrived at the gate of her New Jerusalem, and she
                  entered in with all the dignity her joy allowed...
               And to Leah's eyes, also, the prospect was passing fair. For her mother's sake,
                  and for the sake of Horace, she rejoiced in the brightening prospects, not for the
                  ease, nor for the splendor or the fashion, but because the way was opened for
                  Horace at last, and now his genius would show itself as it should—cramped, cast
                  down, no longer! what castle-building was there!
               Before leaving St. John's, Mr. Baldwin drove with them to the house he spoke of,
                  which was not far from his own. It had been left on his hands by the recent
                  tenant, his debtor to a large amount, furnished from top to bottom; and in its
                  present condition he offered it to Mrs. Chilton, rent free for five years, until
                  Horace should be in a situation to make whatever other arrangements they might
                  deem proper.
               Had not this family occasion to go home triumphant? Did they not make haste to
                  escape from the land of bondage? And are we not glad to escape from Harlem with
                  them, and leave the poor village to its miserable fate?
            
            
               XXIII.
               WE reverse not that picture, but return to another.
               One afternoon, not long after the removal, our Susan, who had duly participated in
                  its excitements, and borne alone all sorrows and regrets pertaining to it, went up
                  to the mill from the boat-house, having seen her father off in his boat. He was
                  going seven miles up the beach, to visit an old neighbor, who was ill.
               In the round room she remained, until it became so dark up there, and the wind
                  beat so violently against the old walls, that, fearful of a storm, she went down
                  the stairs to the door.
               There a terrific sight met Susan Dillon's eyes. The heavens were hidden by clouds.
                  Piled up, mountain-like, above crag, and peak, and deep ravine, gray, leaden,
                  white, and black, were those great clouds—massive, threatening, and terrible. The
                  sea, even to her eyes, was one great horror, lashed into tumult and fury by the
                  winds, which roared, and fought, and conquered, and fell, retreated, advanced; and
                  their crash was the roar of battle.
               
               In a momentary exultation, for her spirit was caught and borne forward by the fury
                  of the scene, Susan stood on the rock, watching the motion of the waves—their
                  conquests and overthrow. But there came a thought that gave terrors in place of
                  delight to her soul. Her father, the old man, where was he? Like a fiery flash,
                  the thought shot through her heart. If he were out at sea, and alone, in a storm
                  like that!
               She ran to the cabin, in her fear and hope. He had foreseen the storm, it might
                  be, and had made haste to come in to land before it broke... He was not there.
                  From the house she went back to the point where he was accustomed to moor his
                  boats. He might have gone into the boat-house to rest, after the fatigue of rowing
                  in such a storm among such waves. He was not there. There, while the darkness
                  deepened, and the winds raved on, she waited. But there she could not see—could
                  command no view of the way by which, if he were coming, his progress would be
                  made. And once more she ascended the cliff. The wind whirled round and round her;
                  it dashed against her in such fury as made it impossible for her to brave it long;
                  and she crept in among the rocks, and, clinging to them, kept her look-out toward
                  the west. So quick was her trained sight, so strained its vision to its utmost
                  now, that she could have detected a bird at a distance which would have rendered a
                  ship in full sail invisible to a less anxious eye, even in a light best calculated
                  for such observation.
               There, in such anxiety, she waited what seemed an interminable time. At last—she
                  started up—yes! it was he—he was coming in his boat, riding over those fierce
                  waves—she saw him—and he was alone.
               And now the child's anxiety took a new shape. The rain fell fast in large and
                  heavy drops—the rocks were no protection from it—in a moment her garments were
                  drenched by the rain. But fixed as by fascination her eyes on the distance—and
                  nearer, and nearer, yet how far off still! the boat came. No longer a wavering
                  speck, now seen and now lost to sight. No longer a shapeless point; no longer a
                  bird on wing—but the boat and the oarsman clearer and clearer. An old man toiling
                  with the oar, and battling with the element! So many years it had known him, was
                  there no pity for the gray-haired fisherman, that the waves which had been his
                  home and his love so long, should sport so madly with him—should thus strive with
                  him? He had grown gray among those waves—they had served him according to the
                  desire of his heart, but now what were they doing to the old man?
            
            
               XXIV.
               SHE looked up into the face of the blue sky—and not a cloud was there.
               Whither had fled the terrific darkness on which she gazed but now? Dazzling with
                  the light of the setting sun spread the immeasurable vault of heaven. The
                  storm-birds flitted to and fro, rejoicing. The havoc was over in which they had
                  exulted; the great deep reflected all that upper brightness, and tranquil was the
                  beating of its mighty pulse.
               Susan crept out from the place of shelter—but she could not thus emerge from the
                  dominion of her hideous dream, if indeed the storm of the past hours were a dream;
                  her clothes and the pools among the rocks told her that it was not. She stood up,
                  leaning for support against the slippery rocks; but when she tried to move, she
                  tottered like one drunken. A moment of intensely agonizing effort, in which she
                  strove to realize herself, passed. She sat down where she had lain, and looked out upon the sea. Slowly came the
                  thought back to her.
               She had been a watcher through a storm... She had been in the mill, and left it on
                  account of the darkness... but at what moment of the watch had she yielded her
                  post, and failed in her duty?
               Slowly, point by point, she retraced the time that had elapsed after leaving the
                  mill until horror had pressed down her eyelids... But what was it? the fury of the
                  storm? the terror of the breaking waves—the driving rain? Was it the horror of
                  such fear as this?... had she slept? No! when the boat—the boat came nearer, and
                  nearer, and nearer, and went down before her eyes, suddenly, without a remedy,
                  while she could almost count the strokes of his oar... then!
               Floated now upon the cruel waves, in the dazzling light of that evening's sun, a
                  broken oar!
               From the post where she had stationed herself, Susan crept back... she went down
                  among the rocks—she went back with the faltering step of decrepit age, to the
                  cabin, and there sat down alone.
               How long a time went on she could not know. She had lost the sense of time. She
                  was waiting for some one to come. She was in expectation; but not of her
                  father.
               And at length there came, breaking upon her torpor, a tread of feet—a knocking at
                  the outer door—and, through the darkness, for evening had set in, an advance.
                  Looking up, Susan saw the young son of the fisherman whom her father had been to
                  visit that day.
               He came in as if in haste, anxious, without waiting to be bidden; and sitting down
                  upon a bench opposite to Susan, he made his unskilful way through a talk about her
                  last spring's fever, and the recent storm, to the theme which weighed upon his
                  mind.
               "Have you seen him since he came home?" said he, never taking his eyes from
                  Susan.
               "I have seen him—yes, Sam," answered she.
               "Then the old man's safe!" exclaimed the boy, unable to conceal the relief he felt
                  now that his suspense was over.
               Then did Susan tell him of the watch that she had kept—of the tossed and
                  struggling boat—of the last glimpse she caught of it—and how it had gone down in
                  the distance amidst those raging waves before her sight. Briefly she told him—her
                  words were few and disconnected, but they told plainly her meaning; she need
                  entertain no doubts concerning them—and while she spoke Sam looked at her as if he
                  could not believe either his ears or eyes.
               "What did you do after that?" asked he.
               "I came home—when I woke."
               "Woke! you did n't go to sleep there in the storm!"
               Sam's fear and suspicions gave him courage. He went up to Susan—laid his hand on
                  her arm.
               "Why, you're soaking wet!" he exclaimed. "It'll kill you. You're ravin'
                  distracted, Susan—no, you aint, but you've lost your senses. Look a-here! oh,
                  Lord! what am I to do with you, and the night here too! Oh!... oh! what a night's
                  work! See here, Susan," grasping her arm yet more firmly in his perplexity and
                  distress, "what'll I do? If you'll let me help you up to our house, I've got my
                  boat—" Susan drew back with a shudder.
               "Oh, no, Sam, I can't," she said, faintly.
               "You're sick, Miss Susan, or you're going to be. If I could find somebody, or do
                  something—I'll have to go, I guess, for mother. Oh, dear! Miss Susan, I can't tell
                  what to do, can you?"
               "Nothing," said Susan; but in so faint a tone, that Sam did not hear her; the poor fellow dropped her
                  arm from his grasp, threw himself into a chair, and despairingly thrust his hand
                  through his bushy locks, and looked at Susan.
               "I wish your mother were here, Sam," Susan roused herself to say. "If you could
                  make up a fire—and maybe you'd run for somebody somewhere. I'm not afraid—to—stay
                  alone. I'm used—to it—don't mind me, Sam."
               Delighted that there was anything he could do, Sam bustled about and built a fire,
                  and was ready in a few minutes to set out for his mother. But as he took up his
                  lantern he turned back again from the door—
               "It seems dreadful strange to leave you so. Blast me, Susan, if I can do it!"
               "Oh, yes, if you please," said Susan; but she spoke as in a dream—her eyes were
                  closed, and she did not open them.
               "No, I can't," said Sam, resolutely putting down the lantern again. "Not till you
                  go to bed first. I'll help you in, and be off like a streak."
               The wisdom of this proposition awkwardly urged, and hardly above the boy's breath,
                  seemed to make an impression on Susan. She tried to rise in compliance with his
                  suggestion, but could not, and the young sailor in desperation, caught her in his
                  arms.
               "Here, you're going to tumble over," cried he, and he carried her in his arms, now
                  insensible, to her bed.
               And then, instead of going away in search of other help, until morning he was
                  laboring, at his wit's end, to revive and strengthen Susan. But his utmost success
                  was to rouse her to consciousness for a moment; she would constantly sink again
                  into insensibility, and he dared not leave her.
               With the day-dawn his courage revived and he started for home. Never was a swifter
                  voyage made than his. In an hour after he left Susan's side, long before sunrise,
                  five boats, filled with fishermen, to whom intelligence of old Walter's loss had
                  been communicated, were moving rapidly over the sea to the lonely beach where
                  Dillon's solitary cabin stood.
            
            
               XXV.
               NOTHING of all this knew Susan. She saw not the breaking day—waited not for the
                  rising sun. Saw not the flashing of the swiftly-plied oars, saw not the sad faces
                  of the old seamen as they came to shore, drew their boats inland, and walked
                  slowly, with heavy hearts, up to the cabin-door. Neither heard she the softest
                  tread within the house, nor the pitying face of the tender-hearted woman who bent
                  over her; heard not the smothered words she spoke to those waiting without to
                  learn how it went on with poor Susan; knew not the gentle sympathy with which her
                  name passed from lip to lip among those weather-beaten men.
               Unconscious of all living things, all mortal joys and losses, Susan lay, worn out
                  with the violence of her exposure and the extremity of her grief; the faint pulse
                  and heartbeat told how languidly the springs of life were moving.
               Towards noon the sea was alive with boats, the shore with men, for the news of
                  Dillon's loss had spread far along the coast, and he was as a patriarch among the
                  fishermen, the oldest of them all, and too the most venerated by mate and boy. And
                  while these were gathering, Sam rode down from St. John's in the coachman's box of
                  Mr. Baldwin's carriage, for to St. John's he went at his mother's instigation, to
                  summon Ishmael to the beach.
               Falcon and the family physician came with Mr. Baldwin. Of all this, of the sorrow
                  of Ishmael's heart, and those other
                  thoughts and expectations which, in spite of himself, would intrude upon the mind
                  of Dillon's old friend, even in such an hour as this—of Mr. Falcon's pity and
                  unspoken sympathy—of the physician's presence and counsel, nothing of all this
                  knew Susan; and no sense had she now of her loss, which should change the drift of
                  all her future and the prospect of all her past.
               In this unconsciousness was she borne away. Not knowing whither she went, she was
                  taken from her father's house, and in the carriage borne up to her new home, that,
                  when she wakened, as Mr. Baldwin urged, and the physician counselled, she might be
                  beyond the sight and sound of the sea. In the shadow of night she was taken into
                  the Hall, and up to the chamber which was henceforth to bear her name.
               Darkness is around her, and the fragrance of flowers, and security and beauty—she
                  knows it not. All night a watcher sits beside her bed, and soothes her when she
                  stirs, gives answer to her wandering thoughts when she utters them; and the
                  morning comes again, the noon, the night; another, and another, and another day,
                  and she sees not the glory, understands not the pain that is in them, and will be
                  in them when she wakes again to life, if ever again she wakes.
               Your wish is granted, Susan: you are here, and at Home!
               When you awake, if you waken, will you wonder and remember your wish? and ask, "Oh
                  life, is it thus thou fulfillest the dreaming delight, the unconscious prayers of
                  youth? Is all the joy of Day brought forth from the Night of anguish?"
               Isidore sits in her boudoir, and at intervals thinks of Susan. Horace Chilton
                  presently is coming to drive out with her—and she has just sealed her answer to
                  the first letter written by the Colonel since he left St. John's— for he had
                  received his orders, and was now on his way to a distant post. Poor Susan! Isidore
                  thinks in these intervals—what a dreadful blow for her! But the fisherman was poor
                  and old, and his strength was failing him; he could do nothing for his child—if
                  events had taken a natural course, he must ere long have given up the ghost, and
                  left Susan desolate. She will now live at the Hall, and be educated, and have a
                  very different fate from what she would have had but for this shocking accident.
                  It will be a very good thing besides—she continues to think, for Horace has not
                  yet come—a very fortunate thing for Clarence, especially if I should happen to go
                  away in haste—he will have a sister; and father really talks quite pathetically
                  about his daughter Susan. I wonder if he really means that... And just here
                  Isidore's meditation is broken by the arrival of Horace Chilton, who in the short
                  time that has elapsed since the removal from Harlem to St. John's, and the
                  departure of the Colonel, has proved himself a much more valuable aid to Isidore
                  than to the Engineer, who was so greatly in need of a hand in his office.
               Deeply troubled with the thought of Susan's new calamity, and wondering how she
                  would bear it, and determining to make her recovery and its phases matter of
                  special contemplation when the proper time should come, David Baldwin absented
                  himself from his club on the day after Susan's arrival at the Hall; and in place
                  of all gayer sports drove Layard quietly into the country after his favorite pony.
                  And during the drive he talked, not very profoundly, but with more than usual
                  feeling, of Layard's prospects in as far as he felt at liberty to do so, and he
                  came back from his drive quite persuaded that Layard, the good fellow, the fine
                  fellow, was bent on self-destruction—would make a wreck of his fine abilities and
                  prospects, but bound by promises, pledged in his heart, to help him on in his career by every means within
                  his reach.
               Up in the hall, near the door of Susan's chamber, stood Clarence Baldwin, to whom
                  Mr. Falcon had communicated the nature of the strange night arrival. There, beside
                  that door, he had stationed himself—and there all day he watched and waited; and
                  not far away in the same hall was Mr. Falcon, his attention fixed, as it would
                  seem, on the book open before him... but, it was not so, not a gesture or motion
                  of Clarence escaped him. He observed the settled sadness of the young face, its
                  unchanging alertness of expression. Why he stood there, Clarence well understood.
                  Susy was within that chamber—was ill— suffering—she had lost her father. These
                  facts Mr. Falcon had communicated to him, and so vivid was the impression they
                  had—made, that there seemed to be no possibility of their passing away again. He
                  lost not the thought while he stood there, not even for a moment.
               No person that came from the chamber passed unnoticed, no one entered it
                  unchallenged by him. And when in reply to his questions, he was told,"she sleeps
                  sweetly," "she is quiet," "she will be better soon;" he smiled, and still
                  maintained his watch.
            
            
               XXVI.
               WHEN Vane and Lucia Tree went into the unpretending tenement now occupied by the
                  fallen family, passing through the street door immediately into the small room
                  where Mr. Tree sat copying the papers Will had brought home from the office, they
                  did not meet the most encouraging, most welcome of glances from the bleared and
                  weary eyes which for a moment lifted in salutation, and then drooped to their work
                  again.
               Apparently unobservant of the uncourteous reception, or in reality pre-occupied
                  with what he had himself to say and do, Vane advanced towards the table and Mr.
                  Tree, with an open but respectful address.
               "A dun! confound the fellow!" muttered Tree, and there was
                  quite as much in his look as in his thought, as he glanced towards the youth.
               "Can't pay you to-day, sir. I have n't a copper by me. Call again sir," said he,
                  never looking up; doggedly and angrily he spoke; as if he had been already worried
                  down by a pack of creditors, and felt now disposed to turn and face them.
               "Pay, sir! your credit is of the best—if you really owe me anything. I keep no
                  ledger in my desk or my head."
               Tree looked up now, leaning back in his chair—his features contracted grimly—as if
                  he would smile, but had forgotten how. He laid down his pen, and pushing his
                  scanty gray locks from his forehead, said, in his old subdued, downcast way:
               "Well, Vane, excuse me—you have a debt against me. It is fortunate that you do not
                  want it to-day, for I—sit down, will you? Lucia, is that you? bring a chair for
                  Mr. Vane. How are you getting on now-a-days, sir?"— brightening up with the last
                  words.
               "I have left off my trade, sir, and taken to canvas painting," said Vane,
                  answering the question promptly, as if he considered it a genuine, friendly
                  inquiry, demanding a reply, and not a mere formal civility.
               "Glad to hear it," said Mr. Tree, stiffly; but he qualified the remark, "if you
                  don't starve on it."
               "That is the very point on which I would like your candid opinion, sir," said
                  Vane, entering on the subject with his customary frankness and hearty
                  earnestness—continuing to stand, though Lucia had brought the chair her father
                  ordered for him.
               
               Tree looked at Vane as if in a bewildered and rather uncomfortable mood of mind;
                  he took up his pen and laid it down again, and moved about restlessly in his
                  chair—at last he said :
               "I'm no judge of fine arts—I have no opinions."
               "But you will come and see my work, I hope," said Vane. "I would be glad to have
                  you come down with your daughter, if you find time, to look at it."
               Tree looked at his daughter still more bewildered; he could not understand what
                  the young fellow wanted, nor what he was talking about. He was, for himself, a
                  fallen man—there was nothing to be had of him; he could not advance the fortunes
                  of this young man in any way, and, as he said, he was no judge of the fine
                  arts.
               "Sit down," said he, for he could think of nothing else to say.
               But Vane, with a courteous gesture, declined the repeated invitations; and, still
                  standing, went on speaking rapidly.
               "I hardly dare think how you'll take it, sir; but what I came for was to ask you
                  if you 'd any objections to my being a friend of your family?"
               "What?" said Tree. In the very directness with which Vane made known his business
                  there was, of itself, sufficient to bewilder a man so unaccustomed to anything
                  like open dealing with his fellows.
               "Your daughter—" a light seemed here to illuminate the old man, for he suddenly
                  grew very red in the face, and looked hurriedly at Lucia, taking up his pen
                  again.
               "Your daughter," continued Vane, who for a moment hesitated when he observed the
                  disturbance his words occasioned in the listener, "likes paintings, and she told
                  me that she had a mind to be an artist. I was so fortunate as to have some work on
                  hand that was given me to do, and I have passed it over to her; she will do it
                  better than I, for she has more time, and more taste, too, I think, for such
                  things. I have no friends among artists in this city—I want none; but I would like
                  to have friends here in this house, sir. I can help your daughter along, and she
                  can help me. Perhaps you would think it an objection because I had a trade, and
                  worked at it throughout St. John's. Some men would. If that is your only
                  objection—but I feel ashamed to talk about it, the trade and I have been such good
                  friends, and I shall take to it again if I cannot do better—I was not brought up
                  with any idea of such a pursuit. But it became my duty to take care of myself, and
                  I always meant to be an artist: thus I learned to be a house-painter. Professor
                  Layard, at the college, can tell you about it, sir, how it happened."
               Here he paused; but Mr. Tree sat looking at him; apparently never contemplating
                  the possibility of a response.
               "Your daughter," therefore continued Vane, hurriedly returning to that point, to
                  him the most important, that Tree might understand what was asked of him; "your
                  daughter and I could help each other on in our work. We can see each other's
                  faults, and point them out. If you are willing it—"
               "It what?"
               "I should say you were my benefactor, sir. I have had already an offer of
                  patronage, but that I do not want. But I have no home. I would like to be able to
                  think of some place in this city as a house holding friends of mine."
               "Humph," said Mr. Tree, with a bitter smile; and for a moment he was silent. "Take
                  my advice," he resumed, "and keep to your work, and have as few thoughts in your
                  head about anything further as you can get along with. What! cheat yourself in the
                  beginning with fine notions about
                  friends—they are no better in civilized countries than among savages; if you get
                  into trouble, your friends will rob you of what' the law leaves. As for a
                  home—Vane, I'm an old man, but I never saw one yet."
               "Sir, I had a home once, for I had a mother! and it is the memory of her that
                  compels me to believe that I shall yet find another. May I, then, sometimes come
                  here to rest, and not be looked at as an intruder? May I think of your house, sir,
                  as a summer-house in a garden, where I may sit down among my neighbors, and find
                  refreshment?"
               "You may come, if you think it will be any comfort," said Mr. Tree, heavily. "I
                  certainly respect you very highly, and if I declined your visits you might think
                  otherwise; of course, come—but what you will find, that is your own look, out; I
                  guarantee nothing, sir. We are poor and in disrepute, and, for a rising young man,
                  not the most available people I should say."
               "Pardon me," said Vane, now dropping into the chair that stood waiting for him.
                  "You should say nothing of the kind. You make me happy by allowing me to come, and
                  to think of you all. I shall be helped on wonderfully in my work now."
               "But I told you before," said Tree, again mistaking the speaker, "I'm no judge of
                  the fine arts."
               "Oh I meant not that—it makes a man cheerfuller to have a friend and a home in the
                  mind. I could never get on at all without them. You know how much swifter and
                  better the hand works when the heart is happy, sir?"
               Poor Mr. Tree knew nothing of the sort; he may, in his long dolorous striving and
                  unhappy career, have had some remote suspicion of the existence of some such truth
                  as this, but no experimental knowledge.
               He did not reply, but Lucia did. "Oh yes, that is so true, Mr. Vane."
               Her sweet and sincere voice seemed to revive the father's heart; he appeared to
                  get a fairer glimpse into the world where these young people were abiding, when he
                  looked at it through his daughter's eyes, than he could by the painter's speech.
                  And he said :
               "And you expect to make a good artist, I suppose—to make a great deal of money and
                  fame?"
               For an instant Vane's face was slightly shadowed, but he spoke out sincerely and
                  well:
               "Oh that I cannot tell—but I mean to be a faithful man, sir."
               "Of course you will be rich and famous;—there's nothing to hinder you that I can
                  see."
               Vane hesitated—evidently Lucia's father did not understand him. Then he
                  spoke—valiantly it came forth—art from his hands must receive all precedence and
                  honor, and this old man listening must see that neither fame nor money were the
                  ends he sought.
               "But that would not please me so well, Mr. Tree, as other things," he paused a
                  second, glanced at Lucia—in that bright face he read a perfect understanding and
                  approval—but only doubt in the old man's. "I should consider fame disgrace, if I
                  got it without fairly earning it—and I hardly believe I shall ever do anything
                  that I think great and find other people agree about it with me. I should be
                  ashamed to make money by my work because it was the fashion, or for some other
                  reason as poor as that. I can paint portraits. I have done so sometimes, but that
                  was when I was a foolish, ignorant fellow, or I could not have been so profane in
                  handling my pencils. I could make a good living by painting portraits—but I can do
                  better work than that, and I am content to be poor, and to work alone a long time rather than
                  get rich in that way."
               This was so far out of Mr. Tree's way of looking at things, so diverse from his
                  philosophy, that he could not at all appreciate it. And yet far wrong as he
                  believed the speaker to be, a suspicion floated intangible, and not to be arrested
                  as yet and fairly surveyed, floated through his mind that this voice and presence
                  was wise, as it was beyond question happy.
               "It certainly is true," said Lucia, speaking in a low and earnest voice, as if in
                  the strength of a deliberate conviction; "it certainly is true," she repeated,
                  "fortune and fame are not the thing—but to do with your might what your hands find
                  to do."
               "And enjoy in your heart whatever is lovely or of good report," added Vane.
               "Young people," said Mr. Tree in a hopeless sort of way, looking from Vane to his
                  daughter as though he despaired of understanding them, "you may be all right, and
                  I may be all wrong. I dare say it must be so—but, really you both seem to be
                  looking at this world in a very, very peculiar sort of way. It never appeared to
                  me exactly like—like what you seem to think it is. I, for my part, have found it a
                  hard, rubbing world, and full of toil and trouble."
               "And so it is, sir," replied Vane. "And everybody ought to be in earnest—but not
                  in earnest to eat each other up. There is room enough, sir, for us all, and work
                  enough for us all to do, and the earth can be made to produce so much that none
                  shall die of hunger. But we make such a selfish, cold-blooded business of labor! I
                  never could see, sir, why, when the sun shines in the world, and makes a fair
                  place of it, we should not have a sun shining in our hearts, making better beauty
                  there."
               "What sun?" asked Tree almost sternly. So real seemed this possession of joy in
                  the young painter's heart, he felt as if defrauded in his strange inability to
                  understand it.
               "The sun of Peace," said Vane. "It can make even a better world within us than we
                  see around us."
               What perfect acquiescence in all this he was advancing shone from Lucia's face!
                  what blank dismay was in the old man's visage! Somehow he had listened to
                  preaching for more than half a century, but the gospel had never come to him in
                  this form before—never before had it appealed to him as pertaining to the hourly
                  life of men—the guide of thought and aspiration—the perfect satisfaction—the
                  fulness of joy; the philosophy of life of which all other philosophies are the
                  lower and marred forms.
               "I do not know," said Tree, thoughtfully and sadly. "Perhaps you are right—I hope
                  you are—I hope the policy is one that won't run out before you are half through
                  with your life. I never saw a young man of talent and spirit before but believed
                  that the way to get on in this world was to work like the devil. I never saw one
                  that was ambitious, but he gave himself up to work, and thought of nothing else
                  but work—you think of everything else it appears. I hope you will succeed," he
                  concluded, doubtingly.
               "And if—I do not succeed, as you call it," said Vane, cheerfully, "you must never
                  think that I have failed. I will do my best here in this life, if I can; but I
                  know I shall do far better hereafter. A thousand things may prevent me here, but
                  nothing can prevent me there. This life is not everything to me. The old
                  patriarchs were honest; they confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on
                  the earth, and wisely sought a better country. And in that respect we can have no
                  more trustworthy guides than those Hebrews. But that does not hinder our making a happy journey of it, and we
                  shall then be in all the better condition for our arrival."
               "Ah," said Tree, despondingly, shaking his head, and balancing his pen on his
                  finger, "that is the voice of youth and strength—and faith that has not been
                  broken—and courage that bids fair to hold out a long way. Look at me, sir—I don't
                  know that I had such singular thoughts as you seem to have about the business of
                  life, but I will venture to say that I started out as determined to make much of
                  myself, and do well, and succeed, as any young man that ever lived; but now I am
                  old, and worn out, and tired of all things, and unfit for enjoyment, and have
                  failed in everything."
               Vane was silent; he would not insult a spirit so lamenting, by consolations which
                  it could not—certainly not as yet—receive.
               The old man again took up his pen, which he had dropped in the agitation of his
                  speech, and Vane's eyes fell on the heap of papers lying before him; and, rising
                  quickly, he said:
               I have intruded too long, sir; if you will promise to bring your daughter down to
                  my room, I will show the picture."
               With a relieved look at the prospect of being left alone again, Mr. Tree gave the
                  promise, asked Vane's address; and the young man, with another word to Lucia,
                  departed.
               When her father was alone, long after both Lucia and Vane had left him, he sat in
                  the same position before his table as that in which they found him, bowed over the
                  many papers, doing a machine's work; but no mechanic was he, for faster than his
                  unflagging hand his brain worked. Vane's words ran to and fro among the principles
                  of thought and action that were confronting them, accusing them, unmasking,
                  entreating them; and the ray of light along which moved those words grew broader
                  and brighter; and though he said to himself, "Vane talks like a boy, as he is—he
                  will find a different sort of world to work in than he thinks," close upon these
                  words followed the answering argument, "What has he been doing these eight years
                  but labor among men, working for his daily bread; and he speaks like one who
                  speaks from knowledge and large experience."
               Contrasting his barren career, its continually recurring waste places, its great
                  distresses, its abiding troubles, and its few and paltry satisfactions—looking
                  back on a lost half century, that had brought forth no pleasant nor any rich
                  return; contrasting his life with even the few years of Vane's—his strange
                  ambition and content with simple things—an ambition that spanned the gulf of
                  death, and looked into eternity, and found there, in that dark unknown,
                  opportunity and realization—simple things, that found an answer to every demand in
                  the daily life, contrasting these facts of Vane's life with those of his own, how
                  rich, how glorious, how inexplicable they seemed! Was it a wonder that the man
                  could not forget them, could not evade their questionings, could not restrain the
                  tears that dropped upon the paper at which, in the evening of life, he toiled, a
                  tired, disappointed man, for bread?
            
            
               XXVII.
               ONCE at the Elms, and once again in their uncomfortable city lodgings, Violet
                  Silsey read the letter which Lucia Tree wrote to her after the event of the last
                  chapter. The letter reached the Elms the very day that Silsey and his wife were to
                  return to St. John's.
               When, in the dismal back room with the look-out on dead walls, Violet read the letter once more; it
                  brought back the fresh country, and all its rare delights, and something beside,
                  that seemed like an inspiration to the heart of Violet.
               Lucia told her in that letter of all that had befallen her father's family, and
                  how she had gone to work in earnest, and the blessed thing it was to feel of some
                  use in the world. The first time that she read it, a wish, that seemed the very
                  wildest of all wishes, crossed Violet's mind; but now, as, with grave face, in the
                  silent and darkened room, she pores over it again, it has grown into an eager
                  hope, and her heart says, though it trembles, "Why not?"
               Silsey has gone into the street—the baby sleeps. With a flushed face, for her
                  resolution seems so strange, so over-bold, Violet writes a word to Lucia—tells her
                  she is home again—asks if she will come to her, for she has some urgent business
                  to talk about with Lucia.
               And she folds the note—but scarcely has she done so, when a low familiar rap on
                  the door startles her, and before she rises, the door opens, and a voice says
                  quickly, "Violet, Violet! are you there!" and Lucia Tree stands before her.
               So much at heart Violet has the subject of the note—that the salutations are
                  hardly exchanged between them when she gives it into Lucia's hands.
               "Answer that Lucia, at your earliest convenience," blushing, she says:
               "I knew all the while you wanted me," and the strong sweet voice conveys strength
                  to the heart of the hearer. "I told Will you did. Oh, Violet, you should see
                  little Rose! But now tell me the business, and then we will talk about
                  everything."
               And Violet tells Lucia all; keeps nothing back. Lucia's industry makes her
                  ashamed. She, too, would find something to do... why should she not? She would
                  help Silsey in his support of the little household, so that he might not be
                  embarrassed in making his experiments. Experiments cost so much money; and so that
                  he might have more time for study, and no need to think of her and Viola. If it
                  might be, she would gladly take upon herself the whole burden of the support. It
                  is not heavy—she is sure it would not be, if she could only learn how to bear it;
                  then Silsey could push on in his career, and work out the problems which he
                  studies—oh, if she might only do this—and it perhaps... sometime might happen that
                  she and Silsey together would buy a little place in the country like the Elms;
                  with tearful eyes Violet looks straight at Lucia—what has Lucia to advise?
               "Mrs. Violet Silsey," she says, "listen to me, and stop talking. Are you so
                  fearfully poor! Is there any danger of your starving, do you think?"
               "No—not that, but—"
               "That is all! Don't go on talking in that way—and never think of it again as long
                  as you live. You want to be a strong-minded woman, Violet, but you will fail; do
                  not try it. Why, you will have all that fresh color worn off your cheeks in less
                  than a month if you begin to think in that way. Where is your common sense?"
               "There was sense in your doing it, Lucia," expostulated Violet, quite taken
                  aback.
               "Yes indeed, for I have n't a husband to take care of me who endowed me with all
                  his 
                     wordly
                     worldly
                   goods. Now, if Mr. Silsey were sick, or anything of that sort—"
               "But, Lucia, he does look sick and old—as if he were—wearing out," faltered
                  Violet.
               "Nonsense! that is sheer slander. Mr. Silsey never looked so well in his life. I
                  met him in the street as I came down."
               
               "Do you really think so, Lucia?"
               "To be sure I do. Now, Violet, think sensibly. If you go to learn a trade, you
                  know you have declared, times without number, that you are no genius, and of
                  course you ought to know about it, if you try to learn a trade, dress-making, or
                  anything like that, and go out to sew, or sew in a shop, or fill the house up with
                  work, who's going to take care of the baby! Oh, behave yourself, and let your home
                  alone! a blessed little place it is—why, do you not know it?"
               "I never thought of being a dress maker. I can't sew without getting so tired! but
                  I thought I might do something, though I am sure I don't know what—as you say, I
                  have n't any genius."
               "I never said such a thing in my life."
               "Oh, well, I know it all the same! But do you really think, Lucia, that I had
                  better not do anything? you mean what you said?"
               "What is the child talking about? Did you ever find me saying anything I thought
                  untrue, Violet Silsey? But... you used to write beautiful poetry, Violet... "
               "Oh, no," said Violet; so hastily she said it, and so deeply she blushed, that no
                  other proof was needed of what had been in her mind all these moments.
               "Then you deceived me—you did not write the verses I used to think were
                  yours."
               "Oh yes, Lucia, I did."
               "You did! thank you for relieving me of that horrible suspicion. Do you write any
                  now?"
               "No—not very often. Who is that Mr. Vane you wrote about, Lucia?"
               "No matter about him just now, if you please, Violet—keep to the point. Bring me
                  your portfolio—if you have kept one in your terrible destitution. Be quick and
                  show me your poems, Violet, such as you have left. Poets are born to be poor, I
                  believe. I know one who writes poetry in colors on canvas, and Will says he was
                  born to be poor as a church rat, and he seems to have a reverence for the
                  appointed fate. These are the poems? I suppose I have placed myself in a charming
                  predicament; but let me warn you against one thing, Violet; do not buy your place
                  in the country on the strength of handing over these scraps of paper to me, do you
                  hear? And now tell me of everything that you saw, and did, and felt, in the
                  country—and I shall think I have been there myself, instead of being baked in a
                  brick oven here in town. Sing me a song, my poet, about yourself and Viola in the
                  woods with the birds."
               That the song was sung let no one doubt, because I do not here record it.
            
            
               XXVIII.
               WE have long lost sight of the convent and the royal spirit within its walls, the
                  godly Sister Theresa.
               She has pursued, since we last saw her, the "even tenor of her way;" but not
                  entirely at peace. No longer sought by her former pupil, who has found, she
                  dreams, her sphere, and it excludes all human teachers—she has wondered at it and
                  been troubled thereat.
               Miss Mar and Father Francis have held another conversation, having Stella for the
                  theme, and the Father, recollecting the nun's influence over her when she was a
                  pupil in the convent, gives to the nun some ghostly counsel which she, for her
                  part, gladly heeds, and in accordance with the suggestion, we find Theresa seeking
                  Stella in her home.
               To the door of the chamber where the student seems bent on exhausting her life in pursuit of
                  knowledge, Miss Mar conducts this saintly and beloved visitor, and opening the
                  door-in response to the knocking, Stella beholds the nun.
               "My child!" is the exclamation that escapes her lips. Word so gentle, spoken so
                  tenderly, Stella's heart opens wide to receive it. "My child!" who else has ever
                  called her so? from whom beside could she endure to hear that word? Wide opens
                  Stella Cammon's heart to receive her. Too glad for smiles, joy trembles like tears
                  in her eyes.
               "Oh, mother, you have been so long away!"
               "Nay—still in the convent, my daughter. Only there. Is it not you who have
                  forgotten me? And I must come seeking Stella for very fear's sake. I feared—yes, I
                  did fear the world had won her. But in truth, this looks not like it," said the
                  nun, glancing about her from the comfortable study-chair to which Stella led her,
                  and from the books that crowded the place, and the papers on the table, to the
                  face bright with another spirit from any she had ever seen there, now turned
                  towards her.
               "The world!" repeated Stella, slowly; "did you indeed believe it?"
               "How should I know? I feared."
               "But now you do not fear?"
               "Not now," said the nun, in a voice less placid, less subdued, but not less loving
                  than that which spoke the preceding words.
               "Do you fear anything?" asked Stella, for the voice seemed to call forth the
                  question.
               "I would not have you perish for a false ambition's sake."
               "I shall not, mother. Ambition! I have none."
               "But what has wrought this change? I though not this of you... May I—" she took
                  from the table a volume ume, but her eyes did not turn to scan its contents, nor
                  did they glance at its title until Stella's consent came.
               "There is nothing that I would hide from your dear eyes... I learned the lesson
                  that serves me so well down by the sea, mother. You need not caution me now, nor
                  fear for me. I shall never go into a convent."
               "The sea taught it you? Nature is a blessed, holy-hearted friend. You have then
                  been down to the sea, child?"
               "And heard the waves roar as when I was indeed a child, and seen them battle, and
                  break, and fly in confusion; and watched the clouds, and walked on the sand; and
                  heard a man's voice speaking wise things to me—it would have rejoiced you to hear
                  them. He gave me knowledge such as neither the Church nor the world ever
                  gave."
               "A man's voice, Stella? He gave you to freedom, that man?"
               "Yes—that freedom, the way for which you prepared. See, if you will behold him! I
                  failed in making a good drawing, still 'tis not unlike him. This is he. I want you
                  to look at it. Is it not the face of a wise man? no overgrown boy—or over-fed
                  collegiate; see."
               In her hands took the nun that portrait. "And this is he?" she said. "The man that
                  taught you."
               She put back her veil still further from her face as she spoke, that she might the
                  better look at the rude sketch.
               "An old man—how old he looks," she said.
               "Oh no, not old; but worn, tired, gray with much thinking. I have a little friend
                  who is going to make a painting of it—she has promised me. I shall describe him to
                  her; when it is done you shall see it, if it satisfies me."
               "And wherefore have it done? does not this sketch satisfy you?"
               
               "Oh, this? it is merely an outline—I want a portrait to hang on my wall."
               "And he was kind to you? He gave you freedom, you say? That is a great gift... Was
                  that his posture, that bent, thoughtful attitude? I judge so—it is so peculiar, as
                  the whole expression is. What was he doing there by the sea, where you found
                  him?"
               "He was a student, and living a little while in an old mill. He had his books with
                  him, and wrote a great deal, I believe."
               "But it seems strange, does it not, dear Stella, that he should have thought of
                  advising you as I conclude he did; you, so young and full of spirits, to shut
                  yourself up in the way that he was doing. Did he seem so very happy in his
                  isolation? Was that the reason that he urged you on the same course?"
               Stella did not at once reply. But her confidence in the nun triumphed over her
                  momentary hesitation. "I asked him to advise me, and he did," she said.
               "As a brother might do."
               "In even a better way. As if he had been my father.
               He wished me to be free... And I am."
               "Glad am I to hear that, dear child. To hear it from your lips!"
               "You do not blame me, then. You have no more to say about the Church?"
               "Nothing, dear child."
               "Mr. Layard will go into the Church, you know?"
               "Yes—and that also is good."
               "You are not well—you are pale, dear mother! Oh, I wish that you—were—free!"
               "My daughter, there is no living thing more free than I. Am I pale? I am not
                  ill."
               "But the school tires you. I know it must. Oh, if we—you and I—could go away into
                  some solitude and live together, I believe I should grow better—and so would you.
                  This convent is not your place—and this city is not mine."
               "Are you not well?" quickly asked the nun.
               "Oh, yes... yes... Look around you—does not this room assure you of it?"
               "Truly—yes. Like activity, which nothing but perfect health would allow... But
                  what, Stella, what is to be the end of all this?"
               "I shall expect to be very wise some time—I shall have knowledge," said Stella,
                  lightly, yet not with perfect freedom. There was something constrained, something
                  wanting in that smile.
               "Is knowledge everything?" the nun asked seriously.
               "Yes—surely," was the instant and firm response.
               "What, then, is to become of those who are dead, if not to know is to be dead?
                  Come with me, child; I will lead you out to see what is, and what is done under
                  heaven—to a confessional where God alone will hear what your heart shall say."
               Stella started, hearing that great name. She repeated it after the nun, as if
                  something forgotten were recalled. She half stood up, then resolutely sat
                  again.
               The nun comprehended the indecision of the movement—and its decision also.
               "Did he teach you this?" she said, with sad earnestness.
               "He taught me to seek knowledge."
               "Where, and how? of God through all sights, and thoughts, and feelings? Is there
                  knowledge more excellent than this?—any beside this worth the name?"
               "He taught me to ascertain that which can be known."
               The nun reflected a moment—it was apparent that what Stella had said deeply
                  troubled her.
               
               "He is a wise man," she said. "I will help you to obey his bidding, and him in his
                  teaching. Get your bonnet, and walk with me once more. In the fresh air we shall
                  think more freely. Come, my child—come, Stella.
               Her soft hands, as she spoke, smoothed the shining hair of the half-averted head
                  that but now had fondly leaned upon her bosom.
               "You did not tell me your new teacher's name," she said. "I ought to know, since
                  he has taken my pupil away from me."
               "Away from you!" the warm, impulsive heart was stirred again, and to its depths.
                  She threw her arms around the nun's neck and kissed her.
               "I saw his name written in one of Susan's books—Mark Leighton—that was the name I
                  called him; Leighton."
               "Mark Leighton," slowly the nun repeated. "'Tis a good name, a noble name. It
                  belongs to a learned professor, did you not know it? He deserves a place at the
                  head of the first college in the land—but he will never have it."
               A thought flashed bright and warm through Stella Cammon's mind. Under pretence of
                  making ready for the walk, she turned quickly away from the inquiring gaze of
                  Sister Theresa.
               Was not the college of St. John's about to lose its president?...
            
            
               XXIX.
               DOWN the street, beyond the pale of civilization, the veiled women went together.
                  Quite beyond the splendid shops, and the market places where souls and principles
                  are the very cheapest things on sale, through the magnificent nificent portals
                  that led down to the depths of stagnant degradation.
               It was a shadowy, sweet day; bright at rare intervals with sunshine. The sky was
                  beautiful with clouds that floated like great mountainous islands, half hid in
                  snows, through vast blue seas of space.
               The streets were full of people. Lounging men, with nerves that shook as if with
                  palsy—and idle laborers; gaudy ladies—in full dress—and ragged beggars; men and
                  women, the offscouring of heathendom (there in the heart of St. John's!)
                  scavengers and cartmen—drays and chariots—servants in livery, and foul fiends in
                  disguise—solemn visaged, magnificent in bearing, furbelowed with finery, bestial
                  in the truth that shone out lurid and fearful through inefficient imitations of
                  decency and virtue.
               Without a shudder these veiled women, the nun and Stella, went. Their eyes had
                  become accustomed to such scenes as these; and more startingly, though not more
                  faithfully, must they present themselves, if they would be appreciated. Something
                  of this truth, also, the elder woman understood, or she would not have led her
                  companion in that path that day.
               Oh the foul, foul air, floating through those narrow, unsafe streets! The ruin of
                  those decaying buildings, tottering from their foundations—apparently about to
                  bury the more awful human ruins that within them sought a shelter, in the dark
                  finality of their fate! Wrath and strife, hunger, nakedness, disease,
                  profanity—the brood of Hell was there. Little children that were born, the mark
                  was visible upon them, spite of golden hair, red cheeks, and childhood's eyes,
                  imps of Satan, to do his evil work.
               Young womanhood with infancy upon her breast, borne in maternal arms, as you were
                  borne in the enfolding love of your own mother, reader. But what young womanhood, what infancy was this! Oh
                  desecrated temples which to the Holy Ghost might have been consecrated, for so,
                  surely so, the Builder meant—oh infancy! "Heir of the Universe," what has brought
                  you here to breathe this air, to live this death, to tread through this "perpetual
                  desolation"!
               Men in the prime of life, bloated, decrepit—the fires of passion raging in their
                  breasts—their scathing tokens on every limb and lineament—old men tottering about,
                  reeking with oaths, hoary with iniquity, what, who are these? Pilgrims of the Holy
                  Place, the New Jerusalem?—sons and daughters of the Lord Almighty?
               You start back in a blushing consternation, you that "live delicately,"and wear
                  the raiment of princes—for whither have I led you? only to the city's heart, only
                  to this avenue through which its life-blood passes. The lisping courtier by your
                  side, who this day unrebuked smiles his oaths in your hearing, and sips daintily
                  the bright cup of corruptions in which he has dissolved the Pearl of Price, you
                  that go hand in hand with him along the "slippery places" of the great proud city,
                  shining in the splendor of your apparelling, no soul to save in your keeping, no
                  throbbing, aching, pitying, holy heart, in your hollow breast, no true thought in
                  your brain, will you, lady, and will he go with these women in the paths they walk
                  today?
               Through these streets and lanes, the nun led Stella Cammon.
               At length they came to a square bit of ground that once had been enclosed, but the
                  fence had fallen into ruin, and no token was left of the grass that in other years
                  had flourished there. Around this square were blocks of houses built of brick;
                  these, also, were in a dilapidated condition—they spoke fearful things concerning
                  the life that swarmed within them.
               In the square, evidently to the nun's surprise as well as Stella's, a large
                  company of people had gathered together; they were listening to a speaker who
                  stood slightly elevated above the crowd; he was preaching to them. Up to the verge
                  of this human sea, the two women approached, and with the rest they stood to
                  listen; and Stella recognized the speaker's face—it was the face of Mr.
                  Falcon.
               As they drew near he was closing the book from which he had been reading; looking
                  about him with a friendly, yet commanding glance, he began to speak, in a voice
                  that penetrated through every portion of the assembly.
               "Men and women, brothers and sisters, little children, all of you, good friends, I
                  called this meeting here at this time, that you and I might celebrate, down here,
                  a day which many Christians keep in remembrance of the death of Jesus Christ, the
                  Righteous. That we might think upon him, and get some good by the thinking... We
                  have our Fourth of July—and a great day we make of it, with our speeches, and
                  cannon, and bonfires, and whiskey. We keep that day in remembrance of our national
                  struggle for liberty; in honor of the men who fought for us. This day we ought to
                  keep with a few more smiles, and a few more tears, and a great many more thoughts
                  than we give to other days, in memory of the man who died for us. For us, I say.
                  Do you think those men who fought for American independence fought only for the
                  few people who were in the country at that time? I tell you they fought for us;
                  for you Irish, and German, and English people, and we Americans, for everybody who
                  should live in this great wide country in all future time. They fought for all
                  nations, and all time—to make the country great and free, so that whosoever should
                  come into it after they were dead and gone, should be also free, and have as good
                  a chance of becoming coming great, I
                  mean wise and happy by that, as they had after the battles were all fought; and
                  the land was full of peace and liberty. Just so we speak of the death of Jesus
                  Christ: it was for us, as well as for those Jews and Gentiles who were His
                  neighbors and friends and enemies in Judea, and round about, there. So, though we
                  have no cannon-firing, rum-drinking, speech-making, and general glorification
                  to-day, let us have some praying—some quiet joy and thankfulness—and a great deal
                  more loving than we have had in the days along back. But do any of you ask, "why?"
                  again. I have read to you from the Scriptures that Jesus Christ died that we might
                  live. Now that means something. And you do not get all the meaning at first
                  hearing the words. You know not what it means unless you think about it. So let us
                  think about it.
               "What amazing good thing was in this man's dying for us, that the Scriptures
                  should be full of it? What need was there of His dying? Men hated Him—do you know
                  what that means, for-wicked men to hate a good man?
               "They hated Him so bitterly, that unless He went away, beyond their reach, they
                  would be sure to kill Him. They knew how to murder in those days as well as now.
                  They were used to such things. Now, if He had desired to escape from those people
                  He could have done so. But He stayed, and He was crucified. He let those
                  hardhearted men who hated Him, and those insulting women and children, they all
                  had a hand in it, He let them kill him. Why? He had a lesson to teach them, which
                  they would never learn unless He put it into such a shape as they could not help
                  seeing and learning. He loved them—and by them, I mean us, and everybody that
                  lives, or ever did live, so well, so greatly, so much beyond any love you feel for
                  the dearest of your little children you mothers and fathers here, that He was
                  willing to die. But how was His death going to help them? He died to save them.
                  From what could His death save them? He died that we might live, the good book
                  says. Now, what is it to live? Listen, this is eternal life, to know the only
                  living and true God, and Jesus Christ, whom He has sent... Therefore Christ died
                  that we might know him. Are you living all of you? then you know him. Now think of
                  this a moment. Perhaps some of you are wondering how it can all be.
               "Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ? then you serve Him! Do you serve Him? then of
                  course you love Him! Do you love Him whom you have not seen? then you love all
                  around you whom you have seen! Oh, think of this! think of it every one of you. Do
                  you love all around you? then you are kind, you are patient, you help each other
                  in all good works—you are alive—but if you do none of these things you are dead!
                  dead! And who, who can bring the dead back to life! Can any of you do it? Oh, my
                  friends, hear again the word of Jesus Christ. I am the Way, and the Truth, and the
                  Life!... He who is Life can make you alive, and there is none other that can do
                  it. He said so himself, and did any one, did ever one of you find out that He said
                  anything but the truth? Now, my dear brothers and sisters, just let me ask you, do
                  you think that you are alive? God knows I hope that some among you are. And I
                  believe that some of you are. But I know that some others of you are dead. I have
                  seen angry looks in your faces—you speak bitter words to each other; is it not so?
                  is there no drinking, no contending, no fighting, no swearing, no lying, no
                  stealing going on down here? Do you all love each other? are you all trying to
                  help each other by kind words, and friendly acts? You men, brothers! are you
                  working in order to secure comfortable homes for your wives and little children,
                  who are going to be men and women some
                  day? Are you laying up money from your earnings to educate the children? You
                  women—sisters, are you making your homes comfortable for your husbands and those
                  little ones? Do you teach your children to fear God, and to do good? Boys and
                  girls, what are you all doing? What is to become of you? That is what I want you
                  all to think of on this day. What are you all doing? where are you all going?
               "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and thy neighbor as thyself.
                  Do you hear that? If you obeyed it, my friends, would you be in such a plight as
                  you are in now? dressed in rags—living by beggary, or theft, or some worse thing?
                  Think of it, this book says you are God's temple, you are God's building! Now tell
                  me, is there a man, woman, or child here, who would go into God's temple to
                  pollute it? And are you willing that any evil thing should come into your heart,
                  which God is willing to own for his temple? Wouldn't you wonder at the thief who
                  could rob the house of God, or the man who could commit murder there? And will you
                  let in evil thoughts to your hearts to rob them of all that is good and precious
                  in them—and to commit murder there? Yes, I say it again, to commit murder there.
                  Have you, mothers, ever had a sweet thought in your heart, a precious and
                  beautiful hope, and did you give way to any temptation to sin, so that the hope
                  all at once disappeared, and you could think the sweet thought no more? Then you
                  have been guilty of murder. Yes! I declare it, though no blood is on your hands,
                  and no man seeks to imprison you. You have committed murder.
               "What man who loves his neighbor as he loves himself will not be kind and
                  tender-hearted, patient and forgiving? Not quick to take offence. Christ, your
                  master, bids you be slow to wrath. He went about doing good. He healed the sick
                  and fed the hungry; when there was a multitude together, a far greater multitude
                  than is here today, and they had nothing to eat, He fed them. A little basket,
                  which any of you children could carry on your arm, you would not believe that it
                  could hold enough for five thousand people; but He could have fed all the world
                  from it, just as easy as that crowd around him. Are any of you hungry and sick?
                  will you be fed? will you be well again? and cannot He who did all these great
                  things do them again? Try Him, and see. He rose from the grave, to show us that He
                  was alive for evermore. We cannot see Him, it is true, but we can see His work;
                  lead holy lives, and you will see in each other what a great and beautiful work it
                  is. Let the man or woman speak out who thinks that we cannot love Christ Jesus;
                  who of you believes that He does not love us?"
               He paused, and looked around him—no one answered, but every eye was bent upon the
                  speaker; 'twas not because they did not hear, and were not following his words,
                  that no voice responded. And Mr. Falcon, perceiving this, went on:
               "Oh, God came down from heaven just for this, to be our guide, to help to deliver
                  ourselves from ourselves. If any one of you are grieved on account of any evil or
                  unfortunate thing you have done, you may be sure you can do better. Sure that
                  Christ sees you, and is ready to help you the very instant you ask Him. How can
                  you bring yourselves to Him? You, fathers and mothers, and boys and girls, do you
                  ask how you can do that? Why, just in this way. Do what He has commanded—love and
                  serve Him. And how are you to do that? Love your fellow men and women, as I
                  said—be honest. There are better things that you can be about, my sisters, than
                  hunting for fine clothes to put upon your bodies. Where fore spend your thoughts and wishes on trash and
                  rags? The Scriptures, which give the right name to everything, and never make a
                  mistake or a blunder, as we often do when we do our very best, they call these
                  bodies of ours frames. Frames? Well, now, hear me. I have noticed in some of your
                  shops a good many of these things, frames, hanging up about the walls, and
                  sometimes I have stopped to look at the pictures inside of them. And I tell you,
                  the more gilt there is on the frames, the more ornament and trumpery, the worse,
                  when the picture is not worth anything. Fine clothes are not going to save you;
                  they will do you no good. If your picture, and by that I mean your heart, is a bad
                  one, then it is none the better for having on a fine frame. I tell you, look to
                  the picture! Let it not be one—I have seen too many such down here, and in other
                  places beside—don't let it be one that a good man's eye, or a pure, modest woman's
                  eye, would blush to look at, and be afraid to look at... Things are not going to
                  stand still in this world; they never have, and they never will till all is
                  finished. Time keeps going on, and the world goes on, and people go on. Somehow or
                  other, for better or worse, everything is getting along. But there will be a stop
                  put to us all after awhile; these hearts beating in our breasts will run down and
                  stop, and nothing can set them agoing again. You cannot do it, nor I, nor any man.
                  But God can. And if we keep false time here, we shall keep false time forever.
                  These pictures will be finished before long. These souls of ours, I mean. They
                  will all be finished; and what if the eye that cannot be deceived looks at them—at
                  them, not at the poor frame we tried to make so fine, and says, 'This picture,
                  this soul, is good for nothing but to be burned.'
               "Oh, no! let it not be that He shall say that to any one of us. Put on Christ, and
                  do not mind so much about the gay dress and pretty ribbon, the ear-rings and
                  finger-rings. Put on Christ, I say—and by that I mean, be like Him; be meek, be
                  pure, be holy, for Christ was all this—and work, for He worked—and hope, for He
                  hoped—and remember that you are to live forever if you are living now in peace,
                  like good Christians.
               "Root up, then—oh, make haste about it!—root up from the garden of your hearts all
                  weeds of vice; be clean, be honest. Drink no more, curse no more. When you speak
                  the name of our dear Saviour, let it be in solemn prayer to Him, for it grieves
                  Him when you take up that name in a passion, or in jest, and knock it about
                  amongst angry looks and words, or in your sport, like a common foot-ball... Let us
                  pray... But—first, let me say to you, fathers and mothers, and children, when our
                  prayer to God is ended, I will talk with those of you who will remain about
                  getting up a school here for the boys and girls. Why should we not have our
                  school, and learn to read and write? but we will talk of that."
               Here Mr. Falcon ceased speaking to the people, and lifting his face heavenward, he
                  prayed.
               The nun took Stella's arm in silence, and drew back a few paces; when the prayer
                  was ended, they alone went from the place.
               In silence they returned into the street, where hourly falls the seed that grows
                  up into fruit as poisonous and loathsome as that which, decaying, heap upon heap,
                  lies down there in the City's Heart, waiting the breaking of the judgment cloud,
                  or the patient working-hand of the God-fearing Reformer.
               "If he could make his work the fashion," said Stella, as, for a moment, she stayed
                  the nun's step, and significantly pointed to the new lace-store which that morning
                  was opened, already thronged with fair purchasers who carried in their purses and
                  upon their persons, tokens of the madness ness of their folly as condemning as the thirty pieces of the apostolic
                  treasurer. This was the establishment to which, in one column of his paper, an
                  editor had that day called, with all the graces of his rhetoric, (a preacher
                  be-puffing a millinery warehouse!) the attention of all women; while, in another
                  column, he made to God and the nation amende honorable, for treacherous betrayals
                  of his place, by commending a foreign critic's amazed denunciation of the ruinous
                  extravagance of the women of America.
               And they flitted in and out; and the world went rushing on; for the churches were
                  closed again, the crucifixion celebrated. And the ministers preached, and the
                  editors preached, and here, in this thoroughfare, was the congregation!
               And among them, for a moment, stood Stella Cammon, gazing upon the crowd of faces,
                  recognizing, here and there, the countenances of those she knew, and thinking of
                  the other forms and faces she had that day beheld. Shuddering, she, for an
                  instant, closed her eyes; her brain ached with the heaviness of the thought that
                  pressed along it, leaving the ineffacable token of its progress. And drawing
                  nearer to the nun, she urged her on with quickening step, till they came to the
                  door of the convent, when she let fall the arm to which she clung, and went her
                  way alone without a word. She had no desire to enter there and so escape all that
                  she had seen that day. She went on homeward, not thinking of the "finite" and
                  "conditioned" so much, oh reader, as of the Infinite and absolute—for unto whom,
                  beside this Unconditioned One, could she go, surrounded, 
                     stiffled
                     stifled
                  , as she was by this death that she had looked upon?
            
            
               XXX.
               SUSAN was recovering from the exposure and anguish of her night-watch, and never
                  was the convalescence of an invalid more eagerly looked for than hers had been.
                  Every member of the house had looked and longed for it, and one among them had
                  done more than look and long.
               During the first weeks of her residence at the Hall, while she was yet slowly
                  regaining her strength, Clarence came to her one morning—it was not his first
                  visit, by many, to her room—he brought a letter to her. The autumn sun was
                  streaming through the large and elegantly-draped window; the curtains were
                  half-drawn, there was a pleasant shadow in the room, and deep silence; while
                  without, there seemed only quiet and peace in the world: no storms raging, none
                  gathering; but when she looked on the inscription of the letter, a torrent of
                  tears burst from Susan's eyes; in her soul there was a tempest.
               It was from Mr. Leighton, and as follows:
               "Exceedingly do I regret, dear Susan, that my departure from the beach occurred so
                  early in the season. For one reason I deeply deplore that I did so. I would, I
                  should have been with you in the days that are gone. How you have borne your
                  sorrows I believe I know. But at such a time I would have chosen to stand by you.
                  Sorely will you feel your loss. It will meet you often. Your father was so strong
                  a man, and you relied on him so much. His integrity was not surpassed—his virtue
                  was impregnable. A man more truly honest, honorable, upright, I have not known. Be
                  proud that such a man was your father. His affections—but of these I may not
                  speak. They were yours.
               
               "But I know how well he loved you. I bear in mind your present loneliness. You
                  have gone to live, to learn life with your father's friend, but that fact does not
                  cover your loss.
               "Had I been with you at the beach I should have had some words to say to you,
                  which in effect would have been, Come and live with me. My habitation is small,
                  but large enough for two—it shall be yours. I should have said, Come, and be my
                  daughter. And what I must have said then, I repeat now. But I know not that there
                  is a need for saying it. I cannot offer you what you find where you now are. But
                  my home is at all times open to you. You are free at any time to share whatever of
                  treasure it may have.
               "I have no worldly riches with which to endow you—but you shall never want. This I
                  know will not seem to you a very brilliant prospect, but I would guide you as a
                  father should, and care for you.
               "I have been indulging in a sweet vision to-day. I see you in this quiet study,
                  the table between us. My little maiden is like genial sun-heat and fresh flowers
                  in the room, which, without her, is somewhat dismal and chill. It is a presence
                  that enlarges and hallows my toil. Her voice breaks on the silence, and even when
                  the room is still, it seems full of melody. And I hear the students saying among
                  themselves, 'What ails the professor, he has grown so wise?' and another answers,
                  'He is happy—poor old fellow!'
               "But I would in nothing deceive you, Susan. I would neither enliven nor deaden the
                  prospect. I should make but a dull painter. I live in lodgings—I have no house—my
                  professorship is next to nothing; but enough for myself, and for you too, for long
                  ago I renounced what people call the luxuries of life. I can only invite you to a
                  poor man's table. The vessels that sail around the world collecting wonderful and
                  valuable treasure, never land their cargo at my door... Most of the windows in my
                  room are closed to make room for my shelves of books—my library, in short, is the
                  sum of my riches; and these books you may share with me. But sometimes, for I must
                  not slander my fortune, the sun shines in upon my table from between the roofs of
                  high brick buildings—we might coax violets to grow here, for they love the
                  shade... Six of my hours every day are spent in the college. In the evening, when
                  I do not lecture, I study.
               "This is unlike the prospect before you, where you now are. You understand the
                  fact so well that I need not draw the lines of difference. I mean you well,
                  Susan—my best. But, if better things await you elsewhere, receive them. I love you
                  too well, I hope for you too sincerely, to wish to bias or thwart your fortune.
                  Write to me."
               And then followed his name and address.
               When she had read this letter, which she did twice over before she removed her
                  eyes from the paper, forgetful of the presence of Clarence, Susan still sat
                  thinking over its contents, and saying to herself that she would get Mr. Falcon to
                  go for Stella Cammon that she might advise with her about the letter: for Susan
                  had by no means come to a conclusion yet.
               Her meditation was disturbed by the rustling of a paper. Clarence was advancing
                  towards her. In his hand he held an oblong box, from which, when he had removed a
                  number of tissue wrappings, he drew forth a rosary, and advancing towards Susan
                  with ill-concealed delight, he placed it round her neck; and then, retreating a
                  step, he bent down upon the floor as a penitent petitioning before a shrine.
               Incapable of understanding, or of guessing the meaning ing of all this, Susan recoiled in consternation
                  that was plainly manifest.
               "Oh no, Clarence, you must not," she said at length, for he continued kneeling
                  with closed eyes and uplifted hands, and a confused recollection of the pictures
                  of savages bowing before idols in the book of travels Tom gave her as his parting
                  gift, occurred to her.
               "You kneel," said he; "I saw you."
               "Yes—to God," answered Susan, grieved and 
                     distresssed
                     distressed
                  ; "but you, really Clarence, you must get up. You must stand up like a
                  man."
               "Do only women kneel?"
               "Oh yes, to be sure; I hope so," she replied quickly.
               This seemed to assure him. He half rose, but not wholly.
               "Do you get what you pray for, Susy?"
               "I hope so—oh I don't know. You must not talk about it, Clarence; and do please
                  get up!"
               But in spite of her distress, Clarence continued kneeling, his arms folded on his
                  breast, and his eyes closed, praying evidently, as he understood it.
               "When shall I get it?" said he, looking up again.
               "Oh, Clarence—you are all wrong! This is not the way. It may not come in a hundred
                  years, and perhaps never—never, I should think with your kneeling down to me!"
               "I will tell you what I prayed for," he said, now rising. "I prayed that David
                  might never come back. He said he should to-morrow—he has only gone off fishing. I
                  saw you in the colonnade with him yesterday. What was it you were doing?"
               Susan recalled that brief walk, and the conversation that had then taken place
                  between herself and David—a painful blush appeared upon her pale face, which did
                  not vanish when she saw how eagerly Clarence waited for her answer.
               "I was talking with him—with your brother, Clarence," she said.
               "Yes, I know you were. But what did you talk about?" he asked, with strange
                  impetuosity.
               "About you, mostly, Clarence."
               "Yes, yes, but I saw him—saw him do something besides talk. I saw him... "
               "I am glad you did!" exclaimed Susan, with rather desperate haste. "I'm glad you
                  saw him kiss me; because now you will know how much David loves you, and how wrong
                  it was for you to speak so about him."
               "What had it to do with me?" said Clarence, looking at Susan much as though he
                  suspected her of an attempt to deceive him.
               "You had all to do with it," answered Susan, quickly, agitated and alarmed, for
                  his mood was strange, and her own thoughts seemed new and strange now as she
                  thought them, and she was full of fear. "He kissed me, because—because he said
                  that you and I were to be such good friends, and for nothing, nothing else."
               "Is it so?... You and I are going to do everything together, did you know it? they
                  all say so. And I have been talking to my father about it. You are to stay here
                  always with me; you are never, never going away—" Susan started back, as if in
                  rejection of the chain thus exhibited—she thought of Mr. Leighton's letter—was
                  ready to fly to him. "There was never anybody in the world till you came. And when
                  I saw you," he continued, speaking now in his usual gentle tone, and quiet manner,
                  "you know how it was. It was more here than here," laying his hand rapidly on his
                  heart and his head, "that I felt you. But now I have everything. There is such a
                  crowd about me, and I love everything—only I felt so unhappy—yes, I did! about
                  David. I was glad when he went. I hoped
                  he never would come back... You never kissed me, Susan."
               "And I never kissed him, either," said Susan, warmly.
               "Not him? oh, yes, I remember. It was not your fault, after all. And he only did
                  it on my account, you say. Because you and I were such good friends. Yes, to be
                  sure! I did not know he was so fond of me. But he is, you say—and they all are, I
                  suppose. But they never tell me so—they tell you. You are everybody. I believe I
                  have my prayer answered. Keep that for me," he gave her the rosary which she had
                  removed from her neck and returned to him. "And when I want you to wear it, you
                  will, will you, Susy?
               How could she resist the pleading of that voice—Susan took the rosary.
               "But when you pray," said she, "pray to God, Clarence."
               "I did—with all my might. I prayed here, Susy," with child-like eagerness and
                  simplicity, he laid his hand on his forehead—"and will you go to church with me
                  every day?"
               "Where, Clarence?"
               "Here."
               "Clarence, tell me who you were praying to?"
               "You," he replied, promptly, as if surprised that she did not already understand
                  it.
               "Hush—do not say so! I do not know a single thing you thought. I cannot see into
                  your mind—I cannot know what you think, unless you tell me. Don't say such
                  things," pleaded Susan.
               "Where is He?" asked Clarence, as if disappointed, and unbelieving.
               "Here," Susan laid her hand upon her heart, her eyes lifted toward heaven—he was
                  watchful only of the former movement.
               "Yes, I know it!" he smiled, triumphant.
               "And here, too," Susan laid her hand on his breast—he caught and held it— "and
                  there," she pointed with her freed hand to the world without—"everywhere!"
               "Yes," said Clarence, gravely, bowing his assent, "I know it. I will pray to Him."
                  But he seemed now confirmed in his opinion rather than in the reception of any new
                  idea.
               "Our Creator he is, you know; He made us," said Susan.
               "Yes, you—He made you, you made me. You made me here and here," pointing again
                  rapidly from heart to head. "I felt not anything. I knew not anything till I came
                  to you. You made me. They all say so. I hear them talking about it—everybody."
               "That makes me wretched—it is so wicked for you to talk such things," said Susan,
                  not knowing what to say.
               "Is it, Susy, wicked?"
               "Yes... and I am so very tired, Clarence."
               "Are you?" he started up. "Then I will go... But where shall I go, Susy? I am all
                  alone when I go from here. There's no one in the house... "
               "Oh, yes—down in the drawing-room—you will find them all there—Isidore, your
                  sister, and—"
               "Isidore—there's no one! There was nobody in this great house, as big as all the
                  world, and nobody in it, till you came. Don't scold me; it's true. I have them all
                  when you are there... But, oh! it's so—so dark without you, and cold... I was
                  dead!" said he, smiting his breast, "but you came... What is it you have done,
                  Susy? tell me," he laid his hand on Susan's arm, and looked bewildered and
                  doubting into her face. "Do I look as I used to look? I forget about it, myself I
                  mean. What was I?"
               "Oh, Clarence, I have done nothing," said Susan, with difficulty speaking, so
                  oppressed, and excited, and troubled
                  was she; "you were what you are always, Clarence, and everybody loved you."
               "Everybody!" he looked at her with so wise and bright a glance as he repeated that
                  word that her own eyes drooped, as they might have done before the glance of
                  David:—so joyously that the look went like a wound through her heart. "Are you so
                  tired, Susy? Let me get you a glass of wine. But do not send me away. Lie down,
                  and I will watch here while you sleep, and no one shall disturb you. Do not make
                  me go; for then I begin to wonder, and wonder, till I cannot tell whether I am I,
                  or there is any Susy in the house till I come up again, and stand by your door,
                  and somebody comes to tell me you are there. You said that everybody loves me,
                  Susy; do you always speak the truth? Do you love me?"
               And there he sat, and talked and talked, and the moments dragged "their slow
                  length along," and it seemed to Susan—though she could but dimly suspect it, for
                  the fear did not take the form of a complete thought in her mind, but, instead,
                  haunted her with a vague sense and foreboding of misery—that, in proportion to the
                  influx of life into the brain of Clarence, there was an outgoing of vitality from
                  the blood that ran along her veins.
            
            
               XXXI.
               A FEW hours later, with the twilight, Mr. Falcon came into Susan's room; he came
                  with cheerful chat and soothing words, and an exhaustless store of them. Now it
                  may be thought that, for one so desolate as Susan, for one so occupied with
                  troubled reflections and doubts, and indecisions, this peaceful and generous
                  nature was the one, of all others, into contact with which she should come.
               And she did look and long for him, and for no other person in the house. When
                  Isidore came, she brought no satisfaction with her; she was so restless, so
                  absorbed in her own plans, and notions, and engagements; she knew so little what
                  word to say, of all the words of wisdom that might fitly have been spoken there,
                  that by no chance did she ever fall upon the right one. Her consolations were not
                  consoling. Her sympathies were mere lifeless, parrotic speeches, repeated like a
                  lesson so many times a day. But she was a fine thing to look at, and Susan's eyes
                  never tired of that occupation, for Isidore's magnificence was a ceaseless
                  astonishment to her untutored sight; but when Isidore was gone again—invariably it
                  was so—the eyes that had been so dazzled ached, and the heart of the child turned
                  back and looked at itself, and was lonelier than before. No one beside Mr. Falcon,
                  there, could speak the words that young human heart pined to hear. Mr. Baldwin was
                  considerate in his way; he carried Susan about in his arms from one part of the
                  house to another, before she had strength to walk, and he talked much to her, and
                  kindly; but the talk was so often of Clarence, so rarely of anything beside; and
                  frequently he said strange things, which she dared not, would not understand—how,
                  when Isidore was married, she, Susan, must be at the head of his house, and that
                  he must look up a husband for her, too; and with such words as these he always
                  brought the name of Clarence into close connection. And Clarence, before whom
                  these words were often said, evidently treasured them all in his heart, and
                  thought upon them much and long. Yet, while his father spoke such words, the youth
                  seemed to listen not with his own ear—the sound came to him through Susan's heart.
                  He did not receive and understand it altogether joyously. Fears he did not
                  comprehend, doubts he could not quite discover, came with the words, and troubled him; he saw no smiles in
                  Susan's face, such as would have folded those words of his father in the glory of
                  an ascertained assurance. He was restless, unhappy; and, as yet, he knew not
                  why.
               While Susan waited, and longed for Mr. Falcon, she was like a house divided
                  against itself. She listened for his step in the hall, hoping, yet dreading, to
                  hear it. She shrunk from the thought of revealing to him all that had passed
                  through her mind since she last saw him. Not that she was fearful of revealing it
                  in speech; but, if he had Mr. Leighton's sight, he would not fail to discover how
                  much, and even wherefore, she was troubled—that she had undergone some evil
                  change—that David had walked with her yesterday in the colonnade, and that since
                  then the world had been growing darker and colder—darker, colder even than it was
                  on the night when she watched a boat that struggled with the storm, and went down
                  before her eyes into the deep sea, with her father.
               How was it possible that words, so kindly spoken as all David's were to her,
                  should only vex, and trouble, and grieve her? they had this sole result. Could he
                  find nothing but that theme, exhausted by the others, for the burden of his
                  speech? whichever way she turned, must it still be the image of Clarence that was
                  forced upon her sight?
               When Mr. Falcon came she would ask him, Susan said to herself, if an opportunity
                  presented, nay, whether there were opportunity or not, she would ask him what that
                  great change which had taken place in Clarence since she came to the Hall actually
                  meant and portended. He was certainly, as they all said, another being; his
                  listlessness and apathy were gone—he was alive again—he had full possession of his
                  reason—how changed his bearing and his conversation were!
               Everything around her, every event that happened there, however trivial,
                  concerning the family or herself, seemed now so portentous; she was lost in a
                  swift-rushing current, and knew not whither she was bound; she roused herself, but
                  was powerless, as if a spell were upon her—she could not cry aloud for help. And
                  yet help was now so near, even within her call. She held Mr. Leighton's letter in
                  her hand—could she not go to him?
               When Mr. Falcon came, these thoughts vanished like phantoms; a sense of security
                  took their place when his kindly face appeared again before her. Like a bird
                  caught out in a violent storm, she rushed into that genial presence for shelter.
                  Had he known the fear that pursued her, how would he have folded her in his
                  bosom—how effectually would he have soothed her!
               She did not tell him of the letter Mr. Leighton wrote—how it had come to her—and
                  what it was doing for her. The nearest approach she made to the discovery of the
                  fact was not to him significant; he saw nothing in the request she made that he
                  would ask Stella Cammon to come up to the Hall sometime to-morrow, and he attached
                  no peculiar significance to Susan's thanks, when he assured her that Stella should
                  have the message early in the morning.
               But, by-and-bye it happens, in their quiet twilight talk, that Clarence comes to
                  be the topic of their conversation; and Susan is saying—so naturally the question
                  drops from her lips, that the sound of it has a strange tone to her, and a strange
                  effect upon her, as if it had been supernaturally uttered:
               "Clarence is well again, Mr. Falcon."
               "Yes, Susan, almost well;" and he added, quick to take advantage of the
                  opportunity she gave him, "do you know, Susan, the good fairy who has wrought the
                  change?"
               Too honest was her heart for subterfuge. She chose rather to be silent than reply; but he asked her
                  again, and then she answered:
               "He says that I have done it, Mr. Falcon."
               "Yes! you are the fairy. You are his good angel. You have reason to feel proud,
                  Susan, or, at least, thankful."
               Susan answered nothing. She felt neither thankful nor proud of what she had done,
                  if anything she had done. But, on the contrary, in view of what was imputed to
                  her, very miserable.
               "But the work is not quite finished yet," said Mr. Falcon. "You have not forgotten
                  your books, I am sure—you were so fond of them. When you are strong enough, you
                  have but to say the word, and we three, Clarence, and you and I, will walk into
                  the library and go to work. Clarence must begin at the beginning, and with you to
                  help him on, we shall make rapid progress. See, now, what a work is before you!
                  And only think, Susan, that it should have been given you to do what no physician
                  on earth could have done; so, at least, I firmly believe. It must be a great joy
                  to you to be able to make so many people happy. You have given a son to Mr.
                  Baldwin, and a brother to David, and a man to the world. Why that thought alone
                  should bring back the color to your cheek, and make it brighter than it ever was.
                  I know not any one so worthy of congratulation as you."
               What reply could Susan make? Mr. Falcon was so sincere in everything he said, he
                  so evidently meant what he had spoken; it never entered his heart to imagine that
                  she could feel any emotion but the liveliest joy in view of all the change that
                  had been wrought in Clarence!
               Her voice would not help her to speak out her trouble—she found not a word to say.
                  Her fear now was that she should not be able to so guard her sense of calamity as
                  to have no suspicion of its existence roused in his mind; that he would see how
                  far she was from rejoicing in her involuntary work; how, in her heart, she wished
                  that she had never heard of St. John's, never come into contact with Clarence,
                  never seen one of these people; how even now she was proposing to her heart a
                  flight from the Hall and city, reckless of consequences; eager only to escape from
                  the work she had yet to do. The pity she had felt for Clarence was no longer
                  pity—was it dread? was it hate? aversion? what was it? She dared not scan too
                  closely the features of that new impulse and feeling.
               He called it her work! Mr. Falcon said that none but she could do it. That
                  Clarence, was growing into manhood, but the nourishment for the growth must be
                  given by her: she was his sunlight, his spring in the dry land, his atmosphere;
                  but for her this goodly prospect of growth would disappear—the budding strength
                  would wither, the life be pent again. He showed how vast the work was. That it was
                  no mere work of time and sense, for time and sense, eternity and spirit, were
                  involved in its issue. Her influence over him, Mr. Falcon said, reached further
                  than a mother's over her child. The impulses of Clarence were good, his nature
                  kind; she could give a man to humanity, a good man to a noble future.
               It was hers, hers alone, to direct him—to foster in him all that was best in his
                  nature; to open his eyes to life; to show him the good that could be done—the way
                  that he might do it. Every word he spoke suggested to Susan's mind a contrast—what
                  ideal man was he depicting? it was not a man like David; and half-angrily,
                  unbelieving, disquieted, the child resisted and fought in her soul; but the
                  speaker went on unaware, holding her in his firm grasp as he showed the path by
                  which, so his words said, she was to go.
               The quiet of the hour, the shadows in the room, the silence of the listener, the
                  greatness of the theme, as he regarded
                  it, led him on; resistless the tide of words went forth, until the child lay as
                  one buried beneath them.
               Falcon limited his prophetic vision not to time, I said. He showed Clarence to
                  her, not the active and laborious youth, but more than that: as a man triumphant,
                  who had fought the fight with the sure weapons she had given him—a man, bringing
                  in a harvest of great deeds rejoicing to the heavens!
               All was in her hands, again and again he repeated it. He talked not to her as to a
                  child. He had come prepared to say these things as to a thinking audience. He
                  threw upon Susan the responsibilities of womanhood. And with a two-fold purpose.
                  To arouse her from her grief, and despondency, and loneliness—to quicken her brain
                  with a great idea, and her heart with a large ambition; and for the sake of
                  Clarence as well—for he spoke the simple truth; with her, as he averred, did rest
                  the future manhood of this recovered youth.
               And as she listened to him, Susan trembled with the thought, with the
                  irresolution, the shame of the irresolution, and the anguish that divided her
                  heart. For, as he spoke, Mr. Falcon's words were attended with an instant
                  conviction in her soul—it was all truth that he said; before her was that for
                  which she must live! and should she shrink from this work, leave it at the point
                  where, for the first time, it would become a work with her?
               Solemnly she asked herself this question while the good man spoke; and after he
                  was gone, when she was left alone, before her mind uprose the future which Mr.
                  Falcon painted, and more than his hands sketched her eyes beheld, and she shrunk
                  back, and tried to shut the sight from her eyes; but to herself, and the eternal
                  spirits, who watch conflicts like these, she said at length: "Yes—it must be so—I
                  must stay—I must try."
               Well Susan knew, making the promise, all it would necessitate. Day after day she
                  must conduct that mysterious labor, stifled; awed and fearful—what was it she was
                  doing? and grow weak as he grew strong to compel destiny—give him of her life to
                  complete his... she could do it—if he would only not love her. She who so lived on
                  love! whose longing was for love! If he would not be content to sit hour after
                  hour looking into her face; if he would not talk to her, and tell her that she was
                  everything to him, and that the house had no one beside her for him; if he would
                  not hold her hand, as if he thus were making good his claim, and say with so
                  pleading a voice, "Do you see, Susy? Do you understand?" when his father would in
                  some way advert to the thought now constantly uppermost in his mind. But... she
                  was her own no longer. She never more could be.
               Mr. Falcon had not spoken as if her work were ever, while she lived, to have an
                  end. Did she then belong to Clarence? What strange robbery was this against which
                  she dared not make complaint? why should the thought of so poor, so worthless a
                  thing as her own life trouble her? What could David, so splendid, so mighty, what
                  could he ever be to her? He was only the brother of Clarence—he, like the rest,
                  cared only for her because Clarence, through her, was coming to life again.
               But she would not hold fast to this unwelcome belief—though she remembered the
                  strange fancies and speculation into which Stella's visit had thrown her a few
                  days after she had come again to St. John's for a home... when David and Stella
                  talked together to interest and beguile the suffering child; how the picture their
                  beauty made lingered in memory! though this fact of their conversation, and these
                  fancies that grew out of it, she remembered, and said again, as often before, that
                  David might well love one like Stella Cammon; still the fact and vision, and the
                  duty that sternly waited for her now, could not prevent the dream of the beach from also
                  returning—and the golden gate of that dream had no bolt nor bar that she should
                  not go in—but, having entered, she slept on a bed of thorns.
               And yet, the next morning as she rose, and for the first time since her illness,
                  dressed herself without assistance, and went out into the hall, she was saying in
                  one form or another continually to herself, "If Stella comes to-day, I'll not ask
                  a word about Mr. Leighton. I must stay here and be useful, as Mr. Falcon said.
                  Stella shall know nothing of the letter."
            
            
               XXXII.
               THAT was a marvellous influx of life in which the Chilton's were now rejoicing;
                  and great was the change it wrought in the household. It brought the hidden nature
                  of each member of it out into a new and bold relief; you will hardly recognize
                  these characters. A richer, or at least a flashier, wine of life they have
                  drunken—does it intoxicate them? They are, the family, and each member of it,
                  maintaining new relations—and how?
               Mrs. Chilton in St. John's is not Mrs. Chilton in Harlem. She is at least ten
                  years younger—she is a little anxious still, a little troubled about many things,
                  but her face is not so furrowed as it was—she smiles oftener, she is sailing
                  through a smoother sea.
               There are, it is true, even in the present circumstances of the family, some
                  points to which she will never be quite reconciled, nor need she be, for the
                  points must have removal. Isidore Baldwin is rather more of a stumbling-block in
                  her way than Mrs. Chilton anticipated—for the older lady is held by the younger in
                  a strange debt of obligation, on account of all the favor her father has
                  conferred, and the patronage she bestows is galling to the nice sense, offensive
                  to the good taste of Mrs. Chilton.
               Regularly on each succeeding Sunday, that good lady, accompanied sometimes by
                  Horace, not so often by Leah, dines at the Hall, and that is indeed "the day of
                  all the seven," to her. Occasionally during these weekly visits, she is subjected
                  to vexations and mortifications, for which she might continue to look, in all
                  reason; no one understands this better than she, in her advances towards society;
                  for she is in St. John's indeed, but yet not "in society."... There will come a
                  day—she lives in the belief, it is her day-dream and night-vision—when these
                  Baldwins shall be proved the mere aids to her progress towards the regions she
                  seeks. For she will reign again amidst this generation, she believes—ay, verily,
                  she shall, through her son, or her daughter, why does she not say? For the simple
                  reason that such substitution is not what she craves. There, in her parlor at this
                  moment, sits the old gray-haired man who handed her to dinner when last she dined
                  at Ishmaels; and he is babbling by the hour, of, heaven knows what, and watchful
                  of her with his greedy eyes, and thinking that his great house in a neighboring
                  square might as well be thrown open again, if this graceful and brilliant woman
                  could be induced to transfer herself thither. With courteous grace the widow
                  listens to the old man, and never seems to weary, and she thinks to herself—what
                  she would not have thought had that same poor old creature descended her basement
                  steps, and knocked at the servant's door, clad outwardly in such beggarly rags as
                  his spirit within put on when he was young, and wore now, unchanged and
                  unchangeable, in his soul's decrepitude. He is a miserly, abhorrent old man; but
                  for all that, the wealthiest banker in
                  St. John's: a portion of these facts he himself tells Mrs. Chilton—she sees with
                  her eyes the remainder; with the eyes so worn out and useless, which yet can see
                  these facts—yes, even they can see them.
               So Mrs. Chilton was going in her own paths, and the time she believed would come
                  to an end when her son alone of the house would be known in society; She herself,
                  his mother would yet flash through the St. John's drawing-rooms in a great pomp of
                  diamonds and brocade. Her rooms once more would shine resplendent with gas and
                  magnificence—would echo with the voices of rich men, and well-dressed women.
               The old man was a miser, it was said, but he had no heirs, and certainly could not
                  expect, at least could not be expected, to live forever... Heaven help her, what
                  old man is she thinking of?... Since the hour when she began to think this woman
                  has fallen... but she surely has not come to this? To what? to the embrace of
                  palsy, corruption, and imbecility! Peace, reader! Do you think her mind is on
                  these things—that such insane bestiality as this possesses her? it is the closed
                  house in the square, with the richly-ornamented frontage—the great windows, and
                  the reported splendor hidden within; and what though an idiot guarded the portal?
                  Mrs. Chilton was, assuredly, getting along. Will not society receive her? she will
                  reign a marvel of grace;—oh mothers, she will matronize your daughters, and rare
                  feasting you shall have, all you elect, at her glittering and richly-laden
                  table.
               Side by side with her worked her son,—and what reverence and homage he had for
                  this guest whose carriage was drawn up so often before their door! Respect for age
                  was certainly a new evolution from the character of Horace: he had indeed become,
                  in this respect, a model youth!
               But his vision was one that eclipsed his mother's. Horace surprised himself by the
                  discovery within himself, since they came up to St. John's to live, of new
                  capacities of whose existence he had not before suspected. Not that his genius was
                  unveiled more definitely before his mind by the labors of the engineer's office.
                  He had, in the multitude of his distractions, no capacity for perception of the
                  revelations of genius, even had they been made.
               His vision was not of labor, and what without labor is genius?. What is capacity,
                  however great, in the hands of a vain and idle being? He hated the engineer's
                  office as he hated the pill and powder business... But the difference was in the
                  manifestation—he found compensation in infinite degree for the degradations of
                  labor in St. John's, and no complaint against friends or fortune now escaped him.
                  Mr. Baldwin, the father of Isidore, had placed him in that situation—Mr. Baldwin
                  talked encouragingly of his prospects—and the engineer was well satisfied with the
                  young man's work, inasmuch as the payment for his services was regularly advanced
                  by Mr. Baldwin, though unknown to Horace. He could do no other wise than labor;
                  his patron was well pleased with his success; and Leah, ever watchful, ever
                  hopeful of good, built up from these signs and tokens the most honorable future
                  for Horace; and anticipated, unhindered by any distractions of doubt, a noble
                  fulfilment of all his boyish prophecies, and the fond hopes in which both she and
                  he found once delight together. Leah had not for a long time looked into the
                  tool-box, that sacred depository in which their father's treasure was contained.
                  Had she done so she would have better understood how Horace managed, out of the
                  wages of his labor, to sustain the
                  family so generously. One by one those precious tools had vanished from the box,
                  and were hidden safe from sight again, in a pawnbroker's shop—until now, when the
                  stock was nearly exhausted. Horace contemplated a bargain for their actual sale,
                  with no other thought or feeling than had reference to the good bargain he could
                  make. But insignificant as they seemed to himself, Horace was careful that Leah
                  should not discover these facts; he could argue himself very readily into the
                  belief that he had done the right and proper thing; but he knew that she could not
                  be brought to see in that light. There was no need for him to ask her counsel, he
                  said to himself in the first hesitating moments, when he thought the matter over;
                  he knew what her counsel would be without asking; and it was, especially since she
                  did not seem to be quite well, it was really so trifling a matter that it was not
                  worth while to trouble her. As to his mother, this was, of course, a subject with
                  which she had nothing to do. If there was nothing else in life that he correctly
                  understood and appreciated, Horace did understand and appreciate his mother. It
                  could not be otherwise when he had discovered that she was reproduced in him.
               Horace was living in the very sphere, that must inevitably deaden all his early
                  sensibilities, every true and generous feeling. Because they had no root they must
                  wither away. He seemed so adapted to the present, that it was no longer surprising
                  that he had been wretched in the past. Everything now tended to induce a speedy
                  development of nature—but it was not quite such as Leah looked for—nor such as he
                  had anticipated. He had pined for a sphere and opportunity... now that these were
                  granted, see what he made of them!
               The show of the world, into which, under Isidore's patronage, he immediately
                  came—for in Colonel Wheaton's absence Horace could be of great use to her, his
                  unexceptionable person and address, the ease with which he adapted himself to
                  every circumstance of a life of show, rendered him invaluable to her—this show and
                  seeming dazzled, and enchanted, and allured him. He had, indeed, even thus found
                  his sphere and occupation—is anything more than this needful in order that a human
                  being shall get on?
               Horace was no true artist; nor ever would he be, in spite of his boyhood's
                  aspirations: he was proving, with the first opportunity, that the outward and
                  fictitious were inexhaustible in glory and beauty to him. Not like Vane could he
                  discover the interior life through all this seeming, the life which gives all
                  worth to the outward evidence. The permeating truth escaped him. That which it did
                  vitalize was worthless to him, for it appeared and could only appear to his mind
                  superficially: he could not detect that which the true artist perceives and
                  acknowledges, as the helpmate, the deliverer of his inspiration.
               So was he prepared to throw himself into every alluring fancy; and in some minds
                  the allurements of fancy are but the suggestions of vice. There was not an
                  invulnerable point in his character; he held his principles with a loose rein;—the
                  waves of temptation could scarcely—come in what light they might, fair as morning,
                  golden as noonday, resplendent as evening, black as night—could scarcely beat in
                  vain against him. A slight wall of defence enclosed his nature, and the very
                  novelty of his position it was, that now maintained it. He might have passed
                  through life in Harlem unallured by any of the temptations, puerile or gross,
                  which beset him there—but the city's fine show of evil was another thing; and
                  doubtless, since this is true of all men and women, the day and the hour would yet
                  discover him in which his moral
                  character should have its further, utmost test, and should receive its seal.
               Nay, what did that vacant tool-box testify? One need not become an obscene
                  drunkard in order to make manifest his baptism into evil.
               He, too, was dreaming his dream; it had already changed from its original form,
                  and was now not a dream, but a desire and hope. The transition was gradual. Not
                  slow indeed, and still not sudden. Not so sudden as to surprise him and alarm him
                  out of it by its manifest absurdity. Did Isidore not smile on him? Did she not
                  prefer him, when she needed an escort or companion, even before her own brother?
                  was he not her attendant on the promenade, at concert, drawing-room, and lecture?
                  When her fine steed bore her through the city streets, and away on the country
                  roads, who was her most frequent companion? who learned her songs? who selected
                  her music? who was called upon often as he to decide on points of fashion, taste,
                  and dress? who, of all her lovers?
               Isidore, as we well know in all this, was but making use of the boy-genius;—he was
                  to her a gifted sort of retainer who might be exalted to serve her while the
                  Colonel was at a distance—and an excellent servitor he proved upon trial Poor
                  Horace! but who ever sees himself precisely as his neighbors see him?
               To a mind like Horace Chilton's, a person like that of Isidore must of necessity
                  have singular attractions. The very pretension of it dazzled him. He liked its
                  show. It answered for the real thing; to him it was genuine. But he did not admire
                  and love it on account of its apparent genuineness. He did not go so far—that, in
                  short, was not needful for him—for no high principle, in beauty or elsewhere, was
                  ever at stake with him. Earth had for him no delight comparable with this basking
                  in the sunshine shine—this breathing in the perfume, and sipping the honey cup of
                  fashion.
               Even to Susan Dillon's eye, the change that had come over Horace since the day
                  when she first met him, was apparent; and the recalled words of Mr. Leighton in
                  that very connection, could but make upon her mind an impression disagreeable and
                  abiding.
               Isidore repeated his graceful and witty speeches to amuse the child on those
                  mornings when she spent a few moments chatting in Susan's room. She was
                  continually referring to him as her attendant here and there; and so often was his
                  name recalled, that it had been strange if he had not been the frequent guest of
                  Susan's thoughts. She wondered if he were now at work as once he promised himself.
                  It must be so; he seemed, for so she judged from Isidore's words, so happy, and so
                  well satisfied.
               The first time of her descent to the library she was able to ask these questions
                  with her own eyes, if her voice did not utter them. Horace came into the house
                  from the garden, sent by Isidore, who had assisted her father in bringing Susan
                  down the stairs. He was in no haste to come—he was not in a mood for mourning with
                  one who mourned. He was listless and unconcerned, and had evidently well-night
                  forgotten the fact of Susan's existence; he would, without reluctance, quite
                  forget it.
               It was a brief, unsatisfactory visit, and the more so to Susan, because the change
                  in Horace, and her inability to talk with him, for he would not talk with her,
                  left her vexed and surprised at herself, on whom she was swift to lay the whole
                  blame of her dissatisfaction. Because she was stupid, he could not say anything;
                  but yet it was not so once, when he talked on and on, and never cared or knew
                  whether she answered him or not. He was stiff, distant, and repellant. He spoke to
                  her of her father's death—but he so spoke of it that his words called up her answering words that might as well
                  have come from one who never knew a loss—so did his presence and his words
                  restrain her.
               He told her that Leah was not well, but not till Susan said how pale she looked,
                  and how tired, the day that she came down to visit her not long ago; he looked
                  thoughtfully at Susan while she made this inquiry, and gave this expression of her
                  opinion about his sister's health; and Susan said, inwardly, observing him, "Poor
                  fellow! how sadly he feels about it"—but the thought had not escaped her brain and
                  touched her heart, when he disputed it, saying, carelessly, "Oh, she will be well
                  again in a day or two," for he was thinking of Isidore in the garden, and fretting
                  against this momentary performance of the duty to which the fair lady had bidden
                  him.
               It was as much a relief to Susan as to Horace, when he did, after a few minutes'
                  uninterested and meagre conversation, rise and take his leave. But Susan ought to
                  have known better than annoy him as she did. How stupidly, how little to the
                  purpose she had spoken! She ought not to have asked him what office he meant when
                  he spoke of the engineer's office—she ought not to have looked so disappointed
                  when he gave her a vague idea of his present occupations. She ought not to have
                  said how glad she was that he had come to St. John's, because now he could find
                  out how to make a good use of his father's valuable tools, that were kept locked
                  so safely in the strong box, which he showed to her once, did he remember? She
                  ought not, precious as every opportunity to dwell upon the beach-life now seemed
                  to her, and eagerly as she seized on every chance to make utterance of her love
                  for all that she had lost in it, thus would she atone—confess—retrieve for all the
                  treacherous discontent that she had felt, poor child!—she ought not to have asked
                  him if he recollected the ship and the church he drew on the sand with the
                  sharpened stick, the drawings which, in the making, poor Span marred. Neither
                  should she have remembered the labors of the old time—only a few months back—so
                  well as to leave it possible for her to ask if Leah would go on with her school
                  again when she grew stronger? She should have said nothing that she did say to
                  this young gentleman genius—she ought, in fact, to have been anywhere rather than
                  in the place where she was to prove "such a deuce of a bore" to Horace Chilton;
                  for such did he pronounce her, when finally he made good his escape from her. Not,
                  understand, good reader, not that her questioning conveyed in any, even the
                  slightest degree, a reproach to the mind of Horace for a voluntary fall, or for a
                  neglect of the advantages whose absence he had often so bitterly deplored; but it
                  was really too much of a tax on the time of a man like him to sit there
                  entertaining old Dillon's daughter.
            
            
               XXXIII.
               HORACE passed lightly over a most solemn fact when he referred to the ill health
                  of his sister. Indeed, he was not aware of its nature, or the alarm for which
                  there was occasion. He was so hurried, so driven, absorbed, distracted, he had no
                  time for such discernment. He did not see, he could not understand, these symptoms
                  of decaying life. He had, I say again, no time for a thoughtful observation of
                  them. Did the lamp that was failing and flickering know how nearly it was
                  exhausted?
               Did it fail the faster, and flicker the more, because of an evil, steady pressure
                  on the atmosphere wherein it burned, that failing lamp of life? Did she, who would
                  willingly and gladly have striven till the extinguishment that was coming had
                  come, did she feel the heavier disappointment appointment, and the deeper anguish, that was for
                  him, not for herself, because the loss was his, and only hers by sympathy, which
                  he could not appreciate or understand?
               She was spared this. She was left in her pleasant delusion. It sometimes troubled
                  her to know why affairs went on as they did, and not otherwise, in the house; but
                  still she was expectant only of the best good for Horace.
               Well the facts of her brief history were told—well they were adjusted.
               The quiet of the life that was drawing to a close was marred by no doubt, no
                  suspicion of her brother. Her eyes saw only glory in his youth, and the promise of
                  an ever-brightening day.
               In spite of the hardships encountered by her, Leah's life had been a happy
                  one.
               The eye that delights in watching the conflicts of passion—that is clear and firm
                  to behold the battle a mighty nature wages between alluring evil and dissuading
                  good—would find, perhaps, no pleasure in following a course so full of simple
                  peace as hers. She had no great and astounding temptations to combat. She was open
                  as childhood to all blessed influences. There were no dark corners of her heart to
                  which the sun could barely penetrate. Every corridor stood open; balmy breath and
                  shining sun had the freedom of the temple.
               The experiences had been peaceful, but only because she endured them with a
                  peaceful heart. She had struggled, but in meekness and purity, and with singleness
                  of purpose; and her gentleness had carried her victorious through all
                  conflict.
               Call it not defeat, or a frustration, kind heart, that she should perish in her
                  youth. That were to mistake death and life. She had obtained her victory. Mourn
                  not that she should die, so little done. Do you think, indeed, that hers was a
                  small achievement? Was there no depth of philosophy in the calmness of her
                  submission? Was there no triumph achieved when, ceasing to strive, she was
                  patient? She had striven while they would allow, in labors of service, exhausting,
                  but cheerfully rendered for the household; but when those human hands prevented
                  her, not in thoughtful love, and tender care, and solemn fear, but in the very
                  absurdity of pride and vanity, from all further service, was it nothing that she
                  compelled her soul to submission, to quiet?
               Oh thou, who strivest in the wide paths of the world, where crowds and tumults
                  are, bethink thee if the victory that crowns thy struggle shall avail thee as the
                  humble acquiescence of this heart!
            
            
               XXXIV.
               WE left Violet Silsey with an expectation—in a small whirl of excitement, which
                  would certainly not abate one jot until the result of Lucia's efforts in her
                  behalf should be determined.
               Violet was not far wrong when she spoke of the change in Silsey, which occasioned
                  her so much anxiety. Her eyes and her instincts were not at fault. In the battle
                  of thoughts and speculations he was growing old; and he was not happy.
               He was troubled—he was weary; he, too, thought sometimes of a home in the quiet
                  country, where ambition, or, rather, a sphere, for victorious struggle—so he put
                  it, and rightly enough—should allure him no longer —where the distractions of life
                  should not vex him. For he was ambitious and distracted. His purposes, had met
                  with a life-long frustration; at war with himself, he was in conflict with the
                  universe. He used means, and sought ends; but the means employed were such as
                  never yet brought about the results
                  which he, in spite of every sort of denial, anticipated. If those results,
                  commanding position, and influence permanent, vast and glorious, worthy the
                  aspiration of a god, should be his, accident, not himself, would confer them. A
                  man, to achieve what he sought and anticipated, must live for his purpose—must
                  seek it with persistence, turning neither to the right hand nor the left; he must
                  contract his greatness into one blazing focus—concentrate his manifold powers into
                  one predominating and most manifest power; with energy he must direct and control
                  himself—self must never control him. Silsey had not labored so—he was too
                  universal a man; you found him everywhere. He had amassed immense stores of
                  learning—his resources were vast; and to his own advantage, speaking in the
                  language of men, he could not control these forces. The people do not make their
                  presidents, and governors, and judges, of such material. He was too great for
                  fame—too large for office—too impractical for any "success"—the world seemed to
                  have no place for him, and—he wondered at it. This was the most surprising thing
                  of all. That he should wonder—that he should be disappointed—that he should not
                  have anticipated the result—that he should sometimes look at Violet, and be
                  astonished at himself that such an one as she should occupy the place she held in
                  his home, his lodgings, rather, for it was not probable, he said, that he should
                  ever have a home—and that, as he had assured her, that he should find in her, in
                  her alone, his summer-light, and beauty, and refreshment!
               But it was not a mystery—it was the proper and needful adjustment of circumstances
                  and experiences for him. Without that pure element of light in the dwelling with
                  him, what gloom had been there! she was to his heart what the hymns of childhood
                  are to the memory of man—tender and sweet in their sanctity, tearful, but not
                  bitterly so, in the weight of their recollection. She was his summer-land—and, as
                  well, the bird that sang there, the flower that blossomed there—the brook that
                  shone and danced there.
               Into the struggles which engaged him, Violet could not enter, she could not go to
                  him—but he could come to her. It made the blessedness of the fortune of each, that
                  this was so... that she could not enter into all his disquiets—that he could enter
                  into her rest.
               But the shadow of his trouble and gloom did overcast her—and sometimes did darken
                  her heart with gloom. Half the world would have told her, thoughtless or
                  thoughtful, that there was no occasion for her disquiet—that Silsey was yet in his
                  prime, and never stronger, never more vigorous—that there was no dread of poverty
                  before his eyes—no sinking of the heart when he looked upon his helpless wife and
                  child, thinking of their unprovided future: the other half, in the spirit of
                  amiable assent, would have joined with her, abounding in the consolations of
                  dolorous acquiescence and commiseration, and specified the ruin of the
                  man—tobacco; and would have set her on, no doubt, an exceedingly small tormentor,
                  to bark and snap and worry the good man out of his weakness, or out of his
                  life.
               But it was the fact that Silsey was no longer vigorous and strong, as he had been;
                  nor was tobacco the 
                     insiduous
                     insidious
                   foe that accomplished his defeat.
               Twenty-five found him with spent forces of nature and fortune, at liberty to look
                  about and within himself, as he had never done since he dashed into life, and
                  well-nigh exhausted it. From twenty-five to thirty, he lived in a desert; thence,
                  as he conceived, and in some respects truly, he came forth a new man, and entered
                  on the study of the law... For a few years he continued in the practice of the
                  profession, but now, as we have seen, had abandoned it... We will look at him and Violet again.
               It is now Saturday night, and Lucia Tree has for the last half-hour been closeted
                  with Violet Silsey... Violet's week of anxiety is at an end... She sits in the
                  gathering darkness of her room—but there is no gloom there; no noon-day sunshine
                  ever made such brightness as Violet sees now. She sits on the floor, by the cradle
                  side, and her head is bent down; through the darkness she looks on the baby's
                  face, and beholds the glory around it—for all life is glorified to her now... That
                  humble room, with its cheap ornaments, is as full of life and beauty as the heart
                  of Violet can bear to see; it is so full, it could not receive more.
               She thinks she will go to Silsey. But she does not go... If she should sing,
                  perhaps he would come in to her—and sitting beside her there, the secret might
                  somehow come out, of itself; as it is, she knows not how it will be told—or how it
                  can be. And so she tries to sing—no! there is no such thing as that. The joy she
                  feels is too new—it presses upon her so—she is so awed by it, so abashed, so
                  confounded, that her voice trembles even when she thinks of lifting it in song—so
                  she compassionates it, and lets it go. At one moment it is her impulse to run and
                  throw herself into his arms, and tell him the marvellous thing that has
                  happened—but the next she is so pent up and restrained, she has no power to
                  move.
               The indecision is ended at length, for Silsey enters the room—he does not see the
                  light: he does not apprehend the glory that is there.
               "How dark it is," he says.
               And Violet who has so much to say, says nothing; but her heart cries out, "Dark!
                  it is heavenly bright!"
               "If you will get me a light, Violet; I'm afraid to move for fear I shall upset you
                  or the baby, or the room... I have a little work to do yet."
               Now Violet speaks. Well she knows what that means— "a little work!" very likely
                  some writing, or reading, or thinking, that will keep him up long after
                  midnight—and to night, this holy Saturday night, it shall not be.
               "Come and sit down a little while, Silsey," she says; it is hardly entreaty—but it
                  is more certainly not command.
               "Is the baby sleeping?"
               "Yes, Silsey."
               "Are you lonely, Violet?"
               "No—yes—it don't make any difference; come, Silsey, sit down."
               This is so unusual—Violet so rarely persists in any request that he seems disposed
                  to disregard—that Silsey is surprised, and, yes, he is pleased also.
               "Here is a chair by the cradle," she says—rising, advancing, extending her hand
                  through the darkness to him; in the darkness he takes it, and she leads him!
               "Don't work any more to-night. To-morrow is Sunday, and if you tire yourself so,
                  you won't enjoy the rest."
               "Rest," repeated Silsey, "a man at my time of life, with a family to support,
                  should be thinking of something besides rest." Though he spoke lightly, or
                  attempted to do so, the heaviness of a sigh, and the reality of anxiety, ran
                  through the words.
               "If I were wise, Silsey, like Miss Watson, you would not be saying such things,"
                  said Violet, taking up the words quickly, thinking they would help her on in what
                  she had to tell. "You would think then you had a helpmate in me. I wish you
                  had."
               "Violet, you are very kind, but I cannot join with you in the wish. Some people
                  wish for things they have already. Is n't that foolish? You call me a wise man— why do you not act as if you believed
                  it? I say I have a helpmate; now, if I am satisfied, why are not you?"
               "I like that," said Violet, quietly.
               "And I mean it," said Silsey, as quietly.
               "But did you ever read any of Miss Watson's books?" she asks.
               "Oh, yes; long before I read yours, Violet."
               "Mine!" Violet laughs, but not with all her heart, for her heart, as yet, is
                  burdened with her secret, and she stops short in the laugh. Would not this be a
                  good time to come out with the secret? No—not yet!
               "And did you like them, Silsey?"
               "There is a good deal in them. Rough prose it is. Your book is poetry. That suits
                  me better."
               This speech is a beautiful riddle to Violet, and she waits, and hesitates, as
                  though she liked not to confess how soon she had guessed it. That would not be
                  respectful. How easy it would be now to tell him all; but Violet thinks it
                  anything but easy. She has a thousand nameless fears that keep her from speaking
                  her secret yet.
               "But do you like Miss Watson the worse, Silsey, because she wrote books?"
               "Why, no, Violet; I can't say that I do."
               "And no better, either?"
               "No—but she had an excuse."
               "An excuse, did you say? what is it that you mean?"
               "A reason for doing it, and an apology. She had some good thoughts to say, and was
                  poor. The apology holds good, because, when she had told her thoughts once, she
                  did not go on repeating them like a parrot, but wisely bound herself over to keep
                  the silence. She is a wise woman. I like her, and her books, too. She is a good
                  woman besides, and I like her for that."
               "I wish I were Miss Watson."
               "Then you would not be here. I would have no Violet."
               "Where would I be?"
               "Up stairs, in the little hall room, alone, troubled and sad."
               "No. I should be here—but this place would be so different!"
               "Because there would be no cradle here, and no old man to bother you?"
               "No, no, Silsey—you don't understand. I should have you, and the baby, and the
                  fame, and wisdom, altogether."
               "I should like you to tell me, Violet, how you think that you and Miss Watson
                  could live in one body together? I married one woman, and she is quite as much as
                  I can manage; what should I do with another, and she so different? Fame, Violet?
                  Was it your voice that said that?"
               "But now, Silsey, what if I should actually write a book?" Violet's voice betrays
                  a little anxiety.
               Silsey laughs to hear that, as he has not laughed in her hearing in many a long
                  day.
               "I should expect to see great, horrible eagle wings growing out of a dove's
                  breast," said he. "I should fish for alligators and sharks in the river down by
                  the Elms, where we floated the paper-boats the other day. I should expect bees to
                  make honey out of what grows in the hearts of bad men. I think I should want the
                  world to come to an end at once."
               "Would it be so dreadful, Silsey?" asks Violet, half fearful that he means what he
                  is saying.
               "It would be dreadfully unnatural."
               "But I might make money by it."
               "Oh, Violet!" The rebuke goes to her heart—she hastens on; now he must understand
                  her.
               
               "But what if I wrote something once, and never thought of being paid for it—wrote
                  because I could not help it—and somebody found it out—and somebody else wanted the
                  thing, to do good—would you be angry, and scold, If I let it go, and was paid, you
                  know, Silsey?
               He did not say. And therefore she continued hastily, answering his silence, as she
                  thought, "It is not too late, Mr. Silsey. I can get it back; I'll return the money
                  by Lucia, and let her tell the man you don't like it. But I am sure I meant no
                  harm... I knew you liked Miss Watson; and you knew she bought her place in the
                  country with the money she made by her books, and so I thought—but it is such a
                  very little sum, it will make no difference. But still, Silsey, my name was not to
                  be in, and the man—the editor I mean—thought that was a pity, he told Lucia; but,
                  of course, it's not my name so much as it is yours, and I would not have thought
                  of bothering you with folks talking about your wife. Lucia was going to make some
                  pictures to go along with it; but I am glad I let you know first. I thought I
                  would keep my secret, but I could not; and I am glad of it... If you'll go with
                  me, I will take back the money to Lucia, and she can see the editor in the
                  morning, and tell him—and so it will be all right again."
               Violet had risen; she stood waiting for Silsey's words. What said he to her?
               "Violet, get a light."
               She started to obey him; what was he going to do? She could guess nothing from his
                  voice. Perhaps he wanted to see well, in order to lecture her; it might be he was
                  going to his study, to leave her in doubt till morning; but, most likely, his next
                  direction would be, that she should put on her bonnet, and follow him, while he
                  led the way to the house where Lucia lived.
               But for anything she was prepared, only he must not be angry with her. It was a
                  high-handed thing that she had done, but she was ready to repent and make amends;
                  and she knew that there was time for the amends to be made. Lucia had the poem in
                  her hands, for the purpose of preparing the sketches; there would be no difficulty
                  about it, if Silsey would only make haste, and speak out his thinking.
               "Violet," he said, when the lamp was lighted and she stood by the table,
                  hesitating what she should do next, until she saw how the light fell upon the
                  baby's face, and made haste to bring her veil to screen it, "Violet, sit down
                  again, and we will talk about this thing."
               With a grave face Violet obeyed him, but she sat not now by the cradle-side upon
                  the floor, she took a chair, and she rather straightened up herself. And Silsey
                  observed it all, and he tested this spirit; but not that he had any need to do
                  so—on her own behalf, not his. He desired that she should know herself, that she
                  should explain herself to him for her own soul's sake, that she might understand
                  her motives, and her hopes, the better, by the vindication which she gave them,
                  thinking that he understood not. And then he said:
               "Miss Watson's work cost her much toil and pain—yours nothing but delight, if I
                  can perceive it. Yours is better labor then—not better for you, though, than hers
                  for her. You could do nothing by drudgery. If a bird has flown in at my window and
                  cares to sing, shall I hinder it? You may sing, Violet; but you shall not work. I
                  have no fear of your getting rich and proud—poets are not apt to do that, and it
                  is very well for them; though some of them repeat the blunder of Esau. You have
                  not surprised me. I knew you were a poet long before;" he paused a moment, and
                  then, in the deep silence, repeated a song that had often hushed Viola into
                  slumber. And what a sound it had from his lips! "Oh, Silsey, how did you know?" exclaimed Violet, before
                  he had half finished the recitation.
               "I knew," said he; "it would be strange if, at this day, I could say that I did
                  not. I knew, because I understand you, Violet, just as you do me."
               She thought his hand outstretched towards her—she thought his eyes said "come!" If
                  she saw and read amiss, at least the arms opened as she hastened towards them; if
                  his eyes had no glances they, at least, had tears; she felt them: they ran down
                  upon her face, they mingled with hers; and she said, as the last lingering shadow
                  of a fear crept away from her heart, where it should find no room more forever, "I
                  would not be a wise woman for the world. I am so happy."
               And Silsey says, in his heart, "If Solomon were here I would interrogate him if
                  such wisdom as this is foolishness."
               But with his voice he says: "Violet, wisdom is not merely in much learning—it is
                  in knowledge. Be satisfied in knowing the precious things you know."
               And so Violet and Silsey kept their Saturday night; and the dark study did not for
                  a moment draw the young wife's lover from her side.
            
            
               XXXV.
               WHEN Stella Cammon returned from her walk with the nun, she found Lucia Tree
                  walking about her room restlessly, impatiently awaiting her return, for she had
                  merely dropped in at our John's street house to look at Stella for a moment, and
                  would have gone instantly away again when she learned that her friend was out, but
                  for the curiosity excited by the piles of books, and the general indications that
                  diligent mental work was going on there. The changed room needed an explanation;
                  and, though the afternoon was waning, still she lingered, momently expecting the
                  return of her who could best give it.
               Stella advances far into the room before she observes that the place has already
                  an inmate; and Lucia has seen the anxious and worn look of the face, that to her
                  eyes is the handsomest under the sun.
               She does not wait to be perceived, but goes up to Stella, with both hands
                  extended—it may have been Stella's surprise that conduced to the warmth of her
                  reception. She certainly received her guest with open arms, and said, not in her
                  usual manner, but rapidly in a breath:
               "You are the very one of all others. Sit down. Will told me not long ago what
                  famous things you were doing—and by the way, I think Will is making a splendid
                  fellow of himself. See, this is what I wanted of you. What is your price? I want a
                  portrait from this drawing. I wonder if your prices are ruinous?"
               Lucia frankly told them. She, beyond question, was working for money. But she
                  adds, "I never painted a portrait. I cannot do it. Never but one."
               "We will see about that some other time;" replied Stella, "this is only a copy you
                  are to paint. I shall be up every day to see what you are doing, and describe the
                  complexion, and hair, and eyes, and the expression of the face, and some other
                  things. It is so grand a face you will do it the more readily."
               "But, Stella—"
               "Not a word—you are to do it... And now tell me, is all Will says of you true? are
                  you doing such great things? are you very ambitious and proud, too? Whose mantle
                  has fallen on you? Is it not fine? is it not the finest thing in the world, Lucia,
                  tell me, to have something to do, something to think of when you get up, and when
                  you go to bed? To be living for something?"
               
               "It is indeed; but one would think I were doing some great labor to hear me," said
                  Lucia, checking herself in the serious strain of the opening words. "It is only
                  the very small things I can do, Stella."
               "Great or small, it makes no difference—it's the something to be done. Sight to
                  see it, will to do it; that's all. Who would have looked for a hero in this wild
                  little friend of mine, who seemed to have nothing more to do on earth when she had
                  grown up and could romp no longer? I shall believe, with Will, that you are the
                  most remarkable woman of your time. You never go gadding about, sight-searching,
                  now-a-days, I take it; you work from morning until night."
               "Oh, no, I don't—but I must be gone," said Lucia, starting up. "I have a long way
                  to go yet. I told you that I never came here, but I wished myself a thousand miles
                  off? dear me, I am wishing that same thing now. This room will haunt me; it is not
                  nearly as pleasant as it was, Stella, with all these books, what have you been
                  doing to your room? all these books, what do they mean?"
               "I have been—reading a little."
               "A little! is it that makes you so pale? What are you doing all the time? How long
                  it is since I saw you? You have not yet been down to our little home. Of course, I
                  do not expect that you ever will come there—nobody does... no, you need not look
                  at me in that way. Not a soul comes near us. Of course I do not expect you—but yet
                  we are not so miserably off as you might think, Stella... So you are going to be a
                  learned woman like Miss Watson? do let me get out while I have the courage.
                  Good-bye."
               "Stay," said Stella, laying her hand on the arm of the laughing girl. "You know
                  you have been talking nonsence. Where is Miss Watson?"
               "At her old lodgings. You might do worse than be like her. How I hated that woman!
                  but I never hated you, recollect. I was only afraid. She has done the oddest
                  thing!"
               "What is it she has done?"
               "Made Violet Silsey fall in love with her!"
               "Is that so odd? What is Violet doing now?"
               "Growing beautiful and happy, and printing the sweetest poetry you ever read. And
                  that's what you will be doing, I suppose." Lucia's face brightened, as though she
                  had made a true prophecy; she turned from Stella and looked at the laden table.
                  "Did I not always tell you?"
               "What, pray?"
               "That you were remarkable."
               "And do you really not know, Lucia, the remarkable people are always drones in the
                  hive? What has become of little Mr. Vane?"
               "He is at work," said Lucia. "Where is Layard?"
               "At the college."
               "I wish you could see Violet Silsey—she is the happiest woman in the world."
               "Then I should not see her, Lucia."
               "Would you not?"
               "Oh, yes, I would—but I should not... It takes very little to make some people
                  happy, Lucia."
               "Ay—if they can only get at it."
               "We ought, however, to be independent of circumstances."
               "So we ought... if we could! But I really must go."
               "Stay one moment, why does your Violet love Miss Watson?"
               "I can but guess, my hearty."
               "Guess aloud then, Lucia."
               
               "Because Mr. Silsey likes her so well."
               "But, Lucia, it strikes me that is rather a singular reason," said Stella.
               "To be sure it is—and such a triumph as it was when I told Will! It is because
                  they are married, and just because they are! Do you see? Say you do, or I shall
                  put you down with those filthy boarding-house people who would rather die than own
                  they understood it. What have I said! Good-bye now, in earnest."
            
            
               XXXVI.
               LUCIA TREE had gone into Stella's room with some thoughts that weighed heavily
                  upon her, to ask counsel of her friend. But she could find no utterance for them.
                  Stella's mind, in spite of all her efforts, betrayed its preoccupation, and so
                  taking the sketch from which the portrait was to be made, with her, Lucia went
                  down the street till she came to the house in which her sister was now living.
                  Often she had passed by it since Rose went down into that crowded, dusty,
                  uncomfortable place; but never until now with the determination of entering in,
                  and discovering how life went on there.
               She was going on a joyless mission to a ruined household; solitary, and doubtful
                  of the reception that awaited her. She had not spoken to any one at home of her
                  purpose. She knew the opposition she would meet; and in her heart she was resolved
                  on accomplishing the purpose for which she was now here.
               Without difficulty she found the room in which Rose and her husband lodged.
               Rose was alone in the cheerless apartment; four bare walls, defiled with filth,
                  enclosed her—an uncovered and begrimed floor was underneath her—a broken ceiling
                  above. The furniture in the room was much too scant for comfort, the bed was a
                  loathsome heap.
               They had taken the room furnished, evidently, and here this wretched man and wife
                  were dragging out their miserable days in drunkenness and wrath.
               When Lucia went into the room, having inquired her way up into the third story of
                  the house, she found Rose on her knees before the fire, kindling a few bits of
                  wood—a battered tea-kettle stood on the hearth, ready filled with water, waiting
                  till the fire should be made. On the table before one of the windows was the food
                  for the approaching supper.
               Her eyes half blinded with smoke, Rose did not at first recognize the figure that
                  came in so quietly, and glided rapidly towards her; but the voice, the single
                  exclamation bursting from Lucia's lip, announced her, and struggling to her knees,
                  the wretched woman ran back to the door, which Lucia had closed behind her, threw
                  it open again, and said in a low, angry tone:
               "Go out... your are not wanted,"
               "But, Rose—I came from home."
               "Home!... that's the reason," answered Rose, with an elevated voice. "Go."
               But Lucia, instead, advanced still farther into the room, and took her stand
                  resolutely by the table.
               "I came to tell you about little Rose," said she.
               "You mean you came to spy out the nakedness of the land! but I won't have you
                  here. Go! go, I say."
               "No, Rose, I am not going. I shall stay till I have told you," and Lucia thereupon
                  sat down.
               "Told me what, then? be quick about it, Mortimer will be home—and a fine time
                  you'll have raising the neighbors. You had best be quick about it... I only warn
                  you." And Rose shut the door. "What about the baby?" she asked, speaking more
                  mildly, going up to Lucia.
               
               "Rose is growing beautiful, dear sister. She looks like you."
               "That is likely," said the mother, her eyes involuntarily moving toward the little
                  glass that hung above the table, but turning away again quickly from the haggard
                  presentation of herself she saw therein.
               "She does, indeed, Rose; mother says so. And Will is so found of her! You would be
                  surprised to see what a grand nurse he makes. And father and mother are pretty
                  well. And you can see that I am... And now, how are you, Rose? Tell me, so that I
                  can let them know."
               "I am well enough, thank you, as you can see—as you say. Now, if you have said
                  all, you had better go."
               Lucia rose from her chair as if responding to the suggestion. But Rose had many
                  things to say, of which the moment before she had not thought.
               "Does the baby talk any yet?" she asked, quickly.
               "Oh, yes! she can call grandpapa as plainly as I can. And father thinks so much of
                  her! and we all do. We are keeping her for you, Rose. When you get a house, Rose,
                  and are a little better off, Will says—"
               "Oh, he wants to be rid of her!"
               "Will! why, Rose, how can you say it? if you knew how hard he was working."
               "Of course, all for my child, too!"
               "No, I do not mean that," began Lucia, hastily, but a glance at the wretched face
                  before her checked her indignation—there was only room for pity in this place;
                  "dear little Rose is the only pet he has—his only amusement; when he is home from
                  the office, she is always on his knee, or frisking about him. I don't know how he
                  or any of us would get along without her; but then she is yours, you know—and of
                  course as soon as you are better off—"
               "Lucia Tree, do you know what you are talking about?"
               "Of course I do;" for the first time since the interview the sisters stood side by
                  side.
               "Look about you—look at me! You know as well as I that we shall never be one bit
                  better off. It is an insult to say anything about it. I consider it so."
               "Oh, Rose, why do you say that? You are young yet—just think how young! Why, even
                  father seems to be growing younger and younger every day."
               "He does?" said Rose, shortly, and, as she would have had it appear, without much
                  interest in the information.
               "Yes—and he really seems to enjoy work better than ever."
               It was hard to offer resistance to the kind voice and looks of Lucia Tree. A
                  nature like hers, joyous and pure, demands, in its contact with others, the best
                  that they can give. In spite of her ungracious words and mood, Rose seemed to have
                  some sense of this.
               "But father was getting old," Rose said, with a gentle voice. "He was very
                  gray—and since—he must be grayer."
               "Oh, no, I do not think so! I tell him there is one wrinkle less in his face every
                  day of his life. I expect to see him a young man again."
               "Your father is a different man from mine, then," said Rose, bitterly, after a
                  momentary silence.
               "No, no! indeed! he is the same to both—our own dear father, Rose." Lucia's arm
                  had somehow found its way around her sister's slender waist. Rose instinctively
                  recoiled from the embrace, yet she submitted to it.
               "Then it is you who have made him different," said she, surveying her young sister
                  in serious meditation. "It was not mother. It is her fault that he and the rest of us, I mean I, were no better. She
                  never looked after me. I did as I would—I went away from home; I ran away because
                  it was no home."
               "Oh, Rose—that's—that's dastardly!" yet there was only sorrow in the voice that
                  pronounced that word of judgment.
               "But it is true," persisted Rose. "I know—I know what you are, and Will; but I
                  know what I am, and what she is, though there's no use of our talking of it—that
                  is true enough."
               "I brought you a present, Rose," said Lucia, now speaking quickly, and in some
                  excitement—making the best of a not very good opportunity, for she fancied that
                  she had seen in the last two or three minutes symptoms of relenting in Rose—the
                  poor face was less rigidly set against her—its muscles were relaxed—the eyes
                  looked not fierce, nor angry, nor sullen; it was difficult, however, for Lucia to
                  interpret their expression quite to her satisfaction.
               As she spoke, she extended her hand:
               "Some day, Rose, I am going to bring down some of my work to show you—I think you
                  would like it. I am making money by it—did you ever hear the like?"
               And Lucia burst into a laugh, which, however, was not an infectious, communicable
                  laugh, nor was it the most merry and uncontrollable you ever heard.
               "I want no presents," said Rose, putting back Lucia's hand, without so much as
                  glancing towards the proffered gift.
               "But I am getting very rich, I do assure you, Rose. And I earned it myself, and
                  you can have it better than not... do!—you make me very unhappy, Rose."
               Lucia spoke in a suppressed, pleading voice. She would not be put back—but the
                  elder sister still resisted her.
               "You are not offended, Rose?... I did not mean to vex you. I thought, being my
                  sister, we must be alike. And I know how glad I was, not long ago, when a friend
                  helped me to some work—and now that I can help father... I am sure, Rose, being
                  sisters, I thought we must be alike—and you would not be prouder than I was, but
                  just glad, you know."
               "I never was like you," said Rose, shortly.
               "Oh, yes, I think you were, only better looking; and you know more. Do you really
                  want me to go, Rose? I am afraid that you have been sick. Oh, do let me help you.
                  Can't I do something now while I am here, or up home for you?... Do, dear Rose,
                  say something, and let us be friends. I am sure we ought to be. I am sure I love
                  you, Rose."
               "You?" Rose looked at Lucia, unbelieving.
               "I—? why, yes. I am sure I do. And I think that you and I can do a great deal for
                  each other, if you will only talk. But do not stand off, so far away. Come, Rose,
                  let me get up close to you, and talk."
               "Talk, then," said Rose; but she seemed as distant as ever.
               "And you will not be offended?"
               "Where is the use? There is no getting rid of you."
               "That sounds like Will," said Lucia, taking up the ungracious words pleasantly.
                  "He says I have a burr-sticking faculty," she added. But Lucy used not Will's
                  words in quite the connection he had used them.
               "You want to know how we are getting on," said Rose; for, having gone thus far,
                  Lucia had for a moment hesitated, uncertain how far, and in what direction, she
                  might venture. "You might see—there is no need of asking. It's well enough,
                  though. Mortimer has found something to do. I cannot tell what. We have all we
                  want; so, I don't mean to be hateful, but you can keep what you brought."
               
               Lucia was silent. Rose, after a momentary hesitation, went on rather more
                  graciously:
               "If you have no need for it, let Will use it for the baby."
               "But we do not need it, Rose—indeed we do not."
               "Nor I, Lucy."
               "Ah, but you are proud now."
               "This looks like it, truly," said Rose, glancing around the room.
               "Yes, it does. Standing out so against me, the only sister you have, Rose, in the
                  wide world."
               "It would be better if I had no relatives," said Rose bitterly.
               "Oh, Rose, how can you say it?"
               "I don't mean for myself. It makes no difference to me—nothing does." She looked
                  for a moment as if lost in her hopelessness. "But for you to have such a
                  relation."
               "Come home with me," cried Lucia in her heart, but she dared not speak the words
                  aloud.
               "It seems so strange to hear you, Rose," she said, more kindly than reproachfully,
                  though reproach was in the voice.
               "It must be pleasant!" exclaimed Rose. "You would like all your friends to look in
                  here, I suppose, and see us as we are!"
               "Outside our house I have but two friends in the world. Yes—I should be willing to
                  have them come in, if they could help us any."
               "Do not use that word again," said Rose hastily.
               "Why? It is a pleasant word to me. What are friends good for, if not for
                  help?"
               "I am looking for Mortimer every moment. I think you had better go, Lucia, unless
                  you want to meet him." Rose turned from Lucia to the hearth, and partly
                  extinguished the fire, which was now blazing fiercely.
               Lucia hesitated.
               "Come again; but you had better go now. I forgot how late it was," said Rose
                  anxiously.
               "If you want me to go, Rose—"
               "Yes, yes—you had better."
               "I shall come again."
               "Come, then, and tell me about the baby."
               "And, Rose, you will try and feel happier—will you, for my sake? I know things
                  will go easier." As she spoke, she kissed Rose once and again.
               Rose did not refuse, but neither did she return the fond salutation; and Lucia
                  went away with the rejected gift, which was a small bank-note, not by any means
                  with the feeling of one who had been vanquished in an enterprise.
            
            
               XXXVII.
               THERE were two great thoughts in Stella Cammon's mind when the laughing Lucia left
                  her. She kept them there all night, and in the morning went up to see Miss Watson
                  in her lodgings.
               "Let me go into her room," said she to the maid who waited on the door; and,
                  without more ceremony, she followed the girl up the stairs to the tiny hall room
                  in the attic.
               "Tell her I am in waiting here," she said, loud enough to be heard by the inmate
                  of the room, when the maid, so bidden, opened the door.
               Miss Watson heard the voice.
               "Stella, come in," she said immediately. And so Stella went in.
               The lady was busily occupied with her writing. She looked up as Stella entered,
                  motioned her to sit down in the chair from which she arose, betaking herself to
                     the bedside for a seat; and for ten
                  succeeding minutes she went on with her occupation, as if the intrusion had not
                  occurred.
               Stella's eyes, meanwhile, glanced round the room, and met but a barren prospect:
                  uncovered walls, not quite as white as snow, a common dressing-table, one of the
                  commonest, to be minute, the chair referred to, a small stand and chest of
                  drawers, the bedstead and a trunk. Not a flower, not a picture, not an ornament of
                  any description. Was not this a nature that could appreciate the refinements and
                  graces of life? Did her thoughts soar too high for their observation? Her garden
                  at the Elms seemed to speak better things of her, and her own appearance and
                  manner said better things of her. It was evident that she could deny herself—that
                  to her inward sense the serene joys of art were evermore revealed—were her
                  refreshment and delight.
               When she had finished her letter, she folded and sealed it; and, putting it aside,
                  turned graciously towards Stella, who, aware of the presence into which she had
                  come, and calmed and soothed by that presence, had ample time to survey again the
                  intent with which she had come hither, and, also, to retreat from the position she
                  had not yet betrayed, if such should be her pleasure.
               When Miss Watson, turning toward her, said:
               "How art thou?" She answered with the same significance of tone:
               "I came that thou should'st tell me."
               "Thou look'st not well."
               "I am not.'
               "What ails thee? What hast thou done to thyself?"
               "I have been on a search."
               "For what?"
               "Wisdom."
               "And hast come back from a fruitless voyage?"
               "I have been trying to study," said Stella, suddenly dropping the figure, and
                  coming out with the fact.
               "Very well—I am glad of it."
               "But just as I was in the midst of it—"
               "Midst of what?"
               "Study—I am broken up, and all afloat again."
               "Alas, poor child!" sighed Miss Watson, leaning back in her chair; and, lifting
                  her eye-glass for a moment, she bent a look upon her guest.
               "I am going now to do one of two things," said Stella quickly, not quite liking
                  nor understanding the pitying word and look of her listener.
               But, having said this, she paused. Miss Watson was silent, but attentive. Her
                  silence embarrassed Stella; still she knew, that if she would profit by the wisdom
                  of her friend, she herself must be open as day. This was the one thing required of
                  whosoever would share the riches of Miss Watson.
               "I am either going to write a book, or I shall down to teach a school among the
                  heathen of this city. Which shall I do? if you can and will, tell me. I know you
                  can, but, perhaps, you are impatient that I should have interrupted you
                  to-day."
               With a slight wave of her hand, Miss Watson dispensed with a score of words with
                  which she might have re-assured the inquirer, and said:
               "For which enterprise do you feel yourself best qualified? Do you know anything
                  about school-teaching—what the business is when one comes to do it?"
               "I think so," said Stella.
               Miss Watson shrugged her shoulders with significance. "Pardon me—I hardly think
                  you do. I have had a little experience that way, under the most favorable
                  circumstances. It does not incline me to believe that, under the worst auspices,
                  you would—" Stella looked so grave, and
                  listened in so much anxiety, that Miss Watson broke suddenly off in the midst of
                  her discouraging words, and said in a livelier tone:
               "Tell me now, honestly, what you mean—what is your motive?"
               "To be of use in the world," said Stella, in a broken undertone, but her look was
                  lofty and determined.
               "What were you going to write a book about?"
               "I don't know."
               "Then whatever else you do, attempt not that, I beseech you; if there is not
                  something in you that will be said, in spite of you, be dumb."
               "But I tell you, Miss Watson, I must and will have something to do. I have, since
                  I saw you, been endeavoring to busy myself in books. I cannot do it: say because I
                  am so full of woman's nervous impatience and disquiet, say what you will. I cannot
                  live a student. For my brain's sake, and my soul's sake, I must have active
                  employment among human beings. I am not learned, I do not expect ever to be, I do
                  not care to be—murder will out! I am standing here all the day idle."
               "You cannot bear the confinement of study, I see you cannot; you have been making
                  an exhausting experiment," said Miss Watson, soothingly. "But I know, moreover,
                  that you could not live in the place of which you are speaking. The air is poison,
                  and the work, it seems to me, not yours. This new—fancy I will not call it—this
                  project, I believe, has only appeared to you a feasible one, because, in your
                  present state of mind, something has attracted your attention towards it. You are
                  not so patient as a teacher amongst those people would need to be. Such a work
                  would require a different kind of fortitude from yours."
               "I believe I am fit for nothing, then, but to be miserable," said Stella,
                  sorrowfully. "But I know I am not alone in my desire—though it seems to me I am in
                  everything else. Everywhere people are at work, doing good and great things. I
                  know a gay young girl, full of fun and frolic, who made a play-house of the world
                  till a few weeks ago. You would think a miracle had been performed, if you knew
                  what she is doing. She has gone to work before me. She had no difficulty in
                  finding out what she should do. I don't think she ever had any thought about it at
                  all, while I, it seems to me, I have always been running about seeking for some
                  one to help me and give me something to do."
               "And is not the lesson you are to learn precisely this? Your friend's affections,
                  the absolute necessity she was under, settled the point for her at once. There was
                  no chance for vagueness of aim or effort. She perceived what she could do, and
                  proceeded to do it. I have known a hundred such workers. There is one in the room
                  below at this moment. They are happy, for their work is done in the natural way.
                  But as for you—you disquiet yourself in vain. You are all wrong. I wish that you
                  might go off on a long voyage; it would do you good."
               "Is it so needful that one should be relieved of all serious thought?"
               "Yes, if he has manifestly nothing to do with it—and can get nothing from it.
                  Evidently he is not minding his own business. It is above all things needful that
                  one should be in a healthful condition; which you are not."
               "Believe me notwithstanding, this sickness is not unto death! I know it is not!"
                  exclaimed Stella, in a clearer, more resolute tone than she had yet found during
                  this interview.
               Miss Watson was struck by it.
               "It would be a case of suicide if it proved unto death," said she. "But," she
                  continued more cheerfully, "my dear, what made you think of book-making?"
               
               "Perhaps because I was driven to an extremity," replied Stella, despondingly;
                  "and," she added, as if taking vengeance on herself, "perhaps because I was
                  ambitious."
               "You! of what? Praise? You cannot be so foolish. What is praise? who can praise
                  you? would you take complacence in your own works? do you want rewards? would you
                  not be debased, beyond hope of retrieval, if you sought honor of men?... Would you
                  put your heart in a book to have it broken by a clown's whip, that the people in
                  the pit might laugh? Reserve yourself. Be persuaded that you were not made for
                  that. The school-teaching best befits you; and that seems an absurd, ill-judged
                  disposition of yourself. Woman alive! for alive you are beyond question, you were
                  made for society. And if you need that I should say it, for guiding it. If the
                  'ship of state' needs wise heads and strong hearts to man and direct it, the gayer
                  craft of society needs no less a wise head, and generous heart, and courageous
                  soul. It is your very sphere; you must marry, and take your place."
               Miss Watson read a decided rejection of this counsel in Stella's face, which grew
                  proud and distant, like a haughty spirit in retreat.
               "You must stay and hear me out," she continued. "You look as if you would be
                  beyond call in a moment. Come! humble yourself, and sit down to an old woman's
                  preachment, and confess yourself, for a moment at least, a miserable sinner. You
                  are all that. When I tell you to marry, I mean it; but I do not intend you should
                  advertise for a husband in the way that is decidedly common and unclean. You need
                  not marry this week nor the next. And you need not throw yourself away on a young
                  or an old roue—for you would thus, as thousands like yourself do, you would
                  destroy what influence you might have had, in the outset; and because such
                  immorality, respectable though the world may deem it, must, by a law of nature,
                  act evilly within, as well as without, you; and you would deserve your fate if
                  society cast you out as unfit to be recognized among honorable people. Marry a man
                  you trust and love; one who respects and loves you—in the sense that you receive
                  whatsoever is of good report, and love whatever commends itself to you as pure and
                  beautiful. Believe me, I am speaking what is the best truth for you. Study as much
                  as you will, and with a view to being of use... I will borrow Mr. Silsey's
                  microscope some day, and give you a new idea, perhaps, in regard to that little,
                  ill-understood word, USE. If one may pretend or presume to comprehend you, I
                  believe you are honest in your wish to be of service. Let people, let men and
                  women, see that your mind is not a whirligig—that you have a purpose, that you
                  have ascertained it—and that you are brave enough to live for it. That you have
                  some depth of moral principle. That you scrupulously regard the ten commandments.
                  That your children, if you have any, are yours, and that you regard them—as
                  such—eminently worthy your care and attention. That you are a wife and a mother,
                  as well as a leader in society, and a cultivated woman. That you are, in short, a
                  human being, with a heart in your keeping, and a soul. If you take your place in
                  this way, it is your place; if you fill it, you will find, I think, that your
                  day-duties will quite exhaust the strength to be found in night slumbers. You will
                  be living the life of a reasonable creature. Enjoying as much as will be for your
                  good—but not a whit more, if you know how to take it. You have my advice. It goes
                  a little further than my former lecture, for I perceive you have gone a little
                  further yourself. If we should talk all day about it, I could say nothing more, or
                  better. I speak from observation and experience—society has a place for you. Go
                  forward and occupy it."
               
               Many were the words of reply which passed through Stella's mind, but she uttered
                  none of them; speechless she remained while Miss Watson pursued her lecture.
               The silence that followed the speaker's words was unbroken by any word of hers.
                  Presently, therefore, Miss Watson approached her; bending low, she kissed her,
                  whispering, "Go home and think of these things. I have given you advice I would
                  have taken had another given it to me when I was of your age. I should, perhaps,
                  have been happier. Believe me—I speak truth to you."
               Without a word, Stella arose and went away.
            
            
               XXXVIII.
               WHEN Lucia returned from her visit to Rose, she had resolved to inform Will of the
                  mission in which she was engaged, and also of some of its hopes, but not all of
                  them till he should be better prepared to receive them, and enter into the work
                  they would necessitate.
               The opportunity that presented itself for this display of confidence was not,
                  however, employed for any such purpose. Will stood on the door-step waiting for
                  her when she came home again, and was so occupied with his own thoughts that he
                  neither observed the lateness of the hour, nor the unusual fact that Lucia had
                  been out at such a time alone.
               He had been away into the woods with Wadsworth Vane, as he proceeded to tell her,
                  closely observant, at the same time, of the manner of reception his information
                  met. They had wandered about among the fallen leaves, and, he said, had talked for
                  hours together; and Vane came back with him to the house to take leave of Lucia,
                  for he was going away that night.
               "Going where?" asked Lucia, somewhat disturbed as Will perceived with secret
                  satisfaction.
               "Going home," he answered.
               "He has no home."
               "To the place where he was born, then."
               "And why, Will?"
               "Oh, he has an old flame of some sort out there," said Will, carelessly.
               "Did he tell you?"
               "As good as that."
               "He never told me of it," said Lucia, trying her best to appear no more than
                  surprised.
               "The fact is, Vane is an odd fellow," said Will. "Simple as he seems, you don't
                  find him out in a minute."
               "I never thought him simple," remarked Lucia.
               "No. He is, in fact, quite too complex. Did you know his father was alive?"
               "Yes."
               "Perhaps you knew, then, that Vane was going away?"
               "No—I did not." Will thinks he shall not understand all that puzzles him quite so
                  rapidly as he anticipated.
               "The old man is in trouble, and Vane is going to see about it," he continued.
               Slowly Lucia looks around into Will's face, and she smiles out the secret of her
                  heart; not another word do they exchange. Until she lies down on her bed Lucia has
                  forgotten Rose, and recurring at this time to the recent visit she has made, she
                  is glad to have it so. She will go again to Rose before she makes her visit known
                  to Will; and she falls asleep thinking of Vane.
            
            
               
               XXXIX.
               ROSE needed not to have been in such haste to relieve herself of her sister's
                  presence on account of the speedy return of her husband, for he did not return
                  home until the evening was far advanced.
               It was chiefly a dread of his coming that induced her to send Lucia away—but this
                  was not the sole reason. To Rose the presence of her young sister was distressing.
                  A reproach too keen and searching to her own false, wasted life was given,
                  unawares, by that faithful, buoyant, joyful nature.
               When the door closed behind Lucia, Rose sat down to think upon the visit;—she
                  recalled her sister's words—the hope Lucia had drawn from the youth of Rose. But
                  what was that youth? Her health long since was exhausted; feeble, wasted, and
                  despairing, she had not the nerve, or brain, or courage, for any manner of
                  exertion such as could be attended with any really good result.
               Death, she said, and felt, was the only prospect for her. Death, lingering or
                  speedy, as the case might be. But... it might have been so different!
               To deaden, not to quicken thought, to deliver herself from the tantalizing it
                  might have been, and the horror of the impossibility of it shall be, the unhappy
                  woman resorted, there was no other resource left for her, to the opiate which had
                  oftentimes given her relief, deliverance from herself.
               But it did not serve her thus in this extremity—did not deaden thought, but,
                  instead, brought out the recollections of former times and scenes into startling
                  relief before her eyes. She looked back to her wedding-day, and the youth that
                  went before; the years that followed after; and upon the age that had prematurely
                  fallen upon her, such age as has no joy, no hope, no deliverance; decrepitude of
                  heart and soul pertaining to it, infirmity of will belonging to it—its prospect
                  desolation, dreariness—and the tortures of self-accusation and shame, because of
                  the unholy, hopeless prospect. The past intolerable, because of its guilt, the
                  future on account of its nameless terrors and despair.
               She looked from herself, from the misery of her own present, to the scene which
                  Lucia had described in outline, and which she filled into a perfect picture, aided
                  by her excited imagination. Her father, in spite of the disgrace which through her
                  had fallen on his age, growing younger every day—made happy by his children...
                  happiness in that home! long she thought over the strange problem. And of little
                  Rose growing up under such guardianship... She recalled Lucia's words, which had
                  stirred up her soul only to make its misery more hopeless from conscious inability
                  to follow out any suggestion that pointed to future integrity of life. It is the
                  awful anguish of this hour, that while she sees a good that might be attained by
                  her own resolute endeavors, by an indefatigable persistence in vigilant
                  well-doing, she falls exhausted from the excitement of the thought, unable to
                  receive it, because already she has destroyed the faculties by which to achieve,
                  and has retained alone the faculty by which she can perceive all that she has
                  lost.
               The remembrances that rushed upon her soiled and defaced womanhood she could not
                  endure. Bring to the roused sense a heavier opiate—deaden the thought that lashes
                  her soul with the stripes of remorse and shame! Soon, she knows, there will arrive
                  an Eternity which has no opiates... sleep and forgetfulness now, at any price!
               It is a heavy draught she quaffs in her desperation; and now the terrible memory
                  is vanquished; it lies dumb, powerless.
                  Slumber binds her senses. The body and the mind repose.
               And by-and-bye, as time went on, the fire went out upon the hearth—there was no
                  light there.
               Towards midnight Maurice, the husband of Rose, came home.
               He went up the dark stairway with unsteady step. He knew his destination, and also
                  when he came to it, but little beside. Opening the door of the chamber he groped
                  forward to the mantel, took down the lamp, and lighted it with a match.
               As he did so, his eyes fell upon the chair where his wife sat sleeping.
               "Come, Rose," he said, "I want my supper; since you are up yet, fly around—I'll
                  take a good strong cup of tea."
               But Rose did not answer.
               This hardly surprised him: he thought that she was sleeping, and, in a louder
                  voice, he said:
               "Rose, a cup of tea, do you hear? a cup of tea, Rose. Come, stir yourself! I want
                  a cup of tea, a good strong cup of tea."
               He arose, crossed the hearth, and laid his hand on her arm, but she never moved.
                  He shook her gently, less gently, roughly, passionately; but she slept on. He
                  listened to her breathing, and muttered drunkenly something about the monstrous
                  injustice of a man being cursed with a drunken wife; and talked about the
                  probability of a divorce.
               Placing the lamp upon the table, he drew the chair he had occupied across the
                  hearth, and sitting down in front of his wife he began to talk to her. His own
                  words led him on. His own confused thoughts maddened him, as did her placid
                  slumber, the fire found its way into his brain—he was beside himself.
               He took her hands and held them in his, as in a vice, but she stirred not; he
                  brought the lamp and held it in her face, but neither the bright light, nor the
                  heat which scorched eye-lash and brow, moved her. Still she slept that heavy sleep
                  that was deep, almost, as the sleep of death.
               Then he arose, and walked in great excitement, 
                     mutturing
                     muttering
                  , up and down the room. At the door of the chamber he at last stood,
                  watchful, listening, trying to reflect, and to collect his thoughts. He walked
                  about unsteadily, yet with light and cautious tread. A thought is lurking in his
                  brain; but he dare not call it out into full light, and steadily survey it. At
                  length of its own energy it comes forth, and his brain is in a whirl and a
                  blaze—and in the shadows of the chamber up and down flashes the knife he has taken
                  from the table, with which he now is playing!...
               There is blood on his hand—on the knife!
               What is this! the drooping head, the pale face, growing deathly white, the
                  solitary, long-drawn breath—oh, where is Rose, Maurice? She has gone without a
                  struggle —away, away—oh, whither?
               What is this that has changed the poor room in an instant? It is an obscure and
                  lonely place no longer. It is a chamber of devils—its walls open! it fills all
                  space... it is the Universe—it is eternity! The braggart awakened, alive to the
                  deed he has wrought, may skulk down, he does! down the dark stair-way, into the
                  dark street, he may fly—oh, does he not? through the city streets, away on to the
                  country highway—to the world's end! but she is with him... sighing breath, and
                  bleeding breast, and deadly pallor of cheek are her image! she goes with him to
                  the world's end, as she promised at the altar; more faithfully than any other that
                  promise is fulfilled. He flies, and she is the companion of his journey ney. Where will he find the divorce of
                  which he talked but now? Into what court will he go and plead her infidelity? Does
                  she not cleave to him? is she not ever with him? was ever faithfulness like this?
                  Through all going out and coming in she is beside him; her voice is ever in his
                  ear; he sees no face but hers, it shines between his and all other faces; and the
                  mark of the baptism of blood is upon her.
               He makes no delivery of himself to justice, and justice never finds him... Does
                  she not? She opens for him none of her prison-grates, puts no fetters on him.
                  There is no trial for him... Is there not? Is there no prison save the heavy pile
                  of mason-work, with its grates and bars of iron? What think you is this blue vault
                  of heaven, and the grass-grown earth of the world to the eye and the sense of
                  guilt? Ever the sentence of death is sounding in his ears. Upon his bed, in
                  dreams, in the helplessness of her slumber, Rose sleeps beside him. The eyes of
                  death are on him—blood on his hand—death in his heart! Where is his place on
                  earth? Who will point it out for him? who will maintain him in it? who will assure
                  it to him? There is no rest for Mortimer Maurice... a fugitive and a vagabond he
                  goes seeking his place of rest and shelter—and for evermore is seeking it; and he
                  shall never find it.
            
            
               XL.
               IN the parlor to which Stella bent her steps on her return home from Miss Watson's
                  room, waited Mr. Falcon, who had come with the message Susan, the night before,
                  had besought him to deliver—he waited to deliver it in person.
               When he has made known the object of his call, Mr. Falcon seems in no haste to
                  take himself away; and yet, when he came hither he had no other thing to say. But
                  time goes on, how it happens Stella would find it impossible to tell, and the
                  street-preacher of yesterday is the house-preacher of to-day, and he seems to be
                  speaking to more purpose than preacher has ever before spoken to this
                  listener.
               He is making rough places smooth by his talk—he propounds great mysteries in those
                  simply-uttered words; for once Stella's eye is single, for it looks at truth
                  through his, and strangely is her spirit filled with light. This has happened to
                  her in less degree when she has been with him before; but now the light does not
                  glimmer, it shines, pervading all things, and resistless. She, Stella, meanwhile
                  wonders—at him, at herself, at the universe of thoughts and things; but she is
                  fearful—she is cautious; once to the speaker who had spoken thus she would have
                  poured out her heart with not the reservation of an instinct, or an impulse. But
                  Stella has grown wary, ever since she came into his presence. She has, on the
                  whole, been so many times deceived, has received, after all her seeking, so little
                  good at the hands of others, that she is, at the least, distrustful of herself and
                  them. She begins to believe, and this morning's experience has helped to confirm
                  the belief, that others can give her nothing. And, as to herself!—
               She will not, on any topic, speak out her mind, for whither might the speaking
                  lead? She is reserved and cautious—and the more so, beyond doubt, because this is
                  the man under whom, last night, in lonely meditations, she thought (remembering
                  the words he had spoken to the fallen and the falling, the desolate and forsaken,
                  the hungry and the naked) it would be a blessed privilege to labor.
               She is prudent, quiet, philosophical, sententious. She is? So she believes. But
                  the blood flows faster through her
                  veins than through the veins of prudent reserve, or a self-possessed quietude. And
                  Mr. Falcon does not listen with attention so absorbed in what she says, that he
                  cannot interpret what her eyes are uttering, the confession of belief they
                  constantly are making. And the good man is not a little troubled by his
                  observations. "She is so much better than she knows," he thinks; "but what strange
                  affectation is this that she should speak in this way? She would have me take her
                  for a heathen. But I know better."
               And acting on his instinctive perception of the truth as it is in Stella, he
                  adapts his words to what he conceives her need; and the very manner in which she
                  conducts so much of argument as she chooses to advance, persuades him of the
                  ground on which he stands.
               He lets her have her way, and she advances from the monosyllabic position she at
                  first maintained, and she goes on, unconsciously, arguing with herself aloud, and
                  his words, now and then, come out like great flashes of light, simple, few, full
                  of illumination; he supplies her with weapons wherewith to persuade herself
                  against herself, till the battle shall be quite fought out. Entangled by the
                  knottiest difficulties—freed by a word that cuts the cord asunder—she is carried
                  away in the conversation to a forgetfulness of everything except the weighty facts
                  involved in it, and the fight is fought out, until there is nothing left of
                  barrier, between her soul and his. Herself, Falcon, and the Absolute, are alone in
                  the world together.
               Hardly conscious of all this, Stella nevertheless at length pauses in confusion,
                  to think how far she has betrayed herself. But the confusion is merely
                  momentary—from that, also, she is liberated; and she says, retaining now no
                  remembrance whatever of the counsel she that morning sought of Miss Watson, and
                  the counsel she rejected:
               "I heard your sermon yesterday, Mr. Falcon. Will you engage me as a teacher for
                  your school?"
               He was more deliberate in accepting this proposition, than Stella had anticipated;
                  neither were his deliberation, and the want of surprise with which he listened to
                  her demand or request, quite what Stella had expected.
               "What are your qualifications?" said he, seriously. "The post will be a very
                  difficult one to occupy and maintain. It is needful that it be strongly held,
                  without the slightest wavering, or the whole enterprise in which I purpose to
                  embark will receive a shock which would be most unfortunate, not to say ruinous."
                  And he proceeded, as coolly as if bargaining for a horse, to demand again the
                  special qualifications she had for the work.
               Stella had not quite viewed herself in this light: she was astonished by his
                  words, and, for a moment, not altogether pleased. Mr. Falcon saw that she was not,
                  and said, in the spirit of strict justice that possessed him:
               "This is no time nor occasion for compliment. I should not presume, in any other
                  capacity, to speak thus to you. But you will perceive that when we undertake to be
                  laborers in the Vineyard of Almighty God, we should be prudent in all our
                  operations, and do nothing hastily. It is needful that whoever undertakes the
                  school should be strong, and full of hope—able to endure fatigue, and exposure;
                  and should be patient to the last degree. The person must have natural gifts that
                  fit him peculiarly for the place; no acquirements will so well serve as a natural
                  fitness and adaptation to the place and service. He should have a sunny temper, a
                  conciliatory and persuasive tongue—and be sufficiently magnetic to attract, and
                  control, the hearts of children. And withal, he should be so full of charities as
                  to be able to cover up any amount of sins in others from the observation of his
                  own proud thoughts. If I were a man of the world I should not speak such things to you—if I regarded
                  you as a woman of the world, which you have not permitted me to do, I should
                  certainly have no occasion for such speech. If any good result is to come of this
                  enterprise, the movers in it, you will allow, should clearly understand each
                  other. Surely I have not offended you."
               "I trust that I am as able to hear as you to speak," said Stella, with slow and
                  serious utterance. And there she paused—but briefly: "I know that I could grow
                  into possession of all those requisites if I have them not," she continued with
                  hesitation. "I know not that I have them. I think, at least, I am no coward. I can
                  learn patience. I shall be cheerful... I believe I have had trouble enough in
                  striving to govern myself, to conduct my inward being, not to be very uncharitable
                  towards others."
               "We are certainly friends for life," said Mr. Falcon—but there he suddenly paused.
                  "And I had almost said companions," he went on gravely. "Why may we not be
                  companions? Why should we not be? The unity of hearts in a great purpose is the
                  blessing of God, the seal of his approval. Can I thus speak to you, and, failing
                  to meet your acceptance, not drive you from the stand you have barely taken. You
                  are a true, courageous spirit; I need such to be with me night and day. Perhaps I
                  may also be helpful to you."
               Astonished at this address, and hardly certain of the speaker's meaning, yet
                  strangely mindful at the moment of Miss Watson's recent words, Stella looked her
                  surprise while Mr. Falcon spoke. But he had no fear that he should not be
                  ultimately understood; the sudden flush that came, and went, and was seen no more
                  upon the face turned towards him, assured him that all was not uncertainty and
                  doubt in her heart. She had received a trifle more of illumination.
               "It would ill become me here," he continued, "to say a word that I would shrink
                  from speaking before a world of listening men and women; a world of the wisest and
                  purest. For I bear in mind that I speak not for myself only. I shall presently
                  leave Mr. Baldwin's house—his son is rapidly recovering: your little friend Susan
                  needs no assistance in the work she has to do. I opened her mind more fully on the
                  subject last night than it has been before—she will come up to the point well and
                  nobly. It is my purpose to give my time and strength to the work you refer to I
                  hold it to be in my stewardship. I would have you, indeed, for my companion and
                  helper. I am not speaking on the impulse of the moment; nor would I have you for a
                  moment suppose that my inclination is a sudden one: it was not occasioned by the
                  spirit you have evinced this morning; but I shall not flatter you... I thought
                  often of you before this work of evangelization unfolded itself to me as my work.
                  I wished that I might be daily with one like you, until I came gradually even to
                  wish, not for one like you, but for yourself. I may be mistaken—it is, perhaps,
                  only a fancy encouraged by the very greatness of my hope—but I cannot help
                  believing that some other will than mine is working in this business... else it
                  would, indeed, seem passing strange that I should look forward to such a prospect.
                  I have labored hitherto alone, and have had pleasant dreams, which sometimes—but
                  not often—transformed themselves into real facts of experience; but this dreaming
                  may be even wilder than I acknowledge it to be. Consider, Miss Cammon, if this
                  subject is worth a moment's consideration."
               "Yes, a moment's," said Stella, with great deliberation, looking frankly at the
                  speaker; but she had thought out a sequel for the story of this day with the
                  rapidity of lightning, with the instantaneousness of an intuition. One may plod on in search of truth for a lifetime,
                  but the discovery at last has not the seeming of a gradual opening. An adventurous
                  inland bird flitting above his ship told the disheartened mariner of a New World
                  at hand.
               "Only a moment's?"
               Stella gravely bowed; not a word came now at her bidding, but in her heart there
                  was confidence and calmness—her redemption had drawn nigh—and, persuaded of it
                  beyond all further doubting, she was at peace.
               "And can you decide thus suddenly?" asked Falcon.
               "Yes."
               Here he paused—he questioned her no further; but not in uncertainty and
                  embarrassment was his voice hushed—his soul was still within him, and he could not
                  break the silence.
               Long he paused, and he was not the first to speak; there came a voice at length
                  upon the stillness, low, but firm, true and full of melody.
               "What the Church is to Christ I will be to thee... now lead me till I am free as
                  God's angels."
               Falcon did not throw himself upon his knees in gratitude before the speaker—did
                  not manifest a sense of triumph as he listened to this voice; oppressed, overcome,
                  he seemed for a moment by Stella's words, for that instant their relations, as the
                  world would behold them, were before his mind—she seemed no mate for him, in spite
                  of her humility that morning—she was of a nature so proud, her beauty was so
                  peerless; and what was he? but the mirror was withdrawn from his eyes; his heard
                  only her voice and her last spoken words—saw only that her eyes. were upon him,
                  and that she had not spoken on an impulse, surprised into such utterance as her
                  life would fail to maintain. And he said:
               "You tempt me to speak proudly, but I dare not. I dare only to hope that He whose
                  bride the Church is will make us both free indeed—that the banner of His love may
                  be over us."
            
            
               XLI.
               SUSAN was in the library, whither she had gone with Clarence.
               When he went up the staircase with his usual morning offering of flowers for
                  Susan, Clarence, to his great amazement, found her walking alone, unaided, in the
                  hall. Before he could speak she said, for Susan had now, since the last night's
                  conversation with Mr. Falcon, in which he seemed to have decided her destiny, no
                  one on whom she could rely but her own self:
               "I am trying my strength. I can walk down to the library I think, if you will help
                  me, Clarence."
               And so, with some joyous exclamations, to which Susan paid no heed, he went down
                  the stairs with her, and would fain have carried her in his arms, instead of
                  merely extending the slight support which was all that Susan received.
               As if doubtful of herself, she made haste to explain her intention as they entered
                  the library.
               "Mr. Falcon is going to teach us here, you and I. We are going to school; did you
                  know it, Clarence?"
               Susan did not speak with the usual slowness of utterance with which, in speaking
                  to him, it was needful to enunciate thoughts; but with nervous rapidity. This
                  might have been the reason why he was so long in answering her; the idea so
                  suddenly advanced did not present itself to his mind clearly and well.
               But presently he said, with a glad voice, and a glance which, bright though it
                  was, threw a shadow on the heart of the
                  child—but a momentary shadow only—for she was equal to the demand which herself,
                  as well as others, was now making on her life:
               "You and I! That is the best thing I ever heard, Susy! What books?"
               "All books."
               "We shall be a long while about it, then," he said, now well assured. "It will be
                  years—forever. Do you see?"
               With nothing less than an eternity was he satisfied, in view of his and her
                  connection. This fact appeared in every variety of form of speech and act from
                  him. Susan saw; but she shut out the prospect quickly, and said, "Yes,
                  Clarence."
               And he added, as if thinking his inmost thought aloud in solitude, for when he had
                  said it he looked at her startled and abashed, before he completed his
                  meditation:
               "If I thought that she would ever go away I would—" there he stopped.
               His look frightened Susan; it was wild and desperate, and yet so sad and hopeless
                  for the moment, that she, beholding, could not control the compassionating impulse
                  that led her to exclaim:
               "Where could I go, Clarence?" And then his satisfaction seemed so great at the
                  picture of loneliness and helplessness her words presented, that she,
                  half-indignant, half-exultant, said, with a strong inward voice, to her poor
                  heart, "But I have a home—I can go to Mr. Leighton;" and some little comfort she
                  drew up from that reflection, although in the same moment she rebuked herself by
                  the assurance that she should never go to him, never while Clarence stood in need
                  of her in such ways as Mr. Falcon had pointed out.
               Clarence now suddenly began to look upon himself as Susan's entertainer, for the
                  hour at least; and industriously he set about the task, delightful to him, of
                  amusing her. He brought down from the library shelves volume after volume, and did
                  finally succeed in greatly interesting her. And she forgot that she was Susan, and
                  he Clarence—that this was the Hall library into which she had but now come as into
                  a prison cell—that Mr. Leighton's letter was lying in her bosom, with a secret
                  that no soul should share with her, not even Stella Cammon, whom Mr. Falcon was so
                  long in bringing.
               
               Now Lucia Tree had met with a loss. But she was not yet aware of it—she had so
                  many other thoughts in her mind—but De Lisle Layard was aware of it, and so was
                  David Baldwin. They, however, were not cognizant of the fact in the same sense
                  that she was yet to be. On the table, which was gradually being disburdened of its
                  medley of curious trifles from many foreign lands, which have gone, we may here
                  state for the gratification of the curious reader; to enrich the convent parlor,
                  and Aunt Judith's mantel—sacred as relies are they to Aunt Judith. ... on this
                  table was lying at this moment, while David and Layard are walking up the avenue,
                  and ascending the stone steps of the hall, a trifling scroll which the latter
                  picked up in the street last evening, and over which his mind bent plotting all
                  night long. How true it is that there is no waste in creation! that nothing in the
                  world is lost—that a thing called into being is in being forever! From the "lost
                  arts" which are living ideas in the minds of their vanished originators forever
                  and ever, in one shape or another, to this scrap of paper with a badly-executed
                  face upon it, which Lucia dropped last night when she went hurrying home from her
                  interview with Rose, there's nothing lost, nor can be. Ideas are eternal—and scraps of paper made of rags and
                  straw may be also of eternal import.
               A little while ago, Layard said to David, carelessly unrolling the drawing:
               "Saw you ever face like that?"
               David took the paper, held it in various light—curiously scanned it.
               "The longer you look the less like is it. I thought at first, but it is not so
                  like him—if I look longer I shall not see it at all."
               "See who?" said Layard, restraining his interest in the answer that should be, so
                  that it seemed the utmost 
                     carelesness
                     carelessness
                   of questioning.
               "The professor—Leighton," said Baldwin.
               "His face occurred to me at once," said Layard, well satisfied with the
                  answer...
               "It is a little singular, that the men who have been proposed as candidates for
                  the presidency of the college are, not one of them, popular. There is some serious
                  objection raised against them. Suppose we come forward with an entirely new name,
                  we should carry the election beyond a question. And there is no man I know of who
                  would in time do such essential service to the college itself—so conduce to its
                  growth and fair fame, as Professor Mark Leighton. Do you remember with what
                  enthusiasm the students all regarded him?"
               Upon this the young men entered into an argument and discussion, as to the actual
                  qualifications of Leighton for this office. They did not entirely agree about
                  them, for David had no purpose to serve, and consequently took a more sober survey
                  of the matter—but Layard persisted in maintaining the points first advanced, that
                  as Leighton's qualifications for the position were beyond question, so was the
                  certainty of his election, if his name were brought forward.
               They had not dropped the discussion when they entered the library where Susan and
                  Clarence were, they were still speaking of it, and an eager listener they had in
                  the young girl who talked now so busily with Clarence, when Stella Cammon was
                  shown into the room by Mr. Baldwin, who had detained Falcon in the hall, and back
                  to whom he went immediately for a special conversation on the all-absorbing topic
                  of the time—with him at least—of Clarence, and the probabilities in reference to
                  Susan.
               Does any one note the peculiar satisfaction of Mr. De Lisle Layard's heart, which
                  manifests itself in his genial and abundant discourse? does any eye observe the
                  rapidity of his glances—how his eyes flash from David to Stella, and from Stella
                  back to David, until they absolutely seem to impart their meaning to the heart of
                  David, to inform him with new perceptions, new impulses, new desires?
               You may read admiration merely—but you read that with distinctness so that you
                  think you cannot have erred in this—in the eyes of David Baldwin as he extends the
                  courtesy of the house towards this young and imposing woman. You may read more in
                  the face of Susan, if you go beyond the timid joy that shines from her glowing
                  face. She thought in truth the last time that Stella came, when Miss Baldwin was
                  with her also, that Stella was magnificent—she does not look less so to the
                  child's eyes now—and she wondered that day, and she is wondering again, if David,
                  who speaks so much to her, and yet whose conversation is so different from that
                  addressed by him to all other persons, so far as her observation has extended, and
                  Susan's observation extends further and wider than you might guess, she wondered
                  then and wonders now, if David does not think Stella Cammon "splendid," and if he
                  can help loving her? For how can anybody help it?
               
               As to Clarence, he sees nothing but Susan. Stella reigns, and Layard labors, but
                  he knows nothing of it. He has no world but his own.
               In those few minutes two things have become settled in Layard's mind—two plans are
                  prominent among his multitude of plans.
               And when, in good time—his own time, deliberately taken, for never yet was he in
                  haste, when De Lisle Layard comes to speak again of the college and of Professor
                  Leighton, his eyes, it is true, are not fastened upon Stella, but he sees the
                  face, and knows the effort with which it preserves its quiet, the force with which
                  she controls her voice from speech... The picture that he found last night was
                  drawn by her beyond a doubt... the dashing and fearless lines had proclaimed it to
                  be hers, as well as the initials he read in the corner of the paper just under the
                  drawing. Now, wherefore had she drawn it? what motive had impelled her hand? in
                  what relation stood she to that man?
               He had hoped that surprise would break her silence—where had she seen the man? why
                  had she made the picture of him? wherefore did she keep these things a secret, if
                  they were a secret with her? He could not answer these questions. But he did ask a
                  question on which, in turn, Stella pondered long in her heart, though she answered
                  at once with quiet ease, that was only not careless indifference—Had she ever met
                  with Mr. Leighton?
               "Oh yes."
               "Not in St. John's?" said Layard and David Baldwin in one breath.
               Stella hesitated and glanced at Susan, but the hesitation was so brief, the glance
                  so inadvertent, none but Layard could have noticed it. But Susan seemed to
                  understand the look, and gave assent to it.
               "At the beach," said Stella, "in the summer when I was visiting Susan."
               And they went on to talk of other things, the circle being meantime enlarged by
                  the entrance of Isidore and Horace Chilton, and presently by the presence of
                  Ishmael and Mr. Falcon.
               Half an hour passed swiftly away in gay conversation, of which, in spite of
                  herself, Stella Cammon was the soul and spirit. Ishmael, in the corner of the
                  room, near Susan, watched her, and made up his mind that she, of all the women in
                  the city, was the wife for David—for the old man, since his thoughts had dwelt so
                  much on the affairs of his son Clarence, could hardly think at all off the line
                  matrimonial; and thus do we account for it that, before the party broke up, he was
                  leading Stella in a sort of triumph through the conservatory and the garden,
                  himself captivated by her beauty, and won by the charm of her manners and
                  conversation. David, in unconscious obedience to the will of some of those around
                  him, was pursuing the same vein of contemplation; and presently he followed in his
                  father's steps, joining him and Stella in the garden, to Mr. Baldwin's great
                  delight.
               Then there was Mr. Falcon observant of these symptoms, and shrinking from them,
                  though, be it observed, in a manly and triumphant way, for he was doubtful,
                  unbelieving, when Isidore said, "How dare David trust himself in the hand of the
                  greatest coquette in St. John's. Mr. Falcon you had best go look after that
                  susceptible brother of mine."
               And he was content to remain in the library, and sit down by Susan's side and
                  enter into chat with her, with rather a grateful emotion rising toward De Lisle
                  Layard the while, who had said so opportunely:
               "Nay, Mr. Falcon. If David has a heart of flesh we should bless the lady who can
                  make the discovery. For myself, I know
                  the man, and I believe his heart is harder than Pharaoh's."
               At which Isidore turned to Horace Chilton, who stood in her shadow:
               "Is she not peerless, Mr. Chilton?" she asked, intending that he should aver she
                  was in no way so.
               "I know not but she might be, seen under other circumstances with other
                  surroundings—she has labored under disadvantage here," was the courtly answer.
                  Horace said it without blushing, and with an emphasis quite unmistakable.
               Isidore made no answer to the remark, but turned partly away with a smile that
                  pleased him. He actually thought he had said the good thing in the ear already
                  poisoned by flatteries. Turning again towards Horace, she laid her hands with
                  careless familiarity on his arm, and her eyes looked straight into his.
               "We shall, some of us, go to the concert to-night. Come and accompany us." That
                  was his reward. As he murmured his thanks in her hearing his eyes said still more
                  than his words, Could she see as well as hear?
               What though she did? If she could so wrong as to madden him, until, like the
                  fallen Nebuchadnezzar, he was brought to a sometime level with the beasts of the
                  field, there might be a hope for Horace. Hope that he would rise from that bestial
                  degradation to the life and the doing of a man. But otherwise, elsewhere, was
                  there a hope for him? that he would emerge ever from the plane of this present?
                  from its enervations, and miscalled refinements, which are but demoralizations?
                  From hungering and thirsting after the crumbs of rich men's tables, from the
                  worship of grandeur, or what assumes the name, from the shadow of the purple and
                  fine linen that waves through perfumed chambers, would he ever turn, hopeless of
                  good from them, to the fresh air of heaven and communion with truth?
               It would seem as if insanity were in the question?
               
               No man of energy can give himself to a purpose, good, bad, or indifferent, and
                  long be conscious of obstacles. Barriers to be leaped, hedges, ditches, what not,
                  marshes to be spanned with one effort, mountains to be scaled, but add to the zest
                  with which the accomplished sportsman dashes onward in pursuit of game.
               Impediments come in good time to prove themselves the helps and aids of striving
                  men. They quicken the action of the brain—the faculties become more powerful to
                  endure, more ready to devise, more swift to execute, under the ministry or
                  discipline of obstacles. They serve, moreover, in another way. Though they appear
                  in threatening form, impassable, disheartening, the daring hand suddenly
                  transforms them from hinderances to humblest servitude. They not only awaken
                  dormant, unimagined energies—they themselves are made to serve.
               We are led to these reflections in view of what De Lisle Layard's course has been
                  hitherto, not in consideration of what it is to be. He seems to have rid himself
                  of obstacles altogether, with the rising of this new theme of the college
                  president. On this day, as he goes from the Hall, he is thinking in the same
                  direction with David Baldwin and his father, but his thought outruns theirs, and
                  is freighted with weightier consequences. He has observed the deep impression made
                  to-day by Stella Cammon's beauty, grace and spirit—this girl shall serve him
                  yet.
               If a man lives in the world who is her father, she shall be thrown upon him—nay,
                  she shall throw herself upon him, in the haste and passion of a heart which
                     Aunt Judith has found it perfectly
                  impossible to comprehend or govern...
               If there is any love of the beautiful in David Baldwin's spirit—if he has any
                  sense, any appreciation of the fitness of form and idea—if he has an eye that can
                  be enchanted, an ear that can be caught, a soul that can be saved-even to this
                  extent does De Lisle Layard argue—that man shall follow him into the Church of
                  Rome, and bring back Stella with him. Poor Aunt Judith shall be reconciled; he,
                  the priestly Layard, sees a fair sky above him, a smooth path before him. He shall
                  not need to plod on in obscurity—without a fear he may resign the post he holds—he
                  need count the cost no longer.
               Clearly he perceives how it will be with David Baldwin. He will be interested
                  presently in the life of another, as they are interested, when fairly aroused, who
                  have been sceptical in all their modes of thought where human creatures were
                  concerned; he will look presently, as dreaming poets dare to do, on life, and
                  love, and woman. His brain will be wholly alive—that rare generosity and chivalry
                  of nature which has so long been hidden, shall come forth. Stella shall discover
                  him. Not to herself, perhaps; it may possibly, yet hardly, not be that this will
                  follow, but the rest Layard dares rely upon as the inevitable result of the cause
                  which has this day operated. At least, this much is certain: one more living man
                  is in the world—efficient, powerful; and that man loves De Lisle Layard. This much
                  he says is true-he has ascertained its certainty.
               Assuredly, to-morrow Professor Leighton's name shall be talked of in the
                  college—Miss Mar shall hear the name of David Baldwin—and the heir of St. John's
                  Hall shall not forget that Stella Cammon is a beauty, living in the world, bearing
                  a woman's heart within her breast.
            
            
               XLII.
               LUCIA had risen with the sun, and was diligently occupied with her drawing—for she
                  must somewhere find the time to make amends for the hours of the morning which she
                  intended to give to Rose—when suddenly she dropped her pencil, and began a
                  distracting investigation of recollections, which put Vane even, and his unlooked
                  for departure, away from her mind, where it had abode all night, and thus far into
                  the day. But all this ransacking of memory availed not in the least; whether she
                  took the drawing Stella gave her away from Stella's room, and if so, what had
                  become of it, was precisely the thing about which she could come to no conclusion
                  whatever.
               But she was still endeavoring to do so, when she heard a quick foot-fall in the
                  quiet street. How suddenly she lifted her head from the table, on which it was
                  bent in the midst of her distraction! and she does precisely the thing that the
                  reader anticipates, extends the troubled head beyond the window-sill, and looks
                  down into the street.
               He is standing on the door-step—he has a letter in his hand—it is Vane; and she
                  speaks to him.
               "I thought you were gone," she says—so glad she is, seeing that he is not gone. He
                  hears, and answers:
               "And so I am. I ran up with this note for you; but when I arrived, I could not
                  tell what to do with it. I forgot the early hour—shall I take it back to the post?
                  It is only a good-bye to you."
               The head was withdrawn without replying, and instantly—it seemed the work of
                  magic—the street-door was unbolted. Vane, who waited, knowing she would come,
                  thrust the letter into Lucia's hands as the door opened, and
                     said hurriedly:
               
               "Good-bye. I have said all in the note. I shall be too late if I stay now. I did
                  not think to see you, but I am very glad that it happened so—very glad indeed,
                  Lucia."
               He caught her hand, and was gone. But she had the letter—she had seen him. With
                  this rare morning vision, Lucia went back to her chamber—with his last look and
                  his letter.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR LUCIA," said the letter: "I was so disappointed not to see you
                              to-night; I had something to say to you—at the very least, farewell. I
                              felt disappointed then, but now I find that there is, and was, a great
                              deal more in my mind to say than that solitary word. It is a sad word,
                              but I do not say it sadly. Farewell! how could you fare any otherwise?
                              If I had spoken it then, I should have said very little beside; and so
                              I am glad you were away. I may never see you again. You know not how
                              often I have said that to myself; and yet I can add with the poet,
                              "Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all!'
                              We have been true friends, Lucia—have we not? We struck hearts over
                              our promises to help one another, and I believe in my soul that we
                              have kept the promise sacred. I have, at least, nothing but thanks to
                              offer you—so much good you have done me! I believe I have not been
                              living in a lowly little room over a work-shop this summer—not down
                              here in the midst of confusion, and sultriness, and dust, amongst men
                              of trade and toil. I think I have not been dining at the rather shabby
                              table of a fourth-rate boarding-house. I have been travelling about,
                              living in every sunny land where beauty lives, from the land of the
                              Parisian to that of the Damascene. I have seen a sky broader than
                              stretches over the desert, and constellations moving in magnificence,
                              undiscovered by the most famous of all the astronomers.
                           "I have walked in gardens where every flower grew in more than common
                              grace, and blossomed with far more than ordinary glory. I have worked
                              under the best skylight for an artist; the best models have been
                              around me. I have grown rich, and great, and lived in princely state,
                              doing all honor, Lucia, to my own renown. Do not look so surprised. I
                              will tell you how all this has happened, and you will see how true it
                              is—that this is not fancy, nor nonsense. I have found in my heart all
                              this scenery and splendor, and I never should have seen it but for
                              you. Have you not helped me, then? If this is dreaming, I would not
                              exchange the faculty for the world of realities. You have made
                              impossible things possible to me. You have shown me the path by which
                              I might tread, with a man's stride, into this realm. I have gone into
                              it, and did not find the dominion desolate and lonely with all its
                              beauty. I found life there. Your thoughts and my thoughts have peopled
                              the solitudes; the temples had more graceful spires, because we looked
                              at them together; and they cleft the heavens. We were the friends of
                              the architects; they told us more about their work than they have told
                              others. The gardens had fountains—the water that flashed in the sun
                              was purer, it sparkled more brightly than any I have seen
                              elsewhere—they seemed like the spontaneous uplifting of the river of
                              life... the trees were laden with flowers of tropical regions—and the
                              birds swept through the air as if descending from above, not soaring
                              from beneath. You have given me this region, a fairy-land I had before
                              I knew you, but not a holy-land. No thoughts, only vague longings; no
                              thoughts, pure as angels, walked in that fairy-land—no life was
                              there—nothing vital was in the earth or sky, or in any of the glory
                              with which I delighted to furnish it. You have made life
                              harmonious—and self-consciousness a delight for me... Have I done
                              anything in turn for you who have wrought such precious results for me out of the
                              raw materials you found?"... Had he, reader, do you think? See—the sun
                              is shining in the room—in broad relief you behold the youthful
                              figure—has he done anything for her? But me thinks this sunny creature
                              should not weep... nay she is not weeping; those bright tears have
                              fallen, have gathered but slowly—she herself is not aware of them.
                              "But, Lucia, this seems almost idle talk. Idle it would be had I
                              nothing more to say—had I no deeper obligation to confess. I went into
                              the woods to-day. William, no doubt, has told you that we met there. I
                              was troubled. Did you know it? I had heard evil news from the house
                              where I was born; Professor Layard told me that my father was very
                              ill—and dangerously so. My first thought... I will tell it you, that
                              you may see and believe what you have done—my first thought was hard
                              and evil. Is it anything to me, I said, that my father is dying? Has
                              be not been dead to me these many years? I know I am his only son—his
                              only living child, but he sent me adrift, and I will not float back
                              again... And many other thoughts I had, and many arguments about it...
                              It troubled me so much that I could not endure my work-room, nor the
                              sound of the city, I could not endure anything near me—I wanted to go
                              away alone, and be rid of myself. But myself went with me into the
                              woods. There was no enchantment, there no holy-land—nothing but dead
                              fallen leaves, and a brook somewhat too noisy, and some chattering
                              birds, and nut-hunting squirrels. I know I could have built palaces of
                              less rich material, and made magnificent tapestries of inferior trees,
                              and a grayer sky; but I had no skill—to-day there were no fairies, no
                              princesses in the woods—I only heard one sound, and sometimes it had
                              the tone of my mother's, and sometimes the tone of your voice—and it
                              said to me, Your father is old, and poor, and dying—old, poor, dying
                              ing—and I remembered that my mother had loved him. The words rang in
                              my ear with a changeless monotony. I could not forget them—I could not
                              get away from them. And so I am going. And it is you that send me! Do
                              you wonder still? Have I not seen you in your father's house? Know I
                              not what you are doing there? There is something more beautiful than
                              art, and you have shown it me, and made me love it—something there is,
                              dear Lucia, and you have taught me thus, more enticing than Fame; and
                              I know that you have pleaded with her till she has called and claimed
                              me. And now I am going, as Abraham did, not knowing whither. To the
                              old village, you say—that is true. And not able to show to the people
                              who called me a proud, ungovernable, high-handed boy, any great result
                              of my going. But what waits for me there—or when or how I shall come
                              again, I know not. It is an undiscovered country—but I shall return.
                              If I come back to work at the old trade (for my father's comfort is
                              what I must look after, so you have bidden me, and I have not been
                              able yet to lay by much money), will you still have me for your
                              friend, I wonder? or will you be proud, and beyond reach, and
                              forgetful by that time? You cannot make me believe that—I hardly think
                              that you would try; you are so good and true, it will not be pleasant
                              for you to study to be false and evil. I go sure of this, you'll not
                              forget your friend.
                           "Certainly, if I live, I shall come again, and, therefore, I only say
                              farewell; and yet, assuredly, how is this, Lucia? I do not leave you
                              behind me. I carry my palace, and the princess, and the fairest of all
                              lands with me; having all things, even all things in the thought of
                              you... Do you not go with me?
                           
                              "W. VANE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               XLIII.
               LUCIA had but entered on her dream. Rose had ended hers. The dream of Rose began
                  in selfish recklessness, in evil passionateness, in wayward vanity, and we have
                  seen the end; how Lucia's did begin we know—but its ending, if any end it have, is
                  not with us, or here.
               But never fell such light upon her paper, as, in this early morning, while she
                  goes on with her work. Even the facts of the condition of poor Rose look hopeful
                  to her now: she knows that though the house is small there is room in it for her
                  sister; and she vows, that if striving with the obdurate will of others can effect
                  it, Rose shall come home again. And she works faster and faster, and the work that
                  she does satisfies her; she sings over it, sketching all the while far different
                  pictures from those on which her hands are employed, and Wadsworth Vane is the
                  central figure of them all.
               If she has done so much for him, all this that he has said, and how shall she
                  doubt it? he has never spoken to her but from the depths of an honest and a good
                  heart—if she has done so much for him, what has he not done for her? What, without
                  his encouragement and criticism, would she have been?—but in other, and nameless,
                  and countless ways, he has served her; she knows, sees, feels it, and it is the
                  joy of the thought that the debt is not all hers, that he has written this letter
                  to her, that he is coming again; it is this joy that lightens her spirit—that
                  calms her heart even while it exalts her in beatitude, and she, too, waking,
                  dreams—and floats in the sweet dream on golden wings under clouds that have their
                  "silver linings" turned all inside out, above a golden sea. They who are happy
                  inwardly can see nothing of darkness—wherever their eyes rest they communicate
                  municate pervading light; their wishes are transformed into easy possibilities;
                  the energy of hope becomes the energy of act by a most natural process. For true
                  happiness supposes faith as well as joy—and faith, we all know, is sufficient to
                  move mountains.
               Therefore, when the hour which to herself she had appointed, came, guarding her
                  purpose still from all observation, taking counsel only by her own holy hope,
                  Lucia left the house, and bent her steps towards Rose.
               The hour approached noon. She had chosen that hour, supposing that Mortimer
                  Maurice would be away at that time, if he went out in the day, and it was her
                  intention to discover whether he had gone of some one of the lodgers in the
                  house.
               But all precaution, all effort on her part was, as we already know, useless, vain.
                  There was no Maurice in the world henceforth, at least for Lucia's fear. She had
                  no need to look to him for further molestation, annoyance, or frustration of any
                  cause in which she might engage. He had work of his own to do.
               As she went rapidly down the street, looking neither to the right nor left, making
                  her way less by sight than by instinct, it seemed, a heavy hand fell on her
                  shoulder—something obstructed her passage through the crowd... Will stood for a
                  second fronting her, the next instant he had drawn her towards the wall of a
                  building where they were beyond the rush of feet.
               "You must go home," said he, in a hoarse undertone, as if fearful, even in the
                  midst of the confusion of the street, of being overheard. Lucia looked at him—his
                  face was ashy pale, his eyes fixed wildly on her—he gave her no time to
                  question.
               "You must go home and tell father—"
               "Quick, Will! what is it?" she exclaimed aloud, in fear.
               
               "That Rose is dead—and I am going to bring her home."
               Instead of speaking, or flying at his bidding, Lucia leaned against the brick
                  wall, and looked more like one at death's door, than a fit messenger for an errand
                  like this.
               "Fool!" exclaimed Will. "I might have known better. What shall I do with you?
                  Lucia—Lucia! you must bear up."
               "Wait... I will go... in a minute... It was so sudden, Will."
               Will seemed now to come to his senses, and he beckoned to a cabman driving by, and
                  leading Lucia—he would have carried her, but she seemed now strengthened
                  wonderfully, he said:
               "Can you do it if I go back—can you tell father—and be ready when we come?"
               There was no need to ask—scarcely a need that she should answer Will, who saw this
                  sudden change in her. The shock was borne and overcome; with a steady step Lucia
                  went forward, gave her address to the driver, bidding him make all speed; the man
                  obeyed her.
               In the same place where she had left him when she went from the house but now, her
                  father sits toiling with his pen. He does not look up when Lucia enters; not that
                  he fails to hear her, but he recognizes the step, and when she went away they had
                  exchanged a little pleasant talk—he has no more time now to spare.
               But his daughter comes up to his table, he must find time to spare; he must bring
                  his labor to an end for today: her hand falls less heavily upon his shoulder, she
                  arrests him more gently than she was arrested in the street by Will. Mr. Tree
                  looks up surprised at Lucia on account of the interruption: his daughter and
                  himself are on excellent terms, but this, really is, to say the least, rather a
                  novel experiment on her part, and he is evidently not quite decided as to how he
                  shall take the familiarity.
               No time is given for consideration of the point. With terrible suddenness, say it
                  in what form she will, with what caution and tenderness, the truth is still the
                  truth, the fact the fact, with terrible suddenness it comes to him—his oldest
                  child is dead—his first-born child is dead. And she is coming home—they are even
                  now on the way, bringing her.
               She cannot tell him how Rose died; but last night she saw her, Lucia says: she
                  tells him boldly, with no sign of hesitation; she was going to her this morning,
                  when Will sent her back again with this intelligence. It must have been a sudden
                  death, he thinks and says, as he stands in the middle of the room, and looks about
                  him, stunned by what he has heard—striving in vain to collect himself, while Lucia
                  draws out his writing-table, and gathers up the papers, and removes them to an
                  inner room, and is thoughtful to lay them away in a safe place. The wrinkles in
                  the old man's face, which Lucia said were disappearing one by one, are all back
                  again, and lie deeper in their furrows than before; he stands drooping, and pale,
                  and inefficient, unequal to the emergency, watchful of Lucia's every movement, and
                  knowing in his heart that an angel is with him in the room—an angel too that
                  ministers to him. But it is nevertheless Rose who is dead, his first-born
                  child—his unfortunate Rose... he remembers that he named her; that of all names
                  borne by women he had chosen that, one of the proudest, as the best for her. This
                  thought runs through his mind, drawing after it a crowd of recollections—the
                  bitter are weightier, more numerous, than the sweet; but somehow, it may be that
                  he has grown too weak, and old, and foolish, to bear a stern front now, as well as a heavy heart, he cannot bear
                  up in wrath, or in the callousness of pride; he is broken—his tears fall as rain
                  bursting from a thunder-cloud, and he rushes away when the sound of many feet
                  comes up the street, leaving Lucia waiting for their approach, alone.
               But he goes not to comfort his wife—he does not remember—no one in this house
                  remembers it—that she is the mother of the dead.
               Does she remember it? She is lying on her bed sipping the coffee, partaking the
                  delicate food Lucia prepared for her before she went into the street, for this is
                  her hour of breakfast—when the noise of those many feet falls on her ear; drawing
                  aside her curtain she looks out, and is astonished at the crowd. It is strange
                  that they should stop here, directly before her door; what can impede their
                  progress? But they are bearing something: she looks out with a deeper curiosity,
                  the people are so quiet; it is a crowd without disturbance, a singular sight in a
                  city street. She leans up against the window—she sees now clearer—it is a body
                  that they bear—and what is this? Will? can it be he who seems to direct all these
                  men?... They move on—the relief the woman feels as they do so, tells her how great
                  her anxiety has been. But what are they now doing? They are halting again—the
                  bearers have but changed their position, they surely cannot—oh, what is this!
                  again they are moving forward, but not beyond, they are entering within the
                  house!
               From the window she turns away. God pity her! she has but herself to rely on in a
                  struggle and time like this! She stands in her room and listens—listens—listens.
                  That is Lucia's voice... That is Will now speaking... how they walk about in the
                  little room below!... now the crowd is going away... it is still in the house as
                  death. As Death! Will no one come and help her? Who can help her? what can man or
                  woman do for her?
               Why, they can lift the fallen body from the floor where it has fallen... they can
                  bring aromatic vinegar, and every other restorative known of the healing art; they
                  can rub the cold limbs till the blood runs freely in its courses, and the eyes
                  open, and the heart beats evenly, keeping time to the tune of her life... but who
                  shall chase away the terror that has come to madden the brain, that has cheated
                  itself of life in its dread, and its love, and its fear of shadows? Who for her
                  shall now smooth the pillow, and arrange the bed, adorn the hair, and make the
                  person comely? She robbed herself of life—who can dare to think of this maniacal
                  substitution? of the kingdom into which, from the self-government of sloth and
                  selfishness, she comes as a servant and minister? so terribly active now, she who
                  has been all these years so passive, so monstrously passive. She, too, has
                  sometimes talked of a divorce—and now she has it—and what has she beside? Reader,
                  she has, Herself... Is it not inevitable that we should all, sooner or later, come
                  into possession of the good we most resolutely crave and seek? Did this woman
                  ever, think you, know what it was she sought? and when she found, dost think that
                  she was satisfied? For that self unto which she was given, was Hell!
            
            
               XLIV.
               IN the public parlor of the convent, where all guests are received, two women, the
                  nun and Miss Mar, are talking over a very private affair together.
               The superior and two or three persons beside are also there, and the sound of
                  other voices, and the presence of those other persons, are a relief to Aunt
                  Judith, who looks anxious and agitated,
                  and who would be embarrassed if she were alone with the nun.
               Theresa has greatly the advantage, for she perceives that Miss Mar is even now in
                  doubt as to whether she is quite right in looking on herself as wronged and
                  injured by the nun. The good woman is full of distress, and perplexity, and
                  consternation. She is no longer in doubt as to how things go spiritually in the
                  mind of Stella; that heretical young woman appears before her mind now rid of all
                  the delusions which Aunt Judith has contrived to fasten upon her in the fondness
                  and persistence of her hope.
               The rosary and crucifix hang on the wall in Stella's chamber still—the table with
                  the sacred books of the Church still stands beneath them; Aunt Judith saw them
                  there this very morning. Stella has done nothing violent in the way of
                  repudiation: has said nothing cruel, or sharp, or bitter, or blasphemous; Miss Mar
                  cannot recall a solitary word, for she as well as Stella has carefully avoided the
                  subject of the Church these many days; but the belief has been growing,
                  strengthening, daily, that the Church has lost a daughter. She refrains from
                  asking the dreadful question outright of her who alone could answer it; she
                  instead groans out her fear in Layard's hearing, confesses to Father Francis, and
                  comes now, in the forlornness of her hope, to the nun, Theresa.
               She calls to mind the teacher's influence, the hold that she has ever had on
                  Stella's affections, and in her trouble is disposed to throw the blame of Stella's
                  recreancy even upon her. Why has she allowed it, she living in the Church and for
                  it, why has she permitted her pupil to go so far astray?
               Miss Mar has vexed herself thinking of this point until she could no longer endure
                  her thoughts, and she has come now in person to Theresa to make her complaint, or
                  at least her investigation... for complaint it did not seem quite possible for her
                  to make when she came into actual contact with the nun. Not, at least, till she
                  had forgotten herself, and was carried away by her subject; not till, in view of
                  the magnitude of Stella's offending and danger, she lost all sense of the
                  composure, the grand quiet of the woman with whom she spoke. Then it was that she
                  said, in the height of her poor spiritual pride, for the nun's tranquillity
                  outraged her sense of duty to the Church:
               "Weak as I am, it has been given me to do great things for another. There is De
                  Lisle Layard ready to come into the Church to-day, and to sacrifice all his
                  prospects to her interest, out of love for her. So powerful is the Church she
                  needs but the faithful service of her children, and even the weakest can do mighty
                  things for her."
               "But then," said the nun, "you do not consider, Miss Mar, you implicate yourself
                  saying that. I do not deny the truth you advance, but your application of it. If
                  so much power was in your hands, the blame of Stella's dereliction falls upon
                  yourself."
               Miss Mar did not immediately answer; she had to collect herself, to acquire a
                  little additional courage before she said:
               "It was not given me, but you. I had not the influence over her that you had. De
                  Lisle is my witness that I have not been unfaithful to my holy mother, but I could
                  do nothing with her."
               "And I could not!" said the nun.
               The tone in which she said it, so openly, and, so it seemed to Aunt Judith, so
                  carelessly, did not appease the listener.
               "I think you could," she said.
               'Pardon me, sister, you should not think at all about it," responded the nun.
               
               But Miss Mar did not receive the rebuke. The nun's words and manner slew outright
                  what lingering hope she had, that Stella was but wayward, that at heart she still
                  was true to her childhood's faith.
               "I ought to think," she said, hastily. "I am bound to think. I have brought her
                  up, a poor foundling—the Church gave her to me, and I feel some responsibility. I
                  ought now to be able to give her back to the Church in one way or another. I sent
                  her here to school, her teacher obtained the strongest hold on her affections; was
                  herself in the Church, what had I a right to expect—a heretic? Even if she did not
                  choose to become a sister of charity, which I was not at all desirous that she
                  should be, though I would have offered no obstacle in her way; if she would only
                  take her proper place elsewhere I should be satisfied; if she would appear in
                  society and exhibit there the beauty and holiness of the Church, I would be glad;
                  if she married I would provide for her—she is my child: I have always looked upon
                  her so. But what have I nursed? a viper in my bosom—she stings me!"
               "Poor Stella!" sighed the nun, when Aunt Judith, in much agitation, ceased
                  speaking. "You are cruel, Miss Mar."
               "I have suffered more than I can inflict," she replied, quickly. "It seems to me
                  that you might understand it," she continued, with more deference. "You know in
                  your own heart, what I feel." She paused; the nun was silent. Miss Mar looked at
                  her, and saw that her eyes were full of tears, but the calm face betrayed in no
                  other way the emotion to which Miss Mar's words had given rise. All the good
                  woman's wrath passed away before those silent tears; for a moment she could not
                  speak, but soon she went on again. "Forgive me—you do appreciate my distress," she
                  said. "I have not told you all—I am in deadly fear of Mr. Falcon." The nun bent
                  forward and listened more intently; and, beguiled by the tears she had seen too
                  far to be easily roused to any new suspicion, too much rejoicing in the belief
                  that she had found sympathy in her trouble at last, she did not see that an inward
                  smile had smoothed away the trouble in the spirit of the nun. "I think that you
                  will say there is not a young lady in St. John's that will compare for beauty, and
                  grace, and dignity, with my Stella—our Stella," she corrected herself; and she
                  read a decided assent in the smile that half revealed itself in the face of her to
                  whom she appealed. "She is equal to any place; and, I may confide it to you, De
                  Lisle tells me that Mr. David Baldwin has quite lost his heart on her account. I
                  confess I am ambitious for her—I want her to do well; there is nothing in the way.
                  Why should she throw herself away on a man like this Mr. Falcon? He is twenty
                  years older than she—a good man no doubt; but a heretic, and poor. You say Mr.
                  Baldwin is a heretic also, and that the only difference between the two men is,
                  that one is young and rich, and the other old and not very well-to-do. That is
                  difference enough for a mother; I assure you I have all a mother's feelings for
                  Stella Cammon—whose child is she if not mine? But I inform you there are other
                  points of difference between the two." Here Miss Mar drew herself up and paused a
                  moment, looking steadfastly upon her listener, who, in spite of herself, it must
                  be confessed, was becoming a very deeply-interested listener.
               "David Baldwin is De Lisle Layard's particular friend. De Lisle says that a great
                  change is about to take place. De Lisle confides in me as a son in his mother, and
                  I in you as a sister, for we are all interested together in Stella's welfare. You
                  wish her best good, I am sure?"
               The nun answered this interrogative with an almost impatient gesture.
               
               "Layard's conversion has produced a good effect—his friend is thinking about these
                  things. Mr. Baldwin has many excellent points, and De Lisle informs me that his
                  talents are more than fair. If he becomes also a convert to our dear mother, and
                  confesses his allegiance to her, would not the believing husband sanctify the
                  wife? and other riches of this vain world would come into the holy treasury! Oh,
                  think of these things—make Stella think of them! I cannot endure that she should
                  throw herself away, and be lost on that Mr. Falcon! Do think what insane folly it
                  is! Don't let her do it!"
               The nun's head bent upon her breast in deep thoughtfulness. Miss Mar followed up
                  her entreaties:
               "Do tell me that you'll save her!"
               "I?" said the nun, looking up, speaking so solemnly, so doubtingly, that Aunt
                  Judith hesitated, even in the midst of the importunate pleading she intended to
                  renew.
               "I know nothing of Mr. Falcon, nothing of Mr. Baldwin. I know not what I could or
                  should say."
               Something Aunt Judith saw in the nun's pale face, something she heard in her
                  voice, that prevented the words she was about to utter. She was afraid to speak
                  them—she seemed to see herself in some new light that startled her. Another
                  moment, and the opportunity for speaking them was gone, for the convent-bell rang,
                  and the nun instantly arose.
               "I must go to my pupils," she said—and nothing of the relief she felt because of
                  this necessity was apparent in her countenance or voice; taking Miss Mar's hand in
                  parting, she, for the first time, sought a soothing word to speak; "I will pray
                  the Father that he may send the Comforter to you," she said, softly, and glided
                  away.
               She did not go at once into the school-room, but first ascended to the silence of
                  her cell. But unconscious of a purpose when she arrived there, as it seemed, for
                  she merely entered the room, gazed round upon it, for a moment looked out on the
                  busy street, up into heaven, and towards the garden where the dusty trees waved in
                  the dusty air, and then descended to the labor of the morning. If any change there
                  was in her since her previous descent, when summoned to receive her visitor, it
                  was such as a careless glancing eye would not detect; it appeared in a deeper
                  serenity and a loftier spiritual vision; as one who had been exalted might look in
                  the joy of satisfied faith.
               But poor Miss Mar went home to find Mr. Falcon and De Lisle Layard waiting in her
                  parlor... to sit down with them as their hostess, and find herself beguiled away
                  from her distresses in the necessity there was for her entertainment of the guests
                  in the absence of Stella, who had gone to comfort Lucia; to hearken, wondering, in
                  spite of herself, to the speech of the elder man, that so much good should have
                  come out of Nazareth.
            
            
               XLV.
               SUSAN having once received the thought that Mr. Falcon had brought before her,
                  that with her, in all truth, the life, more than the human life, even the mind of
                  Clarence, was intrusted, answered every expectation that he had formed—she aroused
                  at once to other considerations than those of her own sorrow and loss, to do with
                  vigilance that service unto which she had been called.
               There was but one thing now against which she needed to be guarded: the exhaustion
                  of her strength, which as yet was, bodily, but weakness. Day after day she went
                  into the library with Clarence for study and recitation—day after day in the
                  garden and the park, in the street—reading, talking, she was continually with
                  him.
               
               Remarkable to witness were the changes through which the recovered man now passed.
                  Susan's name was less and less rarely on his lips, she was not how the constant
                  unvarying burden of his speech, but it was not less evident that all his thoughts
                  were drifting constantly towards her; that she was, only more intelligibly, now
                  the centre of his being; that his life was lived in reference to her.
               She was in bonds to him—and the child knew and felt it. She felt his gaze that
                  ever was upon her—she was imprisoned—all her freedom was gone—the sense of loss,
                  the longing for recovery remained alone.
               No one perceived this—no one entered into the feeling and distress of the child;
                  no one suspected anything like a possibility of it. The house was full of other
                  thoughts. Falcon had his own—Isidore had hers—David his—and each found his
                  absorbing; however surrounded and occupied by outward things, they, one and all of
                  them, had their inner and unseen world to look after and govern.
               Ishmael Baldwin stood nearest to Clarence and Susan, he alone held them in
                  constant survey—and he had no eye for seeing, no insight for detecting aught
                  beyond the surface of affairs. He knew the springs of his son's life were in the
                  life of Susan, and with assurance, and impatience too, he waited—only because Mr.
                  Falcon persisted in the necessity of his waiting—until the moment should arrive
                  when a promise or an oath should bind the two together, beyond possibility of
                  separation, at least in life.
               One day, in view of a confession of his own that he intended soon to make, Falcon
                  said to Susan:
               "I think you do not often take a look at yourself—that is what I want you to do
                  this morning. Do not smile; I shall soon have no right to speak authoritatively as
                  your teacher."
               In consternation Susan dropped the book into which she was looking. What could he
                  mean?
               "Not that I mean to bring a mirror in which you can survey yourself," said Falcon,
                  hastily. "You are much changed since I first saw you—you are quite putting on the
                  woman, getting tall and stately—but that is not it;" he paused a moment, he was
                  slightly embarrassed either by Susan's gaze, or by what he had yet to say to her,
                  or by the thought of something he did not intend to say... "But I want you to see
                  what you are doing, nay, what you have done. Do you ever think of Clarence?" he
                  did not pause for her to make reply—he went on rapidly; he chose rather not to
                  interpret the expression of the youthful and ingenuous countenance before him. "I
                  wanted you to study with him. You know, but perhaps you have not thought about it,
                  how closely and diligently he has studied—how rapidly he has acquired
                  knowledge—how remarkable his progress has been—it is quite as much as ever you can
                  do to keep pace with him... Has he ever spoken to you of his intentions?"
               There were two ways in which Susan might have answered this question; Mr. Falcon
                  had preferred to hear another answer than she gave, for the information contained
                  in her reply was of a secondary importance to him. Of course he knew that she was
                  aware already of this purpose of Clarence.
               "He is going to study medicine."
               "Yes. You remember I told you that it was your place to make a man of him—you have
                  accomplished that."
               "Oh, no, Mr. Falcon," said Susan quickly, shrinking back, and within herself Would
                  they never have done telling her these things?
               "Yes—beyond all question. You, and you alone... But I have noticed that you have
                  applied yourself of late quite too
                  closely. You must take a vacation. I shall soon be obliged to leave the Hall."
               "But you are coming back again, Mr. Falcon?" asked Susan in eager haste, as if in
                  great alarm.
               "Not to teach you..." he saw how her face fell with that announcement, and
                  continued soothingly, at the same time humorously, "why, think of it, Susan, do I
                  look like a fit person to instruct a young lady in the graces of civilized life? I
                  am as ignorant as a barbarian in respect to those accomplishments which must be
                  communicated to you, in some mysterious way or other, I know not how. I could lay
                  the foundation as well, perhaps, as any other man, but for a beautiful
                  superstructure, some more skilful workman must be employed. Very soon Clarence
                  will be prepared for the High School, and then for College, and so I shall have
                  nothing to do, you perceive. You would not have me remain here to idle my time
                  away, I am sure."
               "You will come back then?" said Susan, drawing some sort of consolation from his
                  words.
               "Certainly. I shall live in St. John's."
               "But not here, not in the Hall?"
               "I think not, Susan."
               A long pause followed the utterance of these tidings. Mr. Falcon spoke first to
                  break it—he liked not to look at Susan, she seemed so deeply troubled—this
                  unuttered tribulation, of which her face gave evidence, smote his kind heart.
               "What is Susan thinking of?" said he.
               "Nothing."
               "And has she not a word to say to me?"
               "No, Mr. Falcon."
               "What! when I am going away, it may be tomorrow."
               Susan looked at him, there was no need that she should speak.
               "I am disappointed, Susan." This he said, because he could not bear her
                  silence—her face grew paler and paler, she breathed like one on the point of
                  suffocation. If she should speak, where could she find a place to stop till she
                  had told him how evil a thing life had become to her—that if he went away she must
                  go too, or die? These things must not be said—and Susan knew that they must not
                  be—she could endure more easily than speak her trouble; and therefore, when he
                  said that he was disappointed, she merely shook her head in a beseeching way,
                  which he interpreted.
               "Yes, but I am disappointed. I felt grieved that I should leave you, though I knew
                  I was not really leaving you, and I expected to get some comfort from you—and here
                  you compel me to go away without a particle. Will you not speak to me?"
               Involuntarily Falcon arose as he uttered these words. He stepped hastily forward
                  towards Susan, so strange a struggle was that he saw going on within her. She was
                  as if in deadly conflict with an adversary that threatened to triumph in her
                  speedy and utter defeat.
               She had raised herself upright from the drooping, bowed position in which she
                  listened to his words, her hands, outspread towards him, but not, as he for an
                  instant supposed, beseeching help—waved him away from her as he approached, and he 
                     stook
                     stood
                   back at her bidding. One or two ineffectual efforts she made to
                  speak—again she strove—and then loudly exclaimed:
               "Mr. Falcon, I am very sorry that you should go."
               He sat down now beside her; he, too, was deeply agitated; not the word she had
                  spoken, the simple regret, but the struggle he had witnessed—and the shock, the
                  rent, from which this word alone came forth, for a moment overwhelmed him. But
                  presently his voice came to him—many words he spoke. If any one could soothe
                     that nature, after such a struggle,
                  he could do it; but, comprehending ill the nature of the struggle—for he knew that
                  the news he had brought, alone, dissociated from all other thoughts, could hardly
                  have produced an effect, occasioned a convulsion like that—he could only talk in
                  the dark. Yet his words had the effect he was striving to produce, or, the
                  consciousness of self-conquest in her own soul brought calm after the storm; and,
                  though she could not think with any force or clearness, but was confused and
                  well-nigh dumb at the thought of his removal, so abiding a sense of protection and
                  security she had felt while he was living under that roof with her, so incredible
                  it seemed that he should go away and leave her to her fate, yet Susan sat and
                  listened quietly to him, and made no pleading that he should remain—the strength
                  for opposition, conflict, or even entreaty, had left her. She looked out on life,
                  hopeless—folding her arms upon her breast—watching the advance of her destiny,
                  unresisting and silent.
            
            
               XLVI.
               SUSAN was now alone in the library. Mr. Falcon had gone out, and left her smiling,
                  for he had told her his great secret; and, thinking of it, rejoicing in it, she
                  quite forgot all things beside. He would take her down with him that evening to
                  John street, he said. Stella should confirm what he had told.
               It was early in the day, wanting yet some hours till noon. Mr. Baldwin had come in
                  from his morning drive. He returned at an earlier hour than he was wont—he had cut
                  short all his usual morning operations that day—for Mr. Falcon, last night, for
                  the first time, agreed with him that it would probably be a wise movement now to
                  acquaint Susan with the hopes of Clarence and his father.
               The old man, on his return home, made his way at once into the library, where he
                  found Susan alone; and, in his own way, he proceeded to lay those hopes before
                  her.
               "Susan," he said, "my daughter;" and he closed the door behind him, and advanced
                  towards the centre of the room. Susan's face was turned away from him, and her
                  figure half hidden by the high back and obtruding arm of the great library chair
                  in which she sat; but he had caught sight of her mourning-dress, and with the same
                  glance perceived that she was alone. As he spoke, Susan rose from the chair. He
                  did not understand the movement—that the word he had spoken rung in the ear the
                  knell of every hope. "Sit down, sit down, Susy; I want to talk with you;—no,
                  no—I'll sit here—take your chair. You have seen Mr. Falcon since breakfast, eh?
                  haven't you? Yes! so I thought. Then he has told you that he has given Clarence
                  over into your hands, my daughter, and I want to say something to you now—it's my
                  turn to speak. I want to give Clarence into your hands, too; and the boy is
                  willing. Lord bless your soul, Susan, he's in 'em now—don't you know it?"
               Mr. Baldwin did not expect an answer—probably thought that the occasion did not
                  quite yet demand one. He bent forward in his chair, with his elbows resting on the
                  table, intently gazing at the child, for so he regarded her—and as his child
                  especially. He continued:
               "I was a thinking of this thing long ago, when I used to visit you down at the
                  beech. I perceived where my great consolation was to come from, long before you
                  could have known anything about it. You've done a splendid piece of work, Susy,
                  and, as Mr. Falcon and I have remarked a thousand times to each other, it is just
                  such a work as no one else could do. It would be a strange thing if I wasn't glad
                  and proud to call you my daughter, and
                  you'll bear me witness, Susan, that I am glad and proud. I want you to be my
                  daughter in good earnest. God knows, I would have been in any case. I was your
                  father's friend when we were children, and have been ever since; and it was not
                  merely the thought of what you had done for Clarence that made me feel tender
                  towards you. If there hadn't been any Clarence, I should have brought you home all
                  the same. But I am not going to deny that, on my son's account, I love you better
                  than I might have done. I think it's very likely, but we won't argue about that.
                  It may seem odd to you—young folks don't like old folks to be doing up this sort
                  of business for them, but I am a straight-forward man myself, and I don't know but
                  one way of doing a thing that must be done. It's for Clarence, and for me, and for
                  all of us—" Here Mr. Baldwin stopped and coughed a little, and found the business
                  rather more difficult to despatch than he had contemplated, with Susan looking at
                  him so steadfastly, never for an instant removing her eyes; if she had made the
                  slightest gesture of arm, or foot, or hand—if she had looked down or away, or done
                  anything beside sit like an image carved from stone—he could have proceeded with
                  still less circumlocution; as it was, he now came out with words abruptly: "It's
                  for Clarence, I say, and me, and all of us—he—he loves you, and you must know that
                  already. It's no news to you. If he loves any other person about him, it is on
                  your account—he loved no one till you came; and now you see how kind he is to
                  all—how thoughtful he is. But you are the one yet. We do not doubt that you love
                  him, too... perhaps as you would have done had he been a brother of yours, and his
                  mother was dead. He has had no mother, Susan, and Isidore... ahem—you know she has
                  not had the extraordinary faculty that you have shown for getting on with him, and
                  leading him. If his mother had lived, she would have done for him what you have.
                  But she would have been his mother—and you are only, as you now are—you know,
                  Susan... a friend. And there's no knowing what might happen. He wants you
                  nearer... he wants to marry you, Susy."
               It was all out! Mr. Baldwin drew himself away from the table, and stood up, having
                  said it, and turned from Susan and began to walk the room.
               Susan also arose, but she stood still. When Mr. Baldwin, having reached the limit
                  of the room, turned on his heel and approached her again, she spoke, but not till
                  he had come very near—so near, that her hand, lifted, had fallen on his arm, and
                  arrested his steps. He stood still at her words:
               "I cannot—I cannot."
               He did not read "I will not," in that voice; it was entreaty, not resistance, that
                  gave to the words their pathos.
               Mr. Baldwin had not anticipated this; the only difficulty for which he had looked
                  was his own utterance; it had not been an easy thing for him to deliver this
                  address; but now, his part performed, he was hardly patient that the word should
                  be spoken with so strange a voice in his ear.
               "It can't be," he said, "that you will forsake us now. You cannot mean to desert
                  Clarence; he will be ruined." There was surprise in his displeasure.
               "Oh, no; I know he will not. I know he will not. You can tell him that it is
                  foolish. I am sure you can prove it is so to him. And I—I am so young."
               Mr. Baldwin smiled; this distress was unfeigned he knew—unfeigned on Susan's part,
                  as unlooked for on his; but he wilfully mis-read it. It was the confusion of a
                  child who was too suddenly called to look upon herself as arrived at the estate of
                  woman—the confusion of a girl hearing
                  from another than a lover such words as he had spoken. He became patient and
                  considerate in his language, in view of this, and more fatherly than ever in his
                  bearing.
               "You are young, I know; you must yet have masters, and learn a great many things
                  which you know nothing about. I am going to have you learn music; your voice is
                  sweeter than Isidore's, and we must have some one to make melody in the Hall when
                  she is gone. And, I am going to have you learn to paint and draw; there's a young
                  girl, a friend of Miss Cammon, who is to teach you—Lucia Tree her name is; and you
                  are to go to the riding-school next month, when it opens. And, besides, we have to
                  go on a great many journeys yet, you and I together. I am going to take you—Mr.
                  Falcon and I were talking about it only yesterday—I am going to take you to the
                  village where your mother lived when she was young; and Mr. Falcon is going with
                  us, and we shall visit about among your relatives. Besides all that, you are to
                  help me to plan our house on the beach, for I am going to build one down there, or
                  else repair the old one, so that we can spend our summers, or a part of them
                  there. Getting married! why you are not to think of that for years to come; only
                  we all love you so much, Susy, we want to make sure of you. I am thinking of you
                  as your own father would—I want to make you happy."
               She said not now, "I cannot"—she said not anything. During this long speech she
                  had been saying to herself, "It makes no difference—it makes no difference at all
                  what happens; oh, if he would only stop speaking!"
               But Mr. Baldwin fancied, while he drew all this prospect of future years and
                  pleasant occupations for Susan, that he could see what went on in her mind, and he
                  was satisfied. So satisfied and confident, that, as if to make the whole thing
                  even more clear to her, as if to show her to herself as free and fortunate even
                  beyond all telling, he said:
               "I am sure, Susy, that you will at least let me tell my son that you love no one
                  better than you love him."
               That was a strange look to come from Susan's eyes; his son! but not David! it was
                  a glance that almost made even Ishmael suspicious—but of what? why, of nothing
                  clearly, he made answer to himself, when he rapidly surveyed the suspicion, or the
                  place that it had darkened for a moment.
               "I may tell him that much, may I?" he repeated.
               She must answer him; but what could she say? she could do nothing better than fly
                  away, and leave Mr. Baldwin to think anything that he could or would. Not what he
                  would think, but how she might escape the necessity of speaking, was her thought.
                  She moved forward to the door; but, as she went, her steps were stayed, and yet
                  the old man had not stirred. It was his voice that arrested her.
               "Why, Susan, you will not leave me in such a way as that? Come back, my child;
                  come, Susy, speak one good, kind word, or I shall think it is not you."
               "Wait till to-morrow, Mr. Baldwin—do. You must wait," she stayed to say.
               There was a tone in that urgent voice that Ishmael could not resist, but neither
                  did he in the least enter into its meaning. He let her have her way; and, a few
                  seconds later, had he searched for her throughout the house or grounds, Ishmael
                  would not have found her.
            
            
               
               XLVII.
               IN Leah Chilton's chamber there is sleep and silence, and, death I had almost
                  said. The room is small, and not the most cheerful, nor the most comfortable for
                  an invalid, but Leah has kept it since the approach of winter, going into the
                  rooms below but rarely; she has grown so feeble since the leaves fell in
                  autumn.
               Since that time she has been much alone—has seen no company—Horace rarely finds a
                  leisure evening now, and she consequently sees but little of him; and the banker
                  who lives in the closed house in the Square, spends so much time in the drawing
                  room with her mother, who charitably does her best to amuse the hours that hang so
                  heavy on the hands of the lonely old man, that Mrs. Chilton finds herself shut out
                  in a great degree from the sick room of her daughter.
               But all Leah's wants, save those of love, are well supplied. Mr. Baldwin is
                  mindful of her. Mr. Falcon has sent her pleasant books to read, and fresh flowers
                  from the Hall conservatory are often sent by Isidore through Horace for his
                  sister. Leah is content. But she is alone. Susan Dillon now and then has cheered
                  the room by her presence; and sad though the presence was, it was still youth and
                  life, and she brought with her an out-door atmosphere.
               But always from these visits Susan bore away with her far more than she had taken
                  to the sick and dying Leah. Lessons richly fraught with wisdom, a new or a
                  strengthened capacity of patience, and a more clear-eyed vision for perception of
                  the good gifts bestowed upon her.
               She has come again into this chamber—up without warning or hinderance. And to-day
                  the frosty air has given no color to Susan's cheek; she has come in with not a
                  word to say, and yet, to throw her burden on that wasted life, that being racked
                  with pain that lies on the uncurtained bed! For Susan is desperate. She has come
                  in haste from Mr. Baldwin in the library. The Hall is full of enemies—she has come
                  here for a friend... So she said to herself as she hurried through the street—so
                  she was thinking when without ceremony she entered the house, and moved on
                  straight up to Leah's room.
               But she has time to rest and think again before there is a listener to hear her
                  trouble.
               She does sit beside the bed on which Leah lies sleeping. She goes apart into a
                  corner where Leah will not see her, when she first awakens. Not only does she now
                  accuse herself for coming here to give vent to her complaining; the glance that
                  she directed to the bed as she went in was followed by a fearful conviction—there
                  will soon be death here, and no Leah; for to Susan's eyes the face had never
                  looked so wan and lifeless, and yet so full of pain as now.
               Noiselessly she threw aside her hood and shawl, and bowed her head upon her knees,
                  and lost herself, her own grieved, desperate impulses and emotions, while
                  listening to the labored breath of Leah. And now all human trouble stood back
                  awed, voiceless, powerless to move, or sway, or vex; and the ticking clock upon
                  the mantel sighed as it bore on the burden of time yet longer for the sleeper.
               That silence was better for Susan than any voice, than any sympathy had been. It
                  brought her to herself:—it compelled her to lay down the weapons of rebellion—it
                  in a manner soothed her—for presently all the past came up and met this present,
                  and the meeting of the clouds caused a heavy rain to fall. Without restraint,
                  silently and long, she wept—no groan, no sob, no sigh escaped her; she gave no
                  evidence but tears, and Leah could not waken from hearing their fall.
               
               At last the sleeper stirred; she coughed in her slumber, and wakened. In an
                  instant Susan's head uplifted, she could weep no longer:—in that silence she
                  hardly dared to breathe... Leah was speaking. Susan bent forward at the sound,
                  supposing that her presence there was known to Leah. Still she did not rise—and
                  the voice had not called her; it only murmured, and even in the murmur there was
                  exultation: 
                     
                        "No more fatigue, no more alarms,
                        No cares to break the long repose ... "
                     
                   And Susan hearing this looked towards the bed—she could not see her friend;
                  then she bent forward from the foot-bench on which she was seated; was there any
                  need of her?
               Leah had half risen, or was struggling to rise, but could not; she sunk back on
                  her pillows, exhausted even with the slight effort she had made, and the feeble
                  cough told how much even that effort had cost her.
               Beholding this, Susan went swiftly but quietly forward to the bedside—she raised
                  Leah in her arms, as she had been her constant nurse, whose place was there, shook
                  up the pillows, and said, composedly:
               "Have n't I come in the right time?"
               Leah, who had submitted to all this soothing arrangement in silence and quiet,
                  could for a moment only express her thanks by a pleased and loving smile.
               "Sit down close beside me, Susy; how glad I am to see you. How did you happen to
                  come at the very time when I wanted you so much?"
               "I thought you would expect me," said Susan, stroking Leah's wasted hands, and
                  drawing nearer to the bedside till her face was close by Leah's, and their kiss
                  was on each other's cheek.
               "Have you been here long, Susy?" whispered Leah.
               "While you were sleeping I came," answered Susan, in the-same suppressed
                  voice.
               "And what has troubled you so much, Susy, that you have been crying, my darling?
                  Not for me, I hope; it was n't for me that you cried?... Yet I almost hope it was,
                  because I could tell you what would make you happy, and glad for me... Was it for
                  me, Susy?"
               "Oh, Leah, you are so very ill. I did not think you were so very ill," burst from
                  Susan's lips, and fast her tears fell now without control. Now, truly, it was
                  because of Leah that she wept.
               "But I shall be so infinitely well very soon," said Leah, speaking with a stronger
                  voice, gently smoothing the hair back from Susan's temples while she spoke. "Don't
                  cry darling, I shall soon be so well!"
               "Oh, will you, will you, Leah; truly? is it so?"
               "The Great Physician says so—would I not be foolish if I doubted his word Susy?
                  Yes! I shall be well and strong again I can but smile thinking of it, even now,
                  when I lie here so helpless, and you think me so weak and miserable."
               What was it that she meant? Leah read this question in the face of Susan—saw how
                  her words had suspended the falling tears—and that a great hope and a great fear
                  were in conflict in the heart of her friend.
               "Dear Susy," she said, "Heaven will not seem a strange country to you long, so
                  many of your dear old friends there! When I am gone you will know where I am, and
                  you will know, surely, that I am well. Look up at me! be strong!"
               Susan had buried her face in the bed-clothes, and no longer strove to control her
                  grief when it had received this dreadful warrant; and yet, at Leah's bidding, she
                  looked up... and fain would she be strong.
               "You do not understand it... I am not going to die.
               
               Susan clasped the hands outstretched towards her, eagerly she listened; what was
                  this great mystery? The tender voice of Leah went on to unfold it.
               "This is worn out—this body that you have called me—it aches, there's nothing left
                  of it; it is so tired and worthless too—but I am strong. I can think even faster
                  than you can. I shall not be bound to this bed long; I shall be free, and young,
                  and strong again. Are you not glad to hear that, Susy? come nearer to me. I have
                  such blessed thoughts—such happy thoughts. I wish that you would share them with
                  me. Why not, darling? You must not think, though, Susy, that it is because I am
                  lying here and can do nothing, that I say it. I thought it and believed it long
                  before, and it made me happy then, when I was good for something in the
                  house."
               "What, Leah? what is it?" began Susan eagerly, but she added sadly, "it made you
                  happy—but I—I am different."
               "But you are a human being, Susy. Now listen, for I will tell you... Don't be
                  thinking of yourself—you are nothing. God is all in all. Let him do what he sees
                  fit with you—and do not stand out against him."
               "I cannot understand you... Leah! I wish I might lie down there in your place...
                  but no! I would not have you get up and take mine."
               "What is it, Susy? What troubles you, darling?"
               "Nothing... but I am so tired... it makes no difference... Don't mind me. But,
                  Leah, I am glad for you."
               Gently the wasted arm of the dying girl enfolded her friend, gently she drew the
                  troubled young being towards her, cheerily the faint voice strove to speak.
               "Yes! be glad for me—and for yourself too, Susy. Oh, it is a grand thing to live.
                  Let not your heart be troubled. Doth not the Lord behold? Who art thou, dear
                  child, that art afraid of mortals who shall die, and forgettest the Lord, thy
                  Maker? Oh, be sure our Father in Heaven is strong enough to give you all the
                  strength you need, if you only trust him. It seems so strange that we should be so
                  cowardly. Come! promise me that you will be strong—strong in the Lord, and—"
               Leah was here interrupted in the midst of her injunction by the entrance of Mrs.
                  Chilton.
               It was no place for her—and no hour. And some sense of this fact the mother seemed
                  to have, when she took the place by the bedside which Susan had but now occupied,
                  and sought, in her own way, for a little time to amuse her daughter. Not even near
                  the borders of the place to which Leah had led Susan, might she with her worldling
                  projects come. She might wear a solemn countenance, and say some pious things, and
                  soothe her child with a delusive thought that she indeed was with her in this
                  going to the world of spirits, that the near tie which bound them on earth was a
                  true figure—(not one distorted, and wronged out of its purpose,) of heavenlier
                  union; and all the comfort that the reality would have given to Leah, she drew
                  from this mock show of faith and hope, by which her mother deluded herself and her
                  child. But there was nothing more in it than this; the one was already an
                  accredited citizen of the kingdom of heaven, in full possession of all its rights
                  and immunities, and the other was not—was only a complacent self-deceiver. A few
                  minutes after Mrs. Chilton came into the room, Susan went away, returning to the
                  Hall. For the last time she and Leah had spoken with each other.
            
            
               
               XLVIII.
               THAT same day Mr. Falcon had decided on still further explanations than this that
                  he had made Susan.
               As he went out from the library, he was not altogether satisfied with the result
                  of his conversation with her; it troubled him that she, in view of his departure
                  from the Hall, should be so troubled—but he had left her more reconciled to that
                  event, as he believed, by the intelligence imparted in regard to his future
                  prospects—to his marriage and residence in St. John's. And he likewise believed
                  that this news he had brought Susan was the best preparation for the words Mr.
                  Baldwin had yet to say.
               As he passed up the hall to the portico, he heard his name pronounced, and the
                  rapid tread of feet that were following him. Turning back he saw David, who, with
                  an agitated face, advanced and took his arm, and went on down the avenue, drawing
                  him, a resistless companion, along with him.
               "What is this, Mr. Falcon, are you going to leave us in very truth?" he asked, as
                  they passed in among the fine old trees.
               "In very truth," said Falcon.
               "But why, sir; is not this house large enough for half-a-dozen persons? We cannot
                  spare you, sir."
               Now was the kind heart that listened troubled.
               Troubled more deeply than it had been in the library, on account of Susan's
                  unlooked-for distress. Because this conversation on which they had now entered,
                  had been anticipated by him since yesterday, when Mr. Baldwin hinted broadly,
                  while talking of Clarence, of his son David, and his view of the prospects in
                  regard to Stella Cammon. Since that time Mr. Falcon had been walking about in dire
                  dismay, construing anew every act and word of David during the last weeks. And his
                  dismay has reached a crisis, now that David walks with him in this solitary place
                  with one word on his lip and one name, and cannot speak it. Yet he is also
                  relieved, his own integrity stands unimpeached before him; he has wrought no
                  wrong—or sin—but his heart is grieved for David. He remembers his own youth.
               In reply to David's question if the Hall were too small for him, he said:
               "You will smile when you see the nut-shell into which I shall put myself when I
                  leave you."
               "But why do you go, sir? We cannot keep house without you," persisted David,
                  determined to sift his suspicions thoroughly, if it should prove that there were
                  nothing else to sift.
               "Because your brother has now no need of me, and I must go labor elsewhere. Time
                  is not mine to waste."
               And here Falcon paused, and perceiving that David hesitated, and could not readily
                  find words with which to express himself, he gave the young man opportunity, by
                  proceeding from this point to lecture him as he had never done in any wise before,
                  on his opportunities and duties; making mention, as he went on, of the reasons why
                  he had hitherto refrained from such expression of his mind, and the reasons also
                  for the present preaching.
               David listened to the end with some impatience, as the speaker could but perceive;
                  but the impatience was not felt on account of the words he spoke—in his inmost
                  heart David this day recognized their truth and pertinence, but he had somewhat to
                  learn that had little to do with these things. Until it was learned these other
                  considerations were not for him. It was not of himself and his duties that he
                  desired to hear, of which he could hear, while in his present mood, to any
                  advantage. And while Mr. Falcon went on, encouraged by the silence of his
                     listener tener, and his manifest
                  attention, and preached the truth with earnest words, David was meanwhile
                  selecting other words and condensing the meaning of the question he designed to
                  ask, into the smallest possible compass.
               When, therefore, Mr. Falcon made an end of his speaking, David said:
               "Before you go, sir, will you tell me if it is Miss Cammon that takes you away
                  from us?"
               They stopped in the walk with one impulse as he asked this question. Falcon
                  suddenly called back from the large view he was but now taking of life, its
                  capacities, and greatness, and grandeur, looked upon the young man; he saw there
                  more than he desired to see; but silence were wrongful here, let speech be painful
                  and grievous as it might. He did not trust himself to speak, but bowed. Yes, it
                  was she who had to do with his departure.
               "You are, then, going to marry her?" David asked, instantly.
               "God willing," was the answer.
               At this, David turned away into another path without a word. Falcon's first
                  impulse was to follow after him, but as he started forward his heart asked him,
                  What is there that you can say to him? Is not all said now that you can say? and,
                  as he turned back again towards the house, his own youth came before him in all
                  its storm and anguish, when she whom he loved, loved again, and not him, but
                  another.
               He was standing in that past reflecting, not in this present irresolute, while he
                  remained there in the avenue in the place where David had left him. When he
                  emerged from it again the light that fell on the frost-bound earth through the
                  bare trees was paler than the glow that warmed and enlivened the man's heart. His
                  own experience made him prophetic; he wandered down the avenue until, unawares, he
                  was walking side by side with David, the spirit of the man who was even then
                  wandering alone amid the leafless trees of. December, and was saying to that
                  spirit what the man had not at that hour endured to hear, "Out of weakness
                  strength is perfected. From a present of sorrow and desolation a future of joy and
                  fulness shall come."
               And even then the wanderer in the wood was listening, but not intelligently, to
                  the confusion of the prelude of the Divine organist, to whose music his now
                  speechless voice should yet sing a new "psalm of life."
            
            
               XLIX.
               IT was late in the afternoon when Susan returned to the Hall. She went back calm
                  and resolved; Leah's words went with her, they were angels that strengthened
                  her.
               She made such application as she could, at that time, of the words. She said to
                  herself, "I will think no more about these things. I will let myself alone. Mr.
                  Falcon may go away. They may do what they choose with me. Leah says I am not my
                  own, but God's. Then I've nothing to do with it; but—" and here she made haste to
                  carry her resolution into practice, as David and Clarence, and their father, came
                  before her mind in swift succession. "I am not my own," she said, again and again.
                  "I have nothing to do with it. It makes no difference how miserable one is. People
                  do not live forever. There is Leah dying!... My mother died when she was young
                  —she was not so very old... and who can tell but I may die young too? But I have
                  nothing to do with that either, Leah says... Of course it is not to be expected
                  that I should be happy. But happiness is nothing, and misery is nothing. I shall
                  soon understand it. I am nothing. For
                  God is all in all. I will think no more about it. I will do just as I 'm bid. No
                  matter what; it is not my fault—it is no concern of mine. If God does not look
                  after me, of course I am not to look after myself. I will be quiet. Whatever
                  happens, happens because it must. We have nothing to do with it;" and she dressed
                  herself, so thinking, and went down into the drawing-room, and the evening wore
                  away.
               Wore, how slowly, away!
               Did Clarence read her thoughts? When his graceful figure came gliding through the
                  room, bearing towards her directly—always it was so—he leaned against her chair,
                  and began to tell her of something that had greatly interested him in his reading
                  that day, and to ask her opinion about it, and to move forward from his place till
                  he stood directly fronting her; when he looked upon her face, he ceased
                  speaking—his countenance fell—
               "Susy," he said, "I am wretched."
               In momentary weakness Susan shaded her face with her uplifted hand,
               "And so are you," he added. And she did not deny it.
               "I can tell you why," he continued.
               "Oh no! do not!" Susan urged; "bring the chessmen, Clarence; a game will do us
                  good. I went out in the street—and it was so cold—it makes me stupid."
               "No, Susy—it is not that. Something worse. Your heart is so cold! You made me love
                  you—but you have no love for me."
               This he said with an indescribable mournfulness—he could in no other way account
                  for the change in Susan's manner towards him, than by the supposition that his
                  father had communicated his highest hope to her, and that she was going to
                  disappoint it. Any other person in the house, even closely observant of Susan,
                  could have detected nothing in her recent bearing towards him that gave evidence
                  of any new enlightenment in her mind or any revolution in her heart concerning
                  him—but he who was so watchful, so mindful of every variation in her mood, was
                  certain that his eyes and ears had not deceived him—in her heart she had rejected
                  him...
               "You made me alive! but now you kill me!" he exclaimed after a momentary silence,
                  speaking with a vehement passion, new and strange.
               "Clarence! bring the chess-men," burst from Susan.
               "You talk like a cruel, wicked boy."
               "No—I am an unfortunate, miserable man."
               "We shall have no game to-night, then."
               Clarence looked at Susan—how strangely sweet her voice was! and lo, she was
                  looking, smiling, up towards him. He saw the smile, saw the flush on her face,
                  that was but now so pale; he threw away his fear; it made him quite too wretched,
                  and wretched he could not be while she was smiling, blushing there before him. He
                  drew back from her, he came up again still nearer, he bowed, till his face was
                  near to hers—not with a kiss, not with embracing—but to say what froze the smile
                  and the heart of the child.
               "You will love me, Susy—I only ask a little—be not so proud—or I—I—" he drew
                  himself up, and a terrible energy impelled the low-spoken words—" the last state
                  of the man will be worse than the first!"
               "Sit here by me, Clarence—wait! I will bring the chess board... I am not proud—how
                  could you say that? You are not kind to me, Clarence."
               Susan went to bring the board, and Mr. Baldwin, who had watched every gesture of
                  his children from a distance, rubbed his hands in fatherly exultation, with a
                  whispered, "By George, Falcon! we have done it!"
               David also had joined the family in the drawing-room, and, as if his secret were known to every person
                  there, he exerted himself likewise, but even more desperately than Susan was
                  doing. He did not take refuge in quiet, but in excitement—he sang glees with
                  Isidore and Horace Chilton, talked much and brilliantly, and did his utmost to
                  persuade the house that he was the freest and happiest of men.
               When, late in the evening, De Lisle Layard came in with the intelligence that
                  Professor Leighton had accepted the call to the presidential chair of the St.
                  John's College, and would probably arrive in town during the evening, David made
                  haste to escape away from the house with him, and did not return again that
                  night.
               In town that night! De Lisle Layard had said, That Night!
               It was another thought than that with which Leah had endeavored to inform the mind
                  of Susan that the child lay down upon her bed, and, exhausted by the tempestuous
                  day, and the still more tempestuous evening, slept, without dream or motion, until
                  daybreak.
               Her deliverer had come!
               She might have gone to him; she might so have spared herself all this through
                  which she had passed, this conflict and dread, and the aversion to Clarence, or at
                  least her duty towards him—with which she had struggled in shame and sorrow. She
                  is aware of that; she might have gone to live with Mr. Leighton—but when she asks
                  herself the question, knowing all that has come to pass, all that has been, and
                  all that is required of her now, Would you have done wisely or well to have
                  escaped it, Susan? she answers "no."
               But she will go now to him. She does not believe all that they tell her in regard
                  to Clarence—she will not think of what last night passed between them; it is not
                  so needful that she should be ever in his sight ... that without her ruin would
                  come again upon him. He is strong and studious; he goes out amongst men; what they
                  all tell her is not, it cannot be true. It makes no difference that Mr. Baldwin
                  has placed the event of her marriage with him so far beyond the present—that it
                  lies in any future is sufficient—that for a moment she should be looked upon as
                  the betrothed of Clarence is more than she can bear.
               She can well endure that David should hold to her the relation that he does, and
                  ever has—that he should look upon her as a child, and speak as to childhood when
                  he speaks to her—she can endure to have him pity her—to know that her first
                  thoughts of him were utter madness—but they must not, now or ever, marry her to
                  Clarence. What is all the splendor of the Hall? what are all the promises Mr.
                  Baldwin makes? The long journeyings; even that journey to the birth-place of her
                  mother!... The new house on the beach, the accomplishments, and society, and fine
                  dress—what is all the world at such a price as this? She can do anything but love
                  Clarence— and understanding this so well, for often she has pondered it in her
                  heart, she has of her own self come to understand her relation evermore to David.
                  She can pity Clarence.; or she could until all that necessity was removed. She can
                  admire him, can live with him, and study with him,—but never, never while the
                  world stands, can she love and marry him!
               Yesterday she had put away these thoughts. She said to herself, "God is all in
                  all. If I am glad or grieved, it 's all one to me. I am nothing!" But the instant
                  that she knew that Mr. Leighton was coming, that he was even then approaching his
                  new home, she was flying out against fate in rebellion, resolving anew,
                  passionately declaiming in her heart against the demands that the people around
                  her would make of her—she was her own—
                  she was Mr. Leighton's—she would go anywhere, struggle through any fate, rather
                  than remain here, and suffer this.
               She rose up in the morning, as a young soldier on the morning of a battle—"This
                  day shall see my victory."
            
            
               L.
               AT the door of Miss Watson's chamber Stella Cammon is again waiting for
                  admittance.
               Twice she has announced a guest to the ear of the inmate of the little hall-room,
                  but still she waits permission to go in.
               Miss Watson is not in a mood for visitors, apparently, if one may judge from the
                  silence she keeps, and the abstraction in which she continues to brood over some
                  papers in her hand; remaining in the position in which the first knock found her,
                  she has not an intention of granting admittance to the person who waits
                  without.
               But when Stella speaks, and calls to her, the lady's face brightens perceptibly;
                  she has no objection to a guest like Stella. She cannot turn her away. She does
                  not merely say, "Come in,"—she drops her papers, and herself opens the door, and
                  greets Stella with a kiss.
               "And now," she says, not waiting for a presentation of the cause, "what has kept
                  you so long away? You have waited for a new plague-spot to appear—discover it to
                  me, Miss Stella."
               "Ah—you do not speak. You have good news, then, to tell me; you were never so slow
                  in delivering yourself when you had any trouble to tell."
               "That is true," said Stella frankly, mastering the momentary embarrassment with
                  which she met Miss Watson's salutation. "I have followed your last advice to the
                  letter. But I want more counsel yet."
               "Ah, but you have now another counsellor!"
               "Yes—and still I need you, who are a woman."
               "My dear, if you need a woman's counsel, you have yourself. If you want a man's,
                  you have his, whoever he may be. You must renounce all evil habits, and I should
                  call this an evil one. You must by no means continue to take counsel of the world.
                  You have now a little world of your own—a universe of mind complete and sufficient
                  as your needs."
               "I am nevertheless at a dead loss," said Stella quietly, "and you must e'en help
                  me. I cannot, by any discoverable means, make it known to Aunt Judith what I think
                  of matrimony. She will not see, hear, or believe. She is deaf and blind."
               "And dumb, too?"
               "Not dumb. By no means. I am pretty well informed as to her opinion of the poor
                  old man I shall call my husband."
               "Poor and old, is he?"
               "Has not Aunt Judith told you?"
               "It may be I have seen him."
               "Oh! in Mr. Silsey's room?"
               "Yes. I wish you joy with all my heart."
               "Of the poor old man? thank you, Miss Watson, It is all your fault. If you had not
                  counselled me in that absurd way, no doubt I should have married a handsome
                  fashionable man of fortune, and taken the lead in another manner than now seems
                  probable."
               "I know."
               "Aunt Judith has been communicating the sad state of thing to you, Miss
                  Watson?"
               "Dear child, intuitions serve as well as gossip. I am going back into the country
                  to-morrow; do you still desire to go with me?... No!... I read that; be not at the
                  trouble of explaining away your meaning."
               
               "I heard that you were going. And I know the reason why. You would not choose to
                  have me come at such a time. Miss Watson, do you know I think you are the very
                  noblest woman in the world?"
               "Oh, hush—what perfect nonsense, Stella. If you went down merely one pair of
                  stairs in this house, you would find a young creature that puts me to shame; and I
                  do not suppose that you could go up or down any pair of stairs, without finding a
                  landing and a room with some such inmate."
               "I know very well what women are," said Stella, manifestly intent on holding to
                  her previous declaration.
               "Obviously you do not," said Miss Watson.
               "At all events, I know to what you just now refer; my friend, Lucia, has told me
                  all about it. If you had undertaken to glorify her, I would have joined in with
                  all my heart. I know that Mr. Silsey has been, somehow or other, encouraged by his
                  wife, and helped on by her, too—a sort of angelic mission she has had, I suppose;
                  and I know the stir he will soon be making among men of science, upsetting their
                  theories, proving himself the veriest iconoclast in the world, and—"
               "Well, well, what if you do know all this, child? I can tell you far more. He
                  never would have come to any point or conclusion but for his wife. She has shown
                  him how to live in the first place—and a man must learn that before he can act to
                  much purpose. A life delicate, tender, and true, like that of his young wife, was
                  needful to evolve in his what was specially needful to all effective working. She
                  is the spirit of his spirit, the secret spring to all his efficient labor."
               "But your wife and son, Miss Watson, that poor, heartbroken woman, for whom you
                  have shown such heavenly compassion—"
               "She is not heart-broken, Stella."
               "And the boy you have to educate; and there is a mortgage on your farm, too. I
                  wish I had a mint of money! You exerted yourself so many ways to save a man from
                  ruin when you believed him innocent. Do not hinder me. I will speak—I will say
                  that the world should know of it; and I know very well what it is you are now
                  going to do. You have found all at once so many new things to say—and new books
                  are to be written! no wonder you can speak when you can do so much. I tell you I
                  reverence you; I am astonished when I think of you. I cannot forgive myself that I
                  have come to you so many times—"
               "You never came but twice, Stella," broke in Miss Watson, with her slow, rich
                  voice.
               "Bothering you about my own difficulties and perplexities," continued Stella,
                  unmindful of the interruption. "I do not know that any other, woman or man, would
                  venture to say this much to you—perhaps it is trespassing; but I desired that you
                  should hear me say that I know how noble and grand you are, and that I know why
                  you are going to live in the country, and why you set to work again; and if there
                  is a desire in my heart, it is to be like you. And Mr. Falcon thinks with me. If I
                  have no other purpose in life I have at least this, to be like you."
               "Well, my dear, I suppose it would be ungracious to put back all this
                  glorification, but really it seems to me something like—like—" Miss Watson's voice
                  had a tremulous, uncertain sound, now it was silent.
               "Like what, Miss Watson?"
               "As though you were so happy, my dear, in your own heart, that your joy must find
                  some sort of expression, and you put it off on to me. I forgive you, but I must
                  forget also in order to do that; so pray do not revive a sense of the injury by
                  repetition."
               
               "Oh well, Miss Watson, be it as you will; but I am not so marvellously happy after
                  all."
               "Not?"
               "With Aunt Judith disappointed—and I know not how to reconcile her; there's a wall
                  between us, I fancy, wide enough for all the horsemen in the world to ride
                  abreast. Indeed there is a world between us, and I do not know the route to take
                  by which I may come back to her again."
               "Go home and tell her everything. You should have done that long since; surely she
                  deserved your confidence."
               "I will go," said Stella, rising at once, "but I have told her, many times, in
                  such ways as you would think that she, being a woman, might understand. May I
                  really go to visit you at the Elms, and—"
               "See my family, my wife and child, as you call them? Yes. Come whenever you
                  will—you shall have the introduction to my son. You are going to marry an old man,
                  you say... Let me congratulate you, my dear, though you slander the good man. And
                  now, keep fast hold of this truth, that inward Peace is worth more than the whole
                  of California."
               "I have it safe, Miss Watson."
               Verily, my dear, I do believe you."
               Stella went out joyous and free into the winter air. Within remained Miss Watson,
                  solitary with her thoughts, fast bound to her obligations. A very fit and proper
                  object for the commiseration of all those who whirl through the world in fast
                  coaches, reducing the glory of God to the sham of a panorama!
               She did not immediately return to her papers when Stella was gone; she lost
                  herself in other meditations. Her face had an unwonted sadness, as for a brief
                  time she gave way to her reflections. The pressing anxiety under which she had
                  labored many months of the year that was fast drawing to a close, was now gone—the
                  cause at least had been removed. For Herder, whom she had striven, mightily, to
                  save from a life-long imprisonment, there was no longer either hope or fear. The
                  sentence that had been pronounced against him was proved to be, after repeated
                  effort in his behalf, irrevocable. He was a prisoner for life, this lover, the
                  lover of her youth.
               From the efforts she had made in vain to save him, Miss Watson had now with
                  unflagging courage turned to a new enterprise and endeavor. How much had she to
                  live for!
               Henceforth there was a shelter in her home for the lives that had been bound up in
                  Herder's. In her labor and endeavor to save him that little farm, as Stella had
                  persisted but now in saying to her—as if with the intent that Miss Watson might
                  for a moment look at her own work through the admiring eyes of another—the Elms
                  had been mortgaged; and now for a life of self-denial and of labor!
               She rose prepared for it.
               Any fate she is able to endure. Her heart is rent, her brain is taxed—this is all
                  true; she looks the truth in the face and turns away; not from it—but from any
                  gayer prospect; she is a woman of few words, and henceforth there is to be, in her
                  case, one long struggle that involves life—one great triumph which compasses
                  eternity.
               No wonder that Violet Silsey, whose eyes are opened to see how warm a blood it is
                  that makes Miss Watson's pulse so strong, inspiring her intellect, flowing through
                  every thought as well as into every act; no wonder Violet has in her own way come
                  to love this friend of Silsey, and to question no more within herself about the
                  marvellous catalysis, the mystery of which she has come, inwardly, to comprehend
                  so well!
            
            
               
               LI.
               INSTEAD of returning home at once, Stella went far down beyond the house in John
                  street, even to the convent.
               In the same parlor where, not long ago, Miss Mar held her consultation with the
                  nun, the pupil, in whom so many pious hopes had centred, waited for her
                  teacher.
               At length Theresa came. She came in haste.
               "I can but stay a moment with you to-day," she said, hurriedly; "the recess is
                  nearly over; if you have any thing to say, my daughter, make no delay."
               Never before had Stella seen the nun so agitated. She wondered because of it—she
                  would still have wondered, perhaps even more, had she known what those tidings
                  were which had stirred the woman's heart so deeply, even to the disturbance of the
                  spirit of the saint.
               The nun no doubt anticipated other intelligence than that which Stella
                  brought—for, not surprise alone, but somewhat of disappointment also, was
                  indicated in her manner of listening to these words:
               "I should have come to you before, dear mother, but I was not so courageous as I
                  should have been. I am going to be married—the precise time when, I cannot
                  tell—but such is the fact."
               "With De Lisle Layard?" asked the nun—evincing in her hasty utterance alone any
                  surprise or feeling whatever.
               "Oh, no. He is going into the Church, you know. He is to be a priest," said
                  Stella, wondering at the question of the nun. Surely she already was aware of the
                  destination of De Lisle.
               "True, I had forgotten... I am at a loss then. I—"
               Stella hastened to name the name of Falcon.
               "The preacher we heard that day—you remember?" she said, and waited anxiously for
                  the reply.
               "We have then truly lost you... But we have found you in a fuller sense, a better
                  sense, my daughter."
               The nun spoke now with all her wonted composure, and with a certain satisfaction
                  which Stella was swift to discern.
               "Mother," said Stella, "I have often called you by that name—did you think because
                  I heard some others do so?... that was not the reason."
               "You have indeed been my child."
               "But, not only as those others?"
               "Not thus, my Stella—no, not thus." The nun's voice was full of tenderness—so also
                  were those eyes that looked on Stella.
               "I knew that I was dear to you," said the pupil to her teacher, emboldened thus to
                  speak yet further of the sacred truth that lived in the holiest depth of her
                  heart. "I never could have given that name to any beside you, I think. I tried it
                  with Aunt Judith, but it was impossible. But when I called you so, I did not feel
                  in my heart that in reality I had no mother; that I had grown up somehow, well
                  cared for, but still without a mother. I did not feel so lonely and desolate as I
                  should have felt without you. And therefore, others may wish me joy, but you...
                  you must bless me. You have been mother, and priest, and friend, to me. I could
                  not have loved any woman better than you. I cannot imagine a face that would have
                  been dearer. I owe so much to you... remember, too, it was you who led me where I
                  heard this man proclaim the good news. Oh, those strange human faces!" she paused,
                  and bowed her head upon her hands. When she looked up again, her fair young face
                  was glorious with the spirit beaming from it. "It came to me, news of salvation,
                  as it did to those others who heard it
                  that day." She said, in a lower, calmer tone, "I had as great a need to hear it. I
                  was as wretchedly heathen... I am going to work with him... Will you bless me to
                  such a life as that, dear mother?"
               "I will ask the everlasting Father to smile on you, my child," said the nun; her
                  voice was tremulous—her soul was stirred within her by the earnest speaking to
                  which she had listened.
               "And I, I will praise Him forever, that he brought me here to you when I was in
                  want of all things—hungry and thirsty, my soul fainting within me," said Stella.
                  Her voice was not faltering—but her face was very pale, and she was trembling with
                  emotion.
               "Sit here, and tell me all, my daughter."
               They had been standing while they spoke thus together, but now Theresa drew Stella
                  to a seat beside her. And while Stella obeyed, and told her "all," the convent
                  bell rang twice in vain for the teacher. She heard nothing but the voice that was
                  sweeter than melody in her ear, till a messenger appeared within the parlor door
                  and summoned her to the school-room.
               From the convent Stella Cammon went home straightway to Miss Mar. This day must
                  see and hear the end of her confession.
               "Aunt Judith," she said, taking up the great piece of tapestry on which Miss Mar
                  had been at work during the last month with unwearying industry; for the needle of
                  the good lady had now a new purpose in its movements; she was unscrupulous in her
                  demands upon it—that needle, hers alone—her hand alone of all the fair hands that
                  make gorgeous tapestries, should adorn the future church of the future priest, De
                  Lisle Layard.
               "Aunt Judith," she said, taking up the work, and fixing her eyes upon it, leaving
                  Miss Mar meanwhile with her unoccupied needle in her hand—"Aunt Judith—" a third
                  time she began. To which repetition Miss Mar, less impatient for the remainder of
                  the sentence than for the work, replied:
               "Stella, what is it you are going to say?"
               "Did you ever keep a reckoning of the number of times I have offended you?" Stella
                  laughed while she spoke, and Miss Mar did not observe her embarrassment.
               "They are more in number than the sands of the sea... What folly!" said Miss Mar.
                  She said it with a sigh, yet evidently with a feeling of relief. She had almost
                  begun to fear that some terrible announcement, of which she had of late continual
                  foreboding, lay behind this unnatural hesitation.
               "But you always forget and forgave my offences, did you not, dear aunt? You rubbed
                  them off the calendar before-they were fairly written out, did you not?"
               "If I did not, you did," answered Miss Mar, with a gentle sigh, her face
                  brightening perceptibly.
               "And for that reason I hope—for that reason I believe, Aunt Judith, that you are
                  not now going to be very angry long. That soon you will be forgetting and
                  forgiving again. And I certainly shall wait expecting to hear that you have rubbed
                  off this last fearfully black mark you have against me."
               "Stella!" began Miss Mar, hurriedly, but with a glance at her to whom she spoke;
                  she stopped abruptly, waiting until she should have obtained a better control over
                  herself. "I certainly have nothing against you, Stella; I trust I have not,
                  Stella," she said, mildly, at last.
               "But you must know, aunt; have you nothing? are you sure?"
               Aunt Judith was now silent again.
               "Oh, aunt, is it so hard to forgive?"
               Miss Mar was strangely moved at the sound of this voice—true it came from out
                  another sphere than that which she
                  inhabited, and yet she heard it. This protestant protested against the barrier
                  there was between them; this, at least, she could hear and perceive. But still she
                  seemed quite undecided as to how she should receive the words—this heretical young
                  person had ways of arguing to which Aunt Judith dared not listen—she had too many
                  times adventured quite too far with her—many a tearful confession, many an act of
                  penance had Stella unwittingly occasioned poor Miss Mar. The good lady now could
                  do no other than suspect this violent beating of her own heart—scarcely could she
                  restrain the utterance it besought. In her silence she stretched forth her hand,
                  and made as if she would take the piece of tapestry; but Stella did not observe
                  the movement, or would not; she still retained it in her hold.
               Coldly, then—thinking of the wrongs the blessed Mother, the Church, had sustained
                  at this young, lawless creature's hands, coldly, Miss Mar tried to say:
               "I have nothing to forgive you."
               "But you think you have, Aunt Judith," Stella answered; and, as with a remorseful
                  thought, "I know that I have disappointed you. My nature is such, after all that
                  you have done for me, I must have different ways of thinking from you; and then,
                  most unfortunate! I was surprised into a promise of marriage with a man you do not
                  like!"
               "I have no dislike for Mr. Falcon, I am sure," said the poor lady, speaking now in
                  great haste, and with unwonted energy. She almost believed that there was still a
                  chance of hope for Stella. What did that word which her child but now had
                  used—what did it signify? "Surprised, did you say, Stella?—were you surprised into
                  the promise, then?"
               "Yes, aunt, it was done suddenly... but since then, solemnly. I am not held by
                  vows alone, but—"
               "How then?" demanded Miss Mar.
               "By my whole heart, aunt. And this I know—to you, my protector, I will say it,
                  here in this house, where you have sheltered me so many years—" Stella paused—she
                  spoke again, her voice sank to a lower, sweeter, sadder, more confiding, earnest
                  tone; Miss Mar listened to it breathlessly, to the words with her best hearing.
                  "When, hereafter, in the heavens to which we are both looking with faith and hope,
                  when my mother shall ask you of the child for whom you cared so well on earth, you
                  will surely have it in your power to say that you had compassion on her when she
                  was a woman, as well as tender care for her while she was a child. I know that you
                  will say to her, She prayed to our Father in other words than I; she was not as
                  wise in the wisdom of the world as I would have had her; but still I prayed for
                  her, and had compassion on her. I loved her, and forgave her. I tried to believe
                  the best of her—I gave her my blessing, and besought that she might live in the
                  love of the truth... Oh, aunt, shall it not be so?"
               The tapestry dropped from Stella's hand as she ceased this pleading.
               Miss Mar caught it in its descent to the floor; and, as she bent to do so, she
                  brushed away a tear.
               "Aunt, what do you say?" asked Stella, falling suddenly down on her knees before
                  the astonished woman.
               "I shall give up my house and go into the convent," said Miss Mar, gloomily.
               "Will you be happy there?... Yes! I know you will," cried Stella, full of faith,
                  the prospect suddenly brightening to her vision.
               "Without you!"
               Stella made no answer. She had not looked to hear a word expressive of so much
                  pure feeling as this from the ritual-laden soul, that plied her constant needle
                     among those gorgeous colors, living
                  in them and her Church; the words were uttered with a moan.
               "Without you... I am like Rachael when her children were not!"
               "No, no! aunt; it is not so," exclaimed Stella, now in a sort of desperation. I am
                  not so lost to you. I am alive, and here; I shall live daily in your sight.
                  Forever mindful of you, aunt... Forever grateful."
               "Wait, Stella... Say no more about it—not a word. I will try to think of it; I
                  will, indeed. But don't—you must not hurry me." So saying, with many falterings,
                  she nervously threw aside her work, and left the room.
            
            
               LII.
               NO opportunity for resuming his conversation with Susan had occurred to Mr.
                  Baldwin when they met at the breakfast-table the next morning.
               Ishmael was prepared to wait for her, to bring him her answer—provided she should
                  manifest an intention that way speedily! For Ishmael was not patient of delay.
                  Last night, when he watched her in the drawing-room, he laughed heartily at
                  himself, remembering his morning disturbance. What occasion had there been for so
                  much precaution, and so many arguments, as had made this little affair remarkable!
                  The child sitting there, so quietly playing chess with Clarence, had, doubtless,
                  never another thought in her head than to do as she was bidden!
               During the breakfast Susan was abstracted and dull, did not hear distinctly, had
                  nothing to say. Mr. Baldwin observed, and told himself that this was her timidity,
                  a young girl's embarrassment—natural enough, too, under the circumstances. But—she
                  was diligently watchful—was not stupid nor dull, nor just now thoughtful of
                  herself; at least, not sufficiently so for embarrassment. She was waiting for one
                  event—the departure of David from the table, when she would follow close in his
                  footsteps, and ask him about Mr. Leighton, whom, he had told his father—Susan
                  heard him—he went last night to visit.
               And precisely in accordance with the plan on which she had resolved did Susan
                  act.
               "Where is Mr. Leighton?" she asked David, hurrying along before the others, as
                  they all left the breakfast-room, and walking on towards the colonnade, when he
                  made as though he were going into the library. He followed her, in order to answer
                  her question, and told her the hotel where the president had passed the night.
               "And he asked about you, Susan," David remarked, in addition to the information
                  she had sought. "He will be up to the Hall to visit you to-day, I think."
               Saying that, David left her, and went back into the house. He had nothing more to
                  say to her; his mind was filled that day with an image far different from that of
                  Susan.
               It was yet quite early in the morning. Professor, or President Leighton had gone
                  into his parlor for a moment, to make some preparation previous to his proceeding
                  to the college, or to remain there until the hour appointed when the faculty were
                  to wait upon him, to escort him thither, when a servant, proceeding in advance of
                  Susan into his presence, announced that a young lady waited without for
                  admittance.
               At Leighton's request Susan was shown in. She came alone.
               This is the same man, this is the same girl, that we saw in the summer-time down
                  by the sea. But both are so much changed! Susan has grown taller; she looks older,
                  fairer; she is acquiring, in spite of griefs and cares, some good looks which belong to her; they do
                  certainly not come of her dress—they have not been put on. She has not the repose
                  of manner which is sometimes the grace of nature, oftener the perfection of
                  cultivation; but she moves about with no such awkward consciousness of herself and
                  her awkwardness as we have sometimes seen in the poor child. There is a certain
                  attractiveness in her reserve and bearing. Susan is herself, and that self is
                  clearly revealed—though, in these respects of outward show, now more clearly to
                  others than to her own sense.
               Mr. Leighton is not precisely the man that Susan looked to see. He is younger; he
                  is in many respects different. She knows now, when she sees him, what she had
                  anticipated: the tall figure, in the old cap, and student's dress, and slippers,
                  with a long pipe in his hand, or a book, or half a ream of paper, "looking
                  absently upon her—abstracted, as if she had disturbed him in thoughts and
                  speculations which were worth a hundred lives like hers. Talking to her as if all
                  the while he were talking to himself aloud, and she were only a sort of
                  illustration picked up and put into the discourse, half-carelessly and
                  half-unconsciously.
               She looked for such an one; but him she did not see. She perceived, instead,
                  another man—the same figure, the same face, true; but this was a man with a
                  name—the president, just now, of the St. John's College—a man amongst hosts of
                  men, his equals, but chosen above others as their superior—not a student,
                  solitary, living in an old red mill, apparently sustaining no relations with
                  living men and actual things. He was a well-dressed gentleman, vexed with no
                  distracting question; a milder, happier man; at ease, quiet, and glad to see his
                  old friend, Susan Dillon.
               He has time on his hands just now, to do what he will with it.
               Time to talk with Susan about her father—to draw from her willing, and, for his
                  sake, unfaltering lips, the story of the old man's fate. Time to question and to
                  listen in regard to all that she has done, felt, and seen, since she came up to
                  St. John's to live. But he says nothing about the letter that she wrote, when she
                  had determined that she must not leave the Hall to go to him for protection and a
                  home.
               Yet it is uppermost in Susan's mind, and she must ask the question,—Did he receive
                  her letter?
               And when Mr. Leighton answers her, she is not satisfied to hear him say, though he
                  says it in a manner that no other man would do—that he thinks her course the wise
                  one—that he respects her for her choosing thus, that he knows it must be so, even
                  as he suspected from the first, that she would of course be happier there with the
                  young people. She is not satisfied, though he says it apparently—nay, undoubtedly,
                  in all good faith. Indeed, for that very reason is she so dissatisfied. He must
                  not think that her own happiness has been secured by remaining at the Hall—that
                  her own inclinations were at all consulted when she declined his proffer of
                  fatherly protection.
               Susan has quite forgotten Leah, and all that Leah said yesterday to her. She has
                  forgotten Clarence and all that he asserts. She practically avows her disbelief,
                  or at least her rejection, of what they both have told her. She shuts her eyes
                  while speaking, that she may have the student in the old cap, and calico dress,
                  and the frayed slippers, there before her, and not this man, who, in spite of his
                  words, seems like a stranger to her. In deep silence Leighton listens to her
                  words.
               "Mr. Leighton, if you will only let me stay now, I will stay always. Oh how I wish
                  I had gone when you asked me! All would have been well. But I could not come. I told you why in the letter; or I said
                  something about it. I knew you would understand. They needed me so much, I
                  thought. They said so: they say so yet. They need me more and more—as I do you! I
                  am not going back to them. I need not! need I? You say that I may stay with you.
                  Do you, Mr. Leighton? I will be your daughter, as you said. I will not be a
                  trouble to you. I have learnt many things. I can—"
               Mr. Leighton took the hand of Susan and held it in his gently, and as if to give
                  her full assurance of his protection.
               "But why is it so," he asked? He did not say to her "be calm," but these words
                  that he did speak, had the effect to make her so. The poor little tempest-tossed
                  skiff had come into a magnificent harbor.
               "Because... because... I will tell you, Mr Leighton, in a moment—" and now she
                  spoke out resolutely, "because, sir, what they want me for, is Clarence."
               "And you—"
               "No, I will not! I said so yesterday. I said I could not to Mr. Baldwin; but he
                  would not take that as an answer. I must tell him again. I shall! Just what I tell
                  you... He has been very kind to me—they all have. But I cannot do it—"
               "You cannot give yourself to Clarence, you mean, Susan."
               "That is what I mean, Mr. Leighton. I cannot do it."
               With pitying and wise words did Mr. Leighton soothe her, speaking on without an
                  interruption till Susan again became calm. He gave back her confidence to
                  her—showed her that there was no cause for such desperate emotion or alarm as she
                  evinced. He would protect her. Everybody would—nay, what need? she could protect
                  herself. Sure he was that no living man would choose to wrong her, or disturb her.
                  Least of all would her father's old-friend, Mr. Baldwin—and it could never be
                  that, having told him and his son all that was in her heart, they would choose to
                  grieve her longer.
               And having soothed and quieted her, Mr. Leighton went on, not hurriedly nor
                  briefly, but deliberately and fully, to show that what she had besought of him was
                  now, in this manner that she looked for, quite beyond his power to bestow—he could
                  not take her as his child now under his protection—it was impossible.
               "Susan," he said in conclusion, and he read her acquiescence in all that he had
                  told her—it was, she clearly saw, too late for her to think of any other home than
                  that she had. "Susan, I know to whom I am speaking. I am certain that you will go
                  back to the Hall. Like a true woman you will complete all that you have to do
                  there. You will say to Mr. Baldwin, that while you remain in his house you will be
                  his child—that hereafter, perhaps in five years from now, you will talk with him
                  again about marrying with Clarence. Tell him this in the hearing of Clarence, and
                  if he is what I judge from your description, you will need to say no more. He
                  himself will not only assent to your proposition, he will see that it is entirely
                  proper and just—and will respect you the more for the deliberation with which you
                  choose to consider so important an event... Do you hear me, Susan?"
               "Five years?" said Susan, clinging to Mr. Leighton's hand.
               Mr. Baldwin had talked of years in this connection, as well as Mr. Leighton—but
                  when he spoke of them they had made no impression at all upon her mind... Untold
                  hopes,—hopes unmeasured, now grew out of the five years which the president was
                  recommending.
               "Yes, five years... It is not a long time for one so young as you to ask."
               
               "You are going to live here in St. John's, Mr. Leighton..." said Susan, musingly;
                  involuntarily she gave the hand, which he already held, more entirely into his
                  keeping—and herself with it, into his guidance.
               "Yes, Susan, I suppose so."
               "And Mr. Falcon, who has been our teacher, is going away. I must have other
                  teachers, he says!" Eagerly she looked at Mr. Leighton for an answer to the
                  question which she thus asked, and only thus.
               "Very well," said he slowly, understanding all that her words were intended to
                  convey. "I see how it will be. I am nothing better in the eye of my little girl
                  than the dilapidated old fellow who went summering in a mill with the rats. My
                  little sister is back again on my hands. And I cannot get rid of her. Well, well,
                  I am in debt to her more than she can tell—or I—she gave me some bitter herbs that
                  made me strong and whole... what! you have forgotten? well, no matter; I shall pay
                  the debt as I am able... It would almost seem as though I had come to St. John's
                  to look after her, instead of two or three hundred young men. And whether the one
                  fact or the other will prove the more momentous, is more than I can tell, I
                  suspect."
               He took out his watch, so speaking, and looked at the hour.
               "It is time for me to go, if I am not to stay always," said Susan, rising and
                  moving from him. Instead of detaining her, after the manner of the former times,
                  which she evidently had in mind, recalled by the hint she considered he had given
                  her, as he used to do, by looking at his watch, Mr. Leighton likewise rose.
               "I have yet some time before the hour of my engagement," he said. He took her hand
                  then and led her from the room, and so they went down the stairs together.
               "Why did you not treat me to a shower of tears to-day day?" said he, as they went
                  out into the street. "You neither wept when you came in, nor when you told me of
                  your trouble, nor when I told you that I would be again your teacher."
               "I have no tears left, Mr. Leighton."
               "I am right glad to hear it!" Nevertheless Leighton did shudder hearing it. "What
                  a strong-hearted woman we shall have in our little Susan! Those wild sea-breezes
                  gave strength to her as to all, I think, who have known them. A sea-breeze is a
                  capital house-cleaner, too; it makes a sure sweep of cob-webs; spiders, and the
                  dead flies that died in captivity, vanish before it. You and I will go down to the
                  beach some day again and think of the dear friend we knew there. Indeed, I hope we
                  shall go often."
               "Oh but, Mr. Leighton, if I had only never gone away from the beach! never for a
                  moment! If they had never come down there—not one of them!"
               "There was no other way," he answered, soothingly. "You could not help it,
                  Susan."
               How well he understood, how well he comforted her! He knew with what remorse she
                  recalled the longing and discontent which characterized the last year's residence
                  upon the beach—he would bring to mind the recollection that her final departure
                  from her old home, and all the events preparatory to it, were not sought and
                  voluntary, but ordained and inevitable.
               Together they now went along the wintry streets. With a joyous sense of safety, of
                  security, against which no evil possibility rose up in her mind with an availing
                  terror, Susan Dillon walked by Mr. Leighton's side; and the five years of which he
                  had been speaking seemed indeed to cover all time, to fill all space; without
                  dread, without presentiment, she went forward with him.
               In their way toward the Hall was the garden next Pucelli's.
            
            
               
               LIII.
               IT was during the school hours, but it was a festival day in the Church, and the
                  scholars and their teacher had a holiday. Theresa, the nun, went down into the
                  garden that was called, commonly, after Pucelli's name—not to see the sun rise,
                  for the sun had long since risen.
               It was a strange hour to choose, if she went out to meditate; the silence of her
                  own chamber, or the quiet of the vacant school-room, had better served such
                  purpose.
               She had chosen the garden, however. Probably because yesterday, when Stella left
                  her, she said something about being there herself at some such hour as this.
               There is more color than usual in the nun's face. Long years of self-control,
                  habits of composure and reserve, seem to serve her not as they should to-day.
                  Before she comes into the walk where Mr. Falcon and Stella are, she has, for many
                  moments, succeeded in avoiding them and their observation—she has delayed the
                  meeting. But now she is advancing.
               And she has thrown aside her veil, for this walk is in the shadow of the high
                  stone-wall; there are no strangers near, she need not hide her face from the eyes
                  of friends. She moves slowly, it would almost seem feebly at first, but when she
                  sees that Stella has observed and recognized her, and that she and her companion
                  are coming rapidly towards her, a strange, unlooked-for, unhoped-for strength
                  descends upon her; her step is firm, her movement stately; but her eyes, as she
                  approaches, are not on Stella—they are fixed on Mr. Falcon.
               "That is she," Stella is saying to him as they draw near; but she looks not on him
                  whom she addresses. "More than a mother she has been to me. Saw you ever a
                  lovelier face?"
               "Never but one," answers Mr. Falcon, with a deeper meaning than Stella Cammon may
                  guess or fathom, though in her woman heart she thinks that she understands it.
                  Outwardly, how calm he is; inwardly, for one moment, how disturbed, how confused,
                  how at a loss as to what he shall do.
               In jest, Stella called him old—he is not young—but his eyes are undimmed as in
                  their "first youth," while they look upon this nun. A new vision of his youth is
                  there before him.
               He seems, in his own silent way, to be questioning her; and the nun not only hears
                  him, but she answers—as silently. It is hardly needful that Stella should say
                  between this man and woman, who for her sake are so well content to be fast
                  friends on the moment, mere formal words of introduction; the nun half smiles as
                  she does so, yet she retreats from the silent greeting, already given, and speaks
                  to the stranger as becomes a nun.
               Therefore, she is not the love of Mr. Falcon's youth. She remembers not that
                  by-gone time; she tells him that he also has forgotten it. He is obedient to her
                  will—he has forgotten it, he replies. And with no pang—no longing—no regret. No
                  poison lingers in the long-healed wound, and not a scar is there to tell of it. He
                  comprehends why she has come, daring to revive the remembrance of the past; and
                  for this reason John Falcon loves her anew, but not as once. Not as he loves the
                  youthful woman, resplendent in the glory of her youth and promise, by his side; he
                  never loved her so.
               If there is a doubt in the man's heart, she, this nun, would remove it: for this
                  purpose she has come. If, in taking the girl who was her pupil, unto himself,
                  there is one lingering regret in his pure mind, a solitary wish for the
                  unravelment of a mystery—a dark mystery it might have proved to a mind less full
                  of light than his, she knows full
                  well—he shall be answered He shall never think, he shall never need to wonder, how
                  was this Stella born? She, the mother of his bride, is before them—and he knows
                  all that she can say.
               Falcon smiles to hear her, she who will be his bride, and holier, his wife
                  forevermore—to hear her when she calls this solitary woman, this nun renunciative
                  of the world, "Mother." He smiles graciously and gladly. But he has few words to
                  say, perhaps because she is a Catholic, flits dimly across Stella's mind; she
                  wishes he would forget that, and be a little more agreeable!... She does not know
                  how busy they who walk beside her are with all their thoughts—how one has given
                  her away but now, how the other has received her as a doubly-consecrated gift!
                  Does not guess that words crowd so fast for speech upon him that he cannot choose
                  between them—that whatever he may say, it is not that which he would utter; that
                  if he spoke the thought uppermost, she would listen to such speech as this: "You
                  do well, call her mother—for she is your mother!" This he must not say.
                  Nevertheless, in his heart Falcon is glad and thankful.
               
               Along that shadowed walk two other forms are moving. There is no reason why they
                  should not be there. Yet it is almost wonderful that there they should be
                  walking.
               We know, however, that wise as Mr. Leighton is, calm as he is in all his
                  acceptations of whatever the day brings to him, whether loss of wife, bestowment
                  of honors, or the teaching of a child, fit as he may be to guide our Susan through
                  a crisis as with firm hand he has done this day, she is at the present hour the
                  best of all guides for him;—of all St. John's could give him, were the city
                  searched through and through again.
               For she leads him in this walk. They come up across the garden. They enter the
                  shadows at a point past which Stella and the nun and Mr. Falcon have at this
                  moment moved.
               "That is Stella, Mr. Leighton," Susan says—her voice is low, but not hushed; its
                  tone, clear and eager, must, under any circumstances, arrest attention. And it
                  needs not that hour and occasion that a trumpet should sound two names like these,
                  names which stand for so much, in order to bring the two parties face to face.
               The president, from whose side Susan rapidly advances, stands like a statue
                  fronting, in what mood none who look on him, though they looked in calmer scrutiny
                  than was now with any of them possible—fronting, what to him is an inconceivable
                  revelation—a revelation as sudden as it is inconceivable.
               Stella has taken his hand, which in the first second of their meeting, before he
                  glanced at the nun, he proffered to her. But she has let it fall again—not
                  offended, yet greatly surprised. There seems no life in it—for her, it is
                  motionless and heavy in her grasp. And she sees now, but not clearly, why it is
                  so—he beholds her no longer—that greeting was over before she imagined. And
                  Stella's eyes glance astonished from the student, who is now, she knows, the
                  president, and from him to the nun her teacher, and back again; and to and fro—and
                  cannot tell what this all means, all this that has happened in a moment. But now
                  the nun is speaking... what is it she is saying...
               "Give her your hand, Leighton." She alone is calm—this rocky, statue-like exterior
                  of the President does not seem like calmness—but if it is, it is of another
                  quality, and has another source, than that of Theresa... The president must have
                  yet another moment before he can collect himself... Stella finds herself alone
                  there with them in the shadowed walk. Mr. Falcon has gone out of sight, and has
                  taken Susan with him.
               Looking from her father to her mother, Stella cannot tell what is the meaning of all this. She doubts,
                  she suspects—but she is not enlightened, for Theresa speaks:
               "Give her your hand, Leighton. You will find what I have done for her. Complete
                  the work, my friend."
               "Alice!... it is impossible—and yet could I mistake you!"
               "I am Theresa." The voice was passionless, but in the words was hidden an
                  unfathomable depth of feeling. "I am a nun. But she, there, beside you—that is
                  Stella—your daughter. Tell me, have I not given you the crown to your honor? You
                  are more in debt to your daughter than I can tell this day. Some day you may
                  yourself discover it. Search her brain and heart, I give you a true woman for your
                  child, Mark; and so I have done. 'Hail and farewell!"'
               "Alice!... go not." She had turned partly away, as if indeed to go at once, but at
                  Leighton's word she paused again.
               "Have you received your child?" she asked—she looked at Stella; all her love, the
                  pent-up love of years which had been ceaseless in its unsuspected guardianship,
                  beamed from her eyes.
               "Stella," said Leighton—he drew her within his arms and folded her an instant in
                  them; then they unclasped—she stood free before him; but so Stella did not remain,
                  for she gave him her hand, and looked up proudly through her tears. "She was
                  always a mother to me... father," the last word, the name, burst from her lips
                  with a triumphant sound, the craving of a lifetime was answered here.
               "Alice, you had your way; I mine. We will not question one another in regard to
                  it. But now I ask you, as I would not in my youth, leave me not—go not away
                  again."
               "Say not this to me, Leighton," said the nun—"all now is over. Think nothing more
                  of me. I have only desired to enrich and beautify your life. Recall the past, if
                  you must do so. I need say no more. The cause that was potent and availing to
                  separate us then, remains! What then were all this expiation?"
               "Mother! mother! this must not be!" but the nun retreated before the hasty advance
                  of Stella.
               'Touch me not,' was in her mein and gesture—and interpreting it, her child paused
                  reverently, and said no more.
               "I have called you child and daughter," said Theresa, observant and well pleased.
                  "I have led you by the light of such wisdom as was given me; I can say and do no
                  further. I am not my own, nor am I even yours, my child; save as I always have
                  been. Let us all make haste, and go back to our labors. But... John Falcon!"
               Leighton started when he heard that name—still more was he amazed when, on the
                  approach of Falcon, the nun took his hand and said:
               "Receive him, Mark Leighton. And whatever he asks, for my sake bestow."
               "Falcon, ask!" said Leighton, turning slowly towards him. "I have grown suddenly
                  so rich, man, ask largely—ask to-day. I may become covetous and selfish
                  hereafter."
               "If I ask all that you have, Mr. Leighton," began Falcon.
               The frank and hearty voice fell not on a deaf ear. The President for the moment
                  seemed verily to be lifted out of himself. His heart in that moment was the heart
                  of a child.
               "Not my coat, but my cloak also!... What—our daughter? Alice, is it our Stella
                  that he asks? Be it so, John Falcon," he continued more gravely—and not without
                  emotion—"old friend, this is sudden. Alice! she is gone!... Well, Susan, little Susan, come
                  here; we were walking along this dark walk together I believe—and you were
                  somewhat troubled... Lift up your head, child! hope everything from life—I bid you
                  who have hoped too little. Stella, come! of what are you thinking, my daughter?
                  Absolute or conditioned, my young warrior? where are you, my child?"
               "In the world, Mr. Leighton."
               "I am your father, Stella."
               "Father, I am in the world," repeated Stella, holding fast his hand as the more
                  child-like Susan did.
               "Well, tell me what this highway robbery means? This Falcon, this John here, what
                  has he done for you? I prophesy you are nowhere in the vicinity of the place where
                  I left you."
               "Father."
               "Yes, that is a good beginning, my child. Go on."
               "He has shown me the way to the Infinite."
               "No doubt he has—and through what a wilderness does it lie. Did he tell you
                  that?"
               Stella made no answer—she had no need—there was greater need for silence in all
                  those hearts—and so Mr. Leighton signified when he turned to Susan, and
                  remarked:
               "This path is a strange one for a winter day. Lead on, Susan. I have heard and
                  read of worse guides than you."
               
            
            
               LV.
               THE five years of patient waiting, which Leighton enjoined on Susan Dillon, have
                  not yet worn away. But they are vanishing rapidly.
               Let us for the last time make a survey of the progress of the several characters
                  whose development the reader has been tracing.
               When Colonel Wheaton came back to St. John's for his bride, he found Isidore
                  Baldwin precisely where he left her. Clad in her proprieties, in all 'linen
                  decency,' walking in the narrowest path of a strictest conformity; persevering in
                  the show, steadfast in the maintenance of all the circumstance, belonging to her
                  place, nature, and station. And he married her.
               A long life is before them. Natures like theirs are not readily exhausted.
                  Emotions do not tell on nerves of iron, hearts of stone, and brains of brass. Such
                  women and such men, whatever their dissipation may be, are not dissipated
                  rapidly.
               They live long to give laws to society which other people, who have brain and
                  heart to sacrifice, die endeavoring to keep: laws that indeed are written in
                  blood, the blood of those who uphold and obey them, and never dare to dream of
                  overleaping them, or of infringing them a hair's-breadth. These law reverencers
                  die of suffocation, sometimes; sometimes of a heart disease for which there is no
                  remedy—but not often: it is more frequently a plague that carries them away—the
                  deadly miasma that floats in the air, destroys them.
               These law-givers, these autocrats of the republic, live truly in the world, and
                  are not of it—but in no sacred sense. You say that the refinement which they boast
                  is not refinement, but pure animalism—you say again that they are dead in a very
                  essential respect, and you prove it by adducing the divine laws of life; you say
                  Life cannot exist in that rarefied atmosphere. You say that exclusion like theirs
                  is exile—that withdrawal is banishment more fearful than has befallen those
                  convicts of Siberia. You say it is inevitable—that they must, these autocrats of
                  the republic, far as they seem now, not from the probability, but, the possibility—that they
                  must some day know what they did when they exchanged for cold reptilian blood, the
                  warm blood of humanity. That they must discern, not their mistake, or blunder, but
                  their loss and shame, when they discover what it was to change the Image of God
                  into the images of gods—excluding the divine life, and thus removing far away the
                  thought or purpose of fealty, for even such a life as heathenish idolaters might
                  comprehend and worship. You say this, reader? Look around you then! Behold, you
                  have no need to "girdle the globe" with a road for the iron horse, that you may
                  set out in search of Colonel Wheaton and his wife,—what if prototype and antitype
                  are all around you in this Christian land—in this New World of the Pilgrims? I say
                  it may so chance.
               Miss Mar is a Sister of Charity, and an indefatigable worker of tapestries, and
                  clerical embroideries. She never wearies bowing down before her graven images. And
                  day by day she prays, with less of hope, for the conversion of Stella, (for whose
                  worldly ease and comfort she however has been careful to provide,) and, with more
                  of energy, for the spread of De Lisle Layard's influence.
               And her prayers, it would almost seem, are answered. If there is a rising man in
                  the Church, it is De Lisle. The eyes of his brethren in the Church, and of his
                  fathers in the faith, are upon him. Let no reader's heart harbor a doubt
                  concerning him, although he made no convert of David Baldwin, and failed greatly,
                  to his own thinking, when he sought to find for his friend a place in Stella's
                  affections. Beyond question he will prosper... Will grow great and powerful,
                  unless, says experience, (who is inclined to croak,) unless it happens with him as
                  it sometimes does,—(experience says not rarely,)—with men of his mind and habit;
                  that, grown secure at last in all his ways, and confident in the confidence that
                  his feet have not been set in slippery places, his "vaulting ambition shall
                  o'erleap itself." Such a calamity has as yet, we know, not overtaken him, and it
                  would hardly serve us here to affect the gift of prophecy.
               Leah Chilton lies in her grave in the St. John's cemetery. An elaborate monument
                  was long since erected as her headstone; but it cannot tell, nothing can tell,
                  those whose pride penned her epitaph, the quiet beauty, the rare holiness, nay
                  even, the greatness of her brief life and history. Epitaphs are not always
                  falsehoods. The heroism that in another sphere, where action would have been
                  demanded of her, not prevented and annulled, would surely have shone out to the
                  great wonder of such eyes as can see. But not, no, never in any case, to those of
                  Horace Chilton or his mother.
               Who are of the moving spirits in St. John's. The long-closed house in the City
                  Square is now again thrown open. Its lights stream down the avenue. Glorious with
                  gas is that stone palace.
               Mrs. Chilton's hope of years has its abundant realization. The diamonds and
                  brocades are hers again. Her table is resplendent with crystal, and gold, and
                  silver. Her fêtes are an astonishment.
               The imbecile banker dotes on his wife... oh how he dotes! St. John's has rubbed
                  its doubting eyes, and recovered from its wonderment, and accepted a new queen;
                  the wonder of a past generation is revived in this. And more a marvel is she,
                  standing amidst the strange havoc and disruption of the present moment, than in
                  the first rising of her day: for though hardly the quarter of a century has passed
                  since then, the world has grown very old in those few years. The children of
                  to-day may well look up to her, wanting a better model, and well may learn of her, and seek to be like her,
                  making to themselves a law and order which their uninstructed and yet longing eyes
                  know not how they shall elsewhere find. But will not the Herald of the Dawn come
                  to them, ere the Day break, and show them a true womanhood? and teach them, the
                  new heirs of Freedom, that the question of Slavery is one more profound than can
                  be answered by the proper adjustment of races, and the scales of Shylock?
               Horace Chilton is... Horace Chilton. The word has no divine significance!
               No architect—no engineer—no workman—not a son—but a curious sort of nondescript is
                  he, of large growth—to be discerned by the naked eye, perhaps—not yet too common
                  for such discernment in the observation of the thoughtful.
               Sometimes he is an artist. A few of his gems adorn the walls of his mother's
                  library, and the parlors of his fashionable friends. He was even once persuaded to
                  send an anonymous contribution to the exhibition, which the "unsuspecting"
                  committee covered with laudation, and wrote down first upon their catalogue of
                  prizes. But there were some critics, so unappreciative, sad clowns they were,
                  without taste or cultivation, as to laugh in the face of the committee on account
                  of their discernment.
               Sometimes Horace is a poet, and writes verses for his friends, which lose their
                  way, and fall into the hands of editors, who greet him as the poet for whom the
                  world has looked so long. But, somehow, the universal greeting is somewhat slow,
                  considering how great a fact this is, if fact it be.
               He is, in short, an extraordinary genius; and, as such, I can locate him nowhere.
                  There is no discerning the signs of his times. If he had died in Harlem, we might
                  have visited the grave of a blighted and unhappy genius, and planted a violet
                  there—weeping, it may be, for the hard fate of his aspiring youth... He is
                  unmarried yet; but does the reader think that his heart is broken?—that he has
                  vowed himself to eternal celibacy on account—of—Isidore?"
               Wordsworth Vane is again living in St. John's. He has a home at last—it is under
                  the roof of Mr. Tree. Sometimes he and Lucia talk of Italy while they work, and
                  dream, and look on life and on each other, with the reverent gaze of perfect faith
                  and love, and of perpetual youth.
               They certainly will go abroad. They must see Italy. The desire grows upon them
                  both; and, when they go, it will assuredly be together—for together they are
                  always. They are one. But something besides sightseeing claims them yet—Will and
                  little Rose; and they are, besides, in other bonds, the tenderest of love, to
                  their father, Mr. Tree.
               Roughly shaken in the wind of fortune has he been, to speak in figure; but there
                  was strength in him that could endure the shaking, and, indeed, with a sort of
                  triumph he has borne it. Many of his branches, the oldest, those of which he
                  boasted in his youth, have fallen from him; but soft green moss lies, close and
                  warm, round the old roots, and fresh boughs, covered with new verdure, have come
                  out into the warm air and sunlight, in the vicinity of the broken crown—and they
                  all point, with arms uplifted, to the infinite heaven. Indeed, it has almost
                  happened to him as it did in patriarchal times with Job.
               Let no voice ask me if Lucia ever became famous, and Will a shining light in his
                  profession, and if Vane's pictures are of the sort that sell. If I might, I would
                  not answer. Know ye, they had the Life. I keep no haberdasher's dasher's shop. I know not what their raiment is,
                  nor where they buy it.
               Miss Watson at the Elms has not yet exhausted her thoughts: of the making of
                  books, in very truth, there is no end, as long ago was said. Her son is growing up
                  under her vigilant care; his mother has long since gone the way of all the living;
                  the mortgage that was on the Elms lies there no longer—the little property is free
                  again; but young Herder has yet to be educated. There is occasion, therefore, for
                  Miss Watson's labor still.
               Dr. Borg would fain aid this "extraordinary woman," who has continued to grow more
                  extraordinary in his eyes since the days when she rebuked him for his trivial
                  criticism of the young world of his adoption—not quite sufficiently, to his mind,
                  disguising its stalwart limbs in the old world's cast-off finery; he even would
                  assist her by his continual presence and sympathy, as she goes on her journey of
                  life. But—looking in her son's face, Miss Watson sees another image, which makes
                  her smile—somewhat sadly, it is true—yet who sees any weakness and failing of a
                  valiant-hearted purpose in that sadness? as she kindly waives the advance and
                  proffer. Borg is a human being; and never did men or women look into her face, or
                  listen to her words, without in some manner receiving a better idea of the whole
                  race, perhaps, themselves included, than they had before; and, therefore, the
                  Doctor is always her friend—and she remains forever his astonishment.
               The nun is a dweller in the kingdom of heaven—but it is on earth, and in the
                  flesh. In a convent, in a palace, in a hovel, it were all the same—dead or living,
                  it were all the same.
               Leighton has his college and his cares—his honors and emoluments—and, what is
                  better, some faith in man, some growing hope for woman. If any half-dead reader
                  recognizes in himself the symptoms of Leighton's disease, let him go into the
                  solitude of a sea-beaten mill, and, without doubt, God will send an angel to
                  minister unto him.
               No more of Violet and Silsey. The sweet, fair prophecy of all their future lies in
                  the love that Violet came finally to give Miss Watson.
               And Stella Cammon, who was born again. .... Softly let us tread away. * * * *
               It was with Susan Dillon that this book begun; with her let it end.
               Those five years of which Mr. Leighton spoke have, as was stated above, not yet
                  passed away. But Susan has ceased thinking of the flight of time.
               Not long ago, Clarence Baldwin was entered at the college as a student. Susan
                  daily shares his thoughts. She is the leader of them still.
               She, too, has been a student since we last looked upon her. And to a better
                  purpose than we hardly dared to think. From many sources she has gathered strength
                  and wisdom. In the unpretending house where Stella and Falcon carry forward their
                  great design with patient perseverance towards perfection of fulfilment,
                  gradually, but surely, as all great works are done, she has learned many a lesson,
                  and, chief among them all, that of acquiescence and submission—demanding, however,
                  as is surely her indefeasible right, of every day that passes, the best gift it
                  can bestow. And of the college president such other lessons, the best that he can
                  give, as furnish her mind well. Her heart rests in a Sabbath calm. What can it
                  mean?
               She reads the letters David writes her from abroad, not as she reads the note he
                  wrote her when she lived down in the
                  lonely cabin on the wild and desolate sea-beach, though there is vastly more
                  affection now, speaking through his words, than her eyes had dared to read in
                  those of that poor note.
               She places no great estimate upon the utterances. She knows he is a stranger in a
                  strange and foreign land—far from home; well she knows how the heart in such a
                  case longs for and will find expression for itself, and that it hardly heeds in
                  its necessity what ear shall hear the tale. This experience has been hers as well
                  as his.
               Susan writes to him. They are the letters of an expanding brain, and a
                  well-controlled, warm, unselfish heart. She writes almost nothing of herself—he
                  would not have it so; her letters, in this respect, do not satisfy, they
                  disappoint him. It is all of Clarence and his father, and sometimes of Isidore,
                  that she writes. It is chiefly of Clarence, of his activity, his industry, of his
                  noble nature; she takes pains to recall for David all that his twin-brother says
                  that will illustrate the various and fine development his nature is now having. Of
                  his good deeds wrought, the spirit that pervades them; of his impulses, his ardor
                  in the pursuits and aspirations of manhood—of these things she writes much and
                  eloquently.
               By-and-bye, it happens, while he journeys on through the old world, rich and
                  glorious in the records, and the trophies, and splendors of the past, the gorgeous
                  day whose sun has set, that he comes to look with anxiety and even with impatience
                  for the arrival of these letters which breathe the breath of a new world and a new
                  life upon him. They are, each and all, to him strangely welcome; they are
                  strangely prized; he begins to question within himself how do his letters go to
                  them at home—nay, to search well his thought, how do they go to her, even to
                  Susan? are they welcome? are they prized? Why is he lingering on this magnificent
                  ship of the Past that lies in port and will sail forth never more to the conquest,
                  any whither, or at whatever call? Sea-birds flit about the gallant masts, but
                  their songs cannot lure that vessel forth again; the wind rattles among the
                  cordage and shakes the sails, but the Will is not in them, it does not pace the
                  decks, that the great craft should move forth in state again and bear down on the
                  Future. But this youth, loitering on the deck, he sees the fluttering sails—he
                  sees the swinging ropes—unavailable forever—the wind embraces him—he hears the
                  songs of sea-birds! It may be with hesitation and reluctance, but he must depart
                  from your decks, mighty ship of the Past that liest immovable in the harbor of the
                  Present. It may be with doubt, and many a sighing regret, that he looks up to the
                  masts and sails which shall trace no more their adventurous progress on the blue
                  sky, or the unresting sea. No more sleep, no more dreaming under the shadow of
                  those bleaching sails! a craft that cuts the water in its swift onward
                  progress—that leaves its broad track on the sea while it spreads its great wings
                  to the wind, goes forth; and with her he must go.
               Softly fades from sight the vision of great glories that are hastening to
                  decay—before him lies an new chaotic world, a mighty heap of treasure, a
                  wilderness of riches, an unguessed capacity, an irresistible desire, an unimagined
                  destiny. The Future beckons to him. With this capacity, this desire, these riches,
                  let him go into the world and build—let him sail into the Future and discover.
               David returned to St. John's without warning. He sent before him no harbinger of
                  his approach.
               
               It was the day after Clarence had passed his examination preparatory to entering
                  the college. He and Susan had been
                  passing through the ordeal anew—all its anxiety and difficulty she had shared with
                  him. The trial had cost Clarence much—he had in his work of preparation taxed both
                  brain and body far beyond their strength, even as it had been feared. But those
                  who watched him most narrowly, Mr. Falcon, and Mr. Leighton, and Susan, with whom
                  they consulted, had deemed it best that he should make the necessary exertion
                  without any further delay—anxiety, indecision, they deemed would prove still more
                  trying and hurtful to him than even such exhausting preparation as he would need
                  to make. He was lying on a sofa in the library, worn out by those efforts. There
                  was a pleasant dimness in the room. Susan—who could do anything like her? had
                  arranged the curtains exactly to his satisfaction; his eyes were closed, and she
                  was reading to him.
               While they talked together his eyes never were removed from her—what wondrous
                  beauty that face had in the sight of Clarence! And he was thinking, while she
                  spoke, and now while she read to him, of the time that yet must pass before he
                  should renew, or present again his claim upon her heart; never, for a moment, has
                  she withheld her intellect, but it is her heart of which he thinks. He has,
                  nevertheless, long since ceased speaking to Susan of this—his love proclaims
                  itself no more in passionate demonstration, but it works in every effort—it is the
                  spring of his life. He is living through and for her.
               He doubts her no longer now: there is no barrier between herself and him. He has
                  grown courageous and confident—how kind she is to him, how constantly near! always
                  within call, always ready to sing with him, or to read, or study, or walk with
                  him, to listen to, or chat with him. Neither he nor Mr. Baldwin has one lingering
                  doubt of what the end will be when those five years are gone for which she
                  stipulated, which she besought, in the presence of both, of the hearts of the
                  father and the son.
               She is the abiding necessity of the life of Clarence. He seems, in some marvellous
                  way, to have entered, day by day, more thoroughly into the affections of her
                  nature—the movements of her intellect. He is quick to discern every change in her
                  thoughts, to detect every variation in the movement of her heart.
               This is marvellous to Susan, for in some measure she can but be conscious of the
                  fact, and curious in her observation of it. She seems, to her own self, bound in
                  ways beyond enumeration or understanding to him. She can but submit to this
                  strange form which the strange fact has taken.
               From leading him she in turn is led by him, though he believes it not.
               Her rebellious persistence in denying him the enterance and dominion he has
                  sought, is over; but does Susan love Clarence Baldwin?
               She never answers herself the question. Until David comes again, she cannot answer
                  it. She is perplexed, uncertain. When she does ask that question, she seems to be
                  arraying herself against herself—so bound up together do their two lives seem. All
                  his ways of thinking, all his plans of life she knows—this is a country with whose
                  geography and zones she is thoroughly familiar.
               But as to David Baldwin, him she knows not. Does she long for his return? Does she
                  ever think that he is slow in coming? She cannot tell—about him she knows nothing.
                  But this much we may say for her, there is neither despondency nor gloom in the
                  character of Susan. Her life flows peacefully. Her life, and not—as once—confused
                  and unbelieving words, are the comment on the last words of Leah Chilton's
                  exhortation.
               
               And yet more. Susan Dillon in her new capacity is the wonder of her friends. She
                  more than fills the place of Isidore—the guests at the Hall remark upon the
                  youthful lady who is the mistress of the house—the servants marvel at her while
                  they obey and love her; young she is, but how self-reliant—how reliable!
                  Self-reliant—that word needs qualifying—in all respects save one, she is so; that
                  self she does not know, when, at rare intervals, perhaps not oftener than the
                  coming in of a fresh letter from the wanderer abroad, she asks herself about
                  herself and the twin brothers.
               But we were in the library.
               While she is reading now, and the dim room is filled equally with sound and
                  shadow—fain would she read her listener to sleep, he looks so pale and worn with
                  his recent labors—in the midst of a word she suddenly stops speaking.
               Yet Clarence does not slumber. Behold how wakeful he is! even rising from his
                  reclining attitude. He was startled by that cry—was it of joy? It certainly was
                  not of surprise alone, that cry that burst from Susan—he sees—there is a new kiss
                  on her forehead.
               And David, who has come, makes no great haste to turn from this girl who stands
                  transfigured in his sight to greet his twin-brother.
               No... for in his arms lies poor Susan Dillon, senseless; and Clarence, who in
                  alarm lifts up her drooping head... sees what a smile is on those lips which cried
                  out so strangely but now. For a moment he turns away It was joy that welcomed
                  David. He knows it—it was a joy too exceeding great for Susan to bear.
               
               Still further?... Susan's work was finished. No after tenderness or care could
                  renerve the spirit which that day, in the blinding light that fell upon it, shrunk
                  and from that hour withered from the world and life. They thought it was the
                  unceasing, studious labor into which from this time, Clarence threw himself, in
                  mighty struggle with himself, that destroyed him, before his collegiate course was
                  half ended. Well for them that it was possible so to account for the sudden break,
                  the total failure, the early death... Clarence died in Susan's arms—and she alone
                  heard his last whispered word—it was the parting of a mother and her son.
               But David was her consolation in that day.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
