
    ----CITATION----
        Ditson, G. L. (b. 1812). The Federati of Italy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6285 wright2-0756
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE FEDERATI OF ITALY:
               A Romance of Caucasian Captivity.
            
            BY G. L. DITSON, M.D., Member of the American Oriental
               Society, New-York Historical Society, Albany Institute, &c., &c. AUTHOR OF
               "CIRCASSIA, OR A TOUR TO THE CAUCASUS;" "ADVENTURES AND OBSERVATIONS ON THE NORTH
               COAST OF AFRICA;" "THE PARA PAPERS ON FRANCE, EGYPT, AND ETHIOPIA;" "CRIMORA,"
               ETC.
            
               BOSTON:
               WILLIAM WHITE AND COMPANY,
                  
                     158 WASHINGTON STREET.
                  
               
               NEW-YORK AGENTS,—THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,
                  
                     119 NASSAU STREET.
                  
               
            
            1871.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, BY G. L. DITSON,
                  M.D., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
               Printed by William White & Co.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. A Natural Consequence.—Dreams and Foreshadowings.—In Society.—A
                  Lover.—A Marriage. 7
               
               CHAPTER II. Kathleen again.—A Neighbor.—Dangerous Playmates.—Near
                  Marriage.—Change of Scene.—Sorrow. 17
               
               CHAPTER III. Other Important Events.—The English driven from Cornunna.—A
                  Highwayman turned Priest.—A Cruel Sacrifice. 33
               
               CHAPTER IV. The Apollo of the Arena.—A Bull-Fight.—An Apparition.—The
                  Queen.—Jealousy and Injustice. 47
               
               CHAPTER V. The Search.—The Discovery.—The Loss again. 57
               
               CHAPTER VI. Manners and Customs.—The French occupy Genoa.—A New Reign of
                  Sentiment.—Rise of the Federati. 65
               
               CHAPTER VII. Ministerial.—Diplomacy.—A Feeler.—Intrigue.—What may not Money do?
                     74
               
               CHAPTER VIII. Deceived.—Misunderstanding.—A Sacrifice.—A Severe Blow.—Hopes
                  revived. 84
               
               
               CHAPTER IX. Important Changes.—Cruel Deceptions.—Midnight
                  Marriage.—Flight.—Return. 92
               
               CHAPTER X. Danger and Daring.—A Wreck.—After the Rescue.—Two New
                  Heroines.—Little Words and Great Results. 104
               
               CHAPTER XI. Friendly Attentions.—A New Home.—A New
                  Occupation.—Soul-Searchings.—Smuggler's Artifice.—Rare Natures. 113
               
               CHAPTER XII. Important Arrivals.—New Lovers.—La Sylphide described.—A
                  Circassian.—Oriental Customs. 120
               
               CHAPTER XIII. Home-Talk.—A Confession.—Misgivings.—Compliments.—New Hopes.—La
                  Sylphide. 130
               
               CHAPTER XIV. Deeper Deceptions.—More Intrigues.—A Good Friar.—Good Counsel.—A
                  Surprise.—Hopes and Fears.—Departures. 138
               
               CHAPTER XV. Diabolism.—The Approaching Ball.—How Marzetta was
                  invited.—Concealed Fate.—Sappho Lost. 149
               
               CHAPTER XVI. The Ball again.—New and Old Belles.—Suspicions
                  confirmed.—Flirtations.—Jealousy.—A Friend. 157
               
               CHAPTER XVII. More Villainy.—Thinking aloud.—A Surprise.—A Warning.—Doubtful
                  Charity.—A Moan from Prison. 166
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. The Serpent again.—Reflections on Love.—More Traps.—Ambition
                  versus Love.—Winter and Spring.—A Surprise. 173
               
               CHAPTER XIX. At Home.—A Beautiful Picture.—Hope deferred.—Fortunate and
                  Miserable.—Good Friends. 185
               
               CHAPTER XX. Gonzalvo clated without Cause.—Roundabout Ways.—White Mice.—More
                  Sacrifices. 193
               
               CHAPTER XXI. Deceived.—Marzetta and Lindahara.—Important
                  Confabulations.—Marzetta and Yermoloffski.—Spinosa and Gonzalvo. 201
               
               CHAPTER XXII. Kathleen's Entrance on her New Career.—Important Information come
                  too Late.—Marzetta caught. 213
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. The Trapper entrapped.—The Poetry of Scenic
                  Representations.—More Worth and Loveliness than was surmised.—Fiesco's Flight.
                     222
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. On board Ship.—Maddening Reflections.—Sufferings and Recovery of
                  Fiesco.—A Friend and Brother found. 232
               
               CHAPTER XXV. The Liberal Cause gains New Supporters.—The Princess dejected.—The
                  Outbreak begun.—Haffed wounded.—Gonzalvo flies. 241
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. A Fearful Discovery.—Groping in the Dark.—Hopes revived.—Good
                  Fortune from Misfortune.—Almost a Miracle.—Sappho's Fate solved.—Lovers Apart.
                     250
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. Kathleen Ill while Marzetta is incarcerated.—She suspects
                  Marzetta to be nearly related to Her.—Joseph announces Himself.—Mourning for
                  Sins.—Joy in the Moment of Dissolution. 263
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII. New Hope for the Liberals.—Diplomatic Courtesy.—By whom, and
                  why, Marzetta was loved.—Gonzalvo in a Quandary.—A Great Mistake that can not be
                  rectified.—The King a Mourner for Kathleen. 273
               
               CHAPTER XXIX. A New View of Life.—Lovers.—New Relations.—A Circassian
                  Slave.—Important Facts revealed. 284
               
               
               CHAPTER XXX. Marzetta shows One of the Sources of Power She has exercised.—The
                  Princess Yermoloffski almost rewarded for Years of Anguish. 297
               
               CHAPTER XXXI. The Flight and the Fatal Snare.—Recapitulation of
                  Crimes.—Consummations devoutly desired. 309
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The federati of Italy
            THE FEDERATI OF ITALY.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               A NATURAL CONSEQUENCE.—DREAMS AND FORESHADOWINGS.—IN SOCIETY.—A
                  LOVER.—A MARRIAGE.
               KATHLEEN McGREGOR was in her chamber alone; and, though not sufficiently composed
                  to contemplate any thing with the prospect of a rational solution, she attempted
                  to review the strange, the startling, the tragic events of the day: and, oh! how
                  willingly she would have flung to the flames all her rich robes, and the costly
                  gems that girded her beautiful throat and dimpled arms and gleamed in her tiara,
                  could she have had near her a kind and loving mother into whose ear and heart she
                  might pour the burden of her deeply-sorrowing soul! She would have given even her
                  fair right hand, her wilderness of tresses, or one of her dainty feet, could she
                  have gone back to repose on the gentle counsel and discreet teachings of a mother;
                  but Fate had ordered it otherwise. Now,
                  bowed down, with no one to lift her up, she was treading closely on the confines
                  of that deep despair which ends in madness. The air seemed stifling; and she
                  thought some deadly specter was sucking away her breath. She rushed to the window;
                  opened it; and was about to scream for help: but the cool evening breeze fanned
                  her burning temples; the calm stars soothed her with their placid smiles; and the
                  whole heavens in the fullness of their harmony hushed the wild throbbings of her
                  brain.
               Amid the perfume of flowers which came up from the garden below, Kathleen, weary
                  with wrestling with trouble, sank down to sleep. To sleep did I say?—to wrestle
                  on, rather, with the weird phantoms that gathered their dusky drapery about her
                  dreams; to tear from her eyes the web they, spider-like, were weaving over them;
                  to evade the net in which they would entangle her trembling step; and to find a
                  pathway up the hill of peace out of the dark, demon-girt, and dreadful gorge down
                  which in sullen silence they were still urging her forward. When morning dawned,
                  she was exhausted, fainting. She then threw herself upon her bed; and, when she
                  again fell asleep, it was to enrobe herself in yet more dismal chimeras.
               Now she embarks on an inviting stream, lighted with a ruddy glow, which she thinks
                  is the morning's: she becomes bewildered on finding that the last rays of the
                  setting sun have thus deceived her, and that night is rapidly approaching. Now she
                  tries to reach the banks: but, as she nears them, her little skiff is speedily
                  repelled by the whirling eddies; and though she sees a figure walking there with
                  hand extended to help her, and she eagerly strives, again and again, to grasp it,
                  she ever, ever fails, and so floats on unsuccored. While darkness deepens, and the
                  form upon the shore grows fainter, and her white arms gleam upon the night, as she
                  still stretches them out for help, she hears the roar of the distant cataract.
                  With a wild scream that is taken up by the hills, and re-echoed from cliff to
                  cliff, she throws herself into the hurrying wave, and sinks slowly, slowly, slowly
                  down among the long grass, the shells, and the slimy rocks.
               Kathleen's screams brought to her chamber-door her doting father, whose loud
                  knocks and loving voice both aroused and comforted her. That morning, on her
                  account, breakfast was delayed to a very late hour; and when she came down stairs,
                  though she attempted cheerfulness, and essayed to smother her sorrows, all could
                  see in her face, in her red and swollen eyes, the evidences of much suffering.
               Days and nights, weeks even, passed; but to Kathleen they brought no relief: on
                  the contrary, she became taciturn, absent-minded; neglected her pet flowers, her
                  piano; sang no more her favorite airs; and was altogether changed. Her father saw
                  this with much anguish of mind, and began to think that she really loved Mr.
                  Duband, though he was so unworthy of her; that it was a great pity some one of
                  Nature's noblemen who could appreciate her had not assailed her heart; that now,
                  being of the same age as her sainted mother when she was married, it was his duty
                  to take her into society, and not keep her thus hived up among those desolate hills. Mr. McGregor,
                  therefore, at once proposed to his daughter a jaunt to Paris, or to one of the
                  large cities nearer home. She accepted the offer with no little degree of
                  interest; and in a few days they were ready and en
                     route.
               
               Wherever Mr. McGregor and his daughter presented themselves, they were the subject
                  of universal attention; Mr. McGregor for his superior urbanity and intellectual
                  qualifications, and Kathleen for that gorgeousness of beauty which had no peer. To
                  the latter, this excitement was momentarily agreeable; and she seemed to grow more
                  and more brilliant as throng after throng courted her presence: but she was too
                  beautiful for promiscuous society. The gay Crœsus, the light-headed lord, the
                  demi-fool, and the fop were ready to throw their worthless hearts at her feet. She
                  stood, however, as it were, in a temple apart; and to that fane none but the truly
                  good and great should have ever been admitted. As it was, knowing little of the
                  world, and having no maternal mentor at her side, she was swayed and tossed like a
                  tempest-bent reed in the whirlwind of adulation. I need not say how re-action
                  followed, and how, when alone, she sank back among the débris and wreck and somber footmarks of other memories.
               Kathleen's life had been nearly monotonous; and, till recently, she had enjoyed
                  almost alone, and like the fragrant flowers of her garden, the inbreathing of
                  God's bounties; growing, like her favorite native plants, in simple, unguarded
                  loveliness and purity, and, like the lilies of the valley and birds of the air,
                  taking ing no thought for the morrow; for her heavenly Father, she doubted not,
                  would be a sufficient shield and protector. In all this we can see how little
                  fitted she was to cope with the world's great faults and follies.
               Fortunately, perhaps, for the young lady, Mr. McGregor's health (and another
                  circumstance which Kathleen's pride imperatively demanded she should conceal from
                  the world) restored them, after a few months' absence, to their own quiet mansion,
                  where, with the exception of one rather protracted and somewhat mysterious sojourn
                  in London, and an occasional visit to some distant relatives in Edinburgh,
                  Kathleen passed a number of years in deep seclusion.
               It was on one of these journeys just referred to that Kathleen McGregor
                  encountered a gentleman, a foreigner, who particularly, and for a wonder,
                  attracted her attention and admiration. In his appearance he was all she could
                  have pictured to herself of the noble and manly; but that which most interested
                  her was an expression in his face of profound, unconquerable melancholy. He
                  descended from the stage-coach at the station whence she was departing (she
                  choosing then to travel by stages and alone), quietly handed her in, and took a
                  seat upon the outside. At the next station, there being a vacancy in the vehicle,
                  he resumed his former place; but no smile, no word, moved a muscle of his classic
                  lips. Reaching the metropolis, he got down at a hotel, gracefully saluting all as
                  he did so; and, if Kathleen's beauty had made any impression on him, she was not
                  aware of it. Still there was an impalpable something—an angel's fingers, perchance—playing on the chords of her
                  heart, which told her they would meet again.
               As Kathleen conjectured, so it proved; but it was at a grave,—a bad omen, she
                  thought; and she had had reason for believing in omens and dreams, and was to have
                  still more,—the grave of a noble Italian patriot and exile, over whose remains the
                  stranger had come to pronounce a eulogy. Yes, one of Italy's most loved and loving
                  children had been invited to come and speak those touching words for freedom and
                  his beloved country, which he who had just departed this life, and about whose
                  last resting-place a few great souls were gathered, had often proclaimed in and
                  for the benefit of his own inthralled land, and for which he had been honored with
                  expatriation.
               Count Fiesco Felisquetto was on this occasion even more than eloquent. Kathleen,
                  understanding Italian, found the tears flowing unbidden from her beautiful eyes as
                  she looked up into the speaker's face and drank in his glowing language.
               Had fate, or blind and baffling chance, brought her to this spot at this time? The
                  "Acropolis," the city and citadel of the dead, was indeed her favorite resort; for
                  it now suited her mood of mind, her more than melancholy habitude: and, being
                  there, the handsome speaker, the living theme, the dead hero, the exalted
                  patriotism of the Italians, all served to enchain her.
               Count Fiesco saw her now for the second time, and loved her; for he felt that she
                  loved the fairest portion of God's great earth,—Italia: and, as he descended from
                  the steps on which he had been standing to speak, he, in deep, rich, yet tremulous
                  tones, thanked her for her sympathy.
               On his return to the hotel, the count soon ascertained who the fair stranger was,
                  and on the same day sought and obtained an interview. She was the first lady he
                  had conversed with, either in England or Scotland, who spoke Italian with any
                  degree of fluency or elegance; and while this, and her admiration of Italy, which
                  she had imbibed with Tasso as read to her by her father, coupled with more of that
                  feminine grace and a seeming divinity such as was scarcely ever before vouchsafed
                  to any earthly being, drew him irresistibly toward her, and made him assume almost
                  at once and without question that she was to be his wife, he appeared to regard
                  her, generally, as rather an ideal than a real image; fancying her sometimes,
                  perhaps, the personification of the poetry of his own sunny Liguria; always so
                  mixing her up in his reflections, his recollections, his studies, and waking and
                  sleeping reveries, with la liberté d'Italia,
                  that he had no consciousness of the moment when he passed from the thought of one
                  to the other. Was it he who stood upon the shore, beckoning to the floating fay in
                  the skiff, and stretching out his hand to grasp and guide and save it? Had he seen
                  the vision verified, or rather its ending, he would have said to himself, "There
                  slumber my life and the soul of Italy." There was much in the vision yet to be
                  fulfilled.
               In Fiesco, Kathleen recognized the stately figure of her dream, and ere long
                  settled it with herself, that, however unworthy she might be of him,—to mingle her
                  simple thoughts with his lofty aspirations, to claim partnership with so pure and exalted a
                  character,—he was, of necessity, to be more or less linked with her future
                  destiny. Still there was a mighty reason why she should decline, a delicacy of
                  soul that compelled her to refuse, the first offer of his hand.
               Count Fiesco went back to London; and so frank, guileless, outspoken, was his
                  nature, that all could see that some new and brilliant flower had been added to
                  the wreath he was ever poetically weaving for his native land. He had not given up
                  Kathleen. Oneday, dining with a distinguished person from Scotland, the
                  conversation naturally turned in that direction; and the host was not long in
                  discovering his predilection for one of Scotia's daughters. The gentleman had
                  heard something concerning the beautiful daughter of Mr. McGregor,—of her
                  brilliant entrée into society, and subsequent
                  seclusion; of her betrothal, and non-fulfillment of the nuptials. What could be
                  made of it?
               Fiesco caught at the idea, that, as Miss McGregor (we will still call her Miss)
                  had been betrothed, she felt she had, conventionally at least, no heart to bestow
                  upon another; and he revered her the more, if possible, for that delicacy of
                  sentiment which had induced her to decline his offer. He therefore resolved to
                  return at once to Scotland, and so press his suit that no refusal could be made.
                  The very next day,—impulsive and enthusiastic as he was in all his
                  undertakings,—he started for the Highlands.
               We will not do Kathleen the injustice to say that she was either surprised or
                  sorry to see the count again, or that she disguised her real feelings: still, when
                  he took her hand, an involuntary shudder passed over her, and she would have
                  withdrawn herself, and in solitude poured out the tears that were suffusing both
                  her eyes and her heart. But he did not release his hold, and, while the gentle
                  struggle continued, told her that he knew all, and that nothing in the world
                  should induce him to resign her. If, with redoubled beating of heart, she had
                  listened to his words at the "Acropolis," what now must have been her emotions
                  when his voice was attuned to the melody of love! She listened, yet asked him in
                  charity to desist, as she was not worthy of such homage,—still hoping he would
                  continue. She listened with unbounded admiration, yet would assent to nothing till
                  he had promised to forgive each one of and all the faults and follies of her
                     past life, however reprehensible they might be.
               
               Not long after this interview, Fiesco hired a retired cottage not many miles from
                  London, and soon took with him there, after a strictly private wedding, his
                  beloved Kathleen. Mr. McGregor had urged them to reside with him at the old
                  homestead; but as he had now nearly regained his health, and as his daughter
                  wished to forget, if possible, some old associations, they begged him to allow
                  them to have their own humble habitation. Indeed, the young wife longed for entire
                  seclusion with her husband: she, in fact, did not dare to trust herself in
                  society; for she was confident there would be, at least, almost inevitably aroused
                  in Fiesco's breast the demon jealousy. She would be happy in the retirement she
                  sought. In the gay world,—she had fluttered in it for a brief period,—she knew not what might betide her: she
                  felt her entire unfitness for it.
               For months, Fiesco never left his home an hour; seeming also not only to wish to
                  forget the past, or that there was any thing else to live for save his beautiful
                  wife, but to imagine, that, if he once passed without the gates of his paradise,
                  flaming swords might be set there to prevent his return. By and by, however, he
                  was recalled to Italy in the interest of the Federati; and Kathleen accompanied
                  him.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               KATHLEEN AGAIN.—A NEIGHBOR.—DANGEROUS PLAYMATES.—NEAR
                  MARRIAGE.—CHANGE OF SCENE.—SORROW.
               BUT why was this marriage, just consummated, so very private? Why was it that
                  Kathleen had lived for so many years utterly out of the world, as it were? Was it
                  because she was surrounded by every luxury that wealth could afford, and had every
                  known wish gratified? There were other and potent reasons; but, in honor, we must
                  not reveal them all. When she first comes before us to enter on that career which
                  opens to her the page of her future destiny, she is an elegant, well-developed,
                  highly-accomplished young lady. Her misfortunes, if we may call them so, might all
                  be traced to the fact, that, in early life, death had cruelly bereft her of her
                  mother; and hence she had grown up with, perhaps, less of that nice discernment
                  and those delicate discriminations in social ethics—with less prudery, the knowing
                  ones would say—than she would have imperceptibly acquired from constant maternal
                  solicitude and example. As it was, she had been educated principally by her father, who, averse himself to
                  society, had also been her chief companion. But, while he instilled into her mind
                  the beauty and value of knowledge, he unwittingly implanted there an unconquerable
                  pride, which, wholly unbeknown to its delicate recipient, might, in her own circle
                  of life, have slept as a latent folly, but which, in an unfavorable moment, turned
                  upon her, and stung her like a scorpion.
               As a linguist, Mr. McGregor had taught his daughter many languages. As a
                  scientific man, a naturalist, he had imbued her with a love of living flowers and
                  dead rocks, of motionless hills and moving planets, of tiny insects and towering
                  trees; and in these, with a sincere and genuine worship of their Creator, "she
                  lived and moved, and had her being."
               Occasionally, distant relatives came and passed some little time at the McGregor
                  mansion; but as they invariably talked of persons and things—of "lords and the
                  races, of balls and watering-places"—of which Kathleen knew nothing, and cared, if
                  possible, less, their presence afforded her little pleasure, and their departure
                  opened no new founts of sorrow.
               Of neighbors there was one—a small, dark-browed bachelor, some years since from
                  India, by the name of Duband—who often came over to have a talk with Mr. McGregor,
                  and, if very pleasant, a saunter with the daughter to some of the many beautiful
                  spots in the vicinity, whence the scenery was altogether enchanting. During these
                  strolls, Mr. Duband learned the tastes of his companion, and, either from an
                  immediately-acquired or a native appreciation of them, joined his own to her
                  enthusiasm, and soon won more or less of her admiration and respectful attention.
                  But was that all? Had she examined her heart, she would have found that neither
                  his eloquent words, nor his tender and glowing thoughts, had ever descended into
                  that sanctuary; that they rested only as bright pictures upon her brain; that not
                  an extra flutter or palpitation of any kind could she have recalled, but simply
                  some highly-tinted imageries threading her memory.
               Mr. McGregor liked Mr. Duband as a neighbor, though of him he knew very little;
                  being possessed of that rare virtue of minding almost exclusively his own affairs.
                  He certainly had never thought of him as a son-in-law: still, if Mr. Duband had
                  proposed it, he could not have found any valid grounds of objection, except in a
                  sort of vague conviction that he was not, could not possibly be, the man his
                  daughter would select for a husband,—a life-companion whom she could honor and
                  cheerfully obey, but, more than all, could love.
               
               The family was indeed a happy, united one; and Mr. McGregor had not contemplated
                  breaking it up. He and his daughter would have made a paradise anywhere. Then
                  there was an aged aunt, who from time immemorial, as Miss McGregor might have
                  said, superintended the affairs of the household. An old butler too, who would
                  have lost his wits at any material change in existing things, was an abiding
                  genius in his department. A young man, Joseph, younger brother of a stipendiary
                  curate of the parish, had also, till recently, been a sort of general servant,
                     though somewhat privileged on account
                  of said relationship. One or two more inferior and less permanent domestics
                  completed, with the exception of a big dog, the list of members of the old
                  homestead.
               The big dog and Joseph were Kathleen McGregor's earliest playmates. She called one
                  as she would the other, sent them equally on her important errands, and made them
                  romp or lie down at her feet together, as caprice or fancy dictated. Joseph was
                  tractable like the dog; but, as he was ambitious and studious, he ere long, in
                  some respects, gained the advantage, though Kathleen did not seem to discover
                  it.
               Joseph, as has been said, was studious. Night and day, when not under Kathleen's
                  orders, he was poring over books furnished him by his brother the curate, and
                  others from Mr. McGregor's library, to which he had access with only slight
                  restrictions.
               Kathleen as she grew up and became versed in botany, often had need of Joseph's
                  services in the garden and conservatory: the boy, hence, without effort, was
                  acquiring a knowledge of flowers, their various names and habits, and something of
                  their country if exotics. This soon led him into further researched in the
                  botanical works with which the library was well supplied. After a few years,
                  Kathleen, as it were unconsciously, was asking him for information regarding rare
                  plants when she found her own memory at fault, or about those of which she, in
                  fact had no knowledge at all.
               Joseph was finally obtaining the reputation of being an able botanist; and Mr.
                  McGregor himself was not above consulting him. Hardly had he passed the age of
                  twenty, however, ere he began to feel an unbounded superiority, and to cherish
                  views and designs for the future, which, had they been known to his old master and
                  young mistress, would have shocked them beyond measure.
               "Lofty schemes and practicable," said Joseph to himself one day, when considerably
                  inflated; "but can they be carried out, and I remain where and what I am? I opine
                  not. People are often so fastidious about name, occupation, and the like, that
                  they will favor a villainous military man, a lawyer, a professor, or a sleek-faced
                  minister (even if a hypocrite), and spurn an honest tradesman or mechanic. This I
                  know too, well—must not forget it,—all important in the line of progress that I
                  have marked out for my ambitious self."
               Joseph resolved to seek, his fortune elsewhere, though he had many fears, that, in
                  the mean time, the most dearly cherished of his plans might be frustrated by Mr.
                  Holoway Duband, whom he intensely hated,—hated because, in the first place, Mr.
                  Duband had always treated him as a menial; secondly, because he was a rival;
                  thirdly, because he knew, or had the very strongest reasons for believing, that
                  this aspirant for the hand of Miss McGregor was a villain of the deepest dye,—a
                  fact which he expected ere long to be able to prove. But would this proof come in
                  time? Here lay the danger. In delay was the grave of all his hopes.
               The curate, Joseph's brother, having once been spurned, and his offerings at the
                  shrine of this fair but haughty damsel treated with contempt, he instituted tuted some inquiries concerning Mr.
                  Duband as soon as he heard of his attentions at the McGregor mansion. Knowing,
                  from words dropped here and there, that this man had resided in a certain part of
                  India, he wrote to a British officer of that district; and having, by good luck,
                  hit upon the right party, he immediately received the following information:—
               "A certain M. de Band, a very short, thick-set, English-looking fellow, with a
                  French name (probably assumed), was for a number of years a merchant or banker in
                  the city of Calcutta, where he had managed, through return-shipments intrusted to
                  him as agent for a rich native India house, to accumulate in his hands a large
                  fortune. He then suddenly disappeared, leaving an old man almost impoverished, and
                  his two sons, who, though they swore vengeance, were prevented, partly by their
                  religion, but more by the decrepitude of their father, from leaving the country to
                  pursue the thieving foreigner."
               M. de Band returned home, and concealed himself for several years in a small
                  village in France; then passed over into Scotland, and purchased the large estate
                  adjoining Mr. McGregor's: and, had it not been for the secret desire which the
                  curate had to humble the haughty Kathleen, Mr. Duband, as he was now called, might
                  have lived and died there with his ill-gotten wealth, and nobody would have been
                  the wiser. The curate's pique, however, led to a revelation that aroused a new the
                  ire of the Hindoo brothers, who, having been urged by their dying father—the poor
                  man sent to his grave by the loss of his hard-earned fortune—to hunt, pursue, and
                  persecute secute to the end, his murderer, sailed at once for England, bidding
                  adieu to religion and friends, and becoming, as it were, outcasts among their own
                  people to fulfill the last wish of their most revered, almost worshiped sire. As
                  soon as they reached London, they wrote, through an agent, to Scotland; and, as
                  they did not doubt that Mr. Duband was the person sought, informed the curate that
                  they would immediately come on to identify the villain, and take such measures as
                  would make him restore to them their fortune, or spend the rest of his days in a
                  criminal's cell.
               Joseph, as we have seen, had made up his mind to change his place and career; and
                  as the curate approved of this, having large faith in his brother's talents, he
                  was soon enabled to obtain for him in an institution of no great reputation in a
                  neighboring town a situation as teacher of botany, with the title of
                  professor.
               When Joseph announced his good fortune to his master and mistress, they were both
                  pleased. Mr. McGregor congratulated him, and told him he must not fail to report
                  himself occasionally at the mansion. Miss Kathleen, on his departure, which took
                  place immediately after he had expressed his determination to go, gave him her
                  hand warmly, and assured him she should ever take an interest in his welfare.
               What interpretation Joseph put upon the words of the young lady need not be told:
                  he certainly was not depressed by them; and his native vanity was in its usual
                  fine feather. He left the McGregors decidedly elated, and flattered himself that
                  his plans were progressing in the most promising manner.
               
               Months rolled quietly away. Joseph occasionally made his appearance at the
                  McGregors', where he was received as professor; all seeming determined to forget
                  that he had been a servant in the family. A few days subsequent to one of these
                  visits, the postman handed him a delicate, sweetly-perfumed note, with the address
                  in the handwriting of Miss McGregor. This thrilled him with a nervous joy wholly
                  inexpressible. Trembling, he opened the little missive; but when he read, that, on
                  the following afternoon, the adored one was to wed Mr. Duband, to whom, for a
                  considerable while, she had been betrothed, his grief, rage, and mortification
                  knew no bounds. He scanned each word to see if he could discern any apparent
                  tremulousness in the penning; but every line was drawn with a provoking,
                  tantalizing smoothness, which indicated the utmost calmness and the use of a
                  seemingly pulseless instrument.
               Now, of what avail his sorrow or his anger? The Hindoo brothers had not arrived,
                  though momentarily expected; and, if not present to actually confront his rival,
                  where was the hope that his poor word, his doubts, his suspicious, would now
                  receive a moment's consideration? If he should even cause by his accusations any
                  delay in the wedding, and those accusations prove false or unfounded, to what
                  depth of degradation would he not be hurled? Miss McGregor, according to her own
                  confession, had for a long time been pledged to Mr. Duband; and she doubtless
                  considered herself at that moment all his, his very wife, and would no more brook
                  interference than would Duband himself
               When Mr. McGregor at first contemplated the affair of this marriage,—Mr. Duband's
                  offer of his hand, heart, and fortune to Kathleen,—he did not approve of it; but
                  the gentleman from time to time pressed the subject upon him, till he finally, but
                  reluctantly, gave his consent. Miss McGregor had no heart in it, but assented to
                  become Mrs. Duband because her father had agreed thus to dispose of her. She must
                  marry some one, she supposed; and, as she had never loved, she knew no choice:
                  still, both she and her father, if they had interrogated their own breasts, would
                  have found a yearning therein that something might yet transpire to avert the
                  anticipated union.
               The fatal afternoon finally arrived, and with it Mr. Duband, the curate, and his
                  brother Joseph, now almost distracted by approaching events. Kathleen, deadly
                  pale, languid, painfully silent, awaited the dread hour of sacrifice; and if she
                  had been led to the altar by her big Newfoundland dog, she would hardly have
                  recognized any impropriety in the proceedings. Her usual haughtiness had utterly
                  vanished, and she seemed to be bowing to a crushing fate; crouching even, as it
                  were, for shelter; bending like a tender plant before a merciless blast, and
                  fearing to lift her head, or look out upon the storm, lest its portentous aspect,
                  its cruel fierceness, might smile her to the earth.
               As soon as Mr. Duband entered, he took his betrothed by the hand, and proceeded
                  unceremoniously to the private chapel; fearing, it would seem, that delay might be
                  dangerous. The curate, the Professor
                  Joseph, the father, the aunt, the butler, and the rest of the household, followed
                  with evident astonishment and dissatisfaction. Arriving at the altar, the curate
                  retarded the proceedings as far as he possibly could consistently; then, urged by
                  a word, and the pleading looks and pallid countenance of his brother, he drew a
                  letter from his pocket, saying, "Before we enter upon this solemn ceremony, in
                  which the contracting parties are to take the most sacred oath possible before God
                  and man,—an oath to cherish and to love each other,—I beg permission to read a
                  letter received two days since from London; and, though it may not apply to the
                  gentleman present, it is, nevertheless, obligatory upon me, as an upholder of the
                  just, the right, the good, to lay it before you for consideration:—
               
                  "REVEREND AND DEAR SIR,—Investigations pursued now unremittingly for nearly two
                     years in the interest of the Rahmohan brothers have convinced us all that the
                     Mr. Duband referred to in your note is no other than the M. de Band, formerly
                     of Calcutta, the robber and murderer"—
               
               Here the letter was dashed upon the floor by Mr. Duband, who, furious, and foaming
                  with rage, would have killed the curate on the spot: but at that very instant a
                  long white scarf was thrown over and rapidly twisted around the head and face of
                  the villain; and he was dragged, blinded, smothered, speechless, and almost
                  unresisting, from the chapel and the house, followed by all present but three. The
                  stealthy step of the Hindoo brothers had brought them to the apartment, unobserved
                  except by the porter; and their quick and peculiar action had secured their prey,
                  and removed it almost as noiselessly.
               Kathleen knelt at the altar. She knew, or perchance she dreamed, that something
                  dreadful was transpiring; but perchance she dreamed. Joseph then sought the
                  listless, the long-coveted hand, and the curate proceeded; and, ere the bewildered
                  company had returned (never for a moment suspecting the ruse to which Joseph and
                  the curate had resorted), the haughty Miss McGregor was the wife of her former
                  servant,—the aspiring, loving, but self-deluded Joseph.
               When Kathleen was brought back to the parlor, she knew not, and indeed she seemed
                  not to care, whether she had wedded Joseph or a Pharaoh, Mr. Duband or the dog:
                  she felt that some ignominious deed had been done; that a deep and sullen grave
                  had been opened for her young hopes, and that an iron mask had been fastened over
                  her tenderest affections. Mr. McGregor now saw her seated on the sofa with Joseph;
                  and his expression was one of astonishment, not being aware of their new
                  relationship. Still all felt a sense of relief when they remembered what an escape
                  the young lady had had; and they were more or less grateful to the curate for the
                  timely act by which he had saved the family from a dreadful misfortune. The
                  curate, on his part, contented now with himself, and with the able, striking, and
                  judicious manner in which he had brought about the dénoûment, and inwardly chuckling at his triumph over the once proud
                  beauty, sat himself down to converse with the father and the aunt about the
                  goodness of God in enabling the young
                  lady to flee the talons, the cruel embrace, of a demon incarnate, whose history he
                  then unfolded. In all, however, that he related, he kept on the largest, the most
                  exaggerated side of the truth, in order to lessen the enormity of his own
                  nefarious trick, and shield himself from the storm which he thought must sooner or
                  later burst upon him.
               After a while, Joseph proposed to his fair partner, resplendent in her bridal
                  attire, a stroll in the garden. The suggestion was favorably received; for
                  Kathleen felt that the cool air, the fragrance of flowers, the sight of things so
                  dear and tranquilizing, would serve to soothe and deaden, perhaps, those painful,
                  ay, almost distracting perturbations, of which she was suffering momentary
                  paroxysms.
               Among flowers, the professor was a pleasing companion; and on the way, as they
                  walked, he culled for his beautiful bride such buds and blossoms as would in their
                  silent language express his gratitude, his joy, his hopes: but their eloquence was
                  unheeded; and in dumb show the fragrant gems trembled in her all-too-feeble grasp.
                  Thus the two strolled on far away into a shady and secluded glen, and sat down by
                  a murmuring stream that sent its silvery notes up among the sighing trees filled
                  here and there with the sweet melody of the robins' evening song. It was the very
                  sanctuary and haunt of Nature's solemn harmony and of Lethean loveliness; and
                  every thing seemed bathed in an Elysian atmosphere. Here, as the passionate
                  eloquence of the enthusiastic botanist was in harmony with the thoughts and
                  sentiments now re-awakened in Kathleen's soul, and as her anguish of mind had made
                  dormant her lifelong aspirations and resolves, she, for a moment, felt no
                  upbraidings, no repugnance, when Joseph threw his arms around her, and breathed
                  upon her lips the delirium of his love. Passively, unconsciously as it were (for
                  she still seemed to be bowed down, burdened, crushed almost, by her sorrows), she
                  allowed him to press her wildly to his breast, and linger over that world of
                  happiness he had so long coveted. Was not Kathleen indeed Joseph's wife?—all
                  his?
               This phase of Kathleen's existence, however, in which she had been floating as in
                  a dream, was suddenly changed. A shudder of chilling disgust, of seeming sacred
                  horror, ran through all her frame like a flame of fire. Joseph, she now distinctly
                  remembered, was only a servant: so, flinging him from her, she
                  started to her feet, and with a fervor born of agony and despair, which a full
                  sense of her present humble position awakened, she hurled upon him those bitter,
                  bitter denunciations which none but the basest of creatures could endure and
                  live.
               "Am I then yours?" she said scornfully,—"your wife? Do you think you have thus
                  bound me? The first was an attempted marriage through villainy,—thus much I recall
                  of it,—but God relieved me of Duband: your victory was achieved by
                  fraud. You and your revengeful brother having in my lethargic passiveness, during
                  those dreadful moments of which I am only now fully conscious, triumphed over me,
                  you made me your wife,—your wife to hate, to spurn, to detest you; ay, even every
                  hair of your head! You, you, I say!"—and she grew frantic with the idea that from the tree of knowledge
                  she had plucked the bitterest fruit the serpent of deceit could have placed in her
                  untutored and unguarded way, her paradise of innocence, of guilelessness, and
                  heavenly trust,—"you, scorpion, fiend, wretch! having availed yourself of my
                  weakness when shame and indignation smothered every lofty womanly sentiment in
                  which I had taken pride, and made my brain dizzy and oblivious,—you blindfolded
                  the eyes of my incautious soul with a hasty mummery of marriage, and led me thus
                  into this worse than death." Turning then aside, and dashing away her blinding
                  tears, she said, "Oh, how I loathe myself! How vile, oh, how vile, seem these
                  selfish, these low-born creatures! But he shall not triumph, at least, further. I
                  will not be, and I will not be called, his wife, if all the horrors
                  of the rack and the fires of the Inquisition be brought to compel me to it. Creep
                  ye," she said, again addressing Joseph, "creep into a hole no bigger than a
                  toad's! There should be your home, there your abiding-place; and your fair
                  partner, instead of me,—oh, disgust!—should be some courteous beetle, groveling
                  like yourself, bringing you such dainty food as my good gardener turns up with his
                  spade, and such as natures just like yours must ever crave. I go; but do not
                  follow me, or I will turn and crush you with my heel!"
               Kathleen could say no more, and would have fallen to the earth, had she not
                  grasped a friendly limb, that, with a hundred others, stretched out its leafy arm
                  toward her. Joseph, however, did not observe her faltering step, or he would have
                  sprung to her relief: his face was buried in his hands; and he was crouching,
                  silent, dumb, and only wishing himself dead.
               "Am I, then, so weak?" said Kathleen to herself, as, with a desperate struggle,
                  she rallied all her physical and mental forces, and started to retrace her way.
                  Hardly had she advanced a rod ere she thought she heard footsteps behind her: then
                  she fled precipitately, as if some demon were pursuing, nor halted till within her
                  house and her chamber, where she locked herself in.
               If Joseph's ambition had lifted him to the top of a high ladder, his fall was
                  commensurate to his elevation. If he had, for a brief period, felt that his former
                  humble position was wholly lost in the splendors of his present one, his mistake
                  was to him the more bitter and fatal. If for a moment he had triumphed, if for a
                  moment he knew and felt that Kathleen was his wife, his awakening to a sense of
                  the contempt, the disgust, the very loathing, she now had for him, fell like an
                  avalanche upon his reeling brain, and he lay groveling on the ground like a
                  crushed viper.
               Through the whole long night, his despairing groans, and imprecations on himself,
                  cumbered the air; and, when morning came, he was more mad than sane, little
                  knowing or caring where he was, or what was to become of him. When the sun rose
                  and began to illumine the slopes of the glen, one ray of light seemed streaming
                  into the valley of his sorrow. Could he not fly far hence, and forget the object
                  of his love and ambition? Could he not find in religion that solace nothing else
                  on earth could give?
               
               These thoughts, ere long, began to take a tangible shape,—a form that had a
                  rational beauty and consistency; and, tearing a leaf from his pocket-herbarium, he
                  wrote a few words to "Miss McGregor," stating that he should immediately leave the
                  country; and bade her adieu for ever. This he carried as near the mansion as he
                  dared approach, and left it in one of the favorite walks of its mistress. He put
                  no name to the missive; so that, should it be found by Mr. McGregor, or any other
                  person for whom it was not intended, it would be attributed to Mr. Duband: it
                  would, at any rate, reach Kathleen. Asking God, then, to bless and protect her, he
                  turned away to gain his home, and make immediate preparations for a long journey;
                  saying to himself as he went, and prophetically as we have seen, "Kathleen, the
                  angel, will at least be free; and when the dust of time has covered up my name,
                  and I am dead,—dead to her, at least, I must, I shall, I will be,—she
                  can wed some noble being worthy of her beautiful self; one she will passionately
                  love as she is capable of loving; one who, with station, and wealth of learning,
                  like her own, will know how to make her vastly happy." This Kathleen could not
                  hear; but this she felt, when, after weary, suffering, saddening
                  years had dragged their leaden hours away, she met and wedded the gentlemanly
                  Fiesco.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               OTHER IMPORTANT EVENTS.—THE ENGLISH DRIVEN FROM CORUNNA.—A
                  HIGHWAYMAN TURNED PRIEST.—A CRUEL SACRIFICE.
               WHILE in the cool North these rather "under-the-rose," mixed, and somewhat
                  mysterious events were being unrolled from the wheel of Fortune,—events or
                  histories no more mysterious, startling, or outré, than thousands of families in every country would exhibit if
                  unveiled,—there were others, not less perplexing nor melancholy, developing in the
                  sunny South, which will have much to do with the darker features of our
                  narrative.
               In the year 1809, while war was being carried on in Spain, the English were driven
                  out of Corunna. Immediately preceding their retreat, on a bold and beautiful
                  headland overlooking the sea, they buried 
                     "At dead of night, with lanterns dimly burning,"
                   their lamented chieftain, the gallant Sir John Moore.
               On that eventful night, when the heavens seemed draped in double darkness, and were momentarily
                  made doubly dark by flashes of artillery, whose muttered thunder, mingled with
                  that of the clouds, boomed through the sultry air from the summits of the
                  engirding hills, and every cliff and gorge flung forth a mournful echo, a man who
                  had cunningly assumed, and vilely, treacherously obtained, the office of a priest,
                  sat alone in a dingy room, talking for a while to himself.
               "Yes, it must amount to millions!" said he, "ay, many millions! And for what has
                  it been hoarded? For whom has this vast treasure been accumulating? In the vaults
                  of the church, our church, so called (and he laughed sardonically),
                  it lies in piles. Why has it been wrung from the people drop by drop, like their
                  life-blood, and then left a useless, corroded mass, which, were it properly
                  employed, would yield a revenue sufficient to feed all the beggars in the whole
                  kingdom of Spain? Those who have had it in keeping year after year, century after
                  century, doubtless felt, as I have often, that they were vastly rich. Fools! They
                  laid their bones by it at last, as poor as the poorest in the land. Shall I
                  stupidly follow their example? Who, within the last two hundred years, has counted
                  the gold, the jewels, the precious stones, that were torn from the accursed Jews,
                  the murderers of our Lord, and buried beneath our holy shrine? No one knows, no
                  one can place his hand, even, upon the record of our wealth. Those who did know
                  something of it have long since turned to dust. The dead do not reveal secrets.
                  Should I longer hesitate? But I must not act without the advice of Manuella, the
                  faithful and good Manuella. I will go and consult Manuella." The padre (we must
                  even so call him) was, however, not a man who would follow the advice of others.
                  He had already made up his mind what to do.
               In another chamber, separated from that of the padre's by a long, gloomy corridor,
                  such as is found only in the old, heavy, somber houses of Old Spain, sat a small,
                  fragile-looking woman, holding a little girl in her lap, and striving to be
                  grateful and happy. She was delicately robed; and in her rich glossy hair she had
                  placed, as she was wont, a single flower of white jasmin. This trivial ornament
                  had come to be invested in her eyes and thoughts with a peculiar sacredness; for
                  she daily dedicated one of these little girlish souvenirs (it was his first gift)
                  to a lover whom she never mentioned but in her prayers, and nevermore expected to
                  see. I say, she was striving to be grateful and happy. And why not? Early left an
                  orphan, her father and only brother perishing in one of those bloody revolutions
                  which so often desolated the land, it would naturally be supposed she would only
                  be too glad to find under the wing of the Church that security no other place
                  could give.
               Manuella sat in the darkest corner of the room, pressing now and then convulsively
                  to her heart the little girl she was holding, and, amid all her efforts at
                  contentment, trembling with an intensity of fear no words could express; for from
                  moment to moment she heard the dread crashings of the bombs and balls that were
                  being hurled into the devoted town.
               The padre entered, and she rose respectfully from her chair; but he motioned her
                  to be seated again. Manuella, however,
                  remained standing in accordance with the custom of the country when one is in the
                  presence of a superior, till he ordered her to resume her sitting. But seeing that
                  there was a strange gravity in his air, and an anxious sternness in his expression
                  to which she was wholly unaccustomed, she for an instant disobeyed him. When the
                  padre took a seat, she sank back into her own with a painful dread of some great
                  calamity which she was as sure was about to fall upon her head as if she had seen
                  it written with a finger of fire upon every wall of her chamber.
               The heart reads too readily its doom. It feels the approach of its destiny, when,
                  in the far-distant horizon, there rises a cloud no bigger than one's hand. It
                  hears in the gentlest whispering of the winds the voice of the tempest that is to
                  shatter it to atoms. In the very lull and hush that precede the earthquake and the
                  whirlwind, it has its strange presentiments: it is almost certain that the
                  scathing lightning, the dust, the terrors, and the tumult of desolation, are only
                  for a moment withheld that they may gather more potency, more fearful force, then
                  do their dreadful work utterly, utterly.
               "I think, Manuella," said the soi-disant padre,
                  "it is time for us to quit this horrid place. All my brethren and all the women
                  and children left the town as soon as the firing commenced. They were prudent; for
                  if, remaining here, they should escape the bombs on one side, they would doubtless
                  fall into the hands of the French or English on the other: and Heaven knows there
                  could be but little choice; for these shoulder-strapped foreigners have proved
                  themselves, in war, far more barbarous than any of the barbarians with whom they
                  have fought. Exasperated by the loss of their leader, whom they are now bearing to
                  his last resting-place, the English will spare neither person nor property. Though
                  I might be safe, you would not; and certainly, if they dream that there is a
                  single dollar within the four walls of our church, our San Miguel, there is to
                  them no sacredness about it that will serve to save it."
               "But can we not trust our treasures and ourselves in the keeping of the blessed
                  Virgin?" said Manuella. "I have faith in her. I have faith that she can avert from
                  us every ill: indeed, as soon as I felt insecure, I went to her and prayed. I
                  prayed, too, not only for myself, but"—Here her voice was choked; the tears came
                  to her eyes: she bowed her head, and for a moment was in deep embarrassment.
               "Perhaps it was for me," said the padre, as if he would assist her in her
                  confession; forgetting one whom she doubtless remembered.
               "If you will forgive me, good father, I will say that I did also pray for you and
                  little Manuellita; and for your sake, for your safety and hers, I placed on the
                  finger of the silver statue of our blessed Mary the precious ring my mother gave
                  me, my only dower"—then, hesitating, added, "that remained to me." And she again
                  hung her head, and was silent.
               Manuella, though she had been for a number of years under the roof of the padre,
                  had never before made such a bold confession: still, so long as she considered him
                  a representative of God on earth, it was
                  a part of her religion to try to love him. He, however, full of his great scheme,
                  cared now little for that unselfish devotion of which she had given him the most
                  unquestionable proofs.
               "Do you really believe, then," said the padre, "that your supplications, and your
                  presents to the silver Virgin, will secure for us all the protection we need?"
               "My good father," responded Manuella, "can you doubt it? Oh! I should be wretched
                  if I did not believe it. I should have no hope of heaven, no, not one ray of hope,
                  if I doubted the influence and power of the blessed Mary, who, as a woman, knows
                  how easy it is for us to sin."
               "Thus you have been taught, it is true," said the padre; "thus I myself have
                  taught you: but we shall know more by and by. In the mean time, as you have
                  manifested your extreme devotion to me by remaining here in the midst of danger,
                  let me see if it will endure a test, which, for a time, may look like
                  sacrilege."
               "You know, kind padre," replied Manuella with a tremulous voice, "that I am ready
                  to lay down my life for yours. I am prepared to endure any hardship, any
                  suffering, any privation, you may in your wisdom and goodness see fit to put upon
                  me."
               Manuella was not, however, prepared for that revelation of character which her
                  spiritual father (so esteemed) was soon to make; nor was she prepared to aid him
                  in any sacrilegious plot which his brain might be contemplating. To die was easy;
                  but to pillage a church, to steal an article from the silver Virgin, would stain
                  her soul with such indelible blackness, that all which the wide, wide world could
                  give would be no adequate compensation. Nor had she, in her simplicity, ever
                  thought that she could lose her protector, or her respect for him. She had been
                  living in a vague dream; one half being of another world, the other of
                  inexplicable realities. Between her devotion to the Virgin, to her priestly
                  protector, and to the little girl, she had passed years even; but night and day
                  and time and events were strangely commingled in her memory. Destiny seemed to
                  have written her fate with a reed quivering in the wind.
               In respect to the padre, the Church had amused and entertanied him for a while;
                  but when he knew all her resources, all the elements of her power, and had become
                  master of her great game, he felt that she did not go far enough, or in the right
                  direction, to suit his particular, individual ambition. He could not
                  brook the idea of being a single nail in the structure of a great temple: he
                  wished to be a pillar of the universe. The time had now come, when, by a bold
                  stroke in keeping with his earlier life and profession, he could place himself on
                  an eminence which would command the envy and admiration of all his fellow-men.
               "I do not wish to put any burden upon you, Manuella," said the padre. "Of
                  hardships and sufferings you need have none, if you will aid me in my present
                  plans. I will, in fact, leave you rich,—so rich, there is not a lady in all Spain
                  who will not do you homage."
               "Leave me?" cried the poor woman through a gush of tears that fell like scalding
                  rain-drops on the head of the little girl, whom she now folded closer and closer to her bosom,—"leave me?" She heard no
                  other words than these which she had repeated: the tale of wealth was lost upon
                  the air.
               "It is necessary, Manuella; but if you assist me, and take an oath to guard the
                  secret left with you, no princess in the kingdom shall wear more costly jewels.
                  Indeed, you must assist me, and you must take the
                  oath."
               "Forgive me, father," sobbed Manuella, "forgive this agony of heart. Bid me do
                  what you will, I will obey you; and I now solemnly swear to keep any secret you
                  may in your kindness intrust me with."
               "You are a good girl," replied the padre. "Now to our work."
               At this moment, the artillery thundered more heavily than ever; the gloom of the
                  chamber in which our speakers were was occasionally pierced by lurid flashes of
                  light; the heavens became more deeply overcast, if possible, than before; and the
                  muffled drum rolled out its melancholy tones from the hights where the soldiers
                  were burying their dead.
               "It is a fit hour," muttered the padre to himself, as he rose to pace the room and
                  find words with which to soothe the sufferings of the devoted, the doomed
                  Manuella, and prove to her that what he was about to do was the will of Heaven.
                  Time, however, flew; precious moments passed: but no excuse for his conduct could
                  his tongue utter.
               "Take the lamp, and follow me," said he at last. The young woman, now more pale
                  than ever, instantly rose, placed upon the floor the child she had been holding,
                  took the light, and obeyed the stern command.
               In Spain, as well as, in Italy, the convents, the dwellings of the priests, and
                  the prisons are sometimes joined to a church or other edifice by a bridge thrown
                  across the street, on a level with the balconies of the second story. The padre's
                  house was thus connected with the Church San Miguel: so he had but to cross the
                  bridge, open a heavy wooden door, and descend a flight of steps, to stand behind
                  the altar; but, to reach the treasures which lay beneath it, there was still
                  another short descent, and another door.
               The padre crossed the bridge, and descended the first long flight of stone steps,
                  without much trepidation; but, when he reached the foot of that sacred place where
                  he had so often stood and invoked curses on the heads of the enemies of the Holy
                  Mother Church, a cold chill came over him, his teeth chattered, his limbs
                  trembled, and he was as pale as his trembling companion. With what impenetrable
                  gloom, too, every corner and niche and archway was now filled! How the very
                  columns appeared like black giants towering over the marble aisles! The cold
                  draped figure of San Miguel in the transept appeared to wave its hand, as if to
                  say, "Away!" The muffled drums had now ceased beating; but the torches of the
                  soldiery flashed through the stained windows, and for an instant made every effigy
                  thereon seem to glare like some red demon armed with avenging thunderbolts.
               The padre was dumb and motionless like one petrified. Manuella thought that God
                  had smitten him for some dreadful deed he was about to commit; and she was on the point of flying. A shout, however,
                  from without, brought him to his senses; and he exclaimed, "They are coming to rob
                  our church! hasten!" The noise had, indeed, given him courage; and his assertion,
                  that others were coming to do what he planned to do himself, strangely relieved
                  his conscience of a portion of its insufferable burden. Like a madman, he sprang
                  down the remaining steps. The ponderous keys at his belt clattered against the
                  great bolts and bars of the vault, and the door flew open.
               "Take this, Manuella; take this, Manuella; take this," the padre went on
                  repeating, as he threw up to her sack after sack of gold and priceless jewels on
                  the floor above. "Gather them now quickly," he continued. "Hasten, hurry with them
                  to my library." With breathless anxiety he urged her forward.
               Manuella, stupefied, obeyed instinctively, and hastened off with the load she had
                  gathered. In a moment she had returned, and was again loaded as before. Again and
                  again the journey was repeated; but the treasures seemed inexhaustible. Had the
                  good creature felt for a moment that she was really aiding in robbing the Holy
                  Church, it would not have been necessary for the padre to kill her: she would have
                  died herself of fright. But the dreadful work went on at the mid hour of night,
                  and she was, as it were, in a revery.
               Suddenly a frightful crash was heard; and the whole building was shaken to its
                  very depths. To the padre, it seemed as if the floor and foundations were giving
                  way beneath some mighty weight. "Was death, then, so near him in the moment of
                  triumph?" he asked himself. In an instant he had escaped from the vault, and was
                  about to fly from the place so full of horrors, when his eye fell upon the silver
                  Virgin. Here was a new temptation. His cupidity overcame his fears. The image, he
                  knew, was hollow, and nearly full of gems and of diamond trinkets of inestimable
                  value,—offerings of the wealthy for centuries. With a bound he wrested it from the
                  altar, and then, staggering under its weight, rushed up the remaining steps. Ere,
                  however, he had reached their summit, Manuella was clinging to the skirts of his
                  priestly robe. She had seen such things carried off as appeared to her worthless
                  in the house of God; but when sacrilegious hands were laid upon the Holy Mother of
                  Immanuel, the everblessed Mary, the Virgin whom she had loved and worshiped from
                  infancy, her very reason would have forsaken her had she not striven to prevent
                  the unpardonable profanation.
               At that moment, out of the gloom of one of the aisles came a sudden exclamation,
                  "Manuella!"
               To the padre the voice seemed to have issued from the statue of San Miguel that
                  had already waved him away. A death-like shudder ran over his frame; and he
                  groaned out to be unhanded. Manuella would not, could not, slacken her grasp. Did
                  the thieving villain know who it was? Perhaps not. Perhaps he thought that one of
                  the lurid figures of the stained windows had come down to grapple with him for the
                  prize of Mammon. Had it been Satan himself who now held him, he could not have
                  been in greater trepidation idation. He
                  no longer valued what he had so eagerly sought. His sole thought was escape.
                  Desperate, maddened, he raised the silver image above his head, and was about to
                  dash it down, when a cry of horror and the sound of hurrying feet—of a multitude
                  of spies, he thought—reached his ears. Did he dream? Was it a torturing nightmare?
                  Lights flashed again about the chancel and over the marble pavement. The silver
                  image had fallen; and the padre saw it strike the poor young woman, whose mangled
                  figure, with but one faint groan, rolled with the worshiped Virgin down the
                  blood-stained steps.
               As a thief indeed, perhaps a murderer, he fled over the bridge, bolting and
                  double-bolting the door behind him, and regained his apartments. There, however,
                  he could not stay: in an hour the alguazil might knock for
                  admittance. Concealing under his robes all the wealth he could, he passed at once
                  into the street by a back entrance, hurried to the nearest suburbs, and thence
                  into one of those gloomy gorges which open up through the cliffs that encircle the
                  town. Here he found a place in which to secrete his treasures; then he retraced
                  his steps.
               The padre approached his home with a caution equaled only by his fears. When he
                  was quite certain no one lurked about the place, he entered, and secreting, as
                  before, as much as it was possible for him to carry, returned to his rocky
                  retreat. At daylight he had transported all his ill-gotten gains, and made his
                  plans for the immediate future. These involved the necessity of his returning
                  again to town, purchasing a couple of mules, and some garments with which he could
                  disguise himself if necessary.
               At the earliest possible moment, the fugitive had secured, though at a rather dear
                  rate, two just such strong animals as were requisite, with huge panniers, for his
                  merchandise, and was en route for some of those
                  far-off mountain-passes of the Asturias or the Pyrenees, which, from time
                  immemorial, have been nearly inaccessible to any but revolutionists and
                  banditti.
               But the padre's fear and caution and haste were all unnecessary. No one living
                  cared for his possessions. In the morning, the great eastern door and tower-gate
                  were found unfastened and ajar; and as a massive statue that stood by a window was
                  now lying upon the floor, broken in pieces, it was supposed that a shell had
                  reached there from the bombarding batteries, and produced the mischief. If the
                  evidences of a robbery were brought to light, it was at once attributed to the
                  English, who were known to have committed some depredations in that neighborhood
                  on their return, that very night, from the burial of their late chieftain. We have
                  reason to know, however, that the discomforted and retreating soldiers of Sir John
                  Moore were, in this instance, unjustly suspected; that no missile from the enemy's
                  guns had penetrated the church, but that the statue had been thrown down by a
                  person who had gained admittance to the sanctuary by the window before which it
                  stood; that the person who thus gained admittance had recognized Manuella as she
                  crossed the bridge on that fatal night, holding the light so that it fell full
                  upon her pallid features; that this same person came not with any evil intent, but
                  with strange, conflicting feelings of
                  harrowing suspicion, tender interest, questionable sympathy, hatred, revenge; that
                  he who had thus felt and suffered passed not out by the way he came, but by the
                  great eastern tower-gate; that when morning dawned, though the roar of artillery
                  had ceased, and all its deadly work been done, there was a deadly strife and
                  tumult in this stranger's heart, a grief and a joy that nearly quenched within it
                  the flame of life.
               The visible world had again put on its brightest garments; the deeds of the night
                  were laid away in the dark caverns of the memory.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE APOLLO OF THE ARENA.—A BULL-FIGHT.—AN APPA RITION.—THE
                  QUEEN.—JEALOUSY AND INJUSTICE.
               WHO was the stranger whose apparition was so unexpected in the Church San Miguel?
                  No other than Don Antonio Gusman, the Apollo of the arena,—the most agile,
                  graceful, daring matador (or bull-killer) in the
                  whole of Spain. He was the son of a nobleman, and highly educated, but had been
                  drawn to the arena, partly, perhaps, by his vanity, but principally from sheer
                  love of excitement.
               Not a long time previous to his appearance at Corunna, there had been announced in
                  the capital an extraordinary bull-fight, in which Don Antonio was honored with a
                  command from the queen to appear. For some years, he had been as one lost to
                  himself and the world. No offers of money, no tokens of friendship, no
                  inducements, could be held out to him, sufficient to bring him to that field where
                  he had aforetime won such wondrous rounds of applause. He walked the streets as one seeking some lost
                  treasure. He had no hours for sleep, and some said he never slept. He appeared at
                  the coffee-houses, where, though rallied by his old companions, no smile, no jest,
                  reminded them of what he had been,—not only a gallant bull-fighter
                  and swordsman, but one of the jolliest and happiest of the gay society of Madrid.
                  And, what was more,—what by millions would have been deemed the greatest good man
                  could aspire to on earth,—he had the name of being one of the queen's favorites;
                  ay, of being once seized, late one night, for having in his possession a golden
                  key bearing the royal arms; but that nothing came of it.
               His companions respected his sorrow. In this there was a delicacy which he truly
                  deserved; for there had been betrothed to him a fair Andalusian child, who, after
                  spending a couple of years in the convent where her mother had placed her to
                  complete her education, was to be his wife.
               The two years of waiting dragged themselves slowly enough away. The mother, in the
                  mean time, had returned home, and died; and, when he applied at the convent for
                  his Manuella, he was informed that the night previous she had left the sacred
                  inclosure, and had not returned.
               There are some blows, which like whirlwinds, lift one from the earth to dash him
                  down again. Don Antonio could not realize at once the whole truth, but was exalted
                  into such a fervor of love, that he swore to seek no repose, no joy, till he had
                  found the wedded child of his heart. Weeks, months, passed; but no dove of peace
                  returned to the window of his widowed sanctuary, where the cold effigy alone of
                  his lost fair one lay enshrined. Despondency now seized upon him; and he became
                  almost a shadow, a wreck, on the bright and promising shores of early manhood.
               When the queen ordered him to the arena, his friends were overjoyed; not only
                  because they would witness again his wonderful dexterity, the inimitable
                  nonchalance with which he performed his most thrilling exploits, the suppleness of
                  his assaults, the godlike dignity with which he stood and dared the dangers that
                  beset him, but because they felt, that in the excitement of the hour, amid the
                  shouts that would welcome him, he might possibly throw off, and overcome for all
                  time, his habitual gloom and painful taciturnity.
               Don Antonio could hardly bring himself to believe that he must obey the mandate;
                  that he was to act a part where his heart was not,—forget for an hour his
                  Manuella. The day, too, on which he was to appear, was an unfortunate one,—the
                  anniversary of that appointed for his wedding; and perhaps the queen knew it.
               The morning finally came, bright and beautiful; and all the world was abroad. The
                  amphitheater was crowded from the front to the rear circle, there being only one
                  vast tier of seats as in Rome's Coliseum. The queen early made her appearance, and
                  the house rose in acknowledgment and nominal respect. Then there passed through
                  the throng many a stale jest and story, and many comments on her ager and,
                  equivocally, on her personal charms; but we need not here repeat them. Suffice it to say, that in her hair,
                  which was held by a diamond tiara, nestled the deepest of crimson and yellow
                  flowers to soften the tone of her complexion; that through almost invisible black
                  lace gleamed a mass of bust and shoulders that was truly royal; that her arms too,
                  massive and white, wielded a fan in graceful commendation, command, or censure,
                  and even in juvenile coquetry, when our transient hero appeared, and made his
                  obeisance to her, and then to the rest of the audience.
               Was there a blush upon the queen's cheeks when the handsome Don Antonio entered?
                  Perhaps so: we must not scrutinize too deeply. Perhaps they were deeply powdered;
                  and we can not here go beyond the surface and appearances.
               The arena was spacious, perfectly level, and sufficiently hard to secure good
                  footing. The wall or wooden barrier around it was just high enough to protect
                  those seated behind it from the most enraged of the toros (or bulls), yet low enough for those endangered on horseback
                  to throw themselves over it. Those on foot were provided with seemingly frail yet
                  safe asylums behind broad and substantial planks well fixed in the ground in
                  various places,—just far enough from the barrier to allow them the space
                  required.
               This last contrivance was the most provoking thing the toro encountered. When pursuing his hated antagonist, he found
                  himself suddenly arrested by it; then he would retreat, and with more frightful
                  fury plunge upon it again, striving to dash it in pieces, and thus unmask his
                  adversary, place him at his mercy, perhaps, or bring him to a fair fight.
               The trumpeter stood near the queen's box, and, by her orders, gave the various
                  signals necessary for timing the duration of each portion of the programme. When a
                     toro had been teased sufficiently, had
                  defended himself bravely, and had put in jeopardy the lives of the actors, a
                  certain number of well-understood notes were sounded; and he was immediately
                  killed by one of the several modes practiced in such sports. When the animal was
                  dead, or nearly so, other notes signified that he should be dragged away; and at a
                  furious speed it was done by horses brought in for the purpose, and instantly
                  hitched to the carcass.
               For this exhibition, as the queen was to be present, eight of the finest bulls had
                  been selected, and among them one of great beauty, for the special benefit of Don
                  Antonio. He was called the saltador, as he was
                  fond of leaping, and, it was supposed, would put Antonio's skill to the fullest
                  test.
               
                  El saltador, and all the others, in fact, had
                  been for some time kept in a dark room, and lashed into the greatest rage by
                  scientific tormentors; and, when an avenue was discovered by which they could
                  escape, they were not long in availing themselves of it. In this sport, only one
                  at a time, however, is permitted to pass; and no person who has not seen it can
                  conceive of the wild and truly fearful bewilderment with which the tortured beast
                  bursts into the broad light, and halts in the center of the glittering
                  amphitheater. Rushing from his dark prison, he finds himself all at once in the
                  bright gleam of day, surrounded by a towering wall of human beings,—a living wall,
                  whose first great shout makes his whole frame quiver; and he stops, as if by a lightning-stroke, with
                  haunches depressed, with fore-feet advanced, with shoulders heaving upward, breast
                  and nostrils expanded, head erect, defiant, and eyes glaring with terror.
               The spectators seemed to know intuitively about the time when the performance
                  should begin; and silence reigned for a moment through the vast throng. The
                  trumpet then sounded; the door of the prison flew open; and "toro No. 1" bounded to the center of the arena. He was
                  not only greeted with the usual shout, but with two barbed sticks, hung with
                  tinkling tin and rattling paper, which were thrust into his neck as he passed the
                  portal. These he attempted to throw off; but the barbs held them fast; and, at
                  every toss and shake of the head, the rattling was renewed, and the fright and
                  pain increased.
               Hardly any time was allowed him to contemplate his new and strange position, ere a
                  man in tight garments, gayly trimmed, and setting off his figure to good
                  advantage, approached most cautiously with a crimson flag. The toro granted him but a moment to regain his
                  hiding-place. Dashing at and hotly pursuing him, shelter was absolutely necessary;
                  the pursurer giving to the hated barrier, the safety-plank, a thundering blow that
                  shook the very ground. Several matadors then
                  issued from other quarters, with their provoking flags, to draw the beast away.
                  They soon succeeded, but found it prudent to be extremely wary; for the
                  impetuosity of his assaults was more than marvelous.
               In the mean time, a horseman entered, but was immediately galloping hither and
                  thither for his life: and though he succeeded, with a long dull lance applied to
                  the bull's neck, in turning him several times, the latter at last accomplished his
                  object, and buried his horns deep between the horse's ribs; the rider escaping by
                  leaping over the parapet.
               After many other unimportant feints, and some feats of daring, the trumpet sounded
                  for the toro's death. A sharp lance was then
                  placed with its haft against the wall, and the point so elevated, that, when the
                  more thoroughly-aroused creature plunged at the matador who held it, the poor beast received it in his breast, and
                  fell dead upon the spot. In another moment he was dragged out of sight.
               Six others were killed in various ways in less than an hour.
               Finally the note of command was again given, and the eighth el saltador came leaping into the circle; and Don
                  Antonio, in costly and glittering garb, unheralded, and as by enchantment, was
                  there to confront him.
               The habitués of the amphitheater hardly knew
                  which of the two to admire the most.
               Don Antonio saluted the queen, and she returned the salutation by a motion of her
                  fan. The arena now rang with shouts; but he seemed to possess only a portion of
                  his ancient fire, and entered languidly upon his work. As, however, the struggle
                  advanced, the comeliness, wild bounds, and graceful boldness, of his opponent,
                  warmed him into a new life, and, as it were, out of himself; and he surpassed all
                  previous efforts. So many, indeed, were his daring feats,—so many that served to
                  display his faultless mold and
                  manner,—that the queen lingered over the order for the death.
               At last the bugle sounded, and Don Antonio stood with his gleaming sword poised to
                  receive the last, most dangerous of all the assaults, and give the last and most
                  perilous thrust of all, in the various modes by which these scenes are closed. His
                  sword was poised; but his eye had caught the eager, loving look, and rested on the
                  face, of his long-lost Manuella. Like a statue he stood while el saltador rushed upon him, and bowed his horns to
                  give or receive the final blow. The house was thrilled with fear. The queen rose
                  in her box, and the audience en masse arose
                  also. The toro paused: the moving multitude
                  seemed to paralyze him; and the toss he gave his head, though fierce, was as if he
                  wished rather to shake from his vision the affrighting throng than destroy his
                  adversary. Antonio, however, fell; and Manuella was borne senseless away.
               Don Antonio had been pierced in the side; but there was yet time, perhaps, to save
                  him: so every matador flew to the ring to draw
                  the wild beast off. The red flags, however, the barbed darts, the cries of dismay,
                  and shouts, no longer moved him. In an instant, he had recovered from his
                  bewilderment. His eyeballs glared: his enemy was prostrate before him: he poised
                  himself for a deadly thrust.
               "Antonio!" exclaimed the queen, forgetting herself; but the bugle-notes, a second
                  time sounding for "the death," drowned her voice. They broke shrilly over the din,
                  and had the effect of arousing the other actors in the scene; one of whom, by a
                  quick blow with a stiletto, finished the struggle. El
                     saltador plunged forward, and fell; and the prince of matadors was again deeply gored.
               The queen ordered her attending physician to hasten to the wounded man, have him
                  conveyed to the palace, and give him all the relief his skill could command. In
                  this generous proceeding her Majesty was governed by conflicting sentiments: our
                  own will lead us to believe that humanity was the dominant one. She had known of
                  Don Antonio's betrothal, and had not approved of it. She also knew the padre, and
                  had, perchance, something to do with that nefarious act, the clandestine
                  disappearance of Manuella.
               Though much enfeebled by loss of blood, Don Antonio was in danger of succumbing
                  rather to re-action, after the great excitement he had been under, than directly
                  from the wounds which he had received. Quiet and palliatives were chiefly resorted
                  to; became the essentials, in fact, when the second stage of his malady was
                  reached, and delirium ensued.
               It was during these latter paroxysms, when railing against the queen, that the
                  favorite, Godoy, made his appearance, and sought to drive him from the palace; for
                  when this prince and the queen stood by his bedside, and he was evidently dreaming
                  of Manuella, the former would thrust in her Majesty's name. This at once aroused
                  his ire; and it was then that he burst forth with a flood of debasing, humbling,
                  deprecating words, that sent the blood in anger up to the very tiara on the royal
                  brow.
               What could she now do? Had she not thwarted the only scheme of life dear to him?
                  She tauntingly told him as much; and that
                  at Corunna perhaps, or some other distant port, he might possibly find that young
                  school-girl trifle of his heart.
               Godoy had accomplished his object: and, as soon as Antonio was able to walk, he
                  found himself alone, but free; free to search again for his Manuella; free to hate
                  the queen, and curse her in his thoughts.
               Of her Majesty and Manuel Godoy history has made a painful record, which time does
                  neither soften nor efface; but of Don Antonio it is silent.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               THE SEARCH.—THE DISCOVERY,—THE LOSS AGAIN.
               DON ANTONIO traced his Manuella to Corunna, as the queen suggested he might; but
                  there, again, every thing was shrouded in mystery.
               "Some astute, some wily, crafty being," he said to himself, "must have something
                  to do with this cruel robbery, or it could not possibly be kept so secret. Not a
                  nook or corner of the town, or hardly a habitation, but has been subjected to my
                  scrutiny. Alas! I fear that I am seeking a ray of light that has already ended in
                  darkness."
               He could not but remember, however, that appealing yet confiding, loving look
                  which Manuella gave him when the arena swam before his eyes, and all was
                  obliterated to mind or sight save the vision of his beloved.
               "Why did I not perish then," he repeated again and again to himself, "while that
                  angelic face beamed upon my soul? Am I doomed to wander thus for ever in this deep charnel-house of deadly doubts
                  and famishing hope? God grant me, rather, oblivion!"
               One densely-obscure and stormy night,—it was near midnight; a record has already
                  been made of it,—he was returning from the hospital, where he had been giving some
                  much-needed aid to the wounded soldiers, when he saw a tall, dark figure emerge
                  from a small door opening on a bridge that spanned the narrow thoroughfare, like
                  the "Bridge of Sighs" in Venice, and connected a priest's dwelling and a convent
                  with a church. Following the tall figure was a female, carrying a lantern or
                  candle, which threw the light full upon her face.
               "Manuella!" exclaimed Antonio, stretching his trembling hands upwards as if to
                  receive her into his arms. But his voice did not reach her; and in a moment her
                  slight form was lost in the shadows of the heavy walls of the opposite doorway.
                  Could he be mistaken in the person? Hardly, since her image was framed into every
                  convolution of his brain. Yet wishing to be more sure if possible, and ascertain
                  the object of this strange nocturnal tramp, he hastened to the front-entrances,
                  but found them fastened,—probably as a precaution against the soldiery. He next
                  proceeded to the southern side of the building, where, by climbing to the top of a
                  high wall, he could reach one of the windows. This he succeeded in doing, after
                  much delay, and overcoming many difficulties; but, to gain the inside he was
                  obliged to break the glass, and even the sash. Here the roar of the thunder
                  befriended him; and the noise he had necessarily made, no one overheard. When
                  nearly within, he found his way obstructed by a massive statue of stone. He pushed
                  it from its lofty pedestal; and it fell with a startling crash upon the paved
                  floor. Immediately he was in a position to command a view of the whole interior:
                  the sableness of night, however, filled it, save in a single spot near the distant
                  chancel. There he perceived a faint glimmer of light; but it suddenly disappeared
                  as if in the midst of a momentary struggle. What followed filled him with horror,
                  and riveted him to the spot. He heard the shuffling of feet, mingled with tones
                  that seemed full of tears, of supplications, of agony; then, as a bright electric
                  spark illumined every portion of the spacious temple, he saw the tall, lean figure
                  standing high up on the steps by which he had descended, lifting above his head a
                  silver statue of the Virgin, which gleamed in the lightning's flash. A faint
                  scream, a heavy fall, and darkness followed.
               Antonio himself would have fallen fainting to the earth had he not grasped some
                  object near him. Trembling, unnerved, unmanned, he succeeded with much difficulty
                  in obtaining safe footing below: thence groping his way, directed mainly in his
                  course by what appeared to him the faint moans of a dying person, he reached the
                  rear of the altar to find there his dying Manuella.
               Inquiringly he pronounced the name of his beloved. She instantly recognized his
                  voice, and clung to him as if drowning: indeed, it would seem that she thought
                  herself ingulfed; for she whispered to him to save her from the deep waters into
                  which she was sinking. He clasped her in
                  his arms, and, by the aid of frequent flashes of lightning, made his way to the
                  font; carrying her, as if she were a mere child, pressed to his bosom, where for
                  years she should have nestled. There he bathed her temples and washed away the
                  blood that gushed at each breath from her mouth, and lay in crimson lines, like
                  strings of coral, round her fair neck.
               Manuella felt that her moments were numbered. Choking, yet eager to tell him all
                  ere it was too late, she, by slow stages of speech, or rather whisperings,
                  revealed the perfidy of those who had pretended to be friends,—who had assured her
                  of his marriage with another, and that starvation misery, and damnation awaited
                  her refusal of the home offered her. Then she pronounced two names that went
                  hiding down into his heart; then that of a child, Manuellita, whom he promised to
                  obtain if possible, and protect as his own.
               To Antonio's mind, the idea of vengeance would come in time; now he had only one
                  thought, one longing; and that was, that his Manuella might live. But he hoped
                  against conviction; for he saw that she was swiftly floating away beyond the
                  confines of time. The fairy form of the gentle and loving creature that now lay in
                  his warm embrace would, on the morrow, be resting in the cold lap of earth, in a
                  humble grave, because she was poor and friendless. Those soft lips, that were
                  breathing out the treasures of a heart worth worlds on worlds, would, ere half of
                  that heart's dream or love had been told, be motionless; would soon close like a
                  flower upon its perfume fume when the frost chills it, and no more wear the halo
                  of those smiles that first enslaved him. Those sad and mournful eyes, whose
                  eloquence now thrilled him for the last time as the electric fire lighted up the
                  temple, would ere long open only on the immortal hills, where he hoped he might
                  soon rejoin her.
               Kneeling on one knee, the other supporting the arm which held closer and closer to
                  his breast that frail, sinking form, Antonio looked upward, and fervently prayed
                  unto the great God of mercy; prayed in bewildering agony, that, in the infinitude
                  of Heaven's goodness, the gentle Manuella might be spared to him, if but for a few
                  short days. Humbly, then, he promised to walk; even with bleeding feet pursue the
                  path of truth and rectitude; praising for ever the Bestower of such a
                  blessing.
               How soon this cry of despair proved futile! Even while he spoke, the voice of his
                  betrothed grew fainter: and only at long intervals words passed her ensanguined
                  lips; but they were all love, pure, priceless, eternal. And she was dying, happy
                  with him because, life had been wretchedness without him. She was dying: so for an
                  instant she raised her hands heavenward, and the angels seemed to have taken hold
                  of them; but she withdrew them, and threw her arms about his neck, for she would
                  take him with her. And so she entered into eternity.
               Antonio, though he knew her to be dead, still clung to her; alternately kissing
                  her forehead, her hair, her cheeks, her lips; pressing here to his bosom,
                  lavishing upon her every endearing epithet, and calling upon God for support and
                  comfort.
               
               The dawn of day was approaching ere he had considered how he should dispose of the
                  body. At last he said, "I will lay it upon the steps of the altar; and there, to
                  me, in that sacred spot, she will be buried. The priests will find her in the
                  morning; and on so fair and gentle a form they can not but invoke Heaven's
                  blessing, and will not, can not, fail to give it decent sepulture. I love her too
                  madly, too deeply, to endure those last sad scenes; and I must remember her only
                  as I last shall see her,—sleeping in white by the altar of God."
               Many, many times, Antonio tore himself away from his dear idol, and went to the
                  door, resolved to depart; but as often returned to imprint another kiss upon her
                  cold, pale brow, and once more say, "Adieu, dear, dear Manuella!" Finally, by a
                  mighty effort which seemed like the knell of every earthly joy, he passed the
                  portal which separated him for ever on earth from his soul's bride, and rushed
                  like one bewildered, insane, into the great careless, unheeding hive of human
                  existence, leaving her sleeping in white by the altar of God.
               Early that morning, Manuella's body was found by some kind-hearted priests; and
                  after a few hasty religious ceremonies,—hasty, and void of pomp, for there was no
                  money with which to fee the officiating,—it was with decent form and gravity
                  interred; for, as Don Antonio had said, no one could have touched so delicate a
                  casket, and not have felt that it once enshrined a pure and gentle spirit.
               Of the manner of her death there was little question, as they were then suffering
                  the rigors of war. It was supposed that some of the English soldiers, in
                  attempting to rob the church, had first misused, and then murdered her. It was
                  also inferred, when the statue was found prostrate and the window broken, that a
                  ball from some gun on the hights had done the mischief. Other marks of disorder
                  were attributed to similar causes; and all, save the disappearance of one who had
                  been for a time one of the most influential and active of the priesthood, received
                  but casual remark or consideration.
               The padre's place was soon filled by another; and, as no one then had any
                  particular reason for recalling the former to memory, he had, in a brief space of
                  time, ceased to be spoken or thought of. Whether he had returned to his former
                  home (where it was, was forgotten) to spend the remainder of his years in
                  quietness, away from the din and dangers of siege and battle, or retreated to the
                  mountains, where it was possible he might have perished, had been the subject of a
                  day's talk only, and then for ever dropped.
               There was one, however, as soon as he could collect his thoughts, and act with
                  some degree of rationality, sought the home of the padre, not to accuse him of
                  murder,—in Spain accuse a priest of murder! it would soon have involved the life
                  of the accuser,—but on a more peaceful mission. Finding the house deserted and in
                  disorder, as if hastily abandoned, he was overwhelmed with a new sorrow; but when
                  he learned, by further inquiries in the town, that a man resembling the padre had
                  purchased there some mules, he inferred at once what had become of him and the
                  little Manuellita, and started for the mountains in pursuit.
               
               Don Antonio mistook the route; and the farther he went in his direction, the
                  farther he was from the padre's: still he did not falter, for he felt that he had
                  a sacred mission to fulfill; and, if a ray of human hope or joy struggled athwart
                  his somber memories, it was from the welcome feeling that his mission was
                  Manuella's.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.—THE FRENCH OCCUPY GENOA.—A NEW REIGN OF
                  SENTIMENT.—RISE OF THE FEDERATI.
               ON the south side of Strada Balbi, in the old but ever-lovely city of Genoa, a
                  short distance above the king's palace, and near the public square called Aqua
                  Verdi, stands a massive marble edifice, built in the elaborate Italian style. It
                  has a grand stairway in the center, and at the terminus of each flight of steps a
                  broad hall, which gives access to independent suites of rooms on the right and
                  left respectively. At one time within the limits of our story, it was
                     occupied,à la Francaise, by several families,
                  parts of families, and isolated individuals, some holding high rank in the army,
                  but with limited incomes, and noblemen no more felicitous in this world's goods.
                  As we have, however, very little to do with any but the apartments on the right,
                  at the head of the first flight of stairs,—and not much even with those,—no
                  trap-doors for ghosts need be elaborated here; though, as a colonel had his
                     quarters in the building, and the
                  troops to obtain the standard deposited with him daily halted there as they went
                  from Aqua Verdi to the "parade" just without the walls of the city, the
                  circumstance may have had some influence, immediate or remote, on the character of
                  a gentle occupant of said apartments. Indeed, none of the officers were ignorant
                  of certain attractions in that region; and few, in promenading Strada Balbi,
                  failed to go on its north side, and cast anxious looks at the large windows in
                  said marble edifice; where a glimpse of an angelic face and form sometimes, though
                  at rare intervals, rewarded them for their trouble. So great, in fact, seemed the
                  witchery thitherward, that the king himself never passed the mysterious—shall we
                  say Cupid's?—temple without looking up: and it was said he had been seen in
                  several instances even to kiss his aged but royal hand to a certain figure gracing
                  the view; then to sit more erect in his saddle, and spur his horse, in a slightly
                  agitated manner, into a more lively gait; for his Majesty rode gracefully, and
                  hence often made short excursions about the town on horseback.
               That the officers of the Italian army, in their idle moods, should have been
                  sauntering on the northern walk of Strada Balbi,—sometimes going up as far as Aqua
                  Verdi, then returning, but always on the same side of the street,—is not at all
                  astounding; but when the king so far departed from his usual royal reserve and
                     hauteur as to publicly acknowledge the power
                  of beauty, and that, too, of one who had hardly as yet been recognized in
                  influential circles, and who was still only known to many as "the Beautiful
                  Unknown,"— when the king so openly confessed that there was yet a tender spot in
                  his royal heart as to allow his royal hand to send up a kiss to the fair stranger,
                  it gave rise to numerous surmises, countless conjectures, and an occasional joke
                  at his expense; though, in truth, the latitude then allowed to every one in the
                  sphere of intrigue invested the affair with no more seriousness than would have
                  been inwoven in the most trivial of domestic difficulties.
               To have before you at once some of the lights and shadows which fall through the
                  stained historic windows of the period which you are here invited to contemplate,
                  it is only necessary to remember that it is mostly embraced in the first seven
                  years subsequent to the re-establishment in Italy of the house of Savoy,—the
                  restoration (in 1814) of its ancient dominions to Victor Emanuel and his
                  ecclesiastical advisers.
               Napoleon had poured his resistless legions over the Alps, and sent them like a
                  whirlwind upon the palpitating plains of Lombardy. Like a portentous cloud, he had
                  hung for a while over those sunny savannas, and the lightning of his artillery had
                  scathed and burdened them with a momentary barrenness; but above the storm was
                  seen the bow of promise held by the imperial eagle, then stretching its wings from
                  the Atlantic to the Adriatic. French troops had occupied Genoa. With them had come
                  that buoyancy of spirit, and that philosophic view of life, which discard all
                  useless sorrow, all palsying gloom, all ascetic creeds, and all piety that brings
                  not cheerfulness to its possessor. By scores could be counted the beggars who
                  drank of the soldier's cup. Hundreds of poor children shared his rations. "God loves a cheerful
                  giver:" the French soldier must have had, then, one smile laid up for him in
                  heaven.
               The Italian of that day had a lofty, chivalric spirit. He was also highly
                  honorable; that is, if it be true, that, "in love as well as in war, all
                  stratagems are honorable." But there was too great haughtiness in his chivalry,
                  and too much of painful earnestness in the affairs of the heart. When the French
                  came, Cupid's wings gained breath as well as airiness. His quiver was now of
                  gleaming silver, and his arrows were deeply tipped with gold.
               "I can not understand," said an Italian nobleman to the French general, Massena,
                  "how such changes have been wrought in the short space of six months. I left Genoa
                  under an oppressive shadow: I find her, to-day, basking in the serenest sunshine.
                  The streets were nearly deserted; and those who walked them were silent, and
                  seemed afraid of their neighbors: now every strada and stradella is thronged
                  with a gay, gossiping, happy people. At the time of my departure, every one looked
                  askance at a passing priest: to-day I see the gowned gentleman mix with the merry
                  promenaders, and I hear his jolly laugh and his lively jests ring out with those
                  of the liveliest of them. Our women, though studious to please, neglecting nothing
                  in the dainty repertory of the toilet, assumed a coyness which begot a deference
                  that was both cold and heartless: at this moment they appear like other beings.
                  Their frank and friendly manners add a becoming charm to the coquetry of dress;
                  and they welcome one now with a warm pressure of the hand that goes straight to
                  the very core of our tenderest sensibilities. If they have become more vain, they
                  are, I must allow, more alluring. They are now not only studious to please, but
                  they are ambitious to conquer. That melancholy gentleness which they once affected
                  has given place to an ingenuous confidence, and an open, unrestrained expression
                  of sentiment, that is wholly admirable. Am I to thank you, my good Massena, for
                  this splendid metamorphosis?"
               "Ah! mon bon duke," said the general, "we try to
                  make those around us happy by being happy ourselves. It is true that we came with
                  hostile arms into your country; but, when those were laid aside, every hostile
                  feeling was cast off with them: and, if those whom we are among do not fraternize
                  with us, it is not because we do not cherish for them every kindly wish of which
                  the human heart is capable."
               "You must be aware by this time," replied the duke, "that our people have fully
                  understood and appreciated your friendly sentiments; and I can almost believe,
                  that if circumstances take you and your gallant men hence, as they have brought
                  you hither, the Genoese will hardly know which of the two to do,—lament your
                  departure, or rejoice over the restoration of the ancient republic."
               This compliment found its way into the saloons of the gay capital, and was
                  everywhere repeated. The French remembered it when they were driven thence by the
                  English and Austrians, and when they subsequently returned: and the Italians had
                  cause to remember it at a later period; for, after a few years, little or nothing
                  remained of that high-toned spirit and
                  that chivalric hospitality which had signalized the times at which we are
                  glancing; though from that very freedom of thought and action so vehemently lauded
                  and admired there doubtless came a score of those evils which run like threads of
                  mourning through the tangled web we have before us. Indeed, after the Restoration,
                  a new order of things was organized. From the camp to the court, from the court
                  into all the ramifications of society, there went a boldness of intrigue that
                  gained in its progress neither prudence nor circumspection nor reserve. Every act
                  of the government, however important, wise, or trivial, seemed to have its origin
                  in some individual scheming for personal ends and aims; but each act found an
                  opposing element not less nefarious, not less cunningly devised, not less
                  deceitful. Every diplomatist about the king, every foreign minister, entered more
                  or less into the curious and underhand speculations of the day; and any man or
                  woman who could be turned into a tool for carrying on any plot was courted,
                  caressed, flattered, and even raised, if necessary, to power and princely
                  affluence.
               Under all, outcropping at rare intervals, sometimes presenting a bold front, then
                  hiding itself from observation, was the subtile influence of the Church. Here, in
                  fact, it was thought by the malcontents, was the intangible soul, the real source,
                  of many of those oppressive measures which hung so heavily around the neck of the
                  poorer classes,—burdens they thought to shake off amid the fearful throes of a
                  revolution; for, after Napoleon had stretched out his conquering arm over the
                  empires of Europe, a new life had been infused into the people: their long-dormant
                  energies were awakened; and they began to have a keener perception of the value of
                  individual thought, feeling, and existence. They began, at last, to be aware, that
                  to them, as well as to kings and priests, belonged inalienable rights and powers
                  and high prerogatives, which, if not conceded, might, by the higher laws of
                  humanity and human progress, be wrested by force from the hands of their
                  oppressors.
               Sardinia, embracing then the old republic of Genoa, was filled with enthusiasm for
                  a while, and reveled in an exalted dream of liberty; so that, when the house of
                  Savoy was restored, and the old régime returned,
                  oppression seemed doubly oppressive, and freedom of speech and of action trebly
                  precious. The disciples of Loyola were re-admitted; and the institutions of
                  learning were placed under their care. A rigorous and callous censorship of the
                  press was established. A royal edict prohibited any one learning to read or write
                  who had not property to the amount of fifteen hundred lire (about four hundred dollars), or any one studying in a
                  university who had not as much more in the funds. But this was not all: the works
                  of the very best European writers were excluded from the kingdom. Translations of
                  Wieland, Schiller, Goethe, were among the condemned. Every salutary law, every
                  good regulation, which had been in force during the period of the French
                  domination, was now annulled, and those that were distasteful to the multitude,
                  and offensively arbitrary, in many instances, introduced in their stead. Hence
                  arose the society called THE FEDERATI.
               
               It was composed of the friends of the constitutional system and the enemies of the
                  ultramontanists. They proceeded rapidly in their organization; and, as Austria was
                  soon to be engaged in an expedition against Naples, they had every reason to
                  expect a favorable issue to their well-laid plans.
               The Federati, in their grand scheme, looked to no less a person for a leader than
                  the Prince de Carignan, who, combining a bold and liberal spirit with a manly and
                  generous heart, was deemed the most worthy of their confidence. The next to whom
                  they turned for support was the son of Count Felisquetto, il Signor Fiesco, the
                  most noble-looking man in the kingdom; a man as brave, as truthful, as sincere and
                  earnest, as he was patriotic; a man who sympathized deeply with the oppressed
                  poor, and had no higher ambition than to lay down his life for them. But the
                  Federati had much to contend with. Spies of distinction were everywhere. They
                  occasionally took upon themselves the most menial offices, when, by thus doing,
                  they could get into suspected families, and learn the secrets thereof. They became
                  servants to some whom they were ruling with a rod of iron.
               The inquisitorial spirit that lurked around every household became intolerable.
                  When political topics were the subject of conversation, each one breathed an
                  atmosphere of distrust. A shadow had fallen upon every hearthstone. There was a
                  stifling of many generous impulses: they were sent back into the deep chambers of
                  the heart, and there weighed in the balance, and, if found wanting in that
                  judicious weight which the evil times required, reposed there for ever, and came
                  no more up to the light. In the realm of sentiment alone were outspoken thoughts,
                  wide-winged and buoyant. Here careless grace and dainty-footed passion walked the
                  roseate round of hours; here the soul sauntered in its slipshod ease, sipping the
                  sweet narcotics of mild and mirthful delusions,—its guests were like the pale,
                  faint images that float through the dreams of the opium-eater; here the lethargies
                  of love lulled the Argus-eyed spies, and Cupid with his drawn bow was sentinel and
                  moat and drawbridge enough; here sapphirestudded gates swung in the portals of
                  fancy; and here rich, voluptuous couches were spread for tender sensibility; here
                  pearls lay couched in golden-lipped negation.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               MINISTERIAL.—DIPLOMACY.—A FEELER.—INTRIGUE.—WHAT MAY NOT MONEY
                  DO?
               ANOTHER promoter of the oppressions the people were suffering at this period, when
                  Count Fiesco was called back to Sardinia,—a power behind both the church and the
                  throne,—was the primeminister, Gonzalvo. This man for a long time had gradually
                  been gaining influence and power, not only by his superior talents, and support
                  given to the Church or Jesuit party, but by a liberal expenditure of his immense
                  wealth, and by a zealous, unscrupulous opposition to the Federati.
               One day, a splendid carriage, drawn by four horses, was seen moving slowly along
                  the beautiful riviera of Genoa. The occupants
                  were the aforesaid primeminister, and Prince Metternich, who was seated on his
                  right. The prince, though much the minister's junior in years, was his senior in
                  diplomacy and tact; was, indeed, in astuteness, in quickness of perception and
                  comprehension, surpassed by none at the Sardinian court. He was of medium hight,
                  and good figure; and his manners were distinguished and impressive. His speech was
                  the evident emanation of well-digested thought. His words did not flow rapidly;
                  nor were they musical and rich like his companion's, but were carefully selected,
                  and almost always disguishing his real sentiments.
               Gonzalvo never for a moment felt quite safe in his company; though he courted him
                  for his influence, as he did every one who could aid him in any of his schemes. He
                  knew that Metternich was too shrewd for him, and that Austria looked to the said
                  prince, their ambassador, for the recovery of the province of Liguria.
               The prince could not sound Signor Gonzalvo upon any subject of national
                  importance, lest he should betray his own interest therein: so he resolved to give
                  himself, as one who had just arrived in the country, to the charming scenery
                  around him. The blue waters of the Mediterranean lay on his left: on his right
                  were terraced grounds, burdened, with the fruitful vine that here and there
                  climbed a towering parapet, or festooned some old convent-wall; then there were
                  green slopes and orange-groves; then abrupt cliffs and steep hills, crowned with a
                  fortress or a saintly chapel; then opening valleys, which revealed to his admiring
                  gaze dainty dwellings, villettas, and cottages that might rightfully vie for a
                  place in a poet's dream of paradise. The air, too, was loaded with the fragrance
                  of the rose, the orange, the jasmine,—a fragrance often wafted far out on the sea;
                  and he who had no sorrows sighing in his heart could hardly have failed here of
                  being happy.
               
               After proceeding a few miles in the direction of Cogoletto (the birthplace, it is
                  said, of Columbus), they came in sight of a magnificent mansion, where Nature and
                  Art were combined to make the most bewitching of terrestrial abodes.
               "Whose may that be?" said the prince, turning from some observations about the
                  unrivaled beauty of the road.
               "That," said Gonzalvo, "was built for the duchess,—the empress I might well term
                  her; for she swayed all hearts by her imperial blandishments,—the fair Duchess of
                  Liguria, who, by a morganatic marriage with our sovereign, placed, as you know, in
                  his hands, that desirable province. Still, since her death, he seems to value it
                  but lightly, and, I doubt not, would bestow it on the first fair dame whom he
                  wished particularly to honor."
               The prince slightly colored, but made no reply.
               "You are doubtless conversant, signor ambassador, with all the circumstances
                  connected with that complicated affair."
               "I have heard it occasionally alluded to," replied the prince carelessly.
               Gonzalvo was aware that his companion was not ignorant of any one feature of the
                  case; but, as a good opportunity now presented itself, he considered it best to
                  express his own, and consequently the government's views of it. He therefore
                  continued:—
               "An old treaty may possibly have fallen under your eye, prince, stipulating, that,
                  should certain conditions be unfulfilled, that province should revert to the
                  Sardinian dinian crown; or, if its duke or duchess so willed (thus we construe the
                  instrument), be transferred under specific guaranties to any other friendly power.
                  The esteemed duchess, as we have seen, persecuted on all sides, and naturally
                  wishing to avoid constant and costly litigation, found shelter for herself and her
                  territory in the bosom of our beloved king."
               "I have been informed," replied the prince, "that owing to the peculiar structure
                  of a certain defective treaty, and the fact that said province (strategetically
                  valuable to both of us) once pertained to the house of Savoy, your sovereign now
                  lays claim to it, and even threatens war if we seek to exercise any further
                  jurisdiction over it. I doubt not, however, my good and astute signor, that you
                  and my humble self will be able to arrange it; at least, to our own individual
                  satisfaction."
               By this last remark, the prince intended to put forth what is called a "feeler."
                  Gonzalvo saw it, but evaded the point by simply saying he trusted so; hoping thus
                  to drive the ambassador to more explicit declarations.
               "There is often more honor won," resumed the prince carelessly, "in diplomacy than
                  in war; and while the one costs no lives, though sometimes a little of what is
                  harmlessly termed 'pride,' the other generally costs many lives and a great deal
                  of pride. Decorations, too, are often bestowed for a little stroke of policy: in
                  war, one oftener loses his head than gains the order of the Golden Fleece."
               Here was what Gonzalvo was looking for. Here, if he chose so to take it, was as
                  plain a declaration of what he might win
                  by a certain amiability of conduct as he could desire. Still his duty and his
                  official position forbade his recognizing in it any but a general applicability to
                  the subject. He thoroughly understood its import, however, and resolved, without
                  hesitation, to act accordingly; and from that moment he was pledged to the
                  interests of Austria.
               "Nothing is more true," replied Gonzalvo after a moment's pause; "and he must have
                  a bad heart, and be an imbecile too, who would not prefer peace with a slight
                  sacrifice of pride—of territory even, were the title questionable—to the dread
                  uncertainties of war."
               "I should infer," said the prince, without apparently regarding the minister's
                  last remark, "from a parenthetical expression of yours, that you construe the
                  instrument we have referred to in such a manner as to leave to the owner, or
                  rather ruler, of said province, the paramount right to transfer it to whomsoever
                  he or she pleases,—that is, to any friendly power,—under specific guaranties."
               "That has been, of necessity, our construction," replied the minister.
               "Then, if the king sees fit to bestow it on any individual, native or foreign, or
                  any chère amie,—for instance, on his minister or
                  his lackey,—the favored individual could betray the confidence reposed in him or
                  her, and the coveted territory might again pertain to Austria.
               "Such, I have said," replied Gonzalvo, "has been the nature of our interpretation.
                  I am aware, however, that it has no precedent; that no nation on earth, without
                  precisely such contingencies and antecedents cedents, could have reasonably
                  granted any such license to its subjects."
               The Austrian ambassador agreed entirely with the prime-minister; and as he, the
                  prince, had gained two points which would hereafter serve him, he had no desire to
                  continue the conversation relative to the province in question. The two then
                  remained for a while silent, hardly regarding the magnificent scenery environing
                  them. Cogoletto was finally reached, and the house of Columbus examined with much
                  interest by both parties. The carriage was then directed homeward, and the prince
                  took up a new subject.
               "Though I have been here but a few days, I have heard, jestingly it is true, that
                  the king has had his aged heart recently touched by some dainty enchantress in the
                  Strada Balbi. How is it?"
               "It is even so, I believe," replied Gonzalvo; "for everybody is in love with
                  her."
               "She is married, then, I presume, or everybody would not see her," said the
                  prince.
               "Yes: but there has, of late, been some suspicion thrown upon the legality of her
                  marriage,—if marriage at all; though, up to this moment, her reputation is
                  immaculate. She loves her husband, too, with an ardor which brings on him the envy
                  of all."
               "Who is the fortunate owner of this rare creature?"
               "The Count Fiesco Felisquetto, the handsomest man in Genoa, and the greatest enemy
                  our government has," replied the minister.
               "Is it the Signor Fiesco lately from England," inquired the prince, "and the
                  person I have heard spoken of as leader of the Federati?"
               
               "The very same,"said Gonzalvo, "and so much loved by the people, that we feel it
                  to be almost imprudent to act even on the defensive."
               "But do you not see," responded the prince quickly, "how you can strike a blow
                  that will reach the very foundations of his happiness, and thus either bring him
                  into your power, or drive him out of the kingdom? For what man is there, who,
                  having once loved a 'false fair one,' can be so insensible as to dwell where he
                  must be to her a living, a constant reproach, or, being himself deemed the
                  offending and ungracious party, bear from his enemies such curses and such cruel
                  censure as no other cause could elicit?"
               "I know to what you refer, my good prince," responded Gonzalvo. "I have heretofore
                  put such considerations aside: still it may not be so difficult a matter as has
                  been imagined; for there is already one Signora Spinosa here, a very wealthy
                  woman, who has from envy and jealousy, sown some discord in that direction, and
                  awaits an opportunity to do more. Signor Fiesco's frequent absence also, his
                  meetings with the Federati (whose rendezvous are distant), may be turned against
                  him in the ears of the interested."
               "Do you not think that gold too, or a duchess's sovereignty, or something of that
                  nature, would aid you materially in a direct application of your suit?" said the
                  ambassador significantly.
               "She is a woman, my good prince," was the reply.
               "And may be bought, perhaps," responded the ambassador.
               "Not with money; no!" said Gonzalvo. "Her feelings must first be enlisted. She
                  must either love or hate, or be impelled by some motive of revenge, or"—and he
                  seemed here to be rather musing with himself than addressing his companion—"by one
                  other sentiment, which it is almost cruel to contemplate,—shame."
               It now occurred to Gonzalvo to have an immediate interview with the British
                  ambassador, Sir James Fitzlace, and lay before him some information recently
                  brought here from England,—some news respecting a marriage in Scotland, to which
                  our fair Signora Fiesco Felisquetto, the beauty of Strada Balbi, had been a party;
                  not because he cared—no, not he!—whether the lady had ever been married or not,
                  but solely because he conjectured, that if the ambassador from her own country
                  should, by questions or otherwise, acquaint her with his knowledge or suspicion
                  (which might do as well) of her equivocal position, she would feel herself so
                  humiliated, that she might be more disposed than at present to listen to any
                  proposition that would elevate her to a rank which could not fail to command the
                  highest respect,—to a place so near the throne, perchance, that the most audacious
                  would not dare assail it; knowing, also, that Sir James always favored the king's
                  policy, and was a bitter opponent of the revolutionists, the Federati; and that,
                  if he could see any honorable way by which he could overthrow the one and aid the
                  other, nothing would please him better. To strike a blow, then, at one of their
                  leaders, their favorite, and be able to do it with an apparent interest in the
                  welfare of another, placed the whole affair in such a favorable light, that he
                     could not fail to be easily persuaded
                  to take an active part in it.
               As they neared the city, each one revolving in his own mind an independent scheme
                  emanating from the conversation that had somewhat strangely yet opportunely grown
                  out of a glimpse of the château of the late, Duchess of Liguria, their carriage
                  struck a poor man who was drying his net by the roadside, threw him down, and
                  considerably bruised him.
               "Curses on these detestable vagabonds!" exclaimed Gonzalvo. "They are ever in the
                  way, and never of service to any one but Satan himself; readily aiding in his
                  machinations, or concocting some Machiavelian movement to overturn the
                  government." (This was one of those little straws which show whence the wind of
                  the revolution blew.)
               "Are you much hurt?" asked the prince, stopping the carriage.
               "Not much," said the fisherman,—"not much for a poor man, sir."
               "I hope this will give you a warning," resumed Gonzalvo, "to keep clear of our
                  highways. Your place is in the water; for, when you are on dry land, you are as
                  likely to hang your nets on a palace-door as on a boat-hook; and you would rather
                  hang me than do either. However, I will send a man to care for you."
               "Don't trouble yourself," said the fisherman; "I can crawl home if I have but one
                  foot: and I don't want to owe you any gratitude."
               Gonzalvo ordered the coachman to drive on, leaving the wounded man to crawl home
                  alone. This he did, muttering to himself,—
               "'Tis all right! Boppo needed this one stroke more to make his desire for
                  vengeance full. Is it not enough that we toil the long day, and sometimes the long
                  night through, to gain our simple food and scanty clothing, going often without
                  either; so that we may be able to repair our nets and keep our boats afloat? No,
                  we must be taxed anew. This same man, under the pretext of replenishing an
                  impoverished treasury, impoverishes the people; keeping them starving, that they
                  may be humble; keeping them humble, that they may not rebel. This miscreant,
                  suspecting treachery in all, fore-entraps them when within the bounds of
                  possibility. But this oppression and these extortionists can not last always. The
                  Federati awake."
               The poor fisherman, ere long, reached his humble abode. Gonzalvo had set down the
                  prince whence he took him, and returned to his own palace.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               DECEIVED.—MISUNDERSTANDING.—A SACRIFICE.—A SEVERE BLOW.—HOPES
                  REVIVED.
               GONZALVO had not dared to inform Prince Metternich how he had already arranged his
                  plans to insnare and ruin Fiesco. He had not dared even to hint at the nature of
                  his intrigues, because they would show a baseness of character which the very
                  lowest of human beings must despise. For years he had been an active, zealous foe
                  of the Federati, in order to ingratiate himself with the king and the royal party.
                  No person's reputation was sacred in his eyes: the welfare and happiness of the
                  most innocent were as a shuttlecock in his hands, and made to succumb to his wily
                  machinations. Aware of the original design of the wealthy Spinosa and of Count
                  Felisquetto the elder to unite the title of the one and the riches of the other in
                  Fiesco, the count's son, by a marriage of the latter with the Spinosa daughter,
                  Gonzalvo saw what new aid and assistance this might be to the Federati, and
                  resolved to thwart it.
               The Spinsosa had, besides a house in town, a magnificent country-seat, a villetta, in one of the several beautiful valleys or
                  alpine passes that lead up through the lesser mountains that engird the city of
                  Genoa. Hither young Fiesco was often invited,—invited to spend days and
                  weeks,—invited as one who was to become one of the family; though of this
                  supposition he had not been advised, nor entertained even a suspicion.
               Fiesco went to the Spinosa's because he received there a hearty welcome, and was
                  as if at home. He went when he wanted to be rid of the heat and dust and turmoil
                  of the town, and when he wanted to be alone. It was a quiet retreat for him; and
                  if, in any place, he ever wrought out any bold schemes for his loved fraternity,
                  it was there: for though the youthful, wealthy, accomplished Signorina Spinosa was
                  ever near him like his shadow, following him in his garden-walks, seating herself
                  beside him in the grove, meeting him in the avenues of the wood, he had not felt
                  sufficient, interest in her to have the current of his thoughts deranged by her
                  presence. Far otherwise was it with the signorina. Her mother had given her to
                  understand that Fiesco was her betrothed: besides, she loved him with an ardor
                  that absorbed every other feeling. She hardly had a thought, a wish a dream, that
                  was not in some way coupled with her idol, the handsome, fascinating Fiesco.
               But, if Fiesco did not love La Signorina Spinosa, he did not love any one else;
                  and yet his admirers might be reckoned by the hundred. He could not, however, feel
                  wholly indifferent to the young lady in whose company he often found himself, and who was ever
                  striving to amuse, to entertain him, to make him happy. He probably regarded her
                  as a kind sister, a devoted, generous friend. She, at least, never annoyed him;
                  and if, when away, she crossed his memory, it was rather, perhaps, like the fitful
                  gleam of the fire-fly striking the eye at night than the steady light that beams
                  on the love-enraptured soul.
               One day, Count Felisquetto rallied his son on the subject of his marriage. Fiesco
                  made no objection to the proposition; had apparently never given it a thought: but
                  when his father stated who was to be the bride, and that it was time to name the
                  day for his wedding, he stood for a moment as if petrified. The old man,
                  overwhelmed with astonishment,—having taken it for granted that his son had always
                  comprehended his wishes and designs in this matter,—entered into conversation with
                  him, for the first time, concerning it.
               "Why this trepidation, my son?" said the father. "Is this union distasteful to
                  you?"
               "Even so, father," replied Fiesco with a tremulous voice.
               "How can it be possible? The lady is young and handsome; and she brings with her a
                  magnificent dower."
               "I care nothing for riches," said Fiesco, "except such as can be stored in the
                  brain, or can be found in a love of one's country."
               "The Federati, though the noblest band of patriots the world has ever seen, have
                  absorbed too much of your heart, I fear, my son," replied the still more
                  astonished father.
               "I am wedded to them for life," resumed Fiesco abstractedly.
               "Would you have me infer, then," said the old count in a grieved and desponding
                  tone, 'that the hope of adding untold wealth to your title I must abandon? that I
                  must give up the great satisfaction of seeing you respectably settled? that I must
                  go to my grave, feeling that the last request I ever made to my son, my only son,
                  was unheeded?"
               "No, father," replied Fiesco: "my filial affection, thank Heaven! does not forsake
                  me yet. I am ready for any sacrifice you may demand of me; and none, be assured,
                  could be greater than that to which I am now prepared to bow."
               "How is this? Do you love another, then?"
               "I love only my country," said Fiesco with enthusiasm; his large, dark, beautiful
                  eyes brightening as his thoughts ran along the train of plans laid down, and soon
                  to be set in motion, by the Federati.
               "Do you not see," replied the father, "how, by the treasures you will have at your
                  command, you can be of double service to your fraternity; in other words, to your
                  beloved Italy?"
               "We need only hearts and heads, not money," responded Fiesco.
               "Do you wish, then, that this marriage should not take place?" inquired the
                  father, almost doubting his own senses.
               "With all my soul," replied the son.
               "But I have pledged my word: would you have me break it?" said the old man with a
                  look of despair.
               "No, father," said Fiesco: "still, were it possible, I would avoid this
                  marriage."
               
               "And ruin the reputation, and blast the hopes, of the young and confiding
                  girl?"
               "What do you mean?" said Fiesco, fixing a stern and steady look upon his aged
                  parent.
               "Have you not for a long time been constantly with her,—constantly a guest at her
                  house?" asked the father. "Have you not spent days and nights under her father's
                  roof? been seen riding and walking with her alone in the forest? This, you know,
                  is admissible neither in this country, nor in Spain, nor even in France. You have
                  inherited with your English education many liberal views, I am aware; but you must
                  well know that a young lady here must conform to the conventional rules of the
                  society in which she moves, or she soon ceases to be a member of it."
               "We have indeed ridden, walked, and sat together alone, it is true," said Fiesco,
                  "but only as a brother and sister might have done."
               "The world is censorious, my child. The day in which you cease visiting the
                  Spinosa villetta, that day La Signorina will be looked upon as tainted, and have
                  pointed at her the finger of distrust, if not of scorn."
               "I have run blindfolded into a snare," said Fiesco to himself, "and I must suffer
                  the consequences." A deathly palor overspread his face; his whole frame was shaken
                  by his masterly struggle for obedience to his loved father's behest; while his
                  noble head was bowed by the giant hand of despair. So young, and yet despairing!
                  so full of strength, yet trembling like a leaf! Great hearts have double joy or
                  double sorrow.
               In a few moments, Fiesco recovered his self-possession, and in a clear, audible
                  tone said, "It is well, father: you may name the day." Hearing no reply, he raised
                  his head, and found himself alone. His father had noiselessly passed out of the
                  chamber to hide his own grief,—the grief he felt at seeing the wretchedness of his
                  only, his dearly-beloved son, whose happiness was his happiness, whose sorrow was
                  his sorrow.
               "Have I been dreaming?" said the young man to himself. "Is it not a horrid reality
                  that my father commands me to give my hand where the heart must be withheld? O
                  God! didst thou not in thine infinite goodness create for me a mate,—a soul that
                  can love like mine, and whose every pulsation would be in unison with mine own?
                  Oh! let me at least believe so, if thou wouldst have me adore thy wisdom and
                  justice and mercy; for how else can I reconcile with the universal law of
                  conformity, and adaptation of all things, those gentle gifts of Nature, those
                  endowments and high social qualifications, which make of inestimable value the
                  sentiments of intimate friendship, and cause us to feel, at the touch, the sight,
                  at the very sound of the voice, of a loved one, that inexplicable,
                  inexpressibly-sweet beatitude nothing else in the wide world can conjure up or
                  create?"
               Fiesco had made up his mind firmly; and he now awaited his father to tell him so.
                  He had made up his mind to resign himself to his fate with an air of content that
                  he knew would be pleasing to his beloved sire; but, while he waited, he could not
                  but shudder at the desolate, the damning path that lay before him. He was to wed,
                  and swear to love; yet he could not love: he was to assume and maintain an air of confidence; yet he was not to
                  allow to escape from his own keeping one single, real, valuable emotion of his
                  heart.
               When weary of waiting, Fiesco went in search of his father. Aware that the old
                  gentleman spent most of his time in the library, he naturally sought him there. He
                  knocked gently and with the timidity of a child; but, receiving no response, he
                  quietly opened the door, and went in. His father was seated in his arm-chair,
                  leaning his head upon the desk before him. A suspicion flashed through Fiesco's
                  mind that all was not right. Rushing forward, clasping him in his arms, raising
                  him up, was but the work of a moment. On his son's bosom now lay the old man's
                  head. There were tears on his cheek; but he was dead. Great and sudden grief,
                  coupled with a tendency to apoplexy, had thus hurried the worthy, the estimable
                  Count Felisquetto into the realm of eternal dreams.
               When Apelles could not paint the depth of sorrow which he wished to represent in
                  the face of one of his figures, he covered the head with a vail. Let us throw a
                  vail over the inexpressible anguish which now wrung every fiber in Fiesco's soul,
                  and nearly laid him in the grave with his loved sire.
               Time, it is said, though not truthfully, heals the deepest wounds. Time, however
                  did much for Fiesco,—more than he had anticipated. The appointment of the
                  wedding-day, which he had no anxiety to hasten, was at least delayed. Yet, after
                  all, when he had decided to make a wife of the rich, young Spinosa, he did not see
                  any thing so very disagreeable in it: in fact, he sometimes regarded it with a
                  degree of satisfaction that astonished even himself. He remembered the pleasant
                  days, he had spent in her society, and how watchful and eager she had ever been to
                  make each of his visits to the villetta more agreeable than the preceding. He
                  could now pick up those little incidents, and recall those gentle chidings and
                  sisterly caresses which were once carelessly cast aside like faded flowers: and he
                  had not wholly forgotten her burning gaze and gladsome smile, when, alone in their
                  rambles, he had returned the warm pressure of her hand; nor that hour of twilight,
                  when, in a girlish mood, she pillowed his head on her fair bosom, called him her
                  baby, and, with her soft arms about his neck, rocked him or hushed him to
                  sleep.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               IMPORTANT CHANGES.—CRUEL DECEPTIONS.—MIDNIGHT
                  MARRIAGE.—FLIGHT.—RETURN.
               SUDDENLY the admired, the splendid young Fiesco Felisquetto had ceased to grace,
                  of an evening, the walks of Aqua Sola. He was also absent from the various social
                  circles of the hospitable city of which he was ever the pride and ornament. For
                  several months, no one knew whither he had fled, except a few of the Federati; and
                  they, probably, did not know the real cause of his departure. They were aware,
                  however, that, in all places, he would seek to aid their cause. Conjectures,
                  indeed, of every kind were everywhere rife concerning the disappearance of the
                  young count; and these were generally, directly or indirectly, associated with La
                  Signorina Spinoza. It was not long before the most extraordinary stories were
                  circulated, and gained credence, respecting the young lady herself; and they did
                  not lose any thing of probability as she gradually withdrew herself from society,
                  and finally ceased entirely to appear in public.
               But why this mystery? And it may be asked, Why are such mysterious things always
                  occurring in every community? They often arise from remote and unsuspected
                  sources; the real instigators never appearing in the foreground, if at all. There
                  are natural mischief-makers in all circles of society,—harpies who gloat over the
                  secrets of a fireside, which, as firebrands, they toss wherever they can start the
                  flames of discontent, hatred, or jealousy.
               Fiesco had made no movement unbeknown to Gonzalvo; and when it was positively
                  decided that the wedding was soon to take place, and the large Spinoza fortune
                  (and the Spinozas, by favoring the Federati, were equally obnoxious to the
                  intriguing Gonzalvo) was to pass into the hands of one who had determined to
                  overthrow the royal party, Gonzalvo began to work. The death of the old Count
                  Felisquetto favored his plans. For weeks, the overwhelming grief experienced by
                  Fiesco at the loss of his father prevented his giving a thought to any thing else.
                  La Signorina Spinoza came in for her share of neglect. Gonzalvo had well-paid,
                  secret agents, who, assuming the garb of priest or monk, had access at all times
                  to all houses. One of the latter he now sent to inform the young lady, in the most
                  secret manner possible,—throwing around his mission all the importance and mystery
                  he could command,—that Fiesco had discovered a will in which he was disinherited,
                  and threatened with the everlasting curses of his father, if he married into the
                  Spinoza family; that, in fact, he had given up the idea.
               "A heart of stone," said the monk, when he returned from his cruel errand, and related to Gonzalvo all that had passed at
                  the interview,—"a heart of stone would have melted under her tears, her groans,
                  and the wild agony in which she invoked Heaven to cool the hot lava in her brain,
                  and save her from delirium. Throwing herself at my feet, she seized my girdle,
                  and, with fearful fervor, pleaded with me to give her hope that my report might
                  not be true; that there might be some mistake; that Fiesco still loved her; that
                  her adored Fiesco would not abandon her; that he would come and kill her, that she
                  might die in his arms; that he would not cast her off, and make her a reproach in
                  the world; that I would swear to her to see him, and tell him of her undying love,
                  and that she would never live without him."
               Gonzalvo received the news with apparent satisfaction, and wished to know what
                  assurances the monk had given her.
               "That the whole thing might be managed, perhaps, by a secret marriage," replied
                  he.
               Gonzalvo nodded assent, but inquired if he had enjoined secrecy.
               "The most profound," said the monk. "I told her, that, if ever Fiesco visited her
                  again (which he might not do), she must receive him as if nothing had happened; as
                  if she reposed entire confidence in him; as if, though their wedding-day might be
                  postponed for a while, she felt sure of his affections, and that, by and by, he
                  would be all hers; that, above all things, no allusion should be made to his
                  father's will; that she should yield temporarily to any of Fiesco's suggestions
                  gestions, sympathize with him in his sad bereavement, but leave the arrangement of
                  the marriage and the setting-aside of the force of the will entirely in my hands.
                  She assented to every thing, and promised secredly to abide by my advice, and
                  follow implicitly each and all of my instructions. She did not, as I feared she
                  would, demand to know what were the advantages, what the necessity, and what the
                  final result, of this secret marriage: had she done so, I do not now see how I
                  could have replied to her."
               On the morning of the day when this conversation transpired, Gonzalvo had heard of
                  the arrest, for smuggling, of a man known to be in the service of the Federati;
                  and he determined to make use of him if possible, and add a new link to the bonds
                  of that hated fraternity,—such a link as some of its friends would be very glad to
                  sever. He therefore hurried away to the criminal bureau, where, after giving its
                  chief some insight into his schemes, he obtained the necessary order to liberate
                  the prisoner. The latter, however, for his freedom, was to consent to be blindly
                  his tool for a single might.
               Gonzalvo found his victim—a finely-made, stalwart personage—in a dark, loathsome
                  cell, and brought him out of the light and the fresh air; but, when the smuggler
                  saw his liberator, instead of expressing gratitude, his eyes stared wildly, and
                  his fingers worked nervously as if he would clutch and strangle him.
               "I suppose I am to be punished," said he, "guilty or not guilty, because I am not
                  rich, and have none to defend me."
               "Not of necessity," replied Gonzalvo.
               
               "How can I escape, when not one of my craft ever did, after getting into the jaws
                  of those sharks who follow us on the land as well as on the water? A fine, to make
                  us poorer if possible; the galleys, to make us earn money for the state; the
                  prison, to make us love your government—these are the paternal mercies to which we
                  are daily treated."
               "You speak as if you had seen better days, and were above your profession. Are you
                  married?"
               "I am not," replied the smuggler with tremulous voice and downcast look.
               "And why not?"
               "I am too poor, perhaps. I have not much to spare after supporting myself."
               "If you could marry and get a rich wife and your pardon at the same time, would
                  you do so?"
               "Indeed I would!" exclaimed the man with an energy that left no doubt regarding
                  his will. "But the woman must be respectable, and I commit no crime by the
                  act."
               "Very particular all at once about crime!" respond ed Gonzalvo. "But come: pledge
                  me your word on this sacred book (and he drew from his pocket a small breviary
                  bearing a golden clasp and cross) that you will obey me in all things not criminal
                  this night; and, before to-morrow morning, you shall be the husband of one of the
                  greatest heiresses and one of the loveliest ladies in the city of Genoa. But you
                  must also as sacredly pledge me your word, and solemnly swear, that you will not
                  avail yourself of the privileges the church and the civil law will thus give you,
                  until you receive from me, or other proper authority, permission to do so.
               "What, then, am I to gain by this fishing in the dark?" asked the man.
               "At least your freedom," replied Gonzalvo.
               "That is something."
               "And you can then say that one of you vagabonds has
                  escaped the fine, the galleys, and the prison of which you were speaking so
                  eloquently a moment ago, and which you all richly deserve."
               The smuggler gnashed his teeth, but no longer hesitated. He placed his hand upon
                  the book, and solemnly swore to all that had been proposed. He then kissed the
                  cross.
               Gonzalvo having shown to the keeper of the prison the "pass" he had obtained for
                  the prisoner, both sallied forth together, and proceeded to the Monastery of San
                  Antonio, which adjoins the church of the same name. Here the liberated man was
                  properly clothed and cared for, and ordered to await further instructions.
               Soon after these proceedings were over, one of Gonzalvo's myrmidons—one
                  Massard—was conversing with Fiesco.
               "Are you aware," said he to the young count, "that La Signorina Spinosa is about
                  to marry?"
               "No! In the name of Heaven, who?"
               "No one knows: only it is a stranger."
               "Is it noised abroad? Is it known?"
               "It is the common talk of the town."
               "By heavens! I should as soon have thought of my poor father returning from the
                  grave."
               "Many have marveled; for it was generally supposed that you yourself were the
                  fortunate possessor of her young heart,
                  as well as, prospectively, her immense fortune," replied Massard with a searching
                  look; for he wished to know how severe a blow he was striking by the news he
                  brought.
               "A marriage there, it is true, had been planned by my good father," said Fiesco,
                  with no little dejection in his look and tone of voice. "But man proposes, and God
                  disposes, according to a common aphorism: in other words, we are subject to an
                  inexorable fate, and move onward in the strait and narrow path laid out by it,
                  exactly as if walking between two adamantine walls reaching the clouds. Man is the
                  slave of his hereditary qualities, education, and circumstances. We condemn one
                  for stealing, another for fraud, and another for murder; but if we had been born
                  and reared as, and finally drawn under the same influences, they were, we should
                  have acted precisely as they did."
               "Heaven may clothe us with grace and mercy," said Massard; "and then we may march
                  unsullied through this tainted, sinful world."
               "To clothe one with grace and mercy, and not another," responded Fiesco, "would be
                  showing partiality. Accepting your horn of the dilemma or mine, we are not free
                  agents."
               "We are the children of God," replied Massard, with an air of humble resignation
                  and evasive solemnity.
               "The creatures of circumstances, you might as well say; for, as an example, how
                  could I have foreseen and averted the machinations of the intrigante, who, doubtless for money, seeks the hand of the young
                  lady Spinosa?" Here Fiesco heaved a sigh as of regret, and for a few moments
                  remained lost in communion with his own thoughts; occasionally ejaculating, "'Tis
                  not possible! She loved me too dearly! It may be a false rumor! But woman,
                  woman!—oh, how like moonshine upon the waters! glorious in its placidity,
                  flickering, unstable at the first breath! But why need I care? I confessed I did
                  not love her."
               Massard waited till Fiesco had ceased talking to himself; then said, "Perhaps,
                  count, you may think the report which I bring you is an idle tale of the town; but
                  if you will honor me with your confidence, and put yourself under my guidance this
                  evening,—say, half an hour before midnight,—I will undertake to give you
                  sufficient evidence that the young lady is as false to you as she is hasty and
                  imprudent."
               Fiesco colored deeply. For an instant, but only for an instant, the world's
                  tauntings were allowed to taint his reflections: then he said calmly, as he rose
                  and extended his hand to his visitor, "I will be at your service. To-night, at
                  half-past eleven, I shall await you here."
               Massard returned to the monastery, and reported progress to Gonzalvo, who had now
                  nothing to do but inform La Signorina Spinosa, that, to consummate the sacrament
                  of the desired marriage, she must be at the Church of San Antonio that night at
                  twelve. This hour was chosen because then the members of the Spinosa household
                  would be asleep, and hence enable her to leave unobserved: besides, at midnight,
                  the streets themselves being free from the idle curious ous, she could visit the church without
                  molestation. Thus none but the loving couple and the officiating priests could
                  know any thing of the secret nuptials.
               In due time,—that same evening,—the young lady received from the person who had
                  told her that falsehood respecting the will of the late Count Felisquetto all
                  necessary information concerning the arrangements that had been made for her
                  wedding. Full of fear silver-lined with joy, full of tremulous weakness, yet
                  giant-like in hope, she listened, and resolved to go forward. Under any other
                  circumstances, she would have recoiled instinctively from such steps: now,
                  however, her very life seemed to hang upon them. Could she give up her soul's
                  idol? Would she not bear reproach, shame, contumely, for a time, ay, for ever,
                  rather than feel that the bright dreams of her whole existence had vanished, never
                  more to re-appear?
               A little before midnigth, a sedan-chair was at the garden-gate of the Spinosa
                  villetta. It had hardly arrived before a lithe figure stepped into it, and was
                  borne rapidly away to the Church of San Antonio, where, at the transept-door,
                  three men were anxiously waiting. La Signorina Spinosa alighted from the sedan,
                  and by a gloved hand was led at once to the altar, on which were burning in dim
                  significance two lofty candles, that only served to make the gloom of the vast
                  edifice more gloomy. But the young lady saw nothing, heard nothing but the
                  beatings of her own heart. Was she not at Fiesco's side, soon to be his? Was not
                  that bliss enough to absorb every other feeling, thought, emotion? The ceremony
                  went on; but, ere the priest said "Amen," these words struck upon her car, or she
                  dreamed: "May it ever be thus with the friends of the Federati!"
               Conducted to the sedan by her husband, Madame—received from him a kiss, and the
                  next moment was on her way back to the mansion she had so lately left, innocent,
                  trusting, happy, ignorant of the depth of the terrible gulf into which she had
                  just thrown herself.
               "Are you satisfied?" said Gonzalvo to the smuggler.
               "That kiss," replied the man, "would have been enough to satisfy the sultan
                  himself."
               "Go, then, where you please: but make no mention of this affair till you receive
                  permission to do so from high authority; otherwise you may find yourself in the
                  jaws of those sharks you so sarcastically referred to a while ago, and who may not
                  think the galleys any too good for you."
               The smuggler was glad to escape thus easily; resolving in his own mind, through
                  fear of the consequences, never to utter a word concerning that night's mysterious
                  affair, till, by some good fortune, his obligation to secrecy should be
                  removed.
               I have said that three men were anxiously waiting the arrival of La Signorina; but
                  they were not all who were present at the nuptials. Standing in the nave, in the
                  shadow of a column, Fiesco saw the young lady enter; saw one who, he doubted not,
                  was his affianced; saw enough to convince him that what the monk Massard had said
                  was true; and, as soon as the ceremony at the altar was over, hastened to his home, and prepared every thing for an
                  immediate departure from the country. The next day he was on his way to England:
                  hence the absence noted in the first part of this chapter, which had created so
                  much talk in all the fashionable circles of the city; and hence his appearance in
                  London and Edinburgh.
               Immediately after the flight of Fiesco, the supposed monk, who had been so
                  instrumental in directing the movements of the deluded Spinosa, appeared before
                  her with a tale no less harrowing to her feelings than the story concerning "the
                  will."
               "We fear," said he, "that, in the marriage which has just taken place, we have all
                  been grossly deceived. We have some reason to suspect that young Fiesco, wishing
                  to avoid these bonds, bribed some one to take his place: for, the moment the
                  ceremony was over, he was seen to escape by a side-door; while the person to whom
                  you were married, though he tried to avoid observation, was thought to resemble a
                  poor smuggler who consorts with the fishermen and Federati.
               "Holy Virgin! Mother of God!" exclaimed the poor young creature, "what am I to do?
                  What, what will become of me? Poor me! lost me!" And she stretched her bloodless
                  hands toward heaven; then buried her face in them, and stood convulsed from head
                  to foot.
               "Keep every thing a secret within your own breast," said the monk with impressive
                  energy.
               "Holy Mother of God!" she again uttered almost with a shriek; then reeling, and
                  with a groan as from a broken heart, she fell upon the floor like a corpse.
               The monk rang the bell, and a servant immediately answered it.
               "Your mistress has fainted," said he to the maid; then, amid the bustle and
                  confusion that ensued, left the house.
               In a preceding chapter, we have seen how that Fiesco, after having resided for
                  some time in England, became enamoured of the beautiful Kathleen McGregor,
                  married, and finally brought her with him to Genoa, and to Genoa we now return
                  after our digression,—a digression involving a number of years.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               DANGER AND DARING.—A WRECK.—AFTER THE RESCUE.—TWO NEW
                  HEROLINES.—LITTLE WORDS AND GREAT RESULTS.
               FOR some days, in Genoa, little or nothing transpired in fashionable coteries, or, synonymously, in the world of intrigue;
                  for there had descended upon the city a cold, chilly rain, the borders of a storm
                  that was raging along the coasts from Eastern Spain to Western Italy. One
                  afternoon during this dismal period, a man on the "lookout" on the summit of the
                  lanterna descried a brigantine beating up the bay. Her captain was evidently using
                  every exertion, pressing all possible sail, to gain a point so far to the windward
                  as would make his entrance within the "mole" a matter of certainty. But the quick
                  eye of the observer—an old sailor who for many years had known all the relative
                  bearings in the offing, whence he could predict exactly, with specific winds,
                  where any ordinary vessel would reach—saw that this effort would be a failure: he
                  therefore called to a well-known fisherman, Boppo, who was mending his net at the
                  base of the tower, and informed him of the fact.
               To no one could he have more judiciously appealed; for to great courage and
                  intrepidity Boppo added a heart full of humanity, and touched to the quick when a
                  fellow-creature's life was in danger. When, then, the brigantine neared the
                  harbor, and the watchman discovered that she was drifting helpless, as if the crew
                  had given up hope, and were, it might be, preparing to abandon her, he announced
                  this also to Boppo, and that he saw two females there clinging to each other for
                  mutual comfort and support. But it was useless for the fisherman to attempt the
                  rescue alone; and not one of his companions would risk themselves in the breakers
                  outside the "mole." At this juncture the smuggler appeared, almost out of breath,
                  and hurriedly recounted to Boppo what he had seen from his cottage on the
                  hillside, and besought him to take his boat, and aid him in an attempt to save the
                  imperiled lives.
               "You, a landsman," said Boppo, "dare risk your life on the other side of that
                  breakwater while these old sea-dogs here will not stir an inch?"
               "Something strangely impels me to this," replied the smuggler. "I have no fear:
                  you may rely on my strength and courage. I feel as if I could almost take the very
                  ship upon my shoulders, and bring it into port. Come, let us go; let us make
                  haste: we must save them. My life may be in the balance: but there
                  are feeble hands stretched out to me there; and cries go up from lips, that, were
                  they those of my own child, could not more thrill me with their mysterious power
                  and tenderness.
               
               "Amid the howlings of this storm, do you pretend to say you heard their cries?"
                  said Boppo. "My ears are very sharp; yet I can not even hear the tolling of the
                  ship's bell, which now must be sounding her knell as she tumbles hither and
                  thither."
               "Yes; above all this roaring of the waves and the moaning of the winds, one voice
                  reaches me," replied the smuggler. "I can not say that it strikes upon my ear like
                  the thunders of the waters or the screamings of the blast; but it comes to me
                  rather like a cry we hear in dreams,—like some voiceless thought that now and then
                  startles us like a shriek of despair."
               Boppo looked at the speaker, and wondered if he were sane; but as he had for some
                  time known him as a faithful, fearless man, he did not hesitate to embark with
                  him.
               So eager, then, was the new-comer to be on the way, that it seemed as if he was
                  near upsetting the boat as he leaped into it: but there was really little danger;
                  for it was one of those light whale-boat-like skiffs that float on the billows
                  like a cork. "And now give me the oars," said he with trembling ardor, "and you
                  take the helm. Guide her into whatever danger you please, so that we save those
                  poor helpless creatures."
               With a strength, with a fervor, with a precision and boldness, that astonished his
                  companion, he swept the boat out into the foaming sea, over which came now the
                  solemn tones of the bell of the doomed ship as she rolled masterless, nearer and
                  nearer, soon to lie stranded on the outer borders of a reef of rocks.
               The oarsman's back was toward the thrilling scene: only Boppo could see what was
                  transpiring, and that only at intervals; for the spray was constantly flung over
                  them, and he was thus often blinded. Still he would from moment to moment relieve
                  the terrible anxiety of the smuggler by telling him of the progress of events.
               "In less than fifteen minutes," said he as they came in full sight of the vessel,
                  "she will be on that treacherous reef. Perhaps they do not know it: they have not
                  lowered the boats. Now I think they see us. They are working at the quarter-boat.
                  God be praised! They have yet ten minutes. I see a child or a woman on the
                  taffrail waving a handkerchief." The tears coursed down the cheeks of the
                  smuggler. "There are two boats: they are embarking. A man—a woman—another
                  woman—another man—two more! And now they push off! But, O God! that boat can not
                  live." The tears rolled more rapidly down the rower's cheeks; but he uttered not a
                  word. "The boat is swamped! But pull hard: we can save them! Starboard oar, steady
                  now, steady! in a minute I can save one." And he had hardly said this ere he
                  sprang forward, grasped, and drew into the skiff, a young girl with a fairy-like,
                  beautiful form, enveloped in the dantiest of garments. "A sylphide saved," said
                  Boppo; "and now for another." And in a moment more he had rescued a second one,
                  still more youthful and delicate; then two men who had reached, and were clinging
                  to, the side of his little craft; but the fifth and sixth had gone down. The other
                  boat of the brigantine had drifted far to leeward; had entered the breakers; and
                  all on board had perished.
               
               "Larboard now, and steady before the wind," said Boppo; "for our perils are not
                  over. We can not weather the storm and gain the windward mole: we must trust
                  ourselves now to God, and try the nearest shore. Steady now, steady!"
               The old fisherman knew well every niche and crevice among the rocks; and he
                  steered his boat for a point, which, though seeming the most dangerous of all as
                  it breasted the storm, and sent the spray high into the air, sheltered a shallow
                  creek, and less dangerous landing-place than any other within reach.
               Onward the little skiff was swept; was plunged downward, as if about to be buried
                  in the deep; then tossed like the froth upon the curling summit of the wave; now
                  submerged to the very gunwale, the prow hidden from sight; then trembling and
                  halting before the more swiftly-rushing, foaming, and hissing sea that towered
                  above them in the rear. Onward they were hurled, the rescued trying to comfort
                  each other. La Sylphide, as all would ever call and think of her, held in her wet
                  lap the head of the frailer-looking girl, wiped away her tears, and whispered to
                  her words of hope and cheer; and while the young sufferer lay there pale, almost
                  as nearly dead as alive, her fine features in relief on the dark, dripping drapery
                  of the one who was, to her at least, an angel of mercy and love, the smuggler sat
                  gazing at her as if entranced; as if he had seen some specter rise from the deep.
                  His eyes were almost starting from their sockets; his muscles grew larger as he
                  strained them at the oars, and the perspiration rolled from his forehead: and as
                  the little craft leaped the last breaker, and her prow struck, he caught the
                  slight creature by the dress, held her aloft as he might have held an infant, and,
                  with one of those bold and astonishing bounds few dare undertake, reached safe
                  footing upon a rock. But he had not abandoned his companions, now thrown into the
                  water by the shock and the efforts of each one to escape. More grateful than ever,
                  and not less eager to help, he plunged in after them, seized the remaining fair
                  one, and, by almost superhuman efforts, regained the landing; but, ere he could
                  entirely extricate her, the boat was dashed up, caught the foot of the gentle
                  Sylphide, and crushed it. Boppo was almost at home in the water, and, while
                  thinking of or caring little for himself, struggled manfully to assist and save
                  the others, as well as his beloved skiff. He came out at last with his boat; but
                  he was so exhausted, that, when he found all were safe, he sank upon the sand,
                  utterly helpless.
               Many fishermen were now gathered upon the beach, offering their services to the
                  sufferers. Their old friend, elaborately bathed with brandy, and with no small
                  portion of it administered internally, was soon fully restored. A sail was then
                  prepared like a stretcher, or cot; and La Sylphide was carefully placed on it, and
                  borne by four stalwart men up to Boppo's house. By her side walked her loving
                  companion, who, now able to go afoot, held her all the way by the hand, and tried,
                  in turn, by words of tenderness, sympathy, and affection, to lessen the anguish
                  arising from the maimed limb.
               All were welcomed to the old fisherman's home; but, as quarters there were
                  limited, the men were obliged to repair
                  to their consul. All were grateful; but, amid their gratitude and joy, there was
                  cause for sorrow. The seamen had been bereft of some of their companions. La
                  Sylphide had lost all her wardrobe and money, and, by her crushed foot, the means
                  of obtaining more,—means by which she had thus far won an honest and golden way
                  through the world; for, considering her youth, she had been more lauded than any
                  other danseuse that ever appeared upon the
                  stage, and, in the hour of her great triumphs, could have borne off, had she
                  desired it, the hand and heart of a prince.
               Who, you doubtless would like to know, was the young girl that seemed so dear to
                  the Sylphide? One night in Madrid, when the latter was returning from the theater
                  where she had electrified the audience, received a crown of jewels and a heavy
                  purse of gold, and felt rich, she found upon the doorstep of her hotel a poor
                  hungry creature of about her own age, but smaller and more delicate, apparently
                  from sheer destitution. One look at her, as the lamplight fell upon her pale, thin
                  features, was enough to rouse all the tender sensibilities of our heroine's
                  nature; and instead of spurning her as an outcast, a worthless, useless
                  excrescence upon society's fair proportions, she stopped and questioned her
                  concerning her history and circumstances, and found a jewel buried in rubbish. She
                  at once took the wanderer to her rooms, fed her, ordered her a bath, and clothed
                  her; and then, even at that late hour, could not bear to lose her in sleep till
                  she had gone over again the recital of her life of woe. Finally she was placed in
                  a nice bed, and assured that she had now a sister, who would henceforth watch over
                  her. With the voice of prayer lingering in her ears, she soon closed her eyes, for
                  once, in her short career, happy, and in the deepest slumber forgot that she had
                  ever been miserable.
               At a late hour in the morning, when the young girl awoke, she found her new
                  friend, still in full dress, reading at her bedside. "What!" said she, starting
                  up, "have you been sitting here all night to watch so poor a creature as I am?"
                  And she threw her arms around the kind watcher's neck, and in tears sobbed out her
                  gratitude.
               "Yes; for the excitement of the evening's triumph, and the pleasure I had in
                  contemplating my newfound treasure, arranging plans for your future
                  career,—building castles in the air, perhaps,—deprived me of all wish to sleep. I
                  thought and planned, and then read Sappho, and then planned anew; and, as all
                  seemed bright and cheerful, I could not but associate you and my authoress
                  together, and so longed to call you Sappho if you had no objections. Thus, laying
                  aside your other name, you might soon be enabled to think and feel, with me, that
                  this is the real beginning of your life."
               "Any thing that pleases you," said the young girl; "for I have nothing but my
                  desire to be good, and serve you, with which to express my sense of your great
                  kindness,—kindness of which I have known nothing, and of which I had ceased to
                  think, as if it had no name or place in the sum of wealth, or archives of
                  humanity."
               A few days after this, when La Sylphide had completed pleted a most successful engagement,—the queen
                  herself having acknowledged the power of her charms, her merits as an artiste, her great tact and circumspection for one so
                  young,—she appeared before the British consul to have her passport countersigned
                  for Italy, and get another for her companion. The first was a straightforward
                  matter of business: but the latter—as the subject of it was Spanish—involved
                  several considerations; some of considerable importance, he discovered, as her
                  history was unraveled. La Sylphide too, in the course of the interview, had
                  related much concerning herself; somewhat in order to explain why she had taken
                  such an interest in her new-found friend. This awakened in her behalf more
                  solicitude than she had anticipated; and the consul requested that she would be
                  the bearer of a letter to the British ambassador near the court of Sardinia. He
                  then finally arranged it to have Sappho appear on her passport as her sister; La
                  Sylphide solemnly affirming that she had thus adopted her: and so, more than
                  happy, she set out for Malaga, whence she sailed in that ill-fated brigantine
                  whose wreck has just been described.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               FRIENDLY ATTENTIONS.—A NEW HOME.—A NEW
                  OCCUPATION.—SOUL-SEARCHINGS.—SMUGGLER'S ARTIFICE.—RARE NATURES.
               WHEN the smuggler had assisted in safely depositing La Sylphide and her companion
                  at Boppo's he hastened away for professional aid. In a few moments he returned
                  with a noted surgeon, who evidently felt chagrined at being called to so humble a
                  habitation: but when that lovely foot, all crushed, was shown him, his heart was
                  enlisted; and with the utmost skill, and all possible gentleness, he performed the
                  necessary operations, arranging and bandaging the beautiful limb with a delicacy
                  and tact that did honor to his high profession. He also, without knowing why,
                  became deeply interested in his young patient (as was every one, indeed, who
                  entered her presence): and, when he took his leave, he kindly said to her, "I
                  place myself at your command; think of me as your friend." The first surgeon in
                  Italy at the command of the poor, penniless Sylphide!
               
               But however fascinating and delicate might be the foot, however gracefully turned
                  and exquisitely modeled the limb, there was no hope that they could be so restored
                  as to enable their possessor ever again to appear on the boards of a theater. The
                  surgeon only gave her the assurance that their fair form and proportions would be
                  preserved: their elasticity, he considered, must be sacrificed.
               What was now to become of our young heroine? She seemed to care but little for
                  herself: for her adopted sister she entertained a solicitude that evinced the
                  overflowing goodness of her heart. This self-sacrificing disposition was that, in
                  fact, which went far toward obtaining for her everywhere, in high and low society,
                  the warmest welcome. The smuggler saw and felt her anxiety: but he could not at
                  once separate the two friends; and La Sylphide was not yet able to be removed. He,
                  however, assured them that his home should be their home, his purse their purse,
                  while a single scudo remained in it: indeed, he obtained a promise, not being so
                  poor as the old fisherman, that, as soon as possible, they would come to reside
                  with him, where his aged housekeeper would be to them both friend and mother. In
                  the mean time, nothing was neglected to make them contented. He visited them
                  daily, bringing fresh fruit and delicious wine, and every thing that Boppo's
                  generosity had overlooked. After a couple of weeks they were taken to his house,
                  where purer air, finer scenery, and very many of the real comforts of home,
                  awaited them.
               The smuggler, for reasons best known to himself, lived just outside the walls of
                  the town, not far from the shore, on the rather precipitous slope of the
                  acclivity, whose summit, so picturesquely crowned by a fortress, is the admiration
                  of all who approach the city from the sea. The view from his cottage was
                  extensive, commanding for many miles the coast, and leagues off on the blue
                  Mediterranean. This last fact was especially important to him; for, with a
                  particularly fine telescope, he was notified of the approach of those vessels in
                  whose cargo he had some pecuniary interest. Such craft could lie well out during
                  the light of day, and at night run in shore at such specific places as were
                  convenient for landing and transporting merchandise to his quarters. Smuggling, he
                  knew, was not legitimate business; but it suited his present restless mood and
                  daring disposition, and enabled him to assist those whom the government was
                  oppressing. This was his excuse; and, could there be any excuse for such
                  clandestine work, it certainly, in this case, must be regarded with all
                  charity.
               The smuggler's interest in his fair guests did not diminish, but rather increased.
                  Toward one of them at least, as she was enabled partially to recall some scenes in
                  her childhood, his feelings developed into an interest so purely paternal, that
                  life itself would have been but meager guerdon to secure her lasting beatitude. He
                  now also began, to follow out that intangible yet silvery-seeming thread, woven
                  into our being, which links us with the immortals; the clew to those unfathomed
                  and all-potent influences which drove him, in the face of death, over the
                  tempestuous sea, to succor the distressed. He delved into the depths of the soul to hunt up its spontaneous
                  impulses, and found there, he believed, the echoes from shrines in the far-off
                  fields of Elysium, before which the incense of pure hearts had been offered up on
                  earth.
               The smuggler, as we have seen, was bold, generous, humane, thoughtful; but
                  circumstances had thrown him into a sphere where he had to act a part unsuited to
                  his nature. His profession had grown out of unstudied events; but he availed
                  himself of its various resources, turning every thing to the best account, to aid
                  the oppressed, and take an active part with the Federati. His cottage was one of
                  the rendezvouses of the disaffected: the finest spirits of the land met under his
                  roof. His garden was large and highly cultivated, and served him two purposes,—an
                  academic grove that sometimes might vie with the ancient Athenian; whilst its
                  abundant harvest of grapes, turned into most excellent wine, enabled him to make
                  ample and successful defense against official charges, to which he was
                  occasionally subject, of smuggling that article. He, indeed, disposed of a vast
                  quantity of the juice of the grape: whence it came I need not say. Some that he
                  obtained was sold in another shop, in town, within and near the walls. Had this
                  also belonged to the smuggler, it might have excited still more suspicions; but it
                  was in charge of another, and he was equally devoted to the cause of freedom. How
                  he obtained so much wine as it was thought he sold, was always a wonder to the
                     octroi tax-collector, and caused many a
                  search. The secret lay deep under ground; for the smuggler had dug a passage-way
                  from the cellar of his own cottage, under the foundations of the city walls, to
                  the cellar of the shop within the city. The entrance to each was most carefully
                  and ingeniously concealed, and then further hidden by a heavy tier of old dusty
                  casks, which looked as if they had not been touched for half a century. They were,
                  indeed, as seldom removed as possible, and then with the utmost circumspection,
                  and at such an hour of the night as would render interruption wholly
                  improbable.
               The two young girls under the smuggler's roof grew apace in the favor of all who
                  knew them; and it was but a short time before the Federati found them both useful
                  and important auxiliaries. Sappho soon took entire charge of the smuggler's
                  establishment; and La Sylphide became a vender of the favorite tiny little fish of
                  Genoa, the djankete. She had in this been
                  opposed by her foster-father till her resolution was fixed and her reasons given.
                  She felt herself poor now; and, though able to walk as well as ever, she had, as
                  the surgeon supposed, so lost the elasticity of her ankle, that a further
                  appearance as a danseuse was out of the
                  question. Too self-relying, and too regardful of the interests of others to live
                  upon their bounty, she accepted the first means offered her to obtain her own
                  livelihood. She was self-relying, as I have said, because circumstances had thrown
                  her, when a mere child, upon the pitiless world; and with naturally noble impulses
                  and principles, which made her resolve from the first to be both just and good,
                  she had been esteemed, caressed, beloved, and blessed, Now, under Boppo's especial
                  encouragement, she saw an easy and simple way by which she could secure an independent subsistence;
                  though—and it was her only source of sorrow—it drew her much away from her adopted
                  sister, and finally caused her to reside almost wholly under the old fisherman's
                  roof.
               There was another incentive to this step: by going into every part of the city,
                  and almost every house where she knew she would be welcome, she was sure of being
                  of no little service to the Federati; obtaining for them the most important
                  information, that would otherwise escape them. Not that she would be a mere spy;
                  that was not the intent: she wished to be of service to that poor and oppressed
                  class of men that once had such high renown in Galilee. Humanity beckoned; and it
                  was one of the generous, selfsacrificing impulses of her nature that sent her
                  forward as on a great errand of mercy.
               There are some natures which seem to be absorbents of human sympathy. They are
                  like the choice flowers, which exhale a delicious perfume while they draw from the
                  surrounding earth and air the elements of life. When once we look upon them, we
                  find them nestled in our hearts like love-birds in some favorite haunt. However
                  morose we may be, however many neuralgic or gouty pains may cause us to fasten our
                  doors against mortality in general, the bolts are withdrawn at the approach of
                  these favored ones; for, as if angel-winged, they bring joy to our midst.
               Thus La Sylphide walked her daily rounds. Those who did not want any thing from
                  her little silvery-laden basket often invited her in, and bought, for the mere
                  pleasure of contemplating the exquisite grace of her manners, her ever-varying yet
                  ever-lovely expression, her powers of conversation, or the beauty of her hand or
                  foot. When she called at the Doria Palace, she was invariably sent to the parlor
                  by the princess's orders; when at the Palace Balbo, the countess always descended
                  to have a chat with her. Indeed, the most refined and cultivated ladies felt
                  happier for having seen her; and, though they could not but acknowledge her
                  superiority in almost every thing, they rather loved than indulged any feelings of
                  jealousy or envy. Strange to say, if either courted the society of the other, the
                  rich and titled were the ones who sought the poor pescatora; giving her such positive assurances that their doors were
                  always open to her, that she, unannounced, ascended the marble stairways of the
                  nobility, and ranged their halls and saloons with as much freedom as if they had
                  been her own.
               Sappho, at home, was quiet, industrious, seldom loquacious, and went the round of
                  her duties with noiseless step, and with a touching humility which seemed the
                  offspring of her early misfortunes, or to arise in a foreshadowing of coming
                  events.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               IMPORTANT ARRIVAL.—NEW LOVERS.—LA SYLPHIDE DESCRIBED.—A
                  CIRCASSIAN.—ORIENTAL CUSTOMS.
               ONE bright and balmy day, seeming more bright and welcome when contrasted with the
                  stormy weather that had been desolating the coast, a Turkish man-of-war entered
                  the port of Genoa, bringing the Turkish ambassador and suite.
               After a salute had been fired from the ship and replied to from the fort, and the
                  usual round and routine of documental and official formalities had dragged
                  themselves slowly along to an end, a little boat shot out from the western side of
                  the harbor, swept along its smooth waters, and gracefully "rounded to" at the foot
                  of the steps of said man-of-war. The strong arm that had impelled it there at once
                  handed out the light, lithe figure of La Sylphide. In a moment, with basket in
                  hand, she was at the gangway, where, on account of her peculiarly picturesque
                  appearance, her modest mien and graceful manners, she was, without delay,
                  courteously welcomed by the officer of the deck.
               "Where are you from?" said the little pescatora
                  in French, as she sat down the nicest little basket of the smallest, nicest fish
                  which the sea produces.
               "From Constantinople," replied the officer in the language in which he had been
                  addressed.
               "A long voyage; and you must, probably, be in want of some of the tiny fish for
                  which this bay is so celebrated."
               "We would buy them if we did not want them," said the officer, smiling.
               The pescatora acknowledged the kind remark by a
                  gentle courtesy.
               "But we do want them very much," he continued; "and we are obliged to you for
                  bringing them on board. But tell me how you, a little Italian fish-girl, came to
                  speak French so fluently: are you French?"
               "I once resided in France," replied the interrogated, with some apparent
                  diffidence.
               "Well, I will not push that subject. You are certainly too pretty to be a mere
                  hawker of fish."
               "I like it; I like to be abroad in the world," said she. "While at home, I am
                  associated with an honest and industrious people whom I sincerely love."
               "That is all very well," replied the officer; "but Nature evidently designed you
                  for something higher."
               While this conversation was going on, the Turkish ambassador, and his secretary
                  Haffed, approached.
               "She is finely chiseled," said the secretary.
               "Finely."
               "That short petticoat reveals the exquisite mold of her ankles and feet, which
                  even her coarse stockings and heavy shoes can not disguise," continued Haffed; "while her close-fitting jacket
                  displays a vigorous and faultless form worthy of a sultana."
               "Faultless."
               "And, by Allah, what eyes!" exclaimed the young man as the pescatora lifted them full upon him after the little embarrassment
                  with the officer.
               The ambassador did not reply to this; for he did not see the fire, the glow, the
                  tremulous flash, that played in those rich, full orbs, then went straight to
                  Haffed's heart.
               Haffed had everywhere been admired and loved. Love had been so lavished upon him,
                  he had not regarded it any more than the common sunshine that came every day to
                  warm his handsome person: now, strange to say, in this young vender of fish he saw
                  a being whose love he coveted. The girl before him was, indeed, something new,
                  something naïve: could it have been this which
                  made him fancy he loved? Her costume—her short red petticoat, blue jacket, and
                  white pezzato—was picturesque; but in his own
                  country he had been accustomed to see, in this respect, all that is attractive and
                  fascinating, as well as unrivaled forms and dazzling beauty. What, then, gave him
                  here a feverish anxiety to know more of the young stranger? If he had asked
                  himself the question, he would have been wholly unable to answer it. "I only
                  know," said he, "that, while I gaze at her, she draws to herself my very soul as
                  the sun draws water from the sea."
               La Pescatora was of medium hight, and about sixteen years of age; but her short
                  dress, in the style which obtains in Southern Europe with the peasantry and the
                  poor generally, made her appear much smaller than she really was. A certain
                  artlessness of manner, too, aided not a little in giving the impression that she
                  was a mere child: when, however, one entered fully into conversation with her, it
                  was soon apparent that she was gifted with extraordinary qualities, possessed a
                  knowledge of human nature seldom equaled, and had an insight into the affairs of
                  the country that would have done credit to a high civil functionary. And no one
                  prized her beyond her deserts. Fortune had apparently been unkind to her in her
                  early days; yet it was this very thing that had given her strength of mind,
                  confidence in herself, and a perfect introspection of the structure of society,
                  the machinery by which it was moved, and the laws that regulated its progress.
                  Now, called into every house by her occupation, welcomed everywhere, she knew all
                  that was passing within the four walls of the city, and hence, to the Federati,
                  was a most powerful auxiliary, and had their entire confidence and support. Their
                  cause, too, lay as near her heart as any thing in the wide world; for she had been
                  much with, had been succored, saved, housed, clothed by, and had learned to love,
                  the oppressed poor.
               Haffed might well covet such a jewel; but he knew, as yet, little of her
                  accomplishments or multifarious charms. She had a splendid mass of hair concealed
                  under her pezzato,—a delicate scarf worn over
                  the head,—which, while it served to protect, in part, her face from the sun, gave
                  a mischievous expression to every look. Her handsome mouth and snowy teeth were also nearly always half hid
                  by the long ends of the same head-dress, which she held between her rosy, gladsome
                  lips. Her jaunty jacket formed a fine bordering to her faultless throat. Wide,
                  open sleeves gave occasional glimpses of strong, well-rounded arms and dimpled
                  elbows. Her hands, evidently diminutive, though they had known hard work, were
                  incased in gloves made of a peculiarly-dressed skin, which preserved them from
                  every thing that could mar their sweetness or delicacy.
               Haffed had no words that could express the strange, the novel feelings that now
                  agitated him. He attempted several times to address her; but there was a choking
                  in his throat which made every essay unavailable. At last, when she had received
                  the money for her djanketi, and was about to
                  leave the ship, he rushed to the gangway, and by an extraordinary effort was
                  enabled to say,—
               "Your name, if you please, dear girl?"
               "Marzetta," was the quick reply, but uttered in a tone of doubt and fear,—a hasty,
                  half-smothered answer, which came as if she, perhaps, should not give it, yet was
                  loath not to have him know it.
               In another moment Marzetta was borne away in her swift little skiff, while Haffed
                  stood watching her till he fancied he saw her safely landed.
               "What will Lindahara say?" said the ambassador, laughing, as Haffed turned with
                  moistened eyes to the quarter-deck.
               "Why should she say any thing?" replied the secretary in a rather pettish
                  tone.
               "Lindahara, you know, has been afraid to have you look at any human being but
                  herself: she thinks her love and friendship are enough for you."
               "My sister is naturally jealous," said Haffed: "still I can not allow her to
                  interfere too far in my affairs."
               "You owe her much," replied the ambassador.
               "Every thing, I may say: yet she can not control the current of the heart; for
                  life might then become a burden. I love that little girl."
               "I have sometimes seen that you have greatly disturbed your sister by your
                  vagaries: as she is my favorite, I have endeavored to make it appear that all was
                  as she wished."
               Haffed cast down his eyes, bewildered; and he felt the blood mounting to his
                  cheeks. What did the ambassador mean?
               "Here she comes," continued he, much to his secretary's relief. "Go and assist
                  her: she will not allow any other one to do any thing for her when you are
                  near."
               Haffed hurried to the tall figure of "the favorite," just emerging from the
                  cabin-door; but she motioned him away with an angry gesture, and with feeble step,
                  aiding herself by any thing within reach, gained the side of the ship, where, on
                  the railing, she leaned her head and hid her face, as if to weep unnoticed.
               During the whole voyage, Lindahara had not previously been on deck; but, having
                  overheard the last words Haffed had uttered to the ambassador, she hastened out to
                  learn the cause, and catch a glimpse, if possible, of the creature who had given
                  rise to them. Seeing no one, she felt both glad and ashamed, while her heart found
                  relief through her tears.
               
               Lindahara, the Circassian, whose fame for beauty had spread from the Caspian to
                  the Bosphorus, was nervous, and hence had to be excused. She had cooped herself up
                  in a small deck-stateroom with her servant; had taken no exercise; had had no
                  gardenwalks, no flowers, no perfume of roses except from her otto-bottle; and, not
                  being able to lay aside at once her former habits of life, had not shown herself
                  to any on board save her black Abdasa, Haffed, and his master. Now she appeared
                  entirely enveloped in her long blue cotton plaid cloak or mantle, with no loophole
                  but for her eyes and the toes of her yellow boots. If, however, this outer robe
                  had been removed, every beholder would have been dazzled by the costly
                  magnificence of her costume, and filled with unbounded admiration of its Oriental
                  graces and its faultless adaptedness to her gorgeous figure. But Lindahara lived,
                  and adorned her queenly person, for one being only.
               The ambassador worshiped the fair Circassian in his own way; but, in accordance
                  with Turkish ethics and etiquette, could not consider her his equal, or hardly as
                  a companion even, during his most lonely and unoccupied hours. His dog—if such an
                  animal were allowed about him—might lie at his feet; so might Lindahara, and
                  perhaps rest her head on his knees, that he might dally with her flowing hair: but
                  to sit by him as might a Western wife, put her white arms about his neck, and call
                  him all her own, would have admitted her into a social sphere not countenanced in
                  Oriental homes,—a sphere that would have seemed to him as unnatural and
                  inconsistent sistent as is the reverse to our Occidental ideas of a domestic
                  paradise.
               New and strange scenes now lay on every hand; but the dejected Lindahara did not
                  heed them. Had she lifted her eyes to the terraced hills that overlook the gay
                  city of "Genoa la superba," she would have been gladdened by scenery hardly less
                  enchanting than that which engirded her girlhood's home,—by a variety of views not
                  unlike those she had more recently contemplated on the banks of the Bosphorus; but
                  the castellated hights, the vine-clad slopes, the valleys, villettas, convents,
                  city turrets, ancient walls, or the nearer throng of vessels decorated with their
                  various flags, all failed to arouse the attention or enliven the drooping spirits
                  of this Oriental beauty.
               While Lindahara was thus listlessly brooding over her real or imaginary sorrows,
                  with her head still bowed upon the bulwarks, Haffed approached as near as custom
                  and proper deference dictated, and in a low tone of voice, which was always soft
                  and full of tenderness, said,—
               "Are you ill, Lindahara?"
               If an electric wire had been laid along the railing into the hands and bosom of
                  the fair sufferer, an electric shock sent through it would not have reached her
                  with more speed or effect than did the words of Haffed. She started nervously,
                  trembled like a leaf, then clung to the shrouds near by for support.
               "Call Abdasa, if you please," said she faintly.
               Haffed clapped his hands twice, and a black slave, or servant, came hurrying out
                  of the cabin as fast as her muffling would allow, and went at once to her mistress. Having received an order, she
                  went back, but soon returned with some smelling-drops. She then assisted "the
                  favorite" to her state-room.
               "Our long voyage, and the close confinement to which my sister has subjected
                  herself, have much enfeebled her," said Haffed carelessly to the ambassador, who,
                  in the course of his promenade along the deck, had come near enough to his
                  secretary to be joined by him as he turned from the two retreating figures.
               "She will soon recover when we are off the ship," replied the ambassador; "at
                  least, if you are as attentive to her whims and caprices as formerly. But you must
                  not let the spoiled beauty know that you have a thought or look for any one
                  else,—if such should be the case," he said laughingly,—"nor fail to see her once a
                  day; now particularly, as she will be bereft of many of the amusements with which
                  I was enabled to supply her at Constantinople."
               Haffed gave assent by his silence. The wishes of the ambassador were to him, in
                  fact, commands which he would not have dared disobey. In this instance he had no
                  contrary will, and made up his mind to conform strictly to his master's
                  injunctions, however far his heart might possibly wander from Lindahara. He could
                  love her as a sister, ay, even as a fond and faithful friend who had been willing
                  to sacrifice every thing for him; while he could never be blind to her inimitable
                  charms: but when he remembered the little pescatora, that gleam of the soul that came welling up in her eyes
                  like the flames of Vesuvius from a sea of fire, all else had to him a seeming
                  insipidity of which he could not divest it.
               During the afternoon of the day of their arrival, the ambassador and his suite
                  disembarked, and proceeded at once to the palace in Strada Nuova recently occupied
                  by the former representative of the Turkish government near the court of
                  Sardinia.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               HOME-TALK.—A CONFESSION.—MISGIVINGS.—COMPLIMENTS.—NEW HOPES.—LA
                  SYLPHIDE.
               WHEN Marzetta left the ship and entered the boat, she was unusually taciturn and
                  grave; but, seeing that her companion noticed it, she burst into a sweet girlish
                  laugh.
               "First sad, then gay," said he. "Yes, my good Boppo: such is life. We are
                  oftentimes depressed over a world of fiction of our own hearts' conjuring, but are
                  buoyant with hope amid the real gloom of stern misfortunes. We hang our harps upon
                  the willow, and sit down by gladsome streams which our own tears make bitter."
               "Were not a part of your remark true, my dear child," said the fisherman, "how
                  miserable should we be, who, by our daily toil, only gain enough for our actual
                  necessities, and have from time to time a portion of that, even, wrung from us by
                  our detested government!—wrung from us, I doubt not, to fill the coffers of that
                  vile Gonzalvo, who one day, sooner or later, will depart, leaving only the
                  skeleton out of which he has drawn the soul."
               "Sunshine follows the cloud-shadow, you know, Boppo: so will brighter days follow
                  these of your suffering and gloom."
               "The Federati are gaining ground, it is true," was his reply: "and I doubt not, if
                  our nets are strong enough, extended enough, and well buoyed, we shall make a haul
                  that will astonish the caught and the uncaught; for we have men at our tackle who
                  have as much adroitness as strength, as much good judgment as energy."
               "We are indeed gaining ground," said Marzetta with brightening countenance; "for
                  the wise heads who rule us are not aware, that, the more they grind down the
                  people, the stronger the people become. Every stone they take from what supports
                  the working-man undermines their own temple. The Gallego, whom they call the
                  smuggler, and who, though reputed poor, is rich, hints broadly at knowledge he
                  possesses, which will by and by make Gonzalvo tremble."
               "What can it be?"
               "I do not know; but it has something remote in its origin, and will be like a
                  stiletto in the side of our prime-minister."
               "The Gallego is active, bright; he has seen much of the world; is of few words;
                  and, if he has only hinted at a thing, you may be sure there is much behind it.
                  But why were you so sad when you returned to the boat a moment ago? Did any thing
                  happen on board to disturb you? You know that our fraternity is bound, to a man,
                  to shield you from every insult."
               
               "Nothing, my good Boppo," replied Marzetta, laughing again.
               "You acted strangely, looked strangely: you seemed as troubled as one of your
                  little djanketi just out of the water."
               "To tell you the truth, I think I must have been caught in that net at which I
                  have always laughed. I am in love."
               "It is not strange," replied the fisherman, "since so many are in love with you.
                  It has always been a wonder with us that none of our own bright, sunbrowned,
                  black-haired young men could win you, or even so much as a smile that would open
                  to them the door of hope."
               "No: I have never, till now, dreamed of such a thing. I have been persecuted with
                  what is called love; but I felt none for those who professed so much for me,
                  except such as I have for you and my good friend the smuggler."
               "Now, who has been the fortunate captor?" said Boppo with a tender, fatherly
                  interest. "Is it one of our own country, of our honest craft? or some gaudy
                  stranger, who, like the dolphin, glitters in the sunlight, wearing all his gold
                  outside?"
               "I do not know."
               "Not know whom you have fallen in love with?"
               "No. Simply a youth in strange costume, with long, light locks such as angels are
                  sometimes painted with,—curls clustering round an uncollared neck sculptured as a
                  Juno's ought to be; a slender youth, yet agile and strong, as I could see at a
                  glance; a fair-faced young man, made up, it would seem, of the gleaming snow and
                  sunshine of the Caucasus; a glorious creature, with brow and eyes that look as if
                  borrowed from the very heavens towards which I shall dream they must be ever
                  turned. For who," she continued thoughtfully, as if communing with herself
                  alone,—"who, with such a look, could be less than divine?" Here the gentle
                  narrator began again to laugh; but this at once was softened into a sigh, and for
                  a moment she forgot where she was.
               Boppo gazed at the young girl with a look of compassion and solicitude; for he
                  felt sure she had suddenly lost her reason. It did not escape Marzetta's notice,
                  and she smilingly said,—
               "Do not have any anxiety about me further than that which, in the kindness of your
                  heart, you have ever had. My first love is my adopted sister, and this my adopted
                  country; my second, you, the smuggler, and the Federati, which seem inseparable;
                  my third, myself and the sunny-eyed stranger"—
               "Which you hope also to be inseparable," interrupted Boppo jestingly.
               "Even so, if the Fates will it," said Marzetta artlessly, looking over into the
                  water.
               "Yet you do not know who or what he is?"
               "I am sure of what he is, else my knowledge of human nature is, for once, greatly
                  at fault; but who he is, I cannot say."
               "For once, you may be greatly deceived," said Boppo in a tone of much sadness.
               "You have no reason to distrust my discretion even in the affairs of the heart, my
                  good foster-father," replied Marzetta, laying her hand affectionately on Boppo's
                  shoulder.
               
               "All have, and with good reason, perfect confidence in your judgment and
                  discretion in all ordinary matters; but you have often seen in the Piazza Verdi
                  Paulo's statue of Cupid with bandaged eyes."
               "I know what you mean. 'Love is proverbially blind;' but, my dear friend, not of
                  necessity indiscreet. I am aware that it is as natural to magnify the virtues of
                  those we worship as the faults of those whom we dislike; but a mind properly
                  trained and balanced does not discover virtues and defects where none exist. We
                  have a standard of our own; we have the scales, the gage, the compasses, in our
                  own brain; and by these the stature of our idols must be made out. Truth may hide
                  itself in a deep well; but some instincts catch it on the mountain-top."
               "True, true, angelic girl. Forgive an ignorant fisherman for presuming to question
                  the prudence, the wisdom, of any of your acts," and Boppo with much true
                  gentleness and humility. "You know with what fatherly solicitude, with what a
                  yearning heart, I ever watch over you. You know, too, how all our craft—and I may
                  almost say, all the Federati—hold me responsible for your safety and happiness.
                  You must forgive me, then, for any even uncalled-for anxiety which I may manifest
                  in your behalf."
               "Please do not talk thus to me, my good and kind friend," said Marzetta. "I have
                  nothing, can have nothing, to forgive, when I know that all that is said and done
                  is dictated by a noble, generous nature, and by a love of the Federati; for your
                  poor garments are no covering to your heart, while the sacrifices you have made
                  for our noble cause—my adopted country's try's—have, among the oppressed, exalted
                  you above kings."
               "If the people think so highly of me, what must they think of you, Marzetta? We
                  were nearly inactive, languishing under our burdens; but, when you came among us,
                  you infused a new spirit into our society. One cried out, 'She is our Joan of
                  Are!' Another said, 'No, she has not, and never had, a peer.' I heard the Prince
                  de Carignano himself say so."
               "They owe it all to you, Boppo; for I could have done nothing, had you not
                  seconded my plans, protected me, sheltered me, and been to me as a father."
               "I strive only to do my duty; and God be praised if in that the Federati are
                  aided!—But here we are at the shore. Did you make any agreement about supplying
                  the ship while in port?"
               "Yes, Boppo. They want some of our djanketi
                  every morning; and I promised to carry them on board." Seeing, as she looked up, a
                  smile playing over the features of her companion, Marzetta dropped her head as if
                  caught in some thought she had wished to conceal, but in an instant rallied, and
                  said, "He will not be there; he is with the Turkish ambassador; and I have already
                  made up my mind that he shall aid our cause."
               "In what way can it possibly be? you little sylphide?"
               "I do not know; yet I have a presentiment that it will be so."
               "You are full of hope: it is well you are so. The Turkish representatives have, thus far, ever been
                  favoring our oppressors. But this love—will it not dampen your ardor in our cause?
                  and will you not soon get weary and disgusted with your present life and your
                  humble associates?"
               "Never, while one of the Federati is persecuted or oppressed. And you know my
                  early days were those of toil, and my dear friends were the children of toil. It
                  was, as I have often told you, in the deep mines, where I literally spent years,
                  that I gained the strength, the muscular vigor, which enabled me to endure so much
                  subsequently in my wanderings, and is now daily called into action. It was there,
                  too, I learned to despise the pride and arrogance of riches, the heartlessness of
                  place and power, the meanness and unscrupulousness of ambition. It was there I
                  learned to love the confiding good, the humble poor, the laborer who earned his
                  bread, slept soundly, and trusted in God."
               "Perhaps what every one would have thought a great misfortune may have been a
                  downright blessing," said Boppo. "Had you been reared in the luxurious home, where
                  it has been hinted to you you were born, the chagrin and sorrows of a Spinosa
                  might have overtaken you, your wealth proved only a curse, a bait for harpies, and
                  your position only a stronghold for the claws of the envious. 'Blessed are the
                  poor.' Then, again, to that long underground life you are doubtless indebted for
                  some of those attractions which make you mistress of all hearts; for instance,
                  that strange pallor which gives such wonderful distinction to your dark eyes and
                  hair. But don't let your old loving father make you vain."
               Marzetta had a peculiar delicacy of complexion, which, though far from indicating
                  bad health, led one to suppose her possessed of a less robust constitution than
                  was really the case. It was a whiteness so unnatural, that many called it
                  unearthly: it had a transparent moonlight tone, that gave, as Boppo said,
                  wonderful distinction to her deep blue eyes and dark auburn hair, and caused some
                  to regard her with a kind of awe as they would a being just alighted from the
                  skies.
               Our little sylphide was, then, as remarkable for her beauty as for her versatile
                  and exceptional life,—a life full of lessons invaluable in after-years. So
                  absorbed had she been, however, in the cause of the Federati, more particularly
                  during the later months of her residence in Genoa, that she had been unconscious
                  of the admiration she had elicited till she saw Haffed.
               When Marzetta landed from the boat, and passed up the steps to the Strada de la
                  Marina, it was pleasing to see all the fishermen along the way doff their red,
                  stocking-like caps. Arrived at Boppo's house, a short distance hence on the same
                  street, she prepared another basket of the tiny fish, and went to her other
                  customers.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               DEEPER DECEPTIONS.—MORE INTRIGUES.—A GOOD FRIAR.—GOOD COUNSEL.—A
                  SURPRISE.—HOPES AND FEARS.—DEPARTURES.
               LA SPINOSA, after that midnight marriage with the stranger, suffered intolerable
                  anguish, and was brought to the very verge of the grave: but, as soon as she began
                  to recover, the latent fire of the Spinosas—inherited, it was said, from an old
                  heroic ancestor—burst forth; and, if she had had the whole human race by the
                  throat, she would have strangled it. To Fiesco Felisquetto, whom she considered as
                  having been her betrothed, she was bitterly inimical, and ready to commit almost
                  any crime that would destroy him; particularly after his return to Genoa with his
                  new-found prize. She would be another Borgia.
               "Nothing would please me better," said she, addressing the prime-minister, who had
                  called early that day, made some startling suggestions, and was now seated on a
                  rich lounge by the side of the speaker; "for there is nothing I will not undertake
                  to do to humiliate and ruin so vile a creature as that same Fiesco. I say and I
                  mean it, I will make any sacrifice in the world to crush him, and drive hence my
                  hated rival."
               "My terms might involve much," said Gonzalvo, with a smile intended to conceal the
                  asperity of his mission.
               "Call me reckless of consequences if you will," continued the lady ("and my hasty
                  marriage might well justify you in it): I am so determined, so fixed, in this
                  purpose, here is my hand as a pledge." She placed then her taper fingers in the
                  grasp of the minister's, but turned away her head to hide a blush mantling her
                  faded cheeks at the thought, that, in the state of society then dominant, the act
                  might convey a false impression, and, to one less imbittered by the world's
                  treachery, might have been more embarrassing still.
               "I thank you for this little gift," said the minister as he pressed the thin,
                  delicate hand to his lips,—"more prized, unlike most gifts, for its being
                  diminutive; and, were your soul's best wishes and desires in it, I am free to own
                  this would be literally the white mark on my life's dark page."
               "I beg," responded the lady, "that you will refrain from compliments in such
                  serious moments as these." And to her they seemed all-important, and fraught with
                  momentous consequences; while, to the other colloquist, they were burdened only
                  with trivialities, which, in careless security, he trundled into the murky marshes
                  of discord that spread their fetid and fetal miasm in all the region where he
                  walked.
               
               "In the first place," resumed the minister, still holding the little hand, "I am
                  aware that this Count Fiesco is associated with a gang of low fellows, whose
                  designs are to assassinate all now in power, up to the very king himself; create a
                  state of unparalleled anarchy, and, in the midst of it, seize upon the reins of
                  government in the name of the people, open the gates of their Utopia, and rush to
                  a republic."
               "Well, then, what you want, I suppose, is to prove this against him, is it not?"
                  interrupted the lady, her eyes flashing fire in her eagerness to begin the work of
                  discovery.
               "This is not only to be proved against him by some measures, laudable or
                  otherwise," said Gonzalvo, "but La Signora Kathleen's confidence in his honor must
                  be destroyed at the same time: for should any thing be ascertained, even beyond
                  cavil, implicating him in as diabolical a plot as was ever hatched in the brain of
                  a regicide, it would avail nothing so long as he has that fair wife of his to
                  plead for him with his Majesty; for it is a truth, that, by her beauty and
                  talents, she has captivated our aged king, who presents her from time to time with
                  such rare jewels as might well excite the jealousy of the royal consort herself,
                  were not his true virtues, his earnest piety, his unbounded goodness and
                  benevolence, known and appreciated."
               "The jade!" exclaimed La Spinosa. "How dare she act so! A stranger, a foreigner,
                  to thus intrude and throw her pert self into our very politics, is monstrous: it
                  shows an impertinence and impudence that is wholly unbearable, and exhibits a
                  character entirely at variance with that delicacy which belongs to her sex." And
                  the speaker grew pale and red by turns, and gnashed her teeth, as she went through
                  this tirade. The designing words of her visitor had had their desired effect. He
                  had presented to her view, at this as well as at other interviews, a woman
                  infinitely her superior in every thing that renders her charming to the other
                  sex.
               "We have sufficient evidence," the minister went on to say, pleased with the
                  excitement he had created, "that Signor Fiesco is in constant intercourse with
                  those known to be hostile to the government, and receives at his house a fisherman
                  called Boppo, who has great influence with his craft, and is our active and bitter
                  enemy. But this is not enough for our purpose. It must be shown to his cara sposa Kathleen that he is in the habit of meeting
                  some female clandestinely, and that it is publicly known. Now, it will be
                  necessary for you to represent this person, and, to allay all suspicion in his
                  mind, claim to be of a secret independent sect belonging to the higher nobility,
                  whose position in society, and relations with the government, render the utmost
                  precaution necessary, and compel you, for the present, to remain incognito."
               "But suppose he should recognize my voice, and tear the mask from me, what then
                  could I do? "said the lady.
               "Even then," replied the minister, "a part of the plan will have succeeded; for
                  this secret interview will be known to his wife. I shall give her cause to
                  suspect; and suspicion, with a woman, is half conviction: she will indeed be
                  apprised of the meeting, and will be
                  upon the watch. Should it be discovered who you are, it will influence the
                  Federati against him; for they are cognizant of your hatred of their fraternity.
                  As for the rest, we will devise some new plan to entrap him. The main thing now
                  will be, after what has been suggested, to conceal your own designs, and draw
                  forth his. Ascertain the time when his party intend to make their first great
                  outbreak. Go in the garb of the sisterhood: that, with a veil and the obscurity of
                  the place of meeting, will render you quite safe."
               "But tell me quickly," said the lady with no little trepidation and earnestness,
                  "where this meeting is to take place; for Friar Jos, as we call him, is now
                  crossing the street, and will in a moment be here."
               "This evening, at eleven o'clock," replied the minister, "on the steps beneath the
                  arch at Aqua Sola. It is near the ambassador's, you know, where the ball is to be,
                  and where we must all appear. Pass in a hired portantino the Strada Nuova, and allow your handkerchief to hang
                  from the window. He will be apprised of the nature of the signal, and will closely
                  follow you to the appointed spot."
               "The blessing of good deeds and charitable designs be your consolation, my
                  friends!" said the friar as he entered the saloon of La Spinosa barefooted and
                  unannounced; "for good deeds carry their own sweet burden of content along with
                  them, and charitable designs are recorded in heaven to gather luster till you go
                  to claim your reward."
               "You are ever speaking good things and doing charitable acts, and so you are
                  everywhere welcome," said the lady with some effort. "Be seated here near us, and
                  let us hear the news in the religious and the suffering world."
               "To stand before you better becomes my humble calling," replied the friar; "while
                  those luxurious seats might make me desire the comforts I long since renounced. As
                  to the truly religious world, it is full of beauty, harmony, peace, concord, love.
                  The world of suffering has its comforts too, and its benefits, and is vastly
                  instructive. One, to be really good, or to be impelled irresistibly to goodness,
                  should be often in it; for one sees there the results of crime, of folly, of
                  dissipation, and the involuntary and sterner sorrow brought about by the
                  machinations of the wicked, the intrigues of rivals, of the ambitious and the
                  envious."
               The lady hung her head, and made no reply. Gonzalvo coughed lightly once or twice,
                  and then said,—
               "I see, my dear fellow, that you are a shrewd observer of human nature, and would
                  make an excellent officer of police; but, upon my faith, I do not know how people
                  are going to be so much bettered by looking on the miseries of others. From time
                  immemorial, nearly an equal sum of joy and sorrow, piety and poverty, has stalked
                  over the earth, and humanity has continued about the same: in fact, this very
                  diversity of character and circumstances, and their consequences, seem to have
                  been as much the design of the Author of all things as the difference in animals,
                  plants, and minerals."
               The friar had seen much of society in all its phases, and was indeed, as the
                  minister remarked, a shrewd observer. It did not therefore escape him, that
                     what he had said about intrigue had
                  an effect that revealed to him the cause of that early meeting which he had just
                  interrupted; and he resolved to watch the parties. Their hatred of the Federati
                  had long been known to him.
               "I can not admit," resumed the friar, "that the Almighty ever designed that man
                  should suffer, except through his own negligence and follies. This throws him upon
                  his own resources, and teaches him not only to improve himself for his own good,
                  but for the benefit of posterity. God everywhere sowed the seeds of perfection:
                  whatever does not attain to that is negative good, and not positive evil. If you
                  neglect the trees of your garden, or thwart them in their progress, they will fall
                  far short of that perfection they might attain if highly cultivated; and minds
                  expanding around you will show the same result under similar treatment. Great
                  wrong may be done by neglect as well as by positive action; and some have much to
                  answer for under both of these heads."
               "Would you have us, my good father," said the lady, "go into the purlieus and
                  hospitals of the city to hunt up misery?"
               "There are some," replied the friar, "who should see with their own eyes the
                  misery they inflict, and particularly that which they have the power to remedy.
                  Such sights tend to knock off the sharp angles of our loftier position, oil,
                  perchance, the long-rusted hinges of charity, chasten down the austerity of
                  station, and hang around our selfish natures the rosetinted tapestry of a
                  benevolent sympathy."
               The minister sat gnashing his teeth, for he was quite sure the friar intended to
                  be personal; but, ere he had time to make suitable reply, a young girl came
                  laughing into the room, and with graceful salutation, but without waiting for any
                  formal welcome on the part of the hostess, exclaimed,—
               "Oh! I've such nice compliments for you all as will make you think you have been
                  sculptured by Michael Angelo himself. One of the fish-women—such talkative and
                  queer people you know they always are—asked me at the gate who the man was up here
                  whose head was like a turret, whose face had so many shadows on it, and who looked
                  like. Satan seeking souls. In my way, I described to her the minister; and she
                  said it was he, and that he must look sharp to his trade. The friar, she
                  continued, is a good soul, but not what he seems. He was made for a man, but has
                  become a monkey. The lady is ugly enough and bad, but would improve in better
                  society, where she ought to be. And then she wanted to know what the minister came
                  here for, and what he talked about. I told her that the last remark I heard him
                  make was, that he intended to hang all the fish-women to the cap of the
                  sea-wall."
               "O my child!" exclaimed the minister, "why did you say that? Those people hate me
                  enough already; and that speech will fly across the gulf to every hut on this
                  coast, and will be believed by nine in ten; and Heaven knows what may be the
                  result. Which way did she go? I will follow her at once."
               "Oh! you can not catch her," replied the girl; "for when she had found out all I
                  had to say about you, she hurried off as though she intended some day to pickle your ears. I watched her till
                  she turned into the North Stradella; and she is probably, by this time, riding a
                  broomstick round the summit of the lanterna!"
               "For the first time, my charming little waif," said La Spinosa, "I hear you talk
                  idly."
               "I can not help it," replied the girl, "when I see so powerful a person as Signor
                  Gonzalvo disturbed by the compliments of a crazy fish-woman, and even wishing to
                  follow her. I must at least say that it pays his company but a poor compliment."
                  And, courtersying very low, she would have retired; but La Spinosa detained her a
                  moment by saying (with intent to repay the friar for some of his late
                  remarks),—
               "My good father here"—alluding to the friar—"has been almost trembling with
                  delight as he gazed at you, my sylph. Indeed, you must not look at him again with
                  those large eyes of yours, or you may turn him from his vows. But he has turned
                  pale now, and so I will dismiss you."
               With strange embarrassment the friar resumed the conversation, and addressed the
                  minister.
               "You confess, sir, that these poor people hate you. Now, if you wish to begin to
                  overcome that feeling, I can offer you an opportunity."
               "To assist some of those perros (dogs), I
                  suppose," said Gonzalvo contemptuously. "No! they must first amend, become
                  friendly toward the government, ere I can use them leniently."
               "They are weak, and can hardly be the aggressors," replied the friar. "Be that as
                  it may, you can give me a few scudi for the destitute family of a fisherman erman
                  just departed this life, and some more to reward a brave man for a brave act,—the
                  man who so fearlessly risked his life in that terrible storm some time since, when
                  the Spanish brigantine was wrecked, and from which he saved, by most heroic
                  efforts, that inimitable creature who was just here, and a poor girl from Malaga.
                  The latter is a most gentle and loving creature, and a devout Catholic,—so much
                  so, that she requested me to present this, which she has always worn, and prizes
                  above pearls, to the Holy Mother."
               The friar here drew from a fold of his long, coarse brown robe, tucked beneath his
                  girdle, a small picture of the Virgin, and was about to pass it to the lady, when
                  the minister eagerly grasped it, and with a trembling hand scanned it closely.
               "Pardon me," said he: "my mother used to wear one like this,—almost exactly like
                  it,—I could almost say the very same. Excuse me, therefore, for being curious
                  about this person. Where do you say she is? how old? how does she look?"
               "She lives," replied the friar, "with the so-called smuggler, just outside the
                  western gate. She is about fourteen, fifteen, or sixteen years of age, and looks
                  like a lily loitering in the shade."
               As soon as Gonzalvo found out what he wished to know, he assumed an air of
                  indifference, and simply said the bawble had reminded him of his mother, whom he
                  had dearly loved; then changed the subject.
               During the latter part of the conversation, La Sylphide had re-entered the room,
                  impelled by a strange curiosity she could not resist. Was her friend Sappho in danger? She had at once that
                  conviction, and resolved to hasten home and warn her; but of what? She knew not;
                  yet she felt sure something was going wrong. She had, however, before her, her
                  usual rounds, which would bring her near night; but then she would surely go to
                  her beloved Sappho. She had at that moment forgotten another engagement for that
                  same evening.
               The friar took and replaced "the bawble," as the minister had called it, in the
                  fold of his dress, and held out his hand for the scudi.
               The minister seemed remarkably generous, as though some pleasant memories had just
                  been revived; and gave the friar a handful of money.
               "I thank you in the name of the poor," said the recipient. "Here will be something
                  for both." Then he continued, as if talking to himself: "Poor Bennito! he will be
                  welcomed by the fishermen of Galilee, who now hang their nets on the banks of the
                  stream that flows hard by the city of God; for there they will have some mimic
                  means by which to recall their earthly tasks, and will give glad greeting to every
                  good man of the craft. Bennito's boat is anchored safely there;" and he pointed
                  heavenward.
               Gonzalvo now took his leave with studied coolness, and the friar soon followed
                  him. Marzetta lingered a while to tell La Spinosa some of her feelings, fears, and
                  great love for Sappho. She then drew her pezzato
                  more closely about her face, descended the marble stairs, replaced her gloves,
                  took up her little basket, and was soon lost in the stradellas of the town.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               DIABOLISM.—THE APPROACHING BALL.—HOW MARZETTA WAS INVITED.—CONCEALED
                  FATE.—SAPPHO LOST.
               WHEN Gonzalvo left the mansion of La Spinosa, he walked to Madame Felisquetto's,
                  with his old plans well developed in his mind. But he had now a new scheme,—a most
                  important one,—and a new and strange sensation in his breast, that Marzetta
                  perhaps, or the picture, had awakened.
               He found the lady at home, and at once proceeded, in a carefully-digested,
                  straightforward, adroit manner, to unfold to her the infidelity of her husband,
                  sending his falsehoods to burrow in the unsuspecting soul of his fair listener
                  like so many scorpions; for they came with the force of apparent truth, which her
                  own eyes, he assured her, might make doubly appalling if she desired that more
                  perfect evidence.
               Kathleen had not intended to be at the ball that evening; but now she resolved to
                  go: and, as the ambassador's palace was on Aqua Sola, she would only be obliged to walk a few steps to command a
                  view of the place of meeting. The minister would give her his arm; and they could
                  saunter out into the cool walks of the public square without eliciting any
                  particular attention. And was not the minister friendly? She knew he did not like
                  Fiesco: but for her he expressed the strongest sympathy, admiration, devotion;
                  was, indeed, willing—at least he said so—to make any sacrifice to secure her
                  happiness. He, however, saw with actual pleasure the deep lines of agony her
                  suspicion and dread were furrowing on her brow; and, that they should not lose
                  force and permanency, he related to her the story of her husband's betrothal to La
                  Spinosa, and final abandonment and flight.
               If one could see that fabulous creature, Satan, enter and sow discord in Paradise,
                  he could understand the difference between Kathleen's home before the minister
                  came and that which he left. That calm, that noble, that superb beauty lay like a
                  white withered rose flung into the dust at the roadside. In tears, her face buried
                  in the cushions of the lounge, she passed moments, perhaps hours, of torture, and
                  found herself alone when she started up as from some horrid dream. The thought of
                  Fiesco's inconstancy had never previously entered her brain: hence this sudden
                  development had come with the more crushing effect. Now walking her room in wild
                  bewilderment; now throwing herself upon the bed, the divan, the floor; now
                  stretching forth her arms as if he were present, and she pleading with him to have
                  mercy upon her; now clasping her brows, feeling that every word she had listened
                  to from Gonzalvo was hammering out her very brains; now almost screaming from a
                  sense of his treachery, that she perhaps deserved; now gasping at the
                  hope that he might yet be true,—minutes were like hours, and the hours almost
                  never-ending, as she looked forward to her husband's return. By and by she began
                  to collect and arrange her scattered thoughts, so that she might properly present
                  herself to him when he came, if he should come: and then she must be at the
                  rendezvous; for uncertainty was worse than conviction, even if death followed
                  close upon its inception.
               But Fiesco did not return till late that night, for he had been all day with the
                  Federati in a distant haunt; and it was soon after he entered the city that he was
                  informed of the importance of meeting the disguised lady beneath the arch at Aqua
                  Sola. And now, full of renewed enthusiasm and love of country, he was pleased to
                  think that this event betokened a growing disaffection among the higher classes;
                  and he waited with no little anxiety for the passage of the portantino, with the handkerchief hanging from the
                  window.
               The ball, that evening, was at the British ambassador's, in honor of the new
                  Turkish ambassador. So crowded were the saloons, it was about as difficult to tell
                  who were the honored guests on that occasion as who were not. Marzetta was there.
                  What! that tramp? that dazzling little fish-girl? that ever-winning sylphide? Yes;
                  and we must here learn how it happened.
               
               The brigantine so unfortunately wrecked in the outer harbor of Genoa was doubtless
                  an old vessel, as she soon went to pieces. Her cargo, consisting of Malaga wines
                  and fruit, was, on the following day, strewed along the beach. Among other things
                  found that had floated ashore was a trunk containing the jewels and some of the
                  most costly dresses of the sylphide, and a letter to the British ambassador, Sir
                  James Bond. This letter was at once sent to his Excellency; and, by virtue of its
                  contents, he required that the said trunk and all it contained should be delivered
                  over to him. These he dispatched to Marzetta as soon as her residence could be
                  ascertained. One thing, however, was missing,—the diary of the young lady. It
                  passed, unbeknown to its owner, into the hands of the prime-minister.
               When the ambassador restored to La Sylphide her valuable articles, he sent his
                  carriage and secretary, with a polite note, requesting an interview. She had no
                  objections to granting it, provided Boppo could accompany her. The secretary was
                  not authorized to refuse such a request: so, after the old fisherman had donned
                  his best blue pantaloons, jacket, and red sash, and taken his cap under his arm,
                  they all started together. On their arrival at the palace, the ambassador was a
                  little astonished at seeing Marzetta's friend; but there was so much goodness and
                  noble honesty in his face, that he commanded the respect of the Englishman. When
                  seated in the reception-room, Sir James desired a private talk with the pretty
                  young stranger on a subject of some importance; but she declined, saying that
                  Boppo was one of her foster-fathers, and she wished him to hear all, know all. She
                  was, indeed, indebted to him for her life: what could she desire him not to
                  know?
               The ambassador then, with a few preliminary remarks which rather disapproved of
                  her resolution, went on to relate some circumstances of her life that quite
                  astonished her; and, leading her back by an unbroken chain of events,—but all
                  founded on the supposition of her being the one who had designedly been lost by
                  her own mother,—enabled her to recall many things which had, with her, passed into
                  oblivion, or become only as faint memories of dreams. It brought to light what was
                  important, perhaps, for her to know; but it added nothing to her happiness, and
                  only showed that his Excellency was somewhat master of her future destiny. That he
                  was, however, truly interested in her welfare, he manifested by offering her a
                  home in his own family: indeed, he so urged it upon her, and expressed such a
                  sincere desire to have her future welfare placed beyond the apparent caprices of
                  fortune, that he quite won both her confidence and friendship. To Boppo he
                  expressed his admiration of the heroic conduct and generosity he had displayed;
                  and assured him, also, that when it was possible for him, in his official
                  capacity, to speak or act for the benefit of the craft, he would most assuredly do
                  so,—if it should be for his interest, he might, like most diplomats, have added.
                  Before Marzetta's departure, he made her promise to be at his next grand ball,
                  which he was about to give in honor of the Turkish ambassador who had recently
                  arrived. Sir James's carriage would be sent for her.
               
               When La Sylphide accepted the invitation to the ball, had she not some faint idea
                  she might meet there the young Turkish secretary whom she had first seen on board
                  ship? We will not try from the flutterings of young hearts to gather up the
                  causes: they are numerous, fleeting often, lights from the fire-fly's wing
                  o'nights, sun-glimpses on the sward beneath the moving foliage of a forest; or, if
                  deep, then like the sparkling drops that come up from the stone-headed arrow of
                  the Indian as it sinks into the dark waters of a haunted lake.
               The invitation to the ball seemed to throw a momentary glow of pleasurable
                  thoughts over the shadow that had fallen on Marzetta's spirits; and she returned
                  home somewhat elated. Of the many courtly attentions, however, of which she had,
                  from time to time, been the recipient, she was never proud. When in France, more
                  than one ambassador's carriage was seen at her door; in Spain, the queen's
                  equipage lingered before her hotel; before Boppo's humble dwelling, the gay
                     vettura of the first surgeon in Italy had
                  daily stood; and now that of the British ambassador set her down at the same
                  place. Marzetta had, indeed, a humble heart with lofty purposes,—a guileless heart
                  detesting falsehood and hypocrisy, and, above all, the heartless flattery of
                  courts and "high society:" we can hence surmise, that, at Sir James's ball, she
                  expected something besides all this.
               The night of the ball was an eventful one in many respects. To several, it
                  concealed in the shadow of its hours the hand of a cruel destiny. Sappho's was
                  involved. She had not been warned; for fate was against it. When Marzetta entered
                  the ambassador's carriage at Boppo's, she requested his Excellency's secretary to
                  drive to the smuggler's, as she had not had time to go there at an earlier hour.
                  The secretary put his head out of the window, and gave some directions; but they
                  were either misunderstood, or were not in accordance with her wishes; and, in a
                  short time, she found herself at the ambassador's palace. There, though greatly
                  depressed by the mishap, she saw she must forego till the morrow her intended
                  warning. Would it be too late? Alas! too late.
               That same afternoon, the smuggler went out in his boat to meet a friend, who, as
                  master of a smuggling craft, was then hovering on the borders of the offing.
                  Attempting to return, he encountered a strong head wind, against which there was
                  long and tiresome beating to regain the shore. Finally, weary with this, as it
                  grew dark, his companion took the helm, and he laid himself down to sleep. The
                  gale increased, and swept piteously along the waste of waters. As midnight
                  approached, he heard that same wild plaintive shriek that had so startled him on
                  the morning of the shipwreck. Above the howling of the storm and the dash of the
                  sea, that same tender voice, in the agony of despair, broke upon his slumbers. He
                  started up, and would have leaped overboard had not his companion caught and
                  thoroughly awakened him: then, even, he could hardly be restrained, so laggard was
                  the boat. He longed to swim to the land, and rush to the rescue as he had done
                  before; for was not Sappho again in distress, and crying to him for help? He had
                  now no doubt of the warning, and that, when he reached his home, he would find either Sappho dead,
                  or that some great misfortune had befallen her.
               When the smuggler did reach home, his old housekeeper came out with weeping eyes,
                  and with such sorrow in her heart that she could not explain what had
                  happened.
               "Tell me, then," said he: "is she dead?"
               Adding astonishment to her grief, she could still less reply. The smuggler bowed
                  his head upon his hands, and the tears came trickling through his fingers. Finally
                  the old woman took him by the arm, and led him to a seat: then, sitting down at
                  his side, she related, between sobs and hysterical chokings, how Sappho, she
                  thought, had been standing at the gate near the street, or had been enticed
                  thither, when she was seized by some one, and hurried off; for a shriek came from
                  that quarter; and, when she reached there, no Sappho was to be found.
               The smuggler felt another death in his heart, a coldness, a chill, that was allied
                  to the grave. Search he knew would be unavailing for the moment. Still he was
                  almost sure he could go at once, and place his hand upon the villain who had
                  robbed him of his adopted child; but it would come to nothing, further than to
                  frustrate some of the plans of the Federati: he therefore wept on in silence, and
                  thought to bide his time.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE BALL AGAIN.—NEW AND OLD BELLES.—SUSPICIONS
                  CONFIRMED.—FLIRTATIONS.—JEALOUSY.—A FRIEND.
               SIGNORA KATHLEEN FELISQUETTO was received at the door by the British ambassador
                  himself: and, as she entered the ball-room, a murmur of admiration ran through the
                  assembly; but she heard nothing, and cared little for any thing save that which
                  was uppermost in her mind,—the rendezvous.
               The Austrian ambassador was there with schemes of his own, which, before leaving
                  home, he had repeated to himself in this wise:—
               "I must take La Napolitana with me to-night; for no one of the genus homo, wearing male attire, has ever been known to
                  resist her charms. She may not be, she is probably not, so beautiful as some who
                  will be there; but she has a brilliancy of wit, and a naïveté, a piquancy, and impressiveness of manner, that never fail
                  to conquer. Il Signor Fiesco Felisquetto must see her and love her; and thus, in
                  two ways, she will serve me. Madame,
                  his cara sposa, will be jealous, and hence the
                  sooner be brought to terms. The district in dispute will doubtless be hers through
                  the king's friendship, and the unbounded admiration he is said to have for her;
                  and she will be easily induced to transfer it to my government, at least at her
                  death. But possibly this husband of hers may not come. I imagine, however, that he
                  will, for fear his absence might excite suspicion on the part of those in power.
                  Yes, he will come; and he must be introduced to the inimitable Napolitana."
               La Spinosa was there: but she came late; for, after her meeting with the chief of
                  the Federati, she was obliged to return home and change her costume. She came
                  late, also, because she had lingered long with Fiesco; her old love returning at
                  times, and making her, as she clung to his arm, almost confess to him who she was.
                  She came attired in a magnificent dress afloat in costly lace, wearing all the
                  family jewels arranged in the most becoming manner possible, though slightly
                     bizarre, in keeping with her state of mind.
                  "Indeed, having little beauty now," she confessed to herself, "I must depend
                  entirely on my toilet. It is true, my shoulders are rather too bare, my neck
                  somewhat décolleté: still, they are plump; and
                  my corsage so reveals, yet hides them, that no one can say they are not
                  fascinating. A few years ago, I should have been shocked at such exposure: now I
                  would have Fiesco, though I hate him, think me vastly charming, and regret he did
                  not marry me instead of that made-up Scotch or English vixen he now has, and who,
                  I think, will lead him yet a pretty life; for, from hints thrown out, she is no
                  better than she should be. Besides, how is she, so wholly unaccustomed to such
                  things, to withstand the gross and lavish flattery with which every one here will
                  assail her, and the intrigues with which she will be beset for political purposes?
                  Fiesco will rue the day he abandoned me! Oh, how I hate him!"
               Count Fiesco Felisquetto also came late, and, as he did not intend to join in the
                  dance, remained in an adjoining chamber, where some friends were gathered, playing
                  chess. He came, as had been surmised, to disarm suspicion, and show that he was
                  not afraid while he publicly avowed his opinions. He had been there but a short
                  time, however, before the Austrian ambassador was informed of his presence, and at
                  once brought and presented to him La Napolitana, the Countess Bruno,—a title
                  obtained by a morganatic marriage with a prince (lately deceased) of the house of
                  Hapsburg.
               "I avail myself of this favorable opportunity," said the ambassador, "to present
                  to you the Countess de"—
               "No, no!" said the lady, looking pleadingly up to him. "You promised me, that, if
                  I would appear here with you, that title should not pass your lips; and now, on
                  the very first occasion, you would break your word, and cast a gloom upon my
                  spirits which the gayety of this brilliant assembly could not dispel."
               "Pardon me, dear lady!" replied the ambassador. "I did but intend to do you
                  justice, and associate with your name the title that is justly yours; but, since you consent to have it laid
                  aside,—desire it, even,—I will submit, though I do it reluctantly. Allow me now,"
                  continued he, addressing the count, "to present Signora Isabella la Napolitana. We
                  call her the rayon diplomatique: for, from the
                  time she entered our capital, she was the very genius of the empire; and so
                  diffuse and cheering was the influence she exerted, that there was not one who did
                  not regret the melancholy event which deprived society of its chief ornament."
               The lady again looked pleadingly up to him, but said nothing.
               "You pay me a high compliment, prince," said Fiesco, "in thinking me worthy of her
                  notice."
               "She has often heard of you, and longed to know you," replied the ambassador: "so
                  you may lay aside your reserve, and consider yourselves as old friends; for I know
                  you both, and am sure you will be pleased with each other. To prove how sincere my
                  words are, I shall now leave her to your care; and you will soon discover what a
                  treasure I resign to please my worthy friend Count Fiesco. But beware: I have told
                  you of her powers to charm." And, laughing, he hurried away to set in train
                  another intrigue.
               Fiesco offered the lady his arm; and, ere he had time to pay her those compliments
                  he felt she really merited, she had entered on a topic vastly welcome to him,—the
                  Federati and Italy, a never-wearying theme, which caused him to listen and talk he
                  knew not how long, but till the guests had nearly all departed.
               Kathleen had been there, and gone. As the hour of eleven approached, she had taken
                  Gonzalvo's arm, and strolled into the beautiful walks of Aqua Sola. When the clock
                  in the old tower of Santa Crochata struck the appointed time, she stood near the
                  head of the stairs that led down under the arch of the piazza, and in a few
                  moments saw there, by the light which streamed up from the street below, the
                  expected portantino and the tall from of her
                  Fiesco. She saw also the masked lady dismount, take the gentleman's arm, and move
                  at once out of sight.
               No uninspired artist could have painted that picture of dismay, of despair, of
                  hopeless abandonment, which Kathleen now represented as she clung to the parapet
                  for support. The minister, seeing that she was convinced, was satisfied; then all
                  his efforts were put forth to allay her sorrow. He appealed to her pride, and
                  entered largely upon the admiration the king, his royal master, had for her; and
                  he thence opened up a way through which she could reach a splendor and power the
                  noblest might envy, coupling this with vague expressions about something in the
                  past.
               Gonzalvo had succeeded; he had produced the desired effect,—arousing in the
                  overburdened bosom of Kathleen a spirit of defiance that made her resolve to
                  return to the ball and try and play a part, however revolting it might be to her
                  finer sense of what was just and womanly. She did return; and the Austrian
                  ambassador was one of the first to compliment her on her "supreme loveliness,"
                  heightened by her great pallor and the agitation of the hour, "reminding him of a
                  gorgeous white cloud rolling its billows along a stormy horizon, its beauty and brilliancy enhanced
                  by the sober-tinted background."
               Madame Felisquetto could not be wholly insensible to the very marked attention and
                  admiration lavished upon her on every hand; but thunderbolts came now and then,
                  and she reeled with giddiness. "Count Fiesco is devoted to that lady," she heard
                  some one (it was La Spinosa) near her say; and that was the first notice she had
                  had of his presence. "It is not the first time the leader of the Federati has been
                  seen with that lovely stranger," said another, and with the same design. Kathleen
                  finally left her husband and La Napolitana together, and returned home.
               Marzetta was also at the ball, as has been said; and though the marvelous fitness
                  and picturesqueness of her costume, and her strange supernal whiteness (making her
                  almost a miniature image, if not an exact likeness, of Madame Fiesco as we last
                  saw her), though her varied charms, her peculiar airs, and the grace with which
                  she seemed to weave her rounded snowy arms even into her most trivial talk, drew
                  around her, wherever she went, a crowd of admirers, she was quite monopolized by
                  two persons,—two as unlike as light and darkness, and each intensely jealous.
               Can we for a moment suppose that the dark, stern, intriguing, ambitious, soulless
                  Gonzalvo, a man very far advanced in life, could be in love? Even so, and with
                  this same little sylphide,—deeply in love, though it seems like profanation to
                  call his passion by that sacred name. It could only remind one of a priceless
                  pearl thrown into a fiend's caldron dron, had there been the slightest reciprocity
                  of feeling.
               Gonzalvo had seen Marzetta as the charming young fish-girl, and resolved to
                  possess her. He had read, too, the "journal" or "diary" found in the trunk that
                  floated ashore from the wreck; and, believing that it belonged to this wonderful
                  specimen of Eve's daughters (perhaps to Sappho), he thought it important to have
                  her under his own eye. The prime-minister was actuated here by two motives: one
                  was generally enough to make him unscrupulous respecting the means by which he
                  secured his ends. He could not, however, devote all his time to Marzetta: he had
                  many other things to attend to. This left her to Haffed, the young secretary of
                  the Turkish ambassador, who had discovered and sought an introduction to her soon
                  after her arrival. And they danced together; Marzetta danced with no other: they
                  danced whenever there was an opportunity; and they were very happy. Did Haffed
                  know that this was the fish-girl who had so fascinated him on board the ship? He
                  did not; yet he thought the resemblance so great, that he could not have told one
                  from the other: indeed, he was several times on the point of asking her if she was
                  not the person who brought the delicious little djanketi out to the Turkish man-of-wart a few days before. But it
                  was an impulsive, thoughtless intent, which was as soon restrained by the idea
                  that it might be rude, if not actually insulting. Still, how could he love and
                  possess two? He certainly must love this one, and he truly loved the other. He had
                  not two souls for both, yet both possessed his soul. It was a dilemma to him inexplicable, and from which he
                  saw no way of escape. Marzetta supposed that Haffed recognized her as the one he
                  saw on the ship, and so floated joyously through the short hours of that evening
                  which had been so fruitful of sorrow to others, more especially to her beloved
                  Sappho.
               There was still another at the ball who felt a deep interest in the proceedings of
                  some already mentioned: it was the luscious Lindahara. She came closely veiled,
                  and stood most of the time within, but near the door of, a little boudoir that
                  commanded a view of the ball-room. Very few saw her, and none knew how much they
                  lost in not seeing her,—not seeing her as she would have appeared with her long
                  silken mantle, that enveloped her from head to foot, laid aside. Like a lovely
                  vision of the early morning, a beauteous image that seems to expand, yet melt away
                  into the golden dawning, was Lindahara. She reminded one of the finer figures of
                  Isis and Cleopatra on the Egyptian temples.
               Lindahara's expression was usually calm, thoughtful, dignified: this night her
                  eyes burned with an intense vivacity, and there was a restlessness in her manner
                  that told of some mighty passion within. She saw that Haffed gave himself entirely
                  to Marzetta; and in her she had quickly recognized the fish-girl of the ship, whom
                  she had heard him describe. She was jealous; and her jealousy was not diminished
                  when the Turkish ambassador said to her on their way home, "That young girl is
                  stealing away your brother's love."
               As Marzetta descended the steps to enter her carriage riage, she met the friar.
                  "What, you here!" she exclaimed, extending to him her hand: "I thought at this
                  late hour our good father would be shut up in the capucini."
               "I have been about these grounds all the evening," replied he in a low voice; "for
                  I feared something might happen to you. I suspected the prime-minister." He handed
                  her into the carriage, gave her God's blessing, and at once disappeared. Marzetta
                  was too much surprised at what the friar had said to collect her thoughts for any
                  questions.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               MORE VILLAINY.—THINKING ALOUD.—A SURPRISE.—A WARNING.—DOUBTFUL
                  CHARITY.—A MOAN FROM PRISON.
               GONZALVO and the Austrian ambassador, having brought Madame Kathleen Fiesco's mind
                  to the state they desired, found little difficulty afterward in molding it as they
                  willed. The former almost daily sought an interview with the lady, and not only
                  induced her to entertain the king's proposition—a palace and the title of duchess,
                  with the important princely possessions connected with it—as an expression of his
                  admiration of her personally, but more particularly, it was understood, for her
                  political influence and knowledge as one closely allied to the Federati, and for
                  the secrets she might divulge for the benefit of the kingdom; but he further
                  persuaded her to solemnly obligate herself to bring all her influence to bear upon
                  the voluntary (and even involuntary, if necessary) surrender of Marzetta to him to
                  become his wife, nolens volens. La Spinosa had
                  already pledged her word to the same effect. Kathleen would have gone mad,
                  however, had she known what she was really doing.
               Gonzalvo did not offer himself to Marzetta merely as an elderly gentleman loving
                  her much, or as primeminister with great power in his hands: he added the tempting
                  bait of a very beautiful country-seat on one of the most picturesque slopes of the
                  hills that overlook the city; and he considered himself pretty sure of success,
                  except when he thought of the way in which the girl had clung to Haffed on the
                  evening of the ball. Later, when his hopes began to wane, he obtained possession
                  of Boppo's favorite child, and caused the father to be informed that he might any
                  time have his boy in exchange for his adopted daughter. This ruse failed, as we
                  shall see; but the villain, nevertheless, had a cruel triumph over that poor but
                  nobly patriotic family.
               Boppo loved his child with all the warmth and naturalness of a kind-hearted
                  father: but he cautioned Marzetta to beware of Gonzalvo, to be constantly on the
                  watch, and guard her words and actions with ceaseless vigilance; for, like the
                  smuggler, he felt that events and schemes were culminating, and that restitution
                  and better times were fast approaching.
               One day, Gonzalvo sat alone in his private study, lost in thought, and talking
                  aloud to himself. The room he occupied was one that had formerly been used for the
                  better class of prisoners,—political offenders principally,—and was connected with
                  underground cells, dungeons, and passages of unknown extent: I say, of unknown
                  extent; because, of late years, it had ceased to be a prison (in name at least),
                  the large palatial tial building having
                  been converted into a dwelling at the minister's own particular desire. The stone
                  walls of the apartments were covered with somber tapestry, representing some scene
                  of the "Inferno" of Dante. The windows were heavily grated; and, altogether, the
                  place looked like a fit abode for its present occupant, who now, supposing that he
                  had, as usual, fastened the door behind him, expressed unguardedly his
                  reflections:—
               "Either our power or the Federati's must soon come to an end. All my schemes have
                  been successful thus far; and, by one or two more bold strokes, I put the whole
                  thing upon a sure basis. The kingdom totters now between a republic and a
                  despotism: we shall see which triumphs. But after all, so long as that bewitching
                  little sylphide is not mine, I am half a fool. Her soft, pleading, musical voice
                  ever haunts my ear: her smile, her dimpled arms, her coquettish airs, so
                  constantly rise before my vision, that I hardly see any thing beyond. And what is
                  life without love? Wealth and power have failed to make me happy: they have
                  occupied my head at the expense of my heart. One who constantly steels himself
                  against gentle impressions,—the simple love of the beautiful, for instance,—for
                  fear of 'losing the main chance' or of being called romantic, ere long ceases to
                  be a God-sent soul, and becomes only a higher order of brute, though still
                  tenacious of the title of man and gentleman. I know that I have become one of the
                  worst of the latter class, and now, perhaps too late, see my folly. I have filled
                  my pockets with gold, my hands with authority; yet my soul is empty. But that
                  little bundle of dimples and dainty prettinesses could win me back. I would be her
                  slave, and she would teach me the arts of love. But Haffed may stand in the way.
                  He is easily destroyed. Fiesco I consider about disposed of. That little telltale
                  who came so near ruining me, but for my good luck, is safe. Marzetta now must be
                  mine, or"—
               "An evil resolve, prompted by the Devil!" said a voice behind him; for the friar
                  had glided into the room barefooted, noiselessly, and had overheard Gonzalvo's
                  declarations.
               The minister sprang to his feet, but in an instant was so perfectly
                  self-possessed, that no one would have thought him the least disturbed; and he
                  reseated himself.
               "Ever near, my good father," said he. "I must call you father; for who could
                  counsel more wisely, sagely, than you? And who could feel a more parental
                  solicitude for my soul's well-being than your kind self? Perhaps I should call you
                  a good angel sent to deter me from doing evil."
               "Thank Heaven if it may be so!" replied the friar.
               "I, too may thank Heaven sometimes, but not always," said Gonzalvo. "For instance,
                  knowing my purpose now to possess that girl called Marzetta, you would probably
                  turn me from it: but in this case I will not be turned; for my happiness depends
                  upon it. Tell me, though, how it is that you appear before me when least expected;
                  how it is, when my doors are closed, and I feel myself alone, you are often at my
                  elbow, having entered as noiselessly as the wind, and apparently by the same
                  crevices."
               
               "By the privileges of our order, by the sacredness of our mission, all times and
                  all places, you are well aware, are alike appropriate. No doors are closed against
                  us; for our presence never betokens evil: all doors are open to us; for our coming
                  heralds good. We go noiselessly because we walk unsandaled over God's holy ground;
                  and we are often where least expected, because we often know where we are most
                  needed. What, also, is very important, as in this instance, we discover such
                  valuable secrets as enable us to render services almost if not wholly divine."
               "Every word you utter," replied Gonzalvo, "is without a mask. I appreciate, I
                  admire, your goodness; and I only wonder I do not feel your presence even when I
                  do not see you."
               "It may be so sometimes," said the friar. "Last night, you thought and spoke of me
                  in the council-chamber."
               "Indeed!" exclaimed Gonzalvo, much astonished. "And I suppose you thought me quite
                  in earnest in my remarks?" And he feigned a laugh.
               "Why not, Sir Minister?" said the friar. "If you think me a meddler, a trespasser,
                  a dangerous person, I do not blame you. You did not call in question my motives or
                  my loyalty: I therefore forgive you."
               "But will you not explain to me," resumed the minister, "why you take such an
                  interest in the Federati,—an interest opposed to mine?"
               "Not in the Federati as a party," responded the friar. "I seek the well-being of
                  all. But there is one in whom I take an unaccountable interest, unaccountable even
                  to myself; and, should your evil machinations tions bring harm to her, the whole
                  curse of the Church and of Heaven itself shall be invoked upon you. Beware, Signor
                  Gonzalvo, how you act! You have already much to answer for." (A slight shudder
                  passed over the frame of the prime-minister; but the friar did not notice it).
                  "Last night, Padre Brabet passed away from this world; and on his death-bed he
                  revealed to me many secrets, and among them your hand in that Spinosa
                  marriage."
               "And did he tell you the name of the person to whom she was married?" asked
                  Gonzalvo with much earnestness.
               "He did," replied the friar; "and I again caution you to beware."
               "Yet you will give me no particular reasons," responded the minister, bowing his
                  head upon the table, "why your warnings are to be heeded, and my desires set
                  aside."
               Gonzalvo waited a few moments for a reply, but, receiving none, turned, and found
                  himself alone.
               "Always thus with this good, strange, earnest man," said the minister. "I think,
                  too, he loves me, notwithstanding the vast difference in our characters, and would
                  do almost any thing to serve me; but he knows not how little I care for the
                  denunciations of the old woman of Rome."
               A palor came over Gonzalvo's cheek as he uttered these last words; and he turned
                  suddenly as though he heard a voice saying to him again, "Beware!" so powerful was
                  the hold upon his mind of his early education.
               "I must appear," resumed Gonzalvo, "to yield to him in every thing, while I try to make use of him
                  for the purpose in which he would thwart me. I will present to his chapel a new
                  Madonna,—an exquisite picture Madame Kathleen Felisquetto is just finishing of
                  herself. 'Profanation!' some would exclaim. Somewhat farcical, I must admit:
                  still, it is so perfectly Madonna-like and beautiful, that it will please
                  everybody; and Madame Fiesco will give it to me for the asking. This will make the
                  friar more firmly my friend; and, as he has access and great influence everywhere,
                  I may yet make a good tool of him. Marzetta must and shall be mine in spite of him
                  if he opposes me,—in spite of every obstacle." And Gonzalvo struck his first upon
                  the table, which made an echo in the vaults and cells below and around him, which
                  came back to his ear with a dying groan,—the last faint murmur of another
                  victim.
               Gonzalvo, trembling, and with a cold perspiration starting from every pore, seized
                  his hat, rushed from the apartment, double-locked the door behind him, and
                  hastened out into the busy world, into busy scenes and satanic schemes, for
                  forgetfulness or oblivion.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE SERPENT AGAIN.—REFLECTIONS ON LOVE.—MORE TRAPS.—AMBITION VERSUS
                  LOVE.—WINTER AND SPRING.—A SURPRISE.
               THE favor of the king being obtained, any one's path was thenceforth apparently
                  strewed with flowers. Every one became at once, as by a magic touch, the favored's
                  obedient servant. How smiles sprang to the lip at his approach! How purse-strings
                  were loosened at half a wish! Lookers-on saw only the sunshine that fell about
                  him, and could not fancy how, like a vast hollow globe of stone, there could be
                  deep, cold shadows within.
               Kathleen sat alone through the long hour of an anticipated arrival; and, however
                  or wherever the warm light might have been diffused as she felt herself rolling on
                  toward the sun of a new world,—new to her in its every aspect,—she was conscious
                  only of the interior gloom and darkness the darkest sepulchral cavern might
                  envy.
               Hardly had she become aware of an announcement by the servant, ere there stood before her the
                  meager form of the prime-minister. She uttered a faint scream, and buried her face
                  in her hands.
               "I beg your pardon, madam," said the visitor; "but I hope my presence is not so
                  distasteful to you as your movements would indicate. Shall I retire?"
               "Be seated, sir," said she, rising, and saluting him with great respect, though it
                  was evident it was one of her first lessons in a heartless service; "be seated, I
                  pray you, and excuse my momentary, unwonted nervousness."
               The minister could well excuse her; for he saw the dove entangling its tender feet
                  in the toils, whence escape was utterly hopeless. As it was, however, a part of
                  the onward movement of his own plans, he had nothing to regret, and every thing to
                  make him satisfied with himself.
               "At your side, with your permission," replied the minister, gracefully motioning
                  her to be reseated.
               Kathleen sank back upon the lounge; but she could not, for her life, utter another
                  word; and those resolves which had so lately been firmly fixed in her mind seemed
                  now to be escaping through every nerve of her trembling limbs.
               Gonzalvo saw her great embarrassment, but entered at once upon a topic which he
                  was well aware must now especially engross her attention.
               "I have just been favored," said he, "by an interview with the British ambassador;
                  and I learn from him, that, in a recent conversation had with you, you seemed
                  disposed to favor our plans in their full extent."
               "Yes, Signor Gonzalvo, I have lately seen Sir James," said Kathleen in a slow,
                  measured tone, the result of an effort to suppress the sobs that seemed determined
                  to get the mastery, while the blood was alternately rushing to and retreating from
                  her cheeks, and swelling the veins all over her marble-like brow; "and he
                  represented some features of my past life to me in such colors, and with such
                  apparent interest in my future career, that I could not well refuse at least an
                  acknowledgment of a disposition to assent to his prudential measures, and admit
                  his valid conclusions. Still, his remarks rested principally on what he had heard;
                  and he was very far from counseling me to take another step that was not strictly
                  in accordance with his own high sense of social rectitude and propriety."
               "Sir James was right," said Gonzalvo. "Being of your own country, it would be
                  hardly possible for him to advise you, except for your own welfare. It is, indeed,
                  our aim to elevate you politically and morally to a position that will be wholly
                  unassailable."
               Gonzalvo took a liberty here which Sir James's remarks did not warrant. He built
                  upon a basis not strictly laid down by the British ambassador; but the lady did
                  not perceive it, and so the assumption of the prime-minister had undue
                  weight,—wearing the semblance of a moral garb society then might recognize, but
                  which was, in reality, flimsy and unsubstantial.
               "So I wish to believe," said Kathleen in reply to the minister's last remark;
                  "and, could I know it to be true,—what
                  he surmises respecting my husband,—the last tie that binds me to the past would be
                  already severed."
               "Can you doubt it?" asked Gonzalvo.
               "I doubt every thing," responded Kathleen sadly.
               "The ambassador would not have even suspected, had he not been quite sure," was
                  the ready and artful reply.
               "I have lately felt, it is true," said Kathleen, "that my last hope had been taken
                  from me; and when it really, and with full conviction, first flashed upon me, the
                  lightning itself could not have more suddenly struck me to the earth. For days,
                  they told me,—it might have been years, for aught I knew,—there seemed to be
                  nothing but night in my heart, and first in my brain. I had not a wish, not a
                  desire. The world was like a vast voiceless sea, and I a dead carcass afloat upon
                  it. When consciousness returned, it was the dumb ocean disturbed, sending its cold
                  waves dashing and gurgling up through my cavernous skull; and its dread roar is
                  still here," said she, pressing both hands upon her throbbing temples.
               A shudder passed along Kathleen's beautiful frame, as if the chill of that
                  heart-wreck still lingered in her veins: a vision, at least, of the tempest, swept
                  over her memory. The blood forsook her hands, and they were like ice; and her
                  nails began to assume a livid hue: but by an iron will she rallied for another
                  struggle with fate, and in a moment was ready to talk, to listen, to scheme, to
                  bury her affections anew, and look calmly on the sepulture.
               "I can well believe all you say," said the minister; "but I can not believe that
                  he who plots to overturn his own government, ruin his own country, butcher his
                  king, was ever worthy of so much love as you have bestowed upon him."
               "Yes: but love is not a handmaid of the will; and, if there is a fatality in any
                  thing on earth, it seems to manifest itself in the waywardness of the heart's
                  fancies. Love flies from your too-anxious, eager grasp like quicksilver, which
                  still can all be imperceptibly absorbed. It is the thistl-down of caprice wafted
                  through beds of flowers, yet alights, perchance, on some rugged crag. It is,
                  methinks, a bird of paradise, consorting, it may be, with a crow; or, more
                  truthfully, the desert mirage toward which the thirsty traveler hastens, and finds
                  but sand. It is the delicate reed one hangs her life upon,—a reed that will surely
                  break, and wound the hand that grasps it. It is the food of the hungering heart;
                  but it poisons unto death."
               "You draw a sad picture, countess," responded the minister.
               "Even as I have known it, seen it, felt it," said Kathleen, with a sigh that
                  struggled forth against all efforts to suppress it.
               "And do you believe that such is the experience of every one?" asked the minister,
                  with an earnestness that betokened a peculiar interest in what might be the
                  reply.
               "All!" was the lady's solemn response.
               "Do you not think that a creature like Marzetta, whose perfections every one is
                  lauding, could love and be loved eternally without diminution or change?"
               
               "Where universality of adulation prevails, the more likely is the recipient to be
                  captivated by some unknown adventurer, some swarthy Arab, some romantic vagabond,"
                  said Kathleen, with no little irony in the tone of her voice; "for, when
                  admiration becomes redundant, it palls upon the mind, and forces it to seek an
                  idol for itself that is not commonplace. It comprehends easily what is laid
                  barefaced before it, and chooses mystery; for in mystery the young fancy roams
                  unwearied. Indeed, it must be enabled to invest the object of its attachment with
                  a halo not visible to every passer-by; shroud it in a sanctity into which a kind
                  of Jacob's ladder descends, down and up which angel thoughts and longings are ever
                  trooping."
               "Do you think Marzetta can be one of that kind?" asked the minister, with the same
                  anxiety he had previously manifested.
               "I know nothing of her: I never saw her but once,—at the ball. But I think it
                  likely she would as soon be enchanted with and marry the long-haired German
                  fiddler who was there, as she would Prince Esterhazy; and elope with the former
                  sooner than the latter."
               "Is there any danger of it?" the minister still more eagerly asked.
               "Danger of what?—the elopement, or the marriage?"
               "Of either," replied the minister with embarrassment, seeing that the lady was
                  disposed to be somewhat facetious.
               "You know what I have said of love," was Kathleen's evasive answer.
               Madame Felisquetto, like most women—thank God, not all!—who approach the age of
                  forty, had come to the conclusion that love is a delusion, the mirage of the
                  desert of life; and what she herself had suffered for it confirmed rather than
                  dissipated the idea. She could recall to mind almost as perfectly as if they were
                  events of the previous day the various scenes about the fair home of her
                  childhood,—the valley near her father's house, where, as she sat under the
                  wide-spreading branches of an elm, she had listened to the tinkling waters that
                  were hurrying over a pebbly bed to gain the meadow beyond; the flowery walks,
                  groves, and towering rocks; the first robin that whistled out its morning notes in
                  the apple-tree by the garden-gate; the gorgeous clouds that hung over the purpling
                  hills which bounded the view westward as night folded its shadowy wings around
                  them: but where, thus imprinted upon her brain, could she find the picture of her
                  love? Did such a thing, such a sentiment, such a passion, ever really exist? Was
                  it not a perfect hallucination? With all its gentle emotions annihilated, she had,
                  oh! sadly, sadly, lost the power to discern the intensity of its spirituality, or
                  to recall its delicate perfume, its rapturous reveries, its oblivious charms: she
                  could not go back, and gather up, one by one, the golden threads that made the
                  web—now all unraveled—of her early affections.
               How difficult it would be for the student to re-feel or analyze those emotions
                  with which he once seized new truths as they welled up from the pages over which
                  he was poring! The treasure may be his; but that wealth of joy in its absorption
                  which held him, perchance, for
                  unwearied days and nights, chained to his book, only revisits him as the ghost of
                  some dream.
               Who has not seen some rude stone, that was perhaps thickly incased in crude earth,
                  revealing in its center, when broken, crystals of surpassing beauty? Love is the
                  crystallization, in the deep recesses of the soul, of the tenderest emotions God
                  has allowed us to absorb from the outer world; and though all may be more or less
                  incrusted with the sordid, the mundane, the earthy, in the roll of years, the
                  great future will make glow again in the brightness of its purer atmosphere those
                  delicate forms within.
               The brilliant tintings of the picture of Kathleen's early life—marred but by a
                  single fault—were all there; but the light was wanting to reveal them. They were
                  covered now by the dust of new and bitter experiences, new aspirations, and the
                  somber shadows of ambition, and perhaps of revenge.
               Gonzalvo was poring over what Madame Fiesco had said about love, trying to pick
                  some consolation out of it for himself in relation to La Sylphide, when he was
                  interrupted by being asked how lately he had seen his Majesty.
               "When I came here, I came from his presence," said the minister.
               Kathleen waited for him to proceed. Gonzalvo, however, supposing that he could
                  best discover the drift of her thoughts by allowing her to ask questions, remained
                  silent.
               "Did he again refer to me?" said she after a moment's pause.
               "In the most enthusiastic manner," replied the minister; "but, by sounding him
                  carefully, I have reason to suppose that he will not move a step forward till I
                  can insure him the support of three of the most influential of the
                  ambassadors,—the Russian, the English, the Turkish."
               "And you will do that?" said Kathleen, with no little anxiety depicted in her
                  face; for, since she had lost what was most dear to her, she began to covet what
                  was dear to others,—power.
               "That will depend on yourself, countess," was the cool response.
               "If on me, you know I have already promised to obey you in all things."
               "Well, then, it is probable your wishes will be gratified," said Gonzalvo, but
                  with some hesitation, arising from a consciousness of his own villainy (putting
                  these schemes upon her shoulders instead of his own), or from fear, that as he
                  approached his victim, and his chances of success were doubled, all might yet
                  escape him. "The king," he continued, "admires you as the finest woman in the
                  realm; while I am dying to possess that little fish-girl, the beautiful sylphide,
                  Marzetta the divine."
               "Divine, you say; yet what do you really intend, Sir Minister, to make of her?"
                  responded Kathleen, with an emotion which seemed to indicate that there still
                  lingered some of her late noble instincts, some saintly tenderness, in her seared
                  heart.
               "Not less than what you are, nor more than you will be in name," answered
                  Gonzalvo, knowing well the force of the words he was using, and considering, that,
                  the sooner he broke down any false barrier there might be between him and his unfortunate listener,
                  the better. The words, "in name," were too mollient: he uttered them between his
                  teeth that she might not hear them. Madame Fiesco Felisquetto, the still beautiful
                  Kathleen, cast on him a look of scorn and indignation; but in a moment, recalling
                  her true position, and remembering what she had promised the minister, and how he
                  held, as it were, her future destiny in his hands, she humbly replied, that her
                  misfortunes claimed some respectful consideration, and that she was disposed to do
                  all she could to contribute to his happiness.
               "Pardon me if I wounded your feelings," said Gonzalvo; "but to view things in a
                  false light is never the proper way to arrive at a just conclusion concerning
                  them. However innocently the lily might be tarnished, it would be just as
                  difficult to remove the blemish as if it had willfully bowed itself to the dust.
                  No one, however, questions the purity of the diamonds in the regal coronal. Need I
                  be more explicit?"
               Kathleen placed a handkerchief to her eyes, and Gonzalvo was aware that she was
                  weeping; but, so hardened had he become, that a sigh, or sign of sorrow, swept by
                  him like the thistle-down.
               "We understand each other now, I think," resumed Gonzalvo after a short pause. "I
                  will see that the ambassadors countenance the rendition or transference of the
                  disputed territory. Now let us talk of Marzetta, the paltry fish-girl, without
                  wealth, rank, title, birth, or any thing in the world to commend her to my
                  attention but her simple girlish charms. To be sure, they are enough to drive one
                  mad: still it is no reason why she should refuse the hand and heart of the
                  prime-minister. Indeed, a little hussy like that, if she don't know enough to look
                  after her own interests, should be compelled to do it, and that is the point to
                  which I wish now to come. I wish you to see her, and tell her that she knows not
                  with what wealth in gold, what riches in love, I will encircle all her hours; with
                  what gentleness I will guard her steps; with what consideration I will treat her
                  caprices; with what watchfulness I will wait upon her wishes; with what cheerful
                  life I will fill her home; with what tender care I will treat her in times of
                  trial: but, if she turns a deaf ear to all that, then you must be instrumental in
                  placing her in my power."
               "Would you have her without love?" said Kathleen with a shudder.
               "Yes: if she should become a serpent, and sting me to the heart, I nevertheless
                  feel that she must nestle in this bosom. But it will not be so. She will learn to
                  love me. Plead, then, the cause I could not plead myself; for her transcendent
                  beauty would inthrall my tongue, and blind the very eyes that would devour her.
                  Plead with her for me, and I will be your slave."
               Gonzalvo threw himself upon his knees, took the unresisting hand of the still
                  weeping Kathleen, and was about to press it to his lips, a forestallment of his
                  gratitude, when the door opened, and Fiesco Felisquetto entered.
               Gonzalvo rose as quickly as possible to his feet, and, with all the suavity and grace he could command,
                  explained to Signor Fiesco the cause of his equivocal position. Kathleen remained
                  motionless.
               Did Fiesco believe every thing, or nothing? Abroad, he had just begun to hear the
                  first whisperings of the tempest that was soon to burst over his head, and smite
                  him to the earth. I may say, he did not believe nor disbelieve. He seemed to be
                  waiting the development of events,—to stand as it were still, and, without
                  anxiety, invoke the coming storm.
               When Fiesco had heard Gonzalvo through, he gracefully saluted him, and retired.
                  Madame Fiesco wept on, having no new hope to stay her, and escaping no one
                  footprint in the path of sorrow.
               Gonzalvo, somewhat mortified at what had just transpired,—more particularly
                  mortified because it was to Fiesco he had been obliged to confess his weakness,
                  while his enemy had an opportunity of treating him with silent contempt,—soon took
                  his leave; but it was in such a humble manner, that Kathleen felt she had now in
                  reality a slave rather than a master.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               AT HOME.—A BEAUTIFUL PICTURE.—HOPE DEFERRED.—FORTUNATE AND
                  MISERABLE.—GOOD FRIENDS.
               THE parlor which the prime-minister had just left was one of the suite in Strada
                  Balbi at the head of the first flight of marble stairs to the right. Though small,
                  it was richly carpeted, and otherwise furnished in a manner which unmistakably
                  evinced that its mistress was endowed with superior taste, and had no little
                  wealth at her command. Fine old Italian pictures garnished the walls. The most
                  comfortable of easy-chairs, here and there, invited one to a seat. Luxurious
                  lounges, strewed with tasseled cushions, suggested repose, tranquillity, and
                  perhaps laziness. Before a harp stood one of the little golden chairs of Chiaveri.
                  On an easel in front of the heavily-draped window, arranged so as to have the
                  light fall full upon it, was a picture of Mary Magdalen,—the one Gonzalvo proposed
                  to call a Madonna, and to present to the convent of the Capucini. The eyes were
                  upturned, and, though beautifully serene, were suffused with tears. The hair hung in wavy masses about angelic
                  shoulders. The features were fine-lined, and of exquisite mold and symmetry. The
                  throat was round and large, formed of faultless curves, and with light and shade
                  so delicately blended, that it itself suggested prayers and tears, and sweet
                  delicious hope. The lips were slightly apart, as if the last word they had
                  uttered—"Forgiveness"—still lingered on them; and it was not difficult to fancy
                  their breathings still audible.
               Kathleen had just finished this almost divine work, and, having thrown aside her
                  brush and pallet, had seated herself in a distant corner to contemplate it. With
                  eyes streaming with tears, she was gazing at a perfect portrait of herself. She
                  then hid her face in her hands, and sobbed aloud: it was the last of the woman in
                  her heart; it was that breaking-up of the fountains which leads to death or
                  indifference. Tenderness, human sympathy, love, were henceforth to be only things
                  of the memory. She had imparted to the picture all that she felt she had ever been
                  of softness, sweetness, and gentleness; all on which she had once prided herself
                  of feminine, self-sacrificing devotion. She was now changed, and she knew it. She
                  was changed by her own mighty will, warped by circumstances over which she had no
                  control, and by the powerful influence of those, who, on one side, were interested
                  friends, on the other unscrupulous enemies. She was now shedding the last tears of
                  regret, of shame, of wounded pride, of tender womanly yearnings; and, if angels
                  ever weep when our better impulses cease to vibrate,—to weep at the departure of
                  perfect saintly purity in sentiment (till then Kathleen's leen's soul in all its
                  longings and aspirations had been spotless),—they wept when that last sigh,
                  bursting through chaotic masses of accumulated anguish, went up to be recorded on
                  the great page of the heart's history in the archives of the omnipresent I
                     Am. The painting Kathleen had just finished represented this moment,—her
                  own beatific beauty taking a farewell of heaven.
               Kathleen Felisquetto's face was still buried in her hands: but she saw a flame
                  pass by her, while on her brow she felt a gentle breeze as if fanned by some
                  seraph wing; then all was dark and still. The uncanceled page came next, clear,
                  imperishable: she dashed away her tears, and it had also passed away.
               The picture, to Kathleen, had been a sort of diary. In every mood, for months she
                  had been sitting before the easel,—the mirror behind it reflecting her elegant
                  proportions, her queenly grace,—and there made a record of her sorrows as they
                  appeared framed in her beauty. Occasionally, loving to contemplate her own
                  bewildering loveliness, she gratified a pardonable vanity, perhaps, when she
                  sought to place it on canvas, and thus cheat all future time of wrinkles and
                  decay. Her first sketch represented contemplation; but, as her own heart was
                  wrung, she changed the expression to one pleading for forgiveness. At last, when
                  her final resolve had been taken,—the pitcher broken at the fountain, pouring out
                  every remaining drop of the sweet waters of affection that were soon to be lost in
                  the all-absorbing, wide, arid wastes of venality, of intrigue, of
                     corruption,—she gave to it its last
                  touches, then threw away her brush and her heart into the great, desolate
                  future.
               Kathleen paced the room, then cast herself upon a lounge; but a moment after, as
                  if tired of sitting, went to the window, put aside the silken folds of the
                  curtain, and looked out on the idle, indifferent throng,—a throng she looked on,
                  but did not see: for she was gazing at an inward world, where all was weariness;
                  into a chamber dark and dreary, hung with somber drapery, with a serpent coiled
                  upon the hearthstone. She turned away as if disgusted with the sight, and seated
                  herself at the harp. Oh, what flexible, what transparent fingers! What arms of
                  dazzling whiteness! what witchery in their mold, their movements, their dainty
                  dimpled plumpness! She struck the chords, and every note seemed bathed in tears:
                  but to her own ears they were silent; she heard no sounds save those from her own
                  heartstrings. Why should she play, then, when the instrument would give forth no
                  tones? She would not. She went again to the window, then to the lounge.
               An hour might have passed; but to Kathleen it seemed an age: she was awaiting a
                  message from the king. Time calculated by the hasty click of the wheels of
                  hilarity, and the solemn swing of the pendulum of sorrow, is a very different
                  thing; and now, while she expected one who was to affix the seal to her rashness,
                  the wheels of her watch seemed frozen and motionless.
               Presently a carriage stopped before her door; and immediately the king's private
                  secretary was announced. "I have the honor," said he as he saluted Madame Fiesco
                  with a very low bow, "to bring you, by his Majesty's orders, this document,
                  entitling you to have, hold, and possess as your own, the Province of Liguria,
                  with all the rights, titles, and privileges it has ever conferred on its
                  possessor. I am also further commanded by his Majesty to inform you that the
                  château will be in readiness to receive its mistress, the duchess, on the
                  morrow."
               Kathleen received the documents with a grace that it was thought would soon be a
                  distinguishing feature in the royal palace; and the secretary, with another
                  profound salutation, took his leave.
               While the secretary was pronouncing the last words, which he addressed to the
                  lady, Signor Fiesco entered, the door having been left open.
               "Its mistress, the duchess, on the morrow!" he repeated as the secretary passed
                  him with a respectful bow. Kathleen raised her open hand to Fiesco, the palm
                  outward; which was to say, "Be silent!" She then turned contemptuously on her
                  heel, passed into her boudoir, and locked the door behind her.
               Fiesco stood in mute astonishment: it was the first rebuff he had ever received
                  from his adored wife. Must there not be some mistake? If she had heretofore
                  manifested any coldness or indifference, or even taunted him with infidelity, he
                  had himself been so blameless, and at the same time so much occupied with the
                  affairs of the Federati, that he had passed it unnoticed. And it was well that he
                  had not time, even now, to dwell upon what might have been fatal to him, since his
                  love for his wife was of that exalted kind which brooks no shadow of
                  suspicion.
               
               Hardly had Fiesco entered on his revery respecting Kathleen's conduct, ere Boppo
                  was announced; and no man, rich or poor, could have been more welcome.
               "You have had the kindness, Signor Ficsco," said he, "to allow me to call on you
                  whenever I choose; but you know I would not come unless I had something of
                  importance to tell you."
               "Boppo, my good friend, you are always welcome," said Fiesco, taking him by the
                  hand.
               "Thank you, Signor Felisquetto. I have come now to say that there are rumors about
                  town that leading members of our party are soon to be arrested. You know who would
                  hence be included. What is more, Marzetta is threatened; but she is so fearless,
                  so much of a fatalist, that my warnings are of no avail. I want you to see her and
                  warn her."
               "You are ever kind and watchful," replied Fiesco; "and, if the rest of the
                  Federati were equally so, we might ourselves soon strike for liberty, and not wait
                  further complications."
               "If I might now be so bold, there is one thing I wish I could persuade you to do,"
                  said Boppo,—"conceal yourself for a day or two at the smuggler's, seeing Marzetta
                  on your way."
               "You are very kind; but do you think danger so imminent, so threatening?"
               "Perhaps even more so than we apprehend," said Boppo. "There is one—it may not be
                  well to mention names—who knows that deep plottings are going on at La Spinosa's;
                  and that Gonzalvo has sworn to possess Marzetta, not only because he is
                  desperately in love with her, but for the purpose of injuring our cause, wringing
                  from her all possible information to turn to account against us."
               "That reminds me of a plot on the night of the ball, prepared expressly, I doubt
                  not, to obtain some of our important secrets. But I was on my guard. I was
                  advised, by a man whom I know pretty well to be in Gonzalvo's interest, to meet a
                  noble lady at Aqua Sola, as she had some valuable information to communicate to
                  me. I discovered at once the falsehood of the assertion by questioning the
                     incognita. It was evident, however, that she
                  wished to ascertain what day we had appointed for our general uprising: this was
                  doubtless done so as to get the advantage of us. I imparted to her as little
                  information as possible. It also occurred to me that I recognized the voice, the
                  form, the manner, the style, of proposing questions,—a style peculiar to La
                  Spinosa. Besides, she trembled and hesitated; and I believe, had I not designedly
                  broken the silence at one time, she would have confessed to me who she was, and
                  sought again my friendship."
               "Might it not have been well to secure her on our side, since she is now so great
                  an enemy?" said Boppo.
               "She is not to be trusted, as I know by experience. Then, again, I thought there
                  might be some other hidden design in it all, as she acted strangely, and not as
                  one intent on a single object."
               "I think you are right: at what hour was it?"
               "Near eleven, and at the foot of the stairs under the arch at the garden."
               "Exactly the time when the friar, who had, during the evening, watched Gonzalvo's movements as well
                  as he could, saw your wife saunter out on the minister's arm, proceed directly to
                  the head of the stairs, and there wait a while apparently for the arrival of some
                  one. Presently Madame Fiesco became terribly agitated; leaned on the parapet for
                  support; and it was some time before she sufficiently recovered to return to the
                  ball."
               "By heavens! I think I see the Devil's hand in this also. It is another of
                  Gonzalvo's plots, and perhaps has already succeeded. Did she not turn upon me in
                  disgust?" he said to himself. "No, no, Boppo! I will not believe that my wife can
                  be so easily duped. In a day or two, when things are more tranquil, I will make it
                  my special business to sift this matter, and learn from Kathleen herself how far
                  the evil intent of the prime-minister had consummation. In the mean time, I will
                  take your advice except for a single evening."
               "Do so, I pray you," said Boppo, with deep interest in the welfare of his friend;
                  "and I shall be truly grateful."
               "It is I who should be grateful," responded Fiesco; "and I am grateful for the
                  interest you and your comrades have ever taken in me."
               Boppo grasped Fiesco's hand, and, almost in tears, bade him farewell.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               GONZALVO ELATED WITHOUT CAUSE.—ROUNDABOUT WAYS.—WHITE MICE.—MORE
                  SACRIFICES.
               ON his way home from Madame Fiesco's, the prime-minister encountered a bright
                  little boy, who was exhibiting some white mice. Ordinarily, the minister would
                  have kicked such a fellow sooner than listen to a word from him: but on this
                  occasion he was in very good humor, arising chiefly from the thought that his
                  future prospects respecting Marzetta were of the most flattering nature; though,
                  had he asked himself why, he could have given no satisfactory answer. He so
                  ardently desired to possess the sylphide, that remote possibilities were
                  transformed into probabilities, and these reduced almost to a certainty.
               Gonzalvo was in good spirits; and when the boy looked up at him, opened his box,
                  and said, "A penny, if you please," he stopped.
               "What do you want a penny for, my little lad?" said Gonzalvo.
               "For my mice, sir," responded the boy.
               
               "Hang your mice!" said Gonzalvo.
               "No, sir! I could not do that; for I love them very much: besides, I get a good
                  and honest living by them; and, when my father was sick, I earned enough to
                  support mother."
               "Indeed! Who is your mother?" asked the minister.
               "My mother is Boppo; my father, the fisherman Boppo."
               "How many children has she?"
               "Five, sir; and all younger than myself."
               "A fishwoman, and five young ones!" muttered the minister between his teeth. "Oh!
                  these fishwomen are like rabbits; and, if they do not breed pests, they breed
                  pestilent fellows that contrive to keep the kingdom in a broil: yet, if they are
                  poor, they expect the government to take care of them, make laws to protect and
                  support them. I hate the dirty race! But this boy interests me. Perhaps I can make
                  good use of him. He is Boppo's, and Boppo is Marzetta's adopted father;" and he
                  pondered this as he went along, taking the boy along with him by promises of
                  pay.
               "But why did you address me instead of others, whom you passed without a word?"
                  continued Gonzalvo.
               "Because you are so ugly-looking," replied the boy innocently; "for I heard some
                  one say that homely people are the most charitable."
               "A fine compliment you pay me, youngster," said the minister; "and I think I could
                  return it with interest. But never mind: our reckoning will come by and by.
                  Handsome people, however, are the ones who can afford to be generous."
               The boy, beginning to fear he should get a whipping instead of coppers, was about
                  to excuse himself, and run away; when Gonzalvo took him by the hand, and said,
                  "Come home with me; I will find you something better to do than exhibiting
                  rats."
               "They are not rats, sir, if you please," replied the boy with offended
                  dignity.
               "Nuisances, then, if you like that better, Master Monkey."
               "They are not nuisances, either, but mice, sir, if you please; and I am not Master
                  Monkey, but Master Michel."
               "To the Devil with your quibbles! Come along!"
               "Shall I be allowed to keep my mice?" asked Michel in a half-frightened,
                  half-whimpering tone.
               "Yes; keep and eat them if you choose," replied Gonzalvo somewhat testily.
               The boy grew more timid, and, ere he reached the minister's home, was ready to
                  burst into tears.
               "There," said Gonzalvo on entering his studio, "keep this room clean, dust the
                  table every morning, lay up the papers when I am out, be always near when I want
                  you to run of errands, and never go out without my permission, and I will give you
                  as much again as you get for your mice. How much do you get?"
               "Twenty pennies a day," replied the boy, trembling from head to foot; for he felt
                  that his liberty was gone, and he began to suspect that he was in the hands of the
                  one of whom he had always heard such terrible things.
               
               "But go home first and get washed, and bring your father here, that he may see how
                  well off you are," said Gonzalvo.
               "Yes, sir," replied the boy in great happiness, and, seizing his mice, was about
                  to go.
               "You had better leave your mice, and then I shall be more sure of seeing you
                  again," resumed the minister. "Finally, it will be safer to keep you here
                  altogether. I will send a note to your father."
               Gonzalvo dispatched a note to Boppo, requesting his presence. Not long after, the
                  messenger returned with Boppo himself, who had little doubt but that he was to be
                  detained as a prisoner on some false pretext or other.
               "What is your name?" asked Gonzalvo, addressing the elderly-looking person who now
                  stood trembling before him; for the space that in Italy separates the
                  laboring-classes, from the officials is so great, that the former regard the
                  latter almost as gods, or, at least, as holding over them the hand of life or
                  death.
               "Boppo, sir," was the reply. But Boppo did not dare, or rather he did not wish, to
                  look up and encounter the gaze of his hated foe.
               "Boppo!" repeated Gonzalvo, the word hissing through his teeth as if he would like
                  to bite him.
               "At your service," said the fisherman.
               "This nest of vipers," said Gonzalvo to himself, "must be broken up. I will,
                  however, play the friend, and by chaining the young hawks, as the saying is, may
                  keep the old ones within reach."
               "How old are you?" inquired Gonzalvo.
               "Fifty-five, sir," replied Boppo.
               "One would think you older than that," said Gonzalvo.
               "Very likely," responded the fisherman; "for hard labor night and day, many severe
                  colds I get from being out in bad weather (and you know, sir, we must be on the
                  water, rain or shine), little food,—and sometimes for days, when the weather is
                  bad, almost none at all,—these things make one grow old very fast: yet thank God,
                  and the blessed St. Thomas, who was a fisherman, I can do as good a day's work as
                  any of my craft."
               "And as much mischief," said Gonzalvo again to himself; then, addressing Boppo
                  with apparent tenderness, inquired how many children he had.
               "Five, at your service, sir."
               "Five! No wonder you are poor," replied the minister. "And now, since you place
                  them at my service, I think I can put them in good situations, and thus relieve
                  you of the burden of their maintenance. This, the eldest, will remain in my office
                  as a kind hostage for Marzetta, as my note informed you: do you understand? The
                  others will have better care than they can receive at home, and have, at least,
                  less pernicious doctrines instilled into them."
               This last remark Gonzalvo uttered with a forced smile, in order to allay somewhat
                  the anxiety he saw depicted in Boppo's face.
               Boppo would have stammered out some excuse: but Gonzalvo cut him short in this
                  respect by saying that he need not express any gratitude, for it was all done with
                  cheerfulness, and with a desire to relieve the good mother; that it was, in fact, a whim of
                  his, a wish; and hence the poor fisherman was to understand that his wish was law,
                  a command not to be disobeyed.
               Boppo, however, felt sure the mother would not part with her children so easily,
                  and particularly with the youngest: so he mustered courage enough to say that he
                  felt very grateful for any generosity the minister might show, but did not think
                  his wife would be willing to part with them all; no, not little Christina, her
                  pet, if she knew she should starve to death while nourishing it; but perhaps she
                  would let Pedro and Maria and Sancta go.
               "Very well," replied the minister; "let the three come: bring them at once." He
                  here dismissed Boppo with a formal bow.
               Michel was now quite contented, as he believed he should soon have his brother and
                  sisters all there in the office with him; but Gonzalvo had already bethought him
                  of an old crone in the mountains, where he felt sure the children would be
                  safe,—safely out of the way. Michel, in the mean time, had turned to his mice, and
                  was congratulating them on the nice little bits of comfort he should be able to
                  obtain for them. His father, however, with heavy heart, with a multitude of
                  inexplicable misgivings, went back to his humble home, and communicated to his
                  wife the substance of the interview.
               The poor woman listened at first with an air of incredulity, then with silent
                  wonder; but, when her husband came to speak of taking away her children, she burst
                  into tears, and would not be comforted.
               "It is useless to cry," said Boppo. "There is, just now, no remedy but to do as he
                  wills."
               "He can not tear them from me!" said the mother.
               "Only too easily," replied Boppo, his head sinking on his breast, as if he himself
                  were overwhelmed with despair. The thought now came to him, that perhaps Marzetta
                  might aid them through the influence of the British ambassador; but he did not
                  dare to give his wife that hope.
               "Could we not hide them, carry them off, kill them?" sobbed the poor woman, almost
                  distracted; for she evidently felt that death would be preferable to any
                  uncertainty regarding the fate of her loved little ones.
               "We could not hide them unless we hide ourselves," said the husband; "and we are
                  too poor to do that. To kill them would put the dear ones out of sight for ever,
                  and beyond hope; while, if they live, they may yet be a comfort to us, for God can
                  protect them."
               "Thanks to the blessed Virgin that you reminded me of that!" responded the mother.
                  "God can protect them. I will put my trust in him."
               "I have just been thinking," said Boppo, "that there may be a providence even in
                  this apparent inhumanity. I have been thinking, that perhaps, by being near the
                  minister, Michel, if not the others, may learn something that will be of
                  importance to the Federati."
               "It is a foolish thought," said the wife; "for he who is known to be the most
                  cunning and cautious man in the kingdom—and, had he not been so, he would never have been prime-minister—will let no
                  word slip his teeth that he would wish to get back. No, no! Our children may be
                  spared by the interposition of the blessed Mary, before whose picture a new candle
                  shall be lighted every evening; but their days will be full of wretchedness."
               "Might it not be so, too, if they remained with us?" said Boppo, trying to assuage
                  the poor mother's grief by an air of resignation.
               "It might be so," replied his wife; "but we could share it with them."
               "That would be a great consolation," answered Boppo; "but, if God decrees it
                  otherwise, should we complain?"
               "No, we should not: but then it is so hard for a mother to part with her
                  children!—so hard to give them the last look, the last kiss, the last farewell!"
                  She could not proceed for her sobs and tears. "But go," she finally said,—"go,
                  take the three, and leave me my little lone treasure, our little pet." And she
                  gathered them about her for the last time, held them to her bosom again and again,
                  and gave them for the hundredth time the last kiss; then, while her eyes were
                  blinded with tears so that she could not see them depart, they went away,—out of
                  her sight for ever.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               DECEIVED.—MARZETTA AND LINDAHARA.—IMPORTANT CONFABULATIONS.—MARZETTA
                  AND YERMOLOFFSKI.—SPINOSA AND GONZALVO.
               IT would seem that every thing and every body played into the hands of the
                  prime-minister just as he wished; or, in other words, his plans were so well
                  arranged, none of them could miscarry. If Madame Kathleen Felisquetto favored the
                  king's designs respecting the Federati, that is, accepted for her friendship—so it
                  would appear to the censorious world, though erroneously—large landed property and
                  a high position, she could doubtless be induced by other bribes to secure the
                  former to Austria, and thus obtain for him the decoration of "The Golden Fleece."
                  Then she was to aid him in getting Marzetta; while the picture was to be a
                  powerful lever in gaining over the friar. La Spinosa had assisted him in his
                  plans, as he desired. One whom he much feared lest she should betray him had been
                  silenced in a long sleep; and a "diary," that gave some valuable outlines of a
                  thrilling history tory, had fallen by
                  astounding good luck into his hands, instead of those of the British ambassador.
                  Fiesco too, he felt, was in a great degree in his power, or, at least, so far
                  ruined or overwhelmed by his great misfortune, that he would leave the country and
                  the scene of his shame; while the most influential of that large and powerful
                  class, the fishermen, was held in check by the rendition of his children. Could he
                  desire more? Yes, Marzetta; and for Marzetta and her love he would resign every
                  thing else.
               It was only occasionally, after the ball, Haffed saw any thing of his new-found
                  goddess; for she had intentionally, that evening, evaded the inquiry which he
                  several times made concerning her residence; and she had been ill. One day,
                  passing near the Turkish ambassador's palace, Marzetta stopped to sell some
                     djanketi. All the household happened to be
                  absent except Lindahara, who at once recognized her as the young girl she had seen
                  dancing so much with Haffed at the British ambassador's; and now, full of jealousy
                  and curiosity, she invited her in. The fair Circassian knew but little of either
                  French or Italian; but, under circumstances like the present, it was not difficult
                  to make herself fully understood. She at first overwhelmed the astonished little
                  vender of fish with tantalizing questions and innuendoes; then became deeply
                  interested in her as she unraveled her history. In turn, Lindahara had much to say
                  of herself, and imparted to her eager listener a world of information respecting
                  Haffed, which was to her of the utmost importance,—important as a mighty lever
                  which she could use in behalf of the Federati, and personally as involving,
                  perhaps, her entire future happiness. The beautiful Circassian finally concluded
                  by telling Marzetta how much she loved Haffed, and how it would be the cause of
                  her death if another should tear him from her. Throwing herself upon her knees
                  before the now weeping sylphide, Lindahara, in all the burning words she could
                  command, pleaded with her to resign that adorable, that worshiped youth. She took
                  Marzetta's hands in her own, covered them with kisses and tears, and begged of her
                  to give up Haffed. She would not rise from her knees, she would not cease weeping
                  and pleading, till she had promised to try and overcome her love for the young
                  secretary.
               Hardly ever had life seemed more somber to Marzetta than it did when she left the
                  palace of the Turkish ambassador. Her perfect submission, however, to what seemed
                  to be the will of Heaven; her trust in the goodness of God; her faith in the
                  ultimate success of her plans, eventuating in her own happiness; her sanguine
                  temperament, in fact, and her naturally gentle, confiding, loving, hopeful
                  disposition,—all combined to sustain her through another of the great trials of
                  life: I say, another of the great trials; for she was but just recovering from the
                  almost fatal shock which was given to her delicately-attuned system when she heard
                  of the loss of Sappho.
               All that day, and all the next, Marzetta attempted to keep her word with
                  Lindahara, and forget Haffed: but, the more she strove, the more she loved him;
                  the more she tried to forget him, the more deeply he was nestled in her heart.
                  Lindahara had, however, thrown out some
                  hints that rendered her at times exceedingly wretched, and made her regret that
                  she had not accepted the offer of the British ambassador, and taken up her
                  residence in his palace. The fair Circassian had hinted, that, owing to Haffed's
                  high birth and station, he would not think of marrying a homeless fish-girl.
                  Still, out of this depth, through her hopeful spirit, she saw, though it might be
                  but faintly in the distance, a pathway of light, of joy, and of triumph.
               Marzetta could not endure the idea that birth and station had any thing to do with
                  love. "If I am not worthy of him as I am," she thought to herself, "how could a
                  princely birth make me so? No: if I have any pride, it is to be noble in a humble
                  walk of life; for if there are falsehood, treachery, deceit, they exist rather
                  with those who wear the escutcheons of lofty names than with the lowly. I am
                  therefore resolved to remain as I am, and rather make him descend to my position
                  to obtain me than raise myself to his to obtain him."
               Marzetta, in her humble position, now had in her keeping a number of powerful
                  cords that were to be woven into the net the Federati were about spreading for
                  their final entrapments. One day she proceeded to the palace of the Russian
                  ambassador, and solicited an interview with the ambassadress, the Princess
                  Yermoloffski. The princess sent for her to her private apartment, and was
                  astonished to find under such an unfashionable though picturesque garb a creature
                  so highly gifted in all things that render the gentler sex masters of the world;
                  but she was still more astonished ished, and her astonishment increased till she
                  threw herself almost petrified at Marzetta's feet, as she proceeded in her strange
                  and mysterious unfoldings of what seemed a strange and mysterious destiny.
               Before Marzetta left, she obtained from the princess two most sacred promises:
                  one, that she and her husband would aid, as far as possible, the cause of the
                  Federati; the other, that they would not oppose, but rather use their entire and
                  most potent influence in promoting, a marriage between her and the one she loved,
                  whoever it might be.
               When Marzetta took her leave of Madame Yermoloffski, you would rather have thought
                  the former to be the powerful princess, and the latter some humble suitor for some
                  humble office: for the ambassadress, loth to part with her, still held her by the
                  hand; then embraced her with warmth, with tenderness, with tears; then put back
                  her pezzato, and kissed again and again her
                  beautiful white forehead; and finally, receiving a promise that she would daily
                  come to the palace when possible, bade her an affectionate adieu.
               Marzetta proceeded then to the town mansion of La Spinosa, and sought a private
                  interview with its mistress. The lady soon came down, elegantly dressed, being
                  about to take a morning drive.
               "Ever welcome, my little sylphide," said she. "But you come late to-day; for I was
                  just going to call at the prime-minister's to give him some information I have
                  recently received concerning the Federati."
               "Perhaps you will not go," said Marzetta; "for I have something to tell you that
                  you will consider of more importance."
               
               "Is it any thing serious?" asked Spinosa laughingly; "for you look as grave as a
                  little mouse."
               "Sit down, please, and you shall hear me. You doubtless readily recall in your
                  life's history a dark and fatal night when you were wed to a stranger."
               La Spinosa put her trembling hand upon the arm of the speaker, as if she would say
                  to her, "Stop! I dare not, I wish not, to recall it."
               "I know the name of your husband," resumed Marzetta.
               "For Heaven's sake, do not reveal it to me!" exclaimed the listener; "for I have
                  been told he is a low fisherman."
               "As noble a man as walks God's divine earth," responded Marzetta. "Of no mean
                  birth, though humble occupation (which is not wholly his own fault), he has, for
                  truth, disinterested daring, goodness, generosity, fidelity, a love, indeed, for
                  all that is honorable and just, few superiors among mankind. And now I will inform
                  you, that if you will aid the Federati (whom I know you hate, but ere long will
                  learn to love), and they succeed in their plans, your husband shall hold one of
                  the highest offices in the gift of the new republic; but, should they fail, he may
                  be guillotined, and your name be thus henceforth associated with that infamous and
                  cruel fate of his which you might have averted."
               "But how can I aid a party headed by one who so vilely betrayed me?" said La
                  Spinosa, trembling with excitement.
               "The whole story is false, my beloved lady," replied Marzetta. "Count Fiesco
                  Felisquetto had pledged himself to his father to marry you. The prime-minister,
                  knowing this, and fearing the union of your great wealth with the leader of the
                  party opposed to the government, himself planned that vile plot into which you
                  were betrayed."
               "Oh, for Heaven's sake assure me that this is true!" exclaimed the lady as the
                  tears burst forth in a flood from her hitherto parched and glaring eyes.
               "As true as there is a just God above us," responded Marzetta.
               "Then he still loves me, and Gonzalvo is a fiend?" said La Spinosa inquiringly
                  between her sobs.
               "That the prime-minister is the greatest villain that walks the earth, we are soon
                  to prove," replied Marzetta. "Regarding Count Fiesco, I know little or nothing but
                  what I have told you. I have heard that he loved you dearly, and that he fled to
                  England to hide the grief your sudden and unexpected marriage caused him."
               The lady ordered her carriage to be put up; and, laying aside the costly robes she
                  was never again to resume, went to her room and to her bed.
               Hatred of her betrothed, and desire for revenge, had acted on La Spinosa as
                  powerful nerve-stimulants, and sustained her through an age of suffering: now,
                  having these withdrawn, and feeling that Fiesco still loved her, her soul seemed
                  to sink back into those happy seasons when they were together at her country-seat,
                  and she became literally a child again. The record on her brain for the last few
                  years seemed to have been written as on some decaying parchment, which the fever
                  of her new joys and sorrows was
                  scorching and rolling up, and laying aside, or obliterating for ever. So violent
                  and harrowing were these new revelations, that her reason became unsettled; and
                  thus she lay for days. By and by she rallied, partially recovered, and was able to
                  go abroad; then she resumed the dresses she wore at the age of sixteen, and often
                  walked in the garden, expecting and waiting for her lover, as in former, happier
                  times. But Fiesco did not come. She would then retire to her boudoir, write some
                  incoherent note, call up a servant, and dispatch it in great haste. These
                  love-missives, however, did not leave the mansion; for her physician had warned
                  the inmates of their mistress's condition.
               Months rolled thus weariedly away. La Spinosa was like the splinter of a fair
                  jewel. She grew weaker in body, but stronger and clearer in intellect. Then she
                  requested the good Friar Jos to come and see her, expressing a wish to bequeath
                  her vast property to the Church and to his monastery. The friar, for several
                  reasons, turned her thoughts toward Marzetta, considering that in no other
                  person's hands would her wealth be so judiciously used.
               La Spinosa seemed to feel a new joy at the friar's suggestion, and without delay
                  ordered a document to be made, transferring at once to her young friend one half
                  of the entire property held in her own right, including the beautiful country-seat
                  which had recently become hers, and which she had occupied when she was first in
                  love. She then signed "a will," giving the remainder of her estate, at her death,
                  to her ever-adored Fiesco, forgetting her recent hatred, jealousy ousy, and envy,
                  and wrapping her soul in a new coruscant flame that suffering seemed to hallow as
                  she approached the holy altar whence it emanated.
               Soon after this transient convalescence, La Spinosa fell back into her former weak
                  state of mind, and so remained for a number of years. During this latter period,
                  one might have seen occasionally walking the streets, attended by a footman, a
                  small, pale, emaciated figure, wearing about her person in a grotesque manner
                  large quantities of dried leaves, and sprigs of flowers of bouquets that had been
                  given her in her girlhood by her lost lover.
               No person who did not know Marzetta intimately could imagine the grief this sad
                  event caused her. When she first revealed to La Spinosa the perfidy of Gonzalvo,
                  and witnessed the effect; when the lady ordered her carriage back, and her maid up
                  to unrobe her,—Marzetta did her utmost to allay the agitation she had
                  unintentionally caused. She might have expected a storm; but she beheld almost a
                  wreck without it. She expressed the deepest sympathy for the fair, misused
                  sufferer; and the latter saw and felt the sincerity with which she spoke and
                  acted, and in a few short moments loved her as a sister.
               When Marzetta left the Spinosa mansion, she went directly to the palace of the
                  prime-minister to beard him in his den. Had she no fear, when she had been so
                  often warned to guard herself against him? She possessed a power, in the secrets
                  of his villainy, which she was confident would make of him a coward. As she
                  entered his office, Gonzalvo rose, sent his secretary tary away, and with his blandest smile and extended
                  hand advanced to meet her, saying,—
               "To what am I indebted for this great pleasure of seeing you here?"
               Marzetta drew back as from a scorpion. "I understand, sir," said she, "that you
                  are seeking to entrap me as you have others, and have hired menials to aid you in
                  your dastardly designs. Allow me, sir, to tell you that I come here to show you
                  that I not only do not fear you, but that you shall obey me. One who was to
                  befriend you is now your bitterest enemy; and the other will, ere long, become so.
                  Two persons besides myself are cognizant of those great crimes you once committed,
                  and the knowledge of which you have so long been able to keep from the world.
                  They, as well as the British ambassador, are my guardians; and, if a wave of my
                  hair should be ruffled by your cowardly hands, they will publish your deeds, by
                  the combined aid of the Federati, from every housetop in the city. Besides, you
                  are to issue an order at once for the liberation of Boppo's children, or the same
                  fate awaits you which I have just announced."
               The minister stood aghast at these astounding revelations; and whether to seize
                  her at once, intimidate her, or treat her with deceptive courtesy, were questions
                  which, in no accord with his usual quickness of perception and resolve, he could
                  not for a moment decide. Presently the idea of gaining time came to him as
                  all-important; and he therefore, with the most earnest protestations, assured her
                  that some malevolent person had grossly misrepresented him and his designs;
                  assured her that nothing would afford him so much happiness as making her happy by
                  the rendition of Boppo's children, or by any other means in his power.
               "And, now, is there any thing more I can do to convince you that I am not that
                  wretch you have been taught to think me?" said Gonzalvo. "Indeed, my desire to
                  possess you, the offer I made of that beautiful villetta upon the hill, should
                  convince you rather of my love and boundless admiration than of my desire to
                  injure you. And may I not appeal to your own superior sense and judgment if this
                  is not apparent, rather than the reverse? Marzetta, I have loved you, do love you,
                  with an intensity of which you have no conception; and here on my knees I swear
                  solemnly to be ever tenderly your slave, and shield you from all harm, if you will
                  consent to be mine." And Gonzalvo knelt before her either in true or feigned
                  devotion.
               "Sooner, sir," replied Marzetta indignantly, "would I walk the fiery rounds of the
                  Inquisition (of which you know considerable) than willingly bear the taint of your
                  touch."
               Gonzalvo rose, his eyes flashing fire, and, seizing her by both her wrists, began
                  to drag her toward the opposite side of the room, where, behind the tapestry,
                  opened the doors to the underground cells.
               "What!" exclaimed Marzetta with more dignity than fear, "would you injure
                     Manuellita?"*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *This is the diminutive of Manuella, and is applied to a child thus
                     named.
               
               "Manuellita!" stammered Gonzalvo, turning paler than death, and releasing his hold,—"Manuellita is
                  dead!"
               "Manuellita is not dead! Manuellita lives!" said Marzetta, with a firm, determined
                  air that carried conviction with it.
               "My God, my God!" groaned out the minister, "am I such a wretch?" And, hiding his
                  face behind his trembling hands, he again sank on his knees as if to implore La
                  Sylphide's pardon; for intentional crime discovered made him feel more guilty than
                  real guilt undiscovered.
               Marzetta, availing herself of this respite, hastened from the room, but with more
                  disgust and hatred than timidity. The ruse, if it can be so called, which she had
                  adopted, was from a sudden impulse arising in the instant of danger, and seemed
                  prompted by a desire rather to let him know that she was conversant with a most
                  important part of his history than from any intent to deceive him by an implied
                  falsehood.
               Gonzalvo heard the door close on him before he recovered from his stupefaction.
                  His first impulse then was to rush after, seize, and drag her back, and at once
                  make sure of his victim; but his second thought warned him. By rashness he might
                  reveal, to his secretary (whom he somewhat distrusted) or others, a diabolical
                  feature of his character, and thus give his enemies warning; whereas, by slow and
                  cautious action, he considered that success would be inevitable.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               KATHLEEN'S ENTRANCE ON HER NEW CAREER.—IMPORTANT INFORMATION COME
                  TOO LATE.—MARZETTA CAUGHT.
               GONZALVO saw that there must be no delay; that he must act at once, or all was
                  lost: he therefore cast about him for the best means by which he could secretly
                  arrest Marzetta and Fiesco. Being aware of a supper that was to be given at La
                  Napolitana's, and that Fiesco had accepted an invitation to be present (and this
                  was the evening to which the latter made exception when he promised to follow
                  Boppo's advice), he, Gonzalvo, resolved to entrap him on his return, and hurry him
                  away to one of the palace dungeons. Kathleen had agreed, unrestrictedly, to aid
                  the minister in securing Marzetta. In regard to the manner in which it should be
                  done, it was to depend on his will, and not on her caprices. Kathleen should get
                  the little fish-girl to her house, and entice her, if possible, to accept his
                  offers: if she would not accept, then, by some trick, get her into a carriage, and
                  have her driven to his den.
               During the morning, Madame Fiesco had been preparing paring to move to her new home, and bid adieu to
                  old associations. She had often gone to the window, and, with a richly-jeweled
                  hand, put aside the silken curtains, and looked out on a cloudless sky,—a calm,
                  blue sky, that was far, very far, from symbolizing the perturbations in her own
                  breast; then she had turned hastily away, saying to herself, "What business have I
                  to gaze thitherward? My resolves were calmly made, and my eyes are henceforth to
                  be on the earth, with no retrospects."
               Splendidly, beautifully attired, our Kathleen was thus whiling away the time, and
                  awaiting the hour for her usual drive on Aqua Sola, when Gonzalvo was
                  announced.
               "Forgive me, charming duchess," said he, "for intruding on you so often; but
                  circumstances have transpired which make it necessary to have Marzetta in my power
                  this very night, either through your persuasive eloquence, bribe, or
                  stratagem."
               "I have said," replied the lady, "that I am willing to aid you: command me as you
                  will." She could not, however, though she knew not why, save herself from an
                  involuntary shudder, and a sickness and faintness at heart, that obliged her to be
                  seated before she had extended the courtesy of a seat to the minister himself.
               "I propose, then, that you send your footman immediately with a note to Marzetta,
                  saying that you wish to see her, for some one has informed you of the place where
                  Sappho is secreted, and that you are able to give her directions that will lead to
                  a secret interview with the lost loved one. When once here, you can secure her
                  entire confidence by asserting that your information is from Friar Jos. She is not
                  aware that you do not know him. I will have a carriage at the rear-gate at nine
                  o'clock precisely, with my trusty servant Pietro inside disguised as an old woman.
                  Engaged by her (him) in conversation about her beloved Sappho, she will not notice
                  the route taken; and, if she does, it will excite no suspicion. Ere she is aware
                  of it, she will be at the postern-wicket of my domicile, and, in a moment more, so
                  well, safely, securely, in my power, that no force can rescue her."
               "This, then," said Kathleen with no little bitterness, "is the first step I must
                  take in the career of treachery and deceit upon which I have entered."
               "Not unless you do it as willingly as I have served you," was the tart reply.
               "I will, I will go forward," said she, with a kind of suffocating sense of the
                  deep duplicity with which she was about to act,—"I will go forward, even if it
                  leads to the grave." She spoke prophetically.
               "Adieu, then, my fair duchess!" said Gonzalvo, bending, and kissing her delicate
                  treasure of a hand. "I suppose we shall see you on the drive this evening?"
               "Perhaps, till nine o'clock precisely," was Kathleen's reply, accenting the last
                  words to remind him of her bitter, humiliating appointment.
               As soon as the minister had taken his leave, the new duchess dispatched a note as
                  directed, with orders to her footman not to return till he had seen La Sylphide.
                  Marzetta, however, having been on an important mission to La Napolitana, was not
                  found till late in the afternoon.
               
               When the castellated hights of the Marquis de Nero threw a shadow over Aqua Sola,
                  that fashionable promenade and drive was thronged with the élite of the city, who had come to enjoy the fragrance of its
                  flowery walks, the exquisite music that enlivened the hour, and the charming
                  scenery that begirts the piazza. Madame Felisquetto was there, and though, as has
                  been hinted, no longer young, had lost nothing of that pristine splendor of her
                  charms, which, seventeen years previously, had maddened the young botanist, and
                  bewildered the fashionable world of Edinburgh: indeed, years had added a luscious
                  maturity to her multitudinous attractions; and no one questioned the king's good
                  taste in bidding a high price for such a gem,—a price such as an amateur, a
                  Crœesus in wealth, pays for a bird of paradise to adorn a gilded cage which he
                  happens to have hanging idly in his portico.
               Ere long the Turkish ambassador entered, mounted on a fine Arabian steed; and,
                  meeting with Gonzalvo, he at once exclaimed, "Tell me, my dear sir, who that white
                  dove is in yonder carriage,—that angel reposing there like a sunlit cloud."
               "That lady in the beautiful carriage lined with white satin?—that Juno-like
                  creature, looking as if afloat on the froth of the sea?"
               "That same dazzling jewel."
               "No other than the new-made duchess, our good king's favorite, designed by the
                  Federati to be the first dictatress of the republic. But that band of malcontents
                  has been foiled by me; and their leader will to-night be in my power."
               "You have already begun to act, then?"
               "To strike, you might say," replied Gonzalvo.
               "You yourself will be foiled," was the response, which greatly astonished the
                  prime-minister.
               "What! have you, too, entered the league against us? A short time ago, I spoke
                  with the Russian ambassador, and he did not hesitate to plead in favor of our
                  opponents. The British envoy, Sir James, also, this morning counseled delay; and
                  it has even been said that the Austrian ambassador, influenced by a beautiful lynx
                  in sheep's clothing,—La Napolitana,—is seeking the friendship of Il Signor Fiesco,
                  the leader of the gang. But all that will soon cease; for Prince Metternich will
                  find that the one he really wishes to influence is now no other than the king's
                     chère amie, the lady yonder.
               Here these gentlemen were obliged to move on a little distance to make room for a
                  double line of carriages then approaching; and, as they halted, they saw the
                  Duchess of Liguria drive away.
               "That is very odd," said Gonzalvo.
               "What?" asked the ambassador.
               "That the duchess should take herself off in the midst of this inimitable
                  serenata, Il sogno di Scipione."
               "Believe me," said the Turk, "I think that friar yonder spoke to her as he passed.
                  He drew near the carriage, and I saw the lady bend forward; but the friar did not
                  stop, and, if he did speak to her, it was most covertly done."
               "Ay, they do those things to perfection," responded Gonzalvo; "and, if he had only
                  said 'Beware!' it would have been sufficient to send her out of paradise, so completely are these women under
                  the thumbs of their confessors."
               "Is he her confessor, then?"
               "No: on the contrary, I am quite sure he never before spoke to the lady; though he
                  could not fail to recognize her from her resemblance to the Madonna I have just
                  given him."
               "A Madonna?" said the ambassador with a laugh.
               "Even so," replied Gonzalvo; but as the Spanish minister, the Chevalier Bardaxi,
                  then joined them, there was no time to relate its history.
               "Your obedient servant," said the chevalier. "I bring you stirring news."
               "Indeed!" said Gonzalvo, somewhat agitated.
               "We learn by this evening's mail that the Austrians are to march in and take
                  forcible possession of Liguria. We also have rumors in town of a contemplated rise
                  of the Federati for the purpose (if nothing else) of liberating a certain young
                  lady supposed to be unjustly imprisoned by the government; and, further, that the
                  prime-minister's daughter (I only speak of rumors, Signor Gonzalvo) is the very
                  leader of the Federati."
               Gonzalvo turned as pale as his dark visage would allow, clinched his teeth, and,
                  for a moment, knew not what to reply. At last, with an attempt to be caustic, he
                  said, "A buen hambre no hay pan duro" ("To the
                  hungry there is no hard bread"). "You doubtless know the proverb; and, as you have
                  been so poorly entertained of late, even this news is not unacceptable."
               After a few moments of desultory conversation, the party separated.
               The new duchess, when she quitted Aqua Sola, little dreamed that she should never
                  return to it again. Reaching home, she learned that a note of great importance had
                  just been left there, and that one of her servants had taken it, and gone out in
                  search of her. There was no alternative but to remain quiet till the missive was
                  brought back. In the mean time, Marzetta came, and, being informed—as previously
                  planned—that the Friar Jos had communicated the news concerning Sappho, was easily
                  induced to enter the carriage, and be driven—she knew not where.
               Soon after Marzetta's departure, the important note came to Kathleen's hands. She
                  did not recognize the writing; nor, when she read it, could she believe that she
                  any longer existed in a real world, but in a world of fiction. She pored over the
                  lines, and shed scalding tears: she re-read them, till tears ceased to flow; for a
                  fever of the brain burned them up. Then a physician was sent for; but, when he had
                  learned the cause of her malady, he felt the uselessness of his mission, and bade
                  the servants seek for spiritual counselors only. The note had mentioned Friar Jos;
                  but Kathleen, for days, would not allow him to be sent for. At last, when it
                  seemed that her end was approaching, she solicited his presence.
               When Gonzalvo left the public square, he went directly to his mansion to await the
                  arrival of La Sylphide; and, though moments seemed to him like hours, it was in
                  reality but a short time before his victim came. Dismounting at the postern-gate, and being
                  tenderly conducted in by the old lady, she had no suspicion of her real position
                  till confronted by the minister himself. But, even then, her trust in a higher
                  Power did not for a moment forsake her. She looked steadily at her persecutor, and
                  cowed him by her expression of scorn and contempt; and, when he again pleaded his
                  unconquerable love as an excuse for his treachery, she made him writhe like a
                  serpent in a furnace by her sarcasms, and by spreading before him her knowledge of
                  his criminal career from his earliest years to that very hour.
               "Finally," said Gonzalvo, "since neither my love, nor my offers of wealth, can
                  tame you into submission to my will, let us see what effect one of our dungeons
                  may have."
               "Place me where you will," said Marzetta defiantly: "I shall be found, or your
                  palace will be razed to its foundations."
               Gonzalvo then threw his strong arms around her, and bore her, unresisting, to an
                  iron door behind the tapestry. In a moment it was unlocked, and she thrust down
                  several steps upon a cold stone floor.
               Marzetta felt herself utterly powerless for the moment, and uttered no cry. She
                  had an abiding conviction that Fate had not done with her: still, when she heard
                  the key turned upon her, a sense of her desolate condition fell like a thunderbolt
                  upon her trembling, sensitive heart, and she sank to the earth as if
                  paralyzed.
               "Now,"said Gonzalvo to himself as he closed the door upon the damp and chilly
                  atmosphere of the gloomy prison, "I ought to breathe freely again; but, alas!
                  there is something oppressive, if not actually stifling, in the air about me:
                  still I must await the report of my emissaries concerning the arrest of Fiesco."
                  But here began his rôle of disappointments.
               When Friar Jos left the public square, he went to his convent. There, throwing
                  himself upon his knees before the Madonna which had recently been given him, he
                  poured out in tears and prayers the sorrows of a deeply-troubled soul. After a
                  while, he arose refreshed and comforted; for he knew, that, for weary years, he
                  had devoted himself humbly to the service of God. Since the one great fraud of
                  which he had been guilty,—seemingly an age past,—he had walked barefoot over his
                  Maker's earth, and sought, by deeds of charity and hungering for holiness, to wipe
                  the stain from his overburdened conscience. He arose refreshed, and went with
                  Heaven's benediction to find the sure clew to the entangled threads of that
                  mysterious tissue of events which had so recently been brought before him.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE TRAPPER ENTRAPPED.—THE POETRY OF SCENIC REPRESENTATIONS.—MORE
                  WORTH AND LOVELINESS THAN WAS SURMISED.—FIESCO'S FLIGHT.
               THE Countess Napolitana had gained much at the ball; but she had also lost much:
                  she had lost confidence in her ability to pursue her designs on Fiesco Felisquetto
                  without becoming too deeply interested in him herself. She had invited him to
                  visit her at her villetta out of town, on the sunny slopes where Lord Byron lived;
                  and he had accepted the invitation. But whether it would produce a better effect
                  upon his mind to receive him in the midst of a gay assembly, or alone in one of
                  the arbors where he could join her at tea, was a question she long pondered
                  without coming to any decision. Finally she concluded it should be with a
                  brilliant party, before which she would give some scenic representations in
                  imitation of Lady Hamilton, which could not fail to attract and impress, if not
                  win.
               Ah, how acute and subtile are the reasonings of woman! Her mind, delicate, like
                  her structure and constitution, receives its impressions from the dominant
                  characteristics of truth, which the false strive to conceal by various striking
                  and prominent subterfuges that often allure and fix the attention, and deceive the
                  more plodding, deeper-seeking, of the sterner sex. Woman may sometimes be
                  misguided by the earnest protestations of the bad, yet never without her
                  misgivings. Her loving heart may occasionally lead her into a labyrinth of error;
                  but her quick perceptions of right and wrong, her electric judgment, will first
                  warn her of it.
               La Napolitana had discovered under the calm exterior of Signor Fiesco an intense
                  love of the beautiful, whether in Nature or Art; and that, over all he looked
                  upon, he threw a poetic halo, softening and subduing his own natural enthusiasm,
                  that would otherwise have burst forth in rapturous exclamations at every lovely
                  form, at every ray of sunshine that fell among flowers. He was, in fact, a being
                  after her own ideal of perfection. He was sufficiently advanced in life to have a
                  mature judgment; while every pulsation of his heart was the echo of some noble and
                  abiding sentiment. Those transitory scintillations of affection which young souls
                  are so constantly sending abroad, but which, like the dove from the window of the
                  ark, return for a resting-place, had long been with him embodied in a deep
                  affection for Kathleen.
               Giving La Napolitana credit for that discernment which I have accorded to the sex
                  generally, it might be asked, What did she expect to gain in the execution of the
                  plans she had proposed to herself to carry out in behalf of the Austrian
                  ambassador? Under ordinary nary
                  circumstances, nothing; but, owing to the peculiar state of Fiesco's mind, she had
                  little doubt he would contribute essentially (he had unwittingly already done much
                  on the night of the ball) toward the completion of Prince Metternich's schemes.
                  But now the die had in reality been cast; and Fate, it would seem, had set its
                  seal upon its victims. La Napolitana could then act independently; do as her own
                  kind nature dictated, without detriment to others' plans except Gonzalvo's: and
                  for the prime-minister she had neither respect nor esteem.
               The divertisement which La Napolitana had decided upon had benevolence in one of
                  its aspects: for to have allowed Fiesco to float away, without succor, on that sea
                  of doubt where he had cast himself, would have brought him to a speedy wreck; and
                  she wished now to make some atonement for the part she had been induced to take
                  against him in the interests of another. If she could do herself justice by
                  showing him her true character, and her high appreciation of his, it would be her
                  duty and her pleasure to do so.
               The villetta which the countess had taken for the season, was, as has been said,
                  on the sunny hillside of Il Paradiso, where Byron was writing his "Vision of
                  Judgment," commanding a view of the beautiful Gulf of Genoa, and sending the eye
                  along either riviera till the blue mists of the
                  distance drank in alike the cliff, the castle, and the cottage. On the right hand,
                  intercepted by a narrow valley, through which, in the season of melting snows,
                  runs a roaring stream, was the walled city, climbing up its terraced acclivities,
                  and holding within its grasp a whole volume of enchanting scenery.
               At an early hour, the grounds about the villetta of La Napolitana were thronged by
                  the guests invited to her histrionic soirée.
                  Fiesco was the last to arrive, somewhat to the chagrin of the hostess: but he had
                  been loitering along, poring over his troublous position and that of the Federati,
                  and questioning himself concering the object of his present visit; occasionally
                  stopping with half a resolution to turn back. Remembering, however, his promise,
                  and being impelled onward by an influence that seemed mysterious even to himself;
                  wishing also, in a degree, to divest his mind of those harrowing incentives to
                  retrospective views of some of the elements of discord that seemed breaking around
                  him,—he wound his way out of the eastern gate of the city, and, with a step more
                  tardy even than he had imagined, reached the charming abode of his friend the
                  countess.
               "My dear sir," said the Austrian ambassador, who had descended to the gate to meet
                  him, "how happens it you come on foot? How happens it, also, that you bring not
                  that princess of princesses, your consort?"
               "I reached here without thinking how I came," said Fiesco. "As regards madame, she
                  is otherwise occupied than considering the happiness of her best friends;" and
                  here he turned his head aside, pressed his hand over his eyes as if to warn back a
                  tear, and walked on slowly and silently up the avenue.
               Prince Metternich, seeing that he had touched upon a wrong chord, hastened to
                  change the subject by saying, "Though we all envy you this Aricia, few more adorn
                  our circle than the fair lady who has this evening assembled us. The festival is
                  one we may consider projected in honor of our own divinities; though, from the
                  innumerable perfections of which she is the possessor, we shall have little time
                  to think of any other than the performer herself."
               "She is indeed a woman of perilous charms," said Fiesco thoughtfully.
               "Charming she is indeed," said the ambassador; "and when you come to know the
                  goodness of her heart, to see the aureola of gentleness that ever encircles her,
                  she will haunt your waking and sleeping dreams without that thought which one of
                  your words conveys."
               "Still I think this new meteor will be dangerous in our quiet hemisphere," replied
                  Fiesco in a tone that betokened an effort to be cheerful.
               "Not to one of your known calm temperament," said the prince; "for I think every
                  Genoese can swear that they never saw you elated by any beauty that ever walked
                  your fair city. But, ah! there she is, looking this way. How beautifully her
                  position is chosen! The deep green leaves of the trellised vine beyond form a dark
                  background, and show distinctly the outlines of her dainty form; while the
                  delicacy of the drapery in which she has developed it gives her the semblance of a
                  fairy just about to float away on the waves of the air. She sees you now, and is
                  coming to welcome you; and, if she does it not with the grace of a divinity, then
                  I have misjudged her."
               "Though tardy in your coming, my good Signor Fiesco," said the lady, "you see that
                  I give you no tardy greeting; and here is my hand, and a portion of my warm heart
                  in it, to assure you of a warm and hearty welcome."
               Fiesco bowed, and kissed the hand that had been so generously proffered, and with
                  all sincerity replied,—
               "So absorbed were my thoughts, many of them in this place and its fair mistress,
                  that they impelled me here upon my feet, not allowing room for a consideration of
                  any other mode by which I could more expeditiously make the journey."
               "It is a bold excuse, sir," said the lady; "yet my vanity prompts me to credit it.
                  But come, let us go in: I have to dress—though this is hardly strictly
                  speaking—for the entertainment of my noble guests; and, though loth to leave you,
                  I do it in the hope of being more attractive in other characters than my own. Is
                  not that an honest confession?" And away she ran as they reached the door, and
                  disappeared through the ether of the long gallery like one of Ossian's ghosts.
               When the guests had been apprised of the lady's return to the house, they all
                  assembled in the grand saloon. This apartment had been furnished in costly style,
                  with a raised platform at the end, and with appropriate paintings and decorations.
                  A thin gauze screen in front gave a hazy appearance to the whole,—beautifully
                  adapted, at least, to the first scene that was to enchant the spectators.
               In a short space of time, muffled music was heard in the distance; and a heavy
                  curtain that had separated the audience from the stage began slowly to descend
                  from the top. When it had nearly reached the floor, unveiling most of the scenery, "Venus rising from the sea" filled
                  the beholder with breathless wonder and admiration. Could that be the work of
                  Praxiteles? Could Phidias have fashioned such a form? It came from the hands of a
                  greater Master; and man might well admire, and bow down and worship its matchless
                  perfections. But it was not form alone that claimed attention: where shadows lay,
                  it 
                     
                        "Seemed as if the light had fallen off,
                        So polished was its surface."
                     
                   Her right arm, as if to break the waves in her ascending course, was curved
                  above her brow, on which a diamond star sent out its rays of varying light. Her
                  left, at her side, gathered in its taper fingers, with all the charm the truest
                  modesty could prompt, a long, rich, wavy mass of hair, all dripping from the briny
                  deep.
               A moment only was allowed to the silent assembly; then the thick curtain was
                  lifted, shutting from view this world of beauty.
               The next scene was Diana asleep after the fatigues of the chase. She lay on a
                  green bank. In her left hand she still grasped the bow; while her right was being
                  lapped by a tame gazelle, that seemed to recognize the little bestower of many a
                  kind caress.
               She next appeared as Helen, then as the daughter of Levi, and finally in the
                  bewitching shawl-dance invented by Lady Hamilton, and at that time in vogue
                  throughout Italy.
               Prince Scorci, who had seen the original of this last at the court of Naples,
                  proclaimed the Countess Napolitana unapproachable in grace and beauty; and no one
                  of the large assembly, either male or female, was disposed to question the
                  justness of his decision.
               Ere the expressions of admiration had died away on the lips of her guests, the
                  lady presented herself in their midst, elegantly, chastely attired, and taking the
                  arm of the Austrian ambassador, led the way to the supper-table.
               Fiesco Felisquetto, like all the others, was greatly pleased with the evening's
                  entertainment; and when, after supper, he had the pleasure of a tête-à-tête with the hostess, he did not fail to
                  express his unqualified admiration. La Napolitana, however, was more won by the
                  manly character, lofty sentiments, truthful nature, and perhaps melancholy, of her
                  companion, than he by her glittering attractions or varied accomplishments; and,
                  if she ever loved any one, she felt, were he free, she could love him. What was
                  more, she was prepared to prove, that, if one woman had betrayed him, there was
                  another who would save him. Instead of wishing him to swerve for a moment from his
                  high career, she longed to see him occupy the place of trust and power to which
                  his worth and talents entitled him. She regretted, as has been said, any influence
                  she may have had over the conduct of his wife; and she thought the prince would
                  also, if he knew the man whom he had tried to injure,—in all political honesty, he
                  would say,—or, in other words, had incidentally injured, while attempting lawfully
                  to serve his own government.
               Yes: La Napolitana was now prepared to say to him, "Go; and may Heaven's blessings
                  rest upon you! go, trusting in the
                  right; and, in God's own good time, you will be restored to us." She then revealed
                  to him Gonzalvo's plot to arrest him that night on his way home, and probably
                  thrust him into some of the dungeons under his palace, whence none were known to
                  escape.
               Fiesco manifested little astonishment (since Kathleen's estrangement, nothing
                  seemed to astonish him); for it appeared to be a part of the great avalanche that
                  was already crushing him. He calmly thanked the lady for such an unequivocal token
                  of her friendship, and begged her to forgive him for his depression of spirits in
                  her presence.
               "It is not for myself alone, I assure you, my dear countess," said he, "that I am
                  thus bowed down. The cause of the Federati, I fear, is lost; and my beloved
                  country must still wear the yoke of merciless, unscrupulous tyrants. There is, it
                  is true, a galling chain about my heart; and this news sinks it deeper: for I am
                  persuaded that Kathleen has betrayed me, adding double bitterness to the cup she
                  had already forced upon me. But whither shall I fly? O Italy, Italy! my native, my
                  adored land! how gladly I would shed for thee my last drop of blood if in it I
                  could read thy freedom!"
               "Do not be discouraged, my dear friend," said the countess; "for I now pledge you
                  my word that henceforth the cause of the Federati shall be my cause; that Prince
                  Metternich shall aid it with his masterly diplomatic abilities; and that you shall
                  find on your return—for you must, for a brief period, fly the country—a far better
                  state of things than you now dream of. I have seen Marzetta this very afternoon;
                  and she informs me of the friendship of Russia, which your party has just gained,
                  and that Gonzalvo must soon fall."
               "God be praised! But," said he thoughtfully and to himself, "Kathleen is no longer
                  mine!"
               "Forgive me," said the countess, awakening him from his revery: "may I not send a
                  trusty servant to town to obtain for you a boat, so that you can join some vessel
                  outward bound, outside of the harbor?"
               "Yes, my kind friend: send to Boppo in Strada de la Marina, and tell him to be
                  ready to take me early to-morrow morning, and place me on board the first ship
                  that may leave the port.
               The necessary orders were given; and, early on the following morning, Boppo's boat
                  conveyed Fiesco to a vessel that happened to be sailing for Constantinople.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               ON BOARD SHIP.—MADDENING REFLECTIONS.—SUFFERINGS AND RECOVERY OF
                  FIESCO.—A FRIEND AND BROTHER FOUND.
               FIESCO fortunately found himself among friends,—on board an Italian vessel, where
                  his name was as much revered as is Garibaldi's throughout Italy at the present
                  day; but he was in no mood to enjoy any thing, and he sat himself apart to
                  contemplate the roll of the wheel of Fortune. Italy, her past, present, and
                  future, her ingratitude toward one who had been her most devoted partisan, hovered
                  with raven wings over his reveries. Then came the broken mirror of his soul's
                     sekos, that had in its perfectness reflected
                  the deeper fascinations of his heart: all its images were now distorted. He
                  understood well the character of Gonzalvo, and would have given worlds to know if
                  his own arrest and incarceration had been planned by that villain alone; but he
                  could not divest himself of the conviction that Kathleen had something to do with
                  it: this was the harrowing thought that haunted him like the nightmare mare, and
                  horrid and grotesque figures sprang in taunting and threatening attitudes from the
                  conception. If he could have been convinced that the wily prime-minister was the
                  sole mover in this affair, he could have lain quietly down beneath the pale moon
                  on the hard deck of his floating home, and slept soundly; for he had passed the
                  day in maddening retrospections, and night had come. But recent events about his
                  own household were now combined, and poured into his soul the hot lava of
                  jealousy,—the agony of a doubt of the fidelity of his adored wife. He had no clew
                  to the machinations of Gonzalvo, to the motives that were actuating him in this
                  particular case; and hence, in his reflections, he wandered afar, and into deeper
                  and deeper labyrinths of doubt and error. Had not Boppo, too,—the honest,
                  right-judging Boppo,—whispered in his ear at parting, "Beware of one most dear to
                  you! Do not return till you hear from me. Above all, beware of the one from whom
                  you might expect the most perfect fidelity; beware of Madame Felisquetto, your too
                  much worshiped Kathleen!"
               The captain of the vessel, not unmindful of the gloomy mood into which his
                  unexpected but not unwelcome passenger had allowed himself to fall, several times
                  approached him for the purposes of conversation, or offering any or all the
                  comforts the ship afforded; but Fiesco had instinctively turned his head away as
                  if he would be let alone. Provisions had also been sent to him by the captain's
                  orders; but he refused every thing. Later, he began talking aloud to himself, and
                  gesticulating as if alone in his own chamber:—
               
               "Oh, how long has my love of this dear one blinded me to every thing but her
                  perfections! O inimitable, priceless jewel! what sacrifice would I not have made
                  to retain all they love? What have I done to merit this cruel blow? What have I
                  not done to prove my fidelity? O Kathleen, Kathleen! could you have known how your
                  last kiss on my lips, your last words in my heart, seemed to waft me along through
                  the hours of sleep as if afloat on the pinions of the angel of peace, you would
                  never have put that heel of iron upon my poor brain. Had you, some day when I held
                  you by the hand, and was gazing into those once-loving eyes, thrust the steel into
                  my heart, I would then have blessed you; for I should have been near enough to
                  tell you of my love, even while I was dying: but this cruel stab in the dark, this
                  turning from me, even while I leaned upon you, in my country's hour of gloom, is
                  more than cruel,—the double agony of death enveloping poor trembling, sickened,
                  shrieking life,—a vulture tearing at the vitals in all their living vitality. But,
                  O God! be kind to her, and let me perish." Here he sprang forward, either, it
                  would seem, to throw himself overboard, or because of some passing vision which
                  made him think that Kathleen was in danger, and he would try and save her; but,
                  hitting his foot against a bolt in the deck, he fell heavily, striking his head
                  upon the taffrail. The blow was a fearful one. Deep shadows gathered about him. He
                  thought it was death; and he was happy. He was, at least, helpless and insensible;
                  and, when carried below by the officer of the deck, it was supposed the vital
                  spark had fled.
               The sun rose bright and clear over the blue waters of the Mediterranean, and
                  Fiesco slept.
               "How is our patient?" inquired the captain of his mate when that morning he came
                  up to relieve the night-watch.
               "He breathes heavily," said the officer, "as if there was congestion of the brain:
                  and I believe, when he wakes, he will know as little as he did when we carried him
                  below last night; for there was not an hour when he did not rave like a maniac,
                  and call on some one to come and take the scorpion out of his heart, and drive
                  away the toad that was burrowing in the sockets of his eyes. The name he spoke
                  sounded like Kathleen; and is, probably, that of a lost sister or a cruel fair
                  one. I wish she could have been here to comfort the poor fellow: for it makes one
                  feel heartsick to see how he moans for her; seeming to love her so much, that no
                  other thought occupies his bewildered brain."
               "We must take good care of him," said the captain; "for he has a big soul, is
                  generous as a tar, and loves the people as himself."
               "You know him, then?" said the mate.
               "Perhaps I may say so, though he does not recognize me. A year ago, the Federati
                  held a meeting in the forest which overhangs the northern passes into Liguria. I
                  was there, and do not forget the stirring appeal he made in behalf of the
                  oppressed of our down-trodden country, and his account of the death in Scotland of
                  one of our exiled patriots."
               "For his political opinions, then," said the mate, "he has doubtless been obliged
                  to fly."
               
               "There is no doubt of it; for the Church party is now triumphant. But what
                  astonishes me is, that he has been betrayed; for each one of the party is sworn to
                  sustain his comrades; while a betrayer is to deem himself justly punished, if, for
                  his treachery, a knife be sent to his heart. I speak this freely now; for, before
                  we shall see that fair land again, a blow will have been struck that will make the
                  kingdom totter; and Gonzalvo at least will no longer be prime-minister."
               "The blow may be struck," replied the young officer, "and the people may rise: but
                  the result may not be so quickly known as you imagine; at least, no permanent good
                  result. For, though the Liberal party may be at first successful, it can not
                  maintain itself for any length of time against the combined despotism of Europe,
                  the shrewd intelligence of the sons of Ignace de Loyola, or even the armies of
                  Austria alone: yes, Austria alone; for, if all the others should fail,—England's
                  treachery being added,—she would be ready to launch her whole force against the
                  noble cause."
               "In part, you are right," said the captain; "but, could the people for once attain
                  the position their enemies now occupy, no power less than that which the Grand
                  Master of the universe wields could dislodge them. They would be infinitely more
                  secure than royalty can ever be with its bolstering bayonets."
               "But the difficulty first to be encountered," replied the mate, "is no mean one. A
                  king overthrown now-a-days is but an aroused nest of political and religious
                  hornets, who will plot and plan, build and undermine, reconstruct and redemolish,
                  re-arrange, reform, revise, turn and return, sapping the foundations of every
                  social structure down to every household till their aim is accomplished, and their
                  servant, their idol royalty, is again on its pedestal. Still, what matters it? Is
                  not a republic a house of brawlers divided against itself? When one can with
                  impunity traduce his neighbor's character, ruin him, and rise upon those ruins to
                  power; when one can falsify a party, buy votes for a villain, waste his life in a
                  struggle for office, and oust the good by trickery or something worse,—what is
                  there in it to admire?"
               "The freedom to write, speak, think, as one wills, is a great boon," replied the
                  captain.
               "If temperately used," said the mate. "I love my country with my whole soul; but I
                  have no hope for her permanent prosperity under a republican form of
                  government."
               "But by G—d!" exclaimed the captain in a profane burst of enthusiasm, "we will
                  found a republic, and it shall last!"
               "Ay, that we will!" shouted a voice in his ear; for Fiesco had stolen up from his
                  stateroom unobserved, and had overheard the earnest words of the master. "That is
                  what we want, and will have!" he continued. "Let us go now!" and he rushed to the
                  gangway as if to throw himself overboard. It was evident that he had not yet
                  recovered from the effects of the blow of the previous day, and that his noble
                  mind still wandered. Both the captain and mate were strong, active men; and with a
                  bound they reached and secured him,
                  and, after a momentary struggle, conveyed him safely to the cabin and to his
                  bed.
               "I knew it would be so," said Fiesco after he had been placed in his berth, and a
                  watchman stationed to see that he did no harm to himself,—"I knew it would be so
                  the moment I started to come to thy aid, O my unhappy country! Kathleen's spies
                  chained me to this rock, where my heart is torn by vultures, and my sword-arm tied
                  above my head. If she would only let me sleep out the long nights of my country's
                  sufferings, I would again bless her; but she will neither let me sleep, nor aid me
                  in the redemption of my people. That gentle hand I have so often held is now
                  raised to repel me. The same sweet foot that I have kissed in adoration now
                  recedes at my approach. The fair form that I would clasp in delirious joy becomes
                  but air in my longing arms,—a vision impalpable, yet with a heavy tread upon my
                  brain, which crushes its thought-chamber; and that which I was going to say lies
                  buried in the ruins. It was something you, Kathleen, would love to recall,—of days
                  gone by; perhaps of our second meeting, of our glad wedding-day, when you and
                  Italy girded my heart with one fragrant garland, and the sweet-voiced nightingale
                  sang in the arbor of our hopes. But will you not step lightly? Though your feet
                  are tiny, they bear heavily here." And, raising his hand to his forehead, he tore
                  away the bandage, while his fingers seemed to bury themselves in the deep gash
                  there made the preceding day. He then started up, and listened as if he heard some
                  well-known voice, and, stretching out his hands, grasped at something, and said,
                  "It is all thick mist and darkness here: shout again, and I will follow the sound.
                  Give me, now, that little hand, and I will lift you up, and bear you away to a
                  place of safety. You know in your hour of gloom I would not forsake you. But, oh!
                  my burden grows heavy: help! She dies before we can reach the light!" Fiesco here
                  sank back on his pillow, and wept and moaned as if suffering unutterable anguish.
                  Had he a vision of Kathleen's grief, and the gulf of wretchedness into which she
                  was sinking? It would seem even so: and he had striven to save her by bringing her
                  to the light of the truth; unveiling to her the deceptions of Gonzalvo and the
                  falsehoods of those who surrounded her; showing how pure had been his own
                  affections, and how perfectly selfish, and even fiendish, those who plotted
                  against him.
               Fiesco at last fell asleep, to the great joy of the captain, who for hours had
                  watched and tended him like a brother; and when he again awoke he was calm, though
                  extremely sad over the memory of the scenes he had passed through in his delirious
                  stage, regarding them as realities: indeed, they were only too real.
               During the remainder of the voyage, the captain devoted every spare moment to his
                  patient. He read to him, and enlivened him with cheerful stories, and made the
                  weeks fly rapidly away. The keystone of the royal-arch of friendship was thus
                  cemented between them, and in after-years was not forgotten.
               Fiesco was not without friends at Constantinople; and his heart was greatly cheered by the good news
                  regarding Italy which the first mail brought him. But he had yet to endure another
                  blow,—sad, terrible, almost fatal.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               THE LIBERAL CAUSE GAINS NEW SUPPORTERS.—THE PRINCESS DEJECTED.—THE
                  OUTBREAK BEGUN.—HAFFED WOUNDED.—GONZALVO FLIES.
               MARZETTA, on the morning of the day in which she was arrested, had called by
                  request on the British ambassador, who communicated to her some more important
                  facts concerning her birth and relatives, which filled her with renewed enthusiasm
                  and joy; for though said facts were both strength and weakness, and might develop
                  claims of an embarrassing nature to several parties, she saw in them only further
                  means of being useful to the Federati.
               During that interview, Sir James learned also much about Signor Gonzalvo of which
                  he had never entertained the least suspicion; and hence pledged his word to La
                  Sylphide, that, as far as his influence went, he would positively thwart the
                  prime-minister's schemes.
               When Marietta left the British ambassador's palace, she went to that of the
                  Austrian; but, not finding the prince
                  at home, she proceeded to the villetta of La Napolitana. There she made the same
                  revelations concerning Gonzalvo she had made to Sir James, and gave information
                  about the minister's designs on Fiesco, which led, as we have seen, to his escape.
                  Before she took her leave of the amiable countess, she obtained a promise of her
                  influence,—and it was not little,—as she had from Sir James himself: for La
                  Sylphide now possessed the means of showing conclusively that Gonzalvo could no
                  longer aid Prince Metternich, even if, for his treachery, he won a princely
                  decoration; but that she herself, perhaps, could eventually restore to Austria the
                  Ligurian territory. The information she received about Gonzalvo's plan to arrest
                  Signor Fiesco was from the minister's private secretary, who had fallen in love
                  with her—her daring as well as her beauty—when she came up and bearded the fierce
                  brute in his lair; for the secretary, having overheard the orders given, hastened
                  away the moment the minister left his office, and hunted up La Sylphide with a
                  perseverance none but a lover would have exercised.
               It was late when Marzetta returned to town; and, as it was only then she received
                  Kathleen's note requesting her to be at Fiesco's residence at nine o'clock
                  precisely, she found herself obliged to forego one or two more visits,—one in
                  particular which she had intended to make to the Princess Yermoloffski.
               The princess had then, for a day or so, been expecting Marzetta, and as she did
                  not come, began to fear that the hopes which the little fish-girl had awakened
                  might not be realized: still she had kept her own promises faithfully, and induced
                  her husband to agree to oppose the measures of Gonzalvo: the evidence of it
                  appeared in the prime-minister's own confession to the Turkish ambassador at their
                  recent meeting in the piazza of Aqua Sola.
               The princess waited another day with great impatience: on the third she set out in
                  search of La Sylphide. She traced her to La Napolitana's; but, after she left la
                  villetta, nothing further of her proceedings could be ascertained. Great anxiety,
                  however, was everywhere manifested on her account; and Madame Yermoloffski was
                  more than ever convinced that this young creature had qualities and powers of a
                  vastly higher order than those for which she, even, had given her credit. Madame
                  Kathleen Felisquetto was too ill to see any one; and hence the last clew to
                  Marzetta's wanderings on that day left every thing in a mysterious obscurity.
               The princess reached home early in the evening, much dejected; but, about an hour
                  after, she was enlivened by the presence of young Haffed, who came to bring the
                  prince some important news. Haffed was ever welcome: he had the entrée of the palace, and was made to feel as much at
                  home there as at the Turkish ambassador's. He came and went as he pleased; and,
                  when he threw himself upon the lounge, it was the princess's great pleasure to
                  seat herself beside him, entangle her fingers in his flaxen locks, gaze into his
                  large blue eyes, and tell him, that, if her son still lived, he would be just
                  about his age, and she hoped, of his good qualities and personal beauty. The
                  princess, indeed, almost loved him; but Haffed's soul was with Marzetta
                     wherever she might be, and he little
                  regarded the admiration of Madame Yermoloffski.
               "Do you think they will find her?" said Haffed abruptly.
               "Find who?" said the princess, somewhat astonished.
               "Why, La Sylphide!" replied Haffed, supposing the princess had divined the drift
                  of his thoughts.
               "Doubtless they will. But why have you an interest in that little fish-girl? I did
                  not suppose you had ever heard of her."
               "All Genoa, almost all Europe, has heard of her. I have just learned that she has,
                  in earlier days, walked with the higher classes of society, and been honored, ere
                  now, with the friendship of queens, dukes, and princesses; and her manners
                  indicate it."
               "I fancied so myself," said Lady Yermoloffski; "for no one can wear the charm and
                  grace pertaining to a refined life who has always herded with the ignorant and
                  poor. But what news do you bring?"
               "That the government fears an outbreak of the people. The Federati are gathering
                  in large bodies, aroused by the report that this same little fish-girl has been
                  kidnapped, and confined in one of the dungeons of the prime-minister's palace; for
                  that was the common prison for all political offenders, and has, it is said, vast
                  underground cells, and passages leading to various parts of the town, for the more
                  ready and less-suspected way of securing there those whom the king or his
                  myrmidons wished to be rid of."
               "Who is their leader?"
               "Count Fiesco Felisquetto, one of God's noblemen."
               "The very one," said the princess, "whom La Napolitana told me was to be arrested
                  night before last, but escaped."
               "Then their plans are all frustrated; for, though fearless and determined, they
                  are a class who can not act without a leader." And Haffed felt, that, if he had
                  but their confidence, he would readily offer himself.
               "Marzetta, at any rate, must be liberated," said the princess firmly. "We will
                  demand it of the minister."
               "The minister will know nothing of it,—not he! He will appear as ignorant of the
                  whole affair as he has of the disappearance of one Sappho,—Marzetta's dearly-loved
                  friend, and reported to be Gonzalvo's daughter."
               "Gonzalvo's daughter!" exclaimed Lady Yermoloffski; "and he would murder her?
                  Monstrous! It can not be!"
               "There are developments going on," replied Haffed, "that will astound the world. I
                  have just seen a fisherman by the name of Boppo, who has told me of things I dare
                  not repeat to you, lest you should regard us all as demons incarnate."
               "Haffed, do you not already know too well my high appreciation of you, though of a
                  different nation and religion from myself, to suppose for a moment that I could
                  consider you capable of any act not worthy of that noble intellect and those
                  superior endowments which you have from your Creator?" And the princess took his
                  delicate hand in one of hers, put back his hair from his marble-like forehead with
                  the other, and looked earnestly and lovingly into his beautiful face.
               
               "I thank you for the kind and friendly manner in which you have received and
                  treated me since I have been in this noble city."
               "That sounds very cold," said the princess; "but let it pass. Your thoughts are
                  with another."
               "Yes: I was just resolving to go and join the faithful Federati, and be their
                  leader, if they do not find a better."
               "No, Haffed, you must not go!" ejaculated the princess, seizing him by both his
                  hands. "Let me act towards you as would your own fond mother were she here, and
                  throw myself between you and death or horrid ghastly wounds."
               "I have never known a mother's love and care," said Haffed in a melancholy tone of
                  voice; "but, as regards death and wounds, we are taught in the Caucasus to seek
                  rather than avoid them, when there is an enemy in the way, or a just cause to be
                  espoused."
               "You are a chivalric race," responded the princess; "and I think, if your people
                  would yield, our emperor would do them ample justice."
               "They will never yield," said Haffed somewhat haughtily.
               "The Turks befriend you, I know, and sustain you for political reasons," replied
                  the lady; "but, if they should be subdued by Russia, what further resources have
                  you?"
               "Those which Heaven will afford us!" ejaculated the young man, his eyes flashing,
                  and growing dark and wild.
               "You are a noble youth; and, if my boy lives, I hope and pray that he may be like
                  you," said the princess, with deep sadness in both voice and look, while tears
                  crept one by one down her delicate cheeks.
               As Haffed all his life had been accustomed to praise and admiration, he did not
                  think of replying: his thoughts, in fact, had turned to Marzetta. Just then, the
                  hoarse murmur of an angry crowd came up through the palace-windows, and from out
                  it were heard occasionally the words "Death" and "Minister." Haffed could no
                  longer resist the temptation: so, seizing his tasseled fez, he rushed out ere the
                  princess could prevent him, and descended the marble stairs to join the moving
                  throng.
               In a few moments, a volley of musketry was heard; and from its regularity, or
                  rather unity, Madame Yermoloffski knew that the king's troops were firing upon the
                  people. She gave an involuntary scream, and started up, but, fainting, fell into
                  the arms of her husband, who, fearing the tumult in the street might alarm her,
                  had hastened from the bureau, or office, and arrived just in time to save his
                  ever-grieving but loving wife from some serious bruises. His tender care soon
                  restored her; and his words of consolation gave her unexpected repose and
                  tranquillity. She told him of her interest in young Haffed, inexplicable to
                  herself, unless, as she said, it arose from a feeling that he must be like their
                  own lost boy. The prince confessed the same, and said that Haffed had won his
                  affection and esteem from the very day of his arrival in Genoa.
               The people moved on en masse like hungry wolves,
                  growling defiance to the government, and death to the prime-minister; and when
                  they reached the Strada de la Marina, a
                  broad street in the lower part of the town, where most of the fishermen lived,
                  they found an equally infuriated body, who had been listening to the revelations
                  which Boppo and the smuggler had to make to them. These tales flew swiftly from
                  one to another; and each resolved in his heart that Gonzalvo should die. They had
                  not time, however, to act before another volley was poured into their midst, and
                  many died on the spot. Haffed received a ball in his leg, and fell where he stood.
                  He blessed God then, and ever after, that it was so.
               The people, too brave, too deeply devoted to the cause in which they were engaged,
                  to be intimidated even by the fatal fire of the soldiery, rushed upon and disarmed
                  them, then hurried on towards the palace of the minister.
               Gonzalvo had relied on his well-disciplined troops; but, when he saw the mob
                  approaching, he knew that his fate was sealed if he did not at once escape.
                  Loading, then, his pockets with gold, he descended into an underground passage
                  (securing well the doors behind him) which led into the interior of a fort on the
                  hights above, where he felt sure he would be safe: but there, to his chagrin, when
                  he arrived, he was not long in discovering that none could be trusted; that all
                  were as ready to strangle as to protect him; and that there remained nothing for
                  him to do but quit the country he had so long impoverished and enslaved.
               In the mean time, the Federati had sacked his palace. Every window was broken, and
                  every door therein unhinged save the massive iron ones of the vaults, which
                  resisted all appliances; but no Gonzalvo could be found. They next proceeded to
                  the Jesuit college in the Strada Nuove, and sacked that also, driving its inmates
                  on board a ship in the harbor, with the intention of sinking them all there
                     together.*
                  
               
                  
                  *This scene was repeated in 1848, while the writer was in Genoa.
               
               Having no leader save their enthusiasm, the Liberals knew not what further to do.
                  The dastardly creature they sought had fled; and Fiesco, whom they would make
                  prime-minister, was not there to receive their support: so some returned to their
                  homes, others to the Strada de la Marina to await further developments, keep the
                  revolutionary fire of their comrades aglow, and adopt measures for the discovery
                  of the hiding-place of their hated foe.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               A FEARFUL DISCOVERY.—GROPING IN THE DARK.—HOPES REVIVED.—GOOD
                  FORTUNE FROM MISFORTUNE.—ALMOST A MIRACLE.—SAPPHO'S FATE SOLVED.—LOVERS
                  APART.
               WHEN Marzetta attempted to rise from the cold stone floor on which she had sunk
                  down when thrust by Gonzalvo into one of the cells, or, perchance, into one of the
                  long-forgotten avenues of the old prison-house, her hand fell upon a piece of
                  satin. She grasped it eagerly, trembling with emotion, and found it heavily
                  embroidered,—embroidered in the corners with a bouquet of flowers, on the sides
                  with a wreath of oak-leaves; and, as her fingers proceeded in the examination, she
                  was more and more convinced that it was an apron she herself had wrought, and had
                  presented to Sappho on the morning when she so happily clothed her with her own
                  garments in Madrid. Then, as fast as the sweet associations came gathering about
                  her heart,—a thousand times faster than I can record them,—there also flashed upon
                  her the truthfulness of Madame Felisquetto's assertion, that she was to go where
                  Sappho was. Then her fingers ran on to awaken her adopted and dearly-beloved
                  sister, her tender and loving thoughts running on in eager advance; and, when they
                  reached her shoulder, they gently shook her, then passed to the face, and found it
                  cold in death. Then a shriek, wild and maniacal, rang through the engirding cells;
                  then another, and still another, and yet others still more shrill and piercing,
                  till every room and crevice and corridor were filled with one long echo of
                  despair. Still she could not cease; for she seeemed to think her wail of woe might
                  shiver the rocks above, and open a way of escape or relief. But no human voice
                  responded to the agonizing cry; and only the clank of a chain in a neighboring
                  dungeon came to her relief. Then, upon her knees, her head bowed down into her
                  very lap, she poured out her unavailing sobs and tears. Must she, then, give up
                  the hope of restoring Sappho, even though dead, once more to the light? of gazing
                  again on those gentle features, so inviting to love and life? Her very heart
                  seemed breaking with that silent thought and the grief it evoked. This she could
                  not endure; and again the massive walls rang with her cries for help. The same
                  clanking chain was all the response.
               "Did I bring you here only to perish thus, dear, dear sister?" said Marzetta, as
                  she sought the clay-cold hand of her beloved Sappho and kissed it. "When I took
                  you from the bleak wayside steps, and warmed and fed you, did I dream that it was
                  to plunge you into a colder and deadlier atmosphere, and then to close your eyes in death for want of
                  food? O my God! where is the mercy I so much need? O Heaven! breathe into Sappho's
                  ear the cravings of my soul for pardon; for her gentle soul will listen and
                  forgive. Father, bless and save her; bless me also; for thou alone knowest the
                  purity of all my motives."
               Marzetta kissed again the stiffened hand of her beloved friend, then passed her
                  own once more over the face of the departed, and smoothed her forehead, feeling
                  that Sappho must know who it was, would recognize her, and come to life. When she
                  withdrew her hand, it fell upon a coral cross. She broke it from its chain, kissed
                  it, and placed it in her bosom. She then rose to her feet with a strange energy,
                  that despair, perhaps, gave, or that pertained to an abiding faith in a destiny
                  that was not complete. Still she was suffocating with her sense of loneliness; and
                  she could not but cry aloud again for help. Placing, then, her ear to the wall,
                  she heard once more, and perhaps more faintly, the clank of a chain. "Was it of
                  some one confined there," she asked herself, "who was dumb, who had lost his voice
                  from long lack of speech with his fellow-creatures? Had he a mother who had wept
                  and passed sleepless nights because ignorant of his fate? How she might bless God
                  that she did not know it!" Marzetta thought of Madame Yermoloffski. She then
                  groped about the prison, and discovered that it was a passage, only a few feet in
                  width, with a door open, opposite to the one by which she had been thrust in.
                  Moving with the utmost caution, she passed through it, descended a single step,
                  and found herself on bare ground. Immediately came the thought, that with her
                  hands she could dig down and under the walls, and thus escape; but the earth
                  proved to be almost flinty hard, and little yielding to her tender fingers. She
                  groped on, gradually descending; but the air was so chill and damp, that her teeth
                  chattered, and her limbs trembled; for her delicate garments were but poor
                  protection in such an atmosphere: still she groped on, examining by touch every
                  foot of the wall on either hand. How long she continued this she knew not; but
                  finally, exhausted, she sank down to rest, and fell asleep. Of the length of time
                  she slept she had no idea; but, on awakening, she was benumbed by cold, and almost
                  perishing with hunger. She now resumed as well as she could her progress down the
                  tunnel, till she finally heard the rumbling of carriages overhead, and the sound
                  of the sea also in the direction she was going. But the way was evidently growing
                  narrower, and in some places had become so choked up, that it was difficult for
                  her to pass. Still, bending low in one place, on her hands and knees in another,
                  scarcely ever erect in any, she pursued her way, till, again cruelly exhausted,
                  again faint from hunger, and nearly frozen, she fell to the ground, and was soon
                  oblivious of all misfortunes, and, it may be, dreaming of paradise. When once more
                  awake, she was too ill to make much progress. A little distance on, too, she found
                  the way entirely choked up; but it appeared to be with loose earth: still, in her
                  feeble state, little success could she expect in any attempt at digging. The task,
                  however, was begun; but the blood oozed
                  from her finger-ends. She wept bitterly, and prayed for more strength. She then
                  lay in the small cavity she had dug at the top of the embankment or barrier; and
                  her face was near the roof of the passage. Presently she heard the murmur of many
                  voices, and a rumbling sound as of many feet passing overhead; then the report of
                  fire-arms. "O God!" she cried, "might not some one, can not some one, hear poor
                  dying Marzetta?—poor dying Marzetta! poor dying Marzetta!"
               A cry, a shout,—"I hear! courage!"—strikes upon her ear.
               "Once more!" the same voice says.
               "Poor Marzetta is dying!"
               "No, poor Marzetta! Haffed hears! Haffed is wounded; but Haffed will come!
                  Courage!" Marzetta heard no more, but fainted from the fullness of her heart, from
                  feebleness, from hope, fear, and love.
               But how? where? Haffed struggled to rise, to go; but his fractured leg prevented
                  him. He looked about him for help. At that moment the smuggler fortunately
                  discovered him, and ran to pick him up.
               "Do not move me hence one inch, my good friend," said Haffed, "till I have marked
                  the spot; for Marzetta cries to me from beneath it."
               "Marzetta! My dear sir, you must be mad."
               "No! By the living God! I heard her voice. Do, for Heaven's sake, aid me in saving
                  her!"
               The smuggler considered for a moment, and said with hopeful animation, "You may be
                  right. A passage, now choked with sand, led up from the sea-beach to the prison. I
                  found it in digging a way from my cellar, just outside the walls, to this wineshop
                  before which I am now standing. Indeed, she may be there,—escaped from his
                  clutches. Praise be to God if it prove so!"
               "Amen!" said Haffed. "But haste you: go to the passage at once, and leave me here
                  lying on the ground to encourage her with the news that friends are seeking
                  her."
               Haffed lay upon the ground, heedless of a wound that was still bleeding furiously;
                  and occasionally, when no one was near, he would cry out, "Courage! friends come!"
                  Then he would sometimes hear a faint moan that made the tears gush from his eyes,
                  and hush his voice with sobs.
               The smuggler ran into the wine-shop before which they had been conversing,
                  descended to the cellar, hauled down a double tier of old casks, removed a little
                  earth, opened a trap-door, descended a few steps, then rushed along, crying out,
                  "Marzetta, Marzetta!" He had hardly proceeded ten steps, ere a moan, as of one
                  dying, reached his ears. He stopped, and found that he was before the old passage
                  he had himself filled up. He sprang toward it, and like a tiger tore away the
                  loose earth with his hands, shouting all the time, "I come, Marzetta! Courage! I
                  am near you! You shall be saved!" Occasionally he thought he could distinguish a
                  faint sound of hope. This gave him the strength of a Hercules; and he struggled on
                  with only his hands, clutching dirt and stones, and hurling them behind him,
                  plunging forward as if to devour the barrier, while huge drops of perspiration
                  rolled down his face. By and by he
                  imagined he heard breathing as of one asleep, then the soft moan of a child
                  resigning itself to slumber for the night. He had, however, no time to listen, but
                  tugged at the huge pile, till, oh joy! he touched a delicate hand still warm with
                  life. He grasped it firmly, and did not resign it, lest the gentle one should lose
                  hope, and die in the moment of release. He grasped it firmly with one hand, and
                  worked with the other till he could draw the body through the aperture. Oh, how
                  full of inexpressible bliss was that little period of time!
               "Saved, saved!" he then shouted; and Haffed heard the joyful sound, but was now
                  too faint and feeble himself to move, and soon became insensible.
               The smuggler did not return by the way he went; for the shop above was full of
                  men, and there was no apartment in which to conceal his precious burden: so he
                  hurried off in the other direction, and, before many minutes had elapsed, placed
                  her on a nice couch in the quiet room of his own good housekeeper, and began that
                  round of gentle and untiring efforts which soon restored the delirious rescued one
                  to herself again.
               What struggles, however, the poor young girl appeared to be passing through, when
                  her mind, which had been ingulfed in the dark waters of despair, was rising up to
                  the clear light of reason, and perceptions of friendship and love! She often
                  pronounced the name of Sappho; then, with distorted face and clinched fingers,
                  seemed to be striving to drag her up above the boundaries of a dreadful death or
                  dire despondency; then she appeared to be clasping her in her arms, and sinking
                  with her, with a shriek of horror, into the depths of a bottomless abyss. When she
                  had nearly, if not fully, regained all her intellectual powers, she asked for a
                  coral cross, as if to assure herself she had not been dreaming. The old
                  housekeeper brought it to her, saying that she had found it in her bosom when
                  undressing her.
               "Did you not recognize it?" said Marzetta, pressing it to her lips.
               "I knew that I had seen it before; but I could not say where," replied the aged
                  dame. "But now—bless me! now I remember, it was our poor lost darling's"—But so
                  overcome was she, that she could not utter the name, but buried her face in her
                  apron.
               The smuggler, turning as he stood at the foot of the bed, discovered the subject
                  of Marzetta's inquiry. He slowly stretched out his hand as tears gathered in his
                  eyes, took the cross, and, kissing it warmly, said,—
               "She too, then, is dead!"
               "You have divined rightly," responded Marzetta with trembling lips.
               "You found her dying, or dead?"
               "Dead! in the dungeon I came through. Dying alone of cold and starvation,—her
                  meager hands, her thin cheeks, telling the dreadful tale." And here a new outburst
                  of grief checked further explanation.
               "God's will be done!" said the smuggler solemnly. "Heaven knows, I would have
                  given my life to save hers; but all efforts now are useless. I feel, however,
                  almost sure that the murderer will not escape the spies of the Federati, and that
                  he will yet be brought to justice.
               
               "But good heavens!" continued he, "while I have been faithful to one, I have
                  cruelly neglected another; and he, too, the very youth to whom we are indebted for
                  our little sylphide's salvation! I will go now, and endeavor by all possible
                  means, if not too late, to atone for my seeming heartlessness."
               Marzetta was not anxious to detain him: she had, in fact, been on the point of
                  asking him to go and learn all the particulars concerning the young man's wound,
                  of which he had thus far said little or nothing, leaving her to infer that it was
                  not serious; but she felt a sort of delicacy about it, though she willingly
                  acknowledged to herself, that, had it not been for him, she must have miserably
                  perished.
               The smuggler did now, indeed, hurry away with all speed and anxiety, and made
                  inquiries concerning Haffed in the neighborhood where he had left him. Learning
                  nothing satisfactory there, he proceeded to the palace of the Turkish ambassador,
                  where he found the youthful hero safe, and had the pleasure of informing him of
                  Marzetta's favorable condition, and hopes of speedy recovery. Haffed was, of
                  course, grateful and overjoyed; and Marzetta was no less so, when the smuggler,
                  returning, brought back to her the glad news that her lover was doing well. But,
                  if he repeated the conversation once, he probably did a dozen times; for the young
                  girl put her questions in so many and in such diverse forms, that a repetition of
                  what had been said was inevitable. She then pored over every word, examined it in
                  all its significations, and extracted from it every particle of sweets it
                  contained.
               "Did Haffed say he thought of me when he fell?"
               "Yes: his first thought was of you."
               "When he fainted, did he still think of me?"
               "Yes: his thoughts appear to have been altogether about you."
               "Had he no mother, no sister, to give one thought to?"
               "He spoke as though no other earthly being entered his brain."
               "It is strange Lindahara did not engross his mind. Did he not mention her?"
               "He did not; though she was evidently his nurse, but went out when I came."
               "Did he look after her, ask her to stay, or call her back?"
               "He did not, but rather seemed glad that we were left alone to talk about
                  you."
               Thus Marzetta questioned and was answered by the patient smuggler, and grew
                  happier at every new revelation.
               It appears that it was long after midnight ere the janizary of the Turkish
                  ambassador, who went out in search of Haffed, discovered him lying on the ground
                  where he fell when wounded by the king's soldiers. With the assistance of some
                  fishermen, he bore him to his home; and it was a week or so before he was able to
                  leave his bed.
               If two or three or four were grieved by this sad mishap to Haffed, there was one
                  who was made intensely happy by it. Lindahara had him now all to herself. She
                  would allow no other to dress his wound, prepare his medicines, or bring him even
                     a cup of water. Night and day she
                  tended him, watched and fanned him while asleep, hung over him when awake, and
                  almost anticipated every wish or whim that swayed him from hour to hour.
               Could Haffed be indifferent to such unwearied attentions? to one of such luscious
                  beauty as constantly hovered about him, courting back his wayward thoughts,
                  seeking to make him talk of herself and their childhood-home, instead of dreaming
                  of a little Christian elf that had floated, and was still floating, like a
                  butterfly before his troubled vision? Alas! by what sane method, by what logical
                  rules, are human affections governed? If for a moment he threw his arms about her
                  beautiful neck, kissed her, and called her a masterpiece of loveliness, he had not
                  half the heart in it he had when he kissed the border of the scarf that floated
                  from Marzetta's shoulders on the night of the ball, or would have had in kneeling
                  where her dainty feet had trod. Such are the freaks and fallacies of love!
               One day, when Haffed persisted in talking of Marzetta, Lindahara wept bitterly,
                  and bathed his hand, which she held in her own, with kisses and tears. At last she
                  told him that Marzetta, on a certain morning, had promised sacredly to try and
                  forget him, and give him up entirely, if she would use her influence with the
                  ambassador in obtaining his adherence to the cause of the Federati.
               Haffed turned his head, and looked at her with the utmost wonder and incredulity.
                  Lindahara was frightened at what she had done, and trembled lest she had
                  sacrificed his love for ever.
               Unexpectedly to himself, if not to the beautiful Circassian, Haffed had for her at
                  that moment—and perhaps for the first time—a feeling of the tenderest sympathy.
                  He, however, regretted that she loved him; but he could no longer wound the
                  feelings of one whose heart beat solely for him. He drew her towards him, and
                  promised her solemnly, that, though fate might compel him to marry another, even
                  by Christian contract, he would always love her as a dear, dear sister.
               "To the decrees of Fate all the faithful must bow," said Lindahara, with an air of
                  humble submissiveness such as few exhibit save the faithful Mohammedan; and she
                  clasped her white arms about him, and wept again like a weary child. But she had,
                  in reality, been comforted by the words and acts of her beloved; and her tears
                  were now rather of joy than sorrow.
               Haffed meant all he, said; but his thoughts instinctively turned to Marzetta; and
                  he was more anxious than ever to be well, that he might learn from her own lips
                  how far she had kept her promise made to a rival, the favorite slave, the
                  Circassian beauty, his adopted sister. Time, however, to him, dragged his leaden
                  limbs along, and seemed hatefully decrepit; while, to his fair nurse, days and
                  weeks flew with terrifying rapidity; and, as hours brightened around Haffed,
                  shadows fell more heavily upon her, till at last a sort of perpetual night
                  enveloped all her reveries.
               In the mean time, the Princess Yermoloffski had been sick at heart. For nearly the
                  whole of the first day following the émeute, in
                  such a disturbed state was every thing
                  throughout the city, that she saw nothing of Haffed, and heard not a word
                  concerning the marvelous Marzetta. Toward evening, a messenger brought her the
                  news that Haffed had been wounded, but was out of all danger; that Marzetta had
                  been rescued, but was still very ill at the smuggler's. With characteristic
                  kindness, she ordered her carriage, and drove at once to see La Sylphide, to offer
                  her all the comfort and consolation in her power, and a home at her own palace;
                  but she found that the poor girl did not yet fully recognize her, though there
                  seemed to pass over her countenance a pleasant smile whenever the name
                  Yermoloffski was mentioned: it was also evident that she once attempted to put out
                  her hand to welcome the friendly visitor, but let it fall in forgetfulness and
                  sleep.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               KATHLEEN ILL WHILE MARZETTA IS INCARCERATED.—SHE SUSPECTS MARZETTA
                  TO BE NEARLY RELATED TO HER.—JOSEPH ANNOUNCES HIMSELF.—MOURNING FOR SINS.—JOY IN
                  THE MOMENT OF DISSOLUTION.
               WHILE a struggle for life was going on in one of the dark, sunless, underground
                  galleries of the old prison-house, there was another in a light, gorgeously-draped
                  apartment in the marble palace in Strada Balbi, "at the head of the first flight
                  of stairs, to the right;" but it was no less sunless and bitter. A downy couch,
                  with rich pink satin and costly lace curtains looped back with golden cords and
                  tassels, was no opiate to the perturbed, disquieted spirit of its fair occupant;
                  for she was wrestling with a secret grief which she dare not, could not, reveal to
                  any one (save on a death-bed to a confessor), and with sorrows of which the world
                  was already cognizant. Estates, titles, power, she would now joyfully forego if
                  she could but recall Fiesco and Marzetta, return to the quiet cottage she
                  inhabited in England when first married, and shut out the rest of all earth's creatures. But it was now too late:
                  the fiat had gone forth. The great pen of destiny had given the final period to
                  her earthly career; and death, judgment, and eternity alone awaited her.
               But who in all that gay "city of palaces" could have been so conversant with her
                  history as to be able to throw such a deadly shaft into her soul's sanctuary? The
                  note she had received on that fatal evening bore the weighty signature of Sir
                  James, the British ambassador; and though it was couched in friendly and
                  respectful terms, and left room for doubt, and a possible way of escape from the
                  conclusions at which he had arrived, there was so much truth, so much
                  circumstantial evidence adduced to sustain them, that acquiescence was nearly
                  inevitable.
               It would appear, to one not knowing all the merits and demerits of the case, that
                  Sir James had shown an unwarrantable cruelty by an explanation of affairs that
                  might have been left in obscurity; but such was not the fact. It was an onerous,
                  ungrateful task: but it was due to the lady herself, and still more to another,—to
                  Marzetta, whose claims could not in justice be overlooked; while a third, and even
                  government itself, had an interest of no little moment to be consulted. If the
                  blow should prove fatal to one, it might be the salvation of another not less
                  worthy, and certainly not less innocent. Certain infamous schemes planned by the
                  prime-minister might also be frustrated (one assuredly would have been if the
                  ambassador's note had reached Kathleen in due season); for Sir James had obtained,
                  in his own peculiar way, very important information respecting Gonzalvo's
                  intentions.
               The portrait which the friar received from Gonzalvo had caused him to make some
                  inquiries that had led to astounding results. He had occasion to consult the
                  British ambassador concerning it, and the latter, in turn, to consult the friar
                  about that and many other things. Other minor threads were gradually drawn into
                  the gathering work, till the web was complete in the hands of Sir James.
               Friar Jos had walked humbly, and worked diligently in the fields of his great
                  Master; but he now seemed still more humble, and felt that there lay before him
                  new and important tasks and obligations such as he had never dreamed would devolve
                  upon him: he therefore earnestly implored guidance, wisdom, and support from
                  above, that he might do his duty faithfully. Beloved and trusted by all who knew
                  him, his labors were thus rendered more easy and agreeable. Children clung to him
                  wherever he visited; and there was but one person in the whole town who feared
                  him: that was the prime-minister.
               Hardly had Friar Jos recovered from the first shock the ambassador's declarations
                  had caused him, ere he was summoned to the bedside of the dying Kathleen. Did she
                  know, or for a moment imagine, who he was? His name and deeds were familiar to
                  her; but she had possibly never seen him in Genoa but once,—on the evening when he
                  had been told by Sir James to warn her to hasten home. Indeed, however familiar
                  she might have been with his face and general appearance, when, as the young
                  botanist, she spurned him, and made him resolve thenceforth to be a religious
                  recluse, slight was the probability, that in the shaved crown, the long, coarse, brown robe, and the unsandaled
                  feet, would any resemblance ever be observed. On his part, though he had often
                  heard of the leader of the Federati and also of the "beautiful unknown," he had
                  never by any chance met them; nor had any thing transpired or come to his ears,
                  till his late interview with the British ambassador, that could associate either
                  of them with his native land, or suggest that the interesting stranger which the
                  distinguished Italian had recently brought to that city might possibly have been
                  known to him in years long gone by. When, therefore, he was called upon to visit
                  Madame Felisquetto on a bed of sickness, it was with such conflicting emotions as
                  he had never before experienced. Sir James's words were still in his ear; the
                  truths Sir James had brought to light were twining about his heart.
               Kathleen had a vigorous constitution; and hence the fever took a more decided hold
                  upon her, running an active career in a few days, inducing delirium, and bringing
                  her to the borders of the grave. In those moments of mental aberration, she would
                  rave of an innocent yet maddening indiscretion; of a demoniac sylvan or satyr that
                  haunted the wood and walks of her father's estate; of a beautiful star that burned
                  on her breast for a moment, and then went out; then of a blissful dream,—becoming
                  blind, and walking with bare feet over a flowery mead, guided by the gentle hand
                  of one who loved her; then embarking, losing her self-control, and finally
                  perishing down among the long grass, the shells, and slimy stones. When returning
                  from these to a seeming consciousness ness of her real condition, she had a
                  conviction that she had justly been abandoned by all the world: hence her mind
                  remained overburdened with gloom, and all her words were breathings of
                  despondency.
               The friar finally came, as he had been requested to do; and, when he entered the
                  sick-room, it was with the look and air of one who wished he could, by God's
                  decree, sink into the earth. He, however, approached the bed, and, humbly
                  kneeling, took the hand that had been left uncovered; but Kathleen buried her face
                  in the pillow, and sobbed audibly. The friar then, with great solemnity and
                  heartfelt reverence, asked God to bless and comfort the sufferer, and sustain her
                  till she had made her peace with Heaven and was prepared to yield up joyfully her
                  spirit to a just and good Creator. With an eloquence, a pathos, a touching
                  sincerity, such as she had never before heard, his soul was lifted to the pure
                  Fountain of life and light, till it would seem as if the very angels must weep
                  were his supplications unanswered.
               Kathleen felt greatly comforted, and said, "I did well to send for you; though I
                  thought I should not dare to look upon one so holy. I had heard of your great
                  piety, goodness, benevolence; and I longed to confess my sins to you, and learn
                  what I must do to be saved: but I feared, I feared being despised; I feared you
                  could give me no hope of heaven."
               "Sister,—allow me thus to call you in this solemn hour of sorrow,—no child of
                  mortality ever walked this earth with a purer or more guileless heart than yours.
                  I have known you from childhood; and the only sin with which you feel your
                  conscience burdened rests upon my head."
               
               "Joseph!" gasped Kathleen, burying her face more deeply in the pillow.
               "Even so, and for seventeen long years,—morning, noon, and night,—I have prayed
                  for your happiness and prosperity; and, by a life devoted to doing good, I have
                  striven to obliterate the shame of the follies of my youth."
               "Joseph, our relative positions are now changed," said Kathleen as soon as she was
                  sufficiently composed; "and it is for you now to spurn and despise me."
               "Heaven forbid!" responded the friar.
               "But, Joseph, you do not know what a dreadful, fiendish act I have been guilty of
                  within the last few days. You can not divine how a creature whose heart you have
                  ever deemed so pure and sinless could stain it with a crime that hardly has any
                  parallel in the annals of infamy. I told a cruel, perhaps a murderous falsehood,
                  to surrender an innocent child, a lovely, harmless girl, to a base villain,
                  because he had aided me in my worldly schemes; and yet, while I look at it in all
                  its blackness, and even believe what Sir James imagines to be the truth, my
                  eyeballs burn in my head, but refuse to shed a tear."
               "Who may the child be?" asked the friar in intense trepidation.
               "No other than the guileless little fish-girl, whom everybody seems to love, and
                  who, Sir James says, is probably my"—
               "Marzetta?" exclaimed the friar. "O my God, my God!" and he bowed his manly head
                  upon the bed, while his soul was torn with unutterable anguish guish. After a
                  while, he bent over Kathleen, and whispered in her ear, "Our child!—the one you
                  hid from yourself and the world because you hated our marriage!"
               "Can Heaven have any mercy on such a wretch?" groaned the poor woman; and she fell
                  at once into one of her fits of raving, and went over again the bitter memories of
                  her life.
               The friar now called in the servants, and sent for a physician. In the mean time,
                  all the usual remedies were applied to allay her sufferings. By and by she became
                  calm; and, finding the friar near her bed, she asked him to pray for her
                  again,—pray that she might be spared to make some reparation for her great guilt.
                  "But," she continued, "my hours are numbered; for this struggle can not long
                  continue." Kathleen was now, indeed, so utterly exhausted, it would appear, that,
                  with another paroxysm, she must pass into the world of spirits.
               "Perhaps she lives, perhaps Heaven will protect so angelic a creature," said the
                  friar, talking to himself. Then, addressing Kathleen, he continued:—
               "You spoke of reparation. I know of nothing you can now do for her, if alive, but
                  to bestow upon her any estate or title you may have at your command; but be
                  assured they can add nothing to that genuine worth for which she is everywhere
                  esteemed. She may make use of them to aid a noble cause; but that will be all for
                  which she will prize them."
               "Heaven be praised if I can do aught to make her think of me with some degree of
                  affection, or at least charitably, and not with utter abhorrence! Hasten for a notary instantly," said she,
                  addressing a servant: "bring him at once, and have all the legal forms duly
                  observed, that my dear child may know that in death I did love her, though in life
                  I had been false to her, and perhaps fatally cruel, to save my vanity. Hasten; for
                  my strength and reason are fast deserting me. Heaven spare me a "while! Heaven
                  spare poor Marzetta!"
               The servant addressed hurried away. In half an hour he returned with a notary and
                  his clerk, who at once proceeded to make such disposition of Madame Fiesco's new
                  acquisitions in favor of La Sylphide as the friar desired. When all was completed
                  in due form, the necessary signatures and seals appended, the sick woman appeared
                  to enjoy a momentary gleam of pleasure, and said faintly,—
               "If I could thus divest my mind of its burden of guilt, how calmly, cheerfully,
                  could I resign my poor deluded spirit to God who gave it!"
               "Repenting, and asking forgiveness," said the friar, "is all that now remains for
                  you to do."
               "Never till Fiesco proved false to me did I ever dream of or wish ill to any human
                  being. If I erred in my less mature years, it was from a want of proper education,
                  of judicious knowledge, or of native strength of character. What I have since done
                  has been, alas! with too much knowledge, with forethought and determination; but
                  to this I was driven by the cruel treachery and neglect of my adored husband,
                  whose worshiping slave I willingly was. Indeed, my faith and love were all so pure
                  and unsuspicious, that the shaft he threw came home with double force."
               As she now appeared much exhausted, Joseph urged her to devote herself to
                  preparations for the great future.
               "I must tell you all" said she; and here she narrated the events of the evening of
                  the ball.
               "How supremely fiendish have been his schemes!" exclaimed the friar.
               "Fiesco once loved me," said the deluded woman with quivering lip.
               "I meant Gonzalvo," replied the friar. "Fiesco—that noble soul!—always loved,
                  always will love you, and fondly cherish your memory to the latest day of his
                  life."
               "How can you say that?" said Kathleen, striving to raise herself on her elbow as
                  if she would get up and go to her beloved husband.
               "Gonzalvo poisoned your mind against him, and prepared that harmless interview
                  under the arch of Aqua Sola to substantiate his falsehoods. I have heard this from
                  La Spinosa,—the very lady you saw there,—since she learned that it was this same
                  prime-minister who betrayed her into a private marriage with a man whom she had
                  never seen."
               "O Dios mio!"—"My God, my God!"—groaned out the
                  poor dying Kathleen. "Another blow upon this poor heart!" and she fell back in a
                  swoon, with all the appearance of death. When she awoke again, it was only to rave
                  about her lost Fiesco and her child, and strive to rise to go to them; exclaiming
                  with such anguish in her tones that she was coming to throw herself at their feet,
                  that a heart of adamant would have been melted by them.
               
               The friar did not for a moment quit the poor maniac's bedside, and, when there
                  were any intervals of returning reason, soothed and comforted her with all the
                  consolations his religion, his faith, hope, and charity, could command. He
                  particularly dwelt upon the goodness of her Creator. He assured her that God would
                  regard the character of her heart, the motives influencing her conduct, rather
                  than abstract actions. This was consolation indeed; for she was sure her heart had
                  ever been loving, kind, generous in its every impulse, and that no evil act had in
                  any instance received its support,—not even when she abandoned her child to
                  strangers, nor when, driven by Fiesco's supposed misconduct, she had taken some
                  devious steps for revenge, and to gain a lofty and secure position over one that
                  was made to appear more than equivocal.
               "Marzetta is saved!" shouted a hasty messenger.
               Kathleen threw her clasped hands heavenward;and, as a sweet smile passed over her
                  face, she herself passed away over the boundary of the unknown world.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               NEW HOPE FOR THE LIBERALS.—DIPLOMATIC COURTESY.—BY WHOM, AND WHY,
                  MARZETTA WAS LOVED.—GONZALVO IN A QUANDARY.—A GREAT MISTAKE THAT CAN NOT BE
                  RECTIFIED.—THE KING A MOURNER FOR KATHLEEN
               THE British ambassador, for some new favor desired of Austria, or for other
                  reasons best known to himself, had recently been disposed to aid Prince Metternich
                  in his schemes for the acquisition of Liguria: he therefore requested the friar to
                  see, when visiting the duchess, Madame Felisquetto, that a will was made, which,
                  in case of her demise, would secure to Marzetta the newly-acquired estate. (We
                  have just seen that the wish was complied with.) Marzetta, he knew, would be
                  influenced by his counsels, especially if he could assure her of his support of
                  the cause of the Liberal party; and hence he was enabled almost positively to
                  state to the Austrian, that the long-disputed territory, this shuttle-cock between
                  the two nations, should revert to his government.
               This position of things brought both Sir James and Prince Metternich more or less under Marzetta's
                  thumb, notwithstanding any control either of them might imagine he possessed over
                  her.
               Through the influence of wives or favorites,—for thus affairs were then
                  directed,—several more of the ambassadors had previously given in their adhesion
                  to Marzetta's plans; and now, as all had been made aware of Gonzalvo's perfidy,
                  they were the more ready to put in practice what had received their approval. The
                  Russian ambassador was particularly zealous, and brought to a council of these
                  foreign representatives information (obtained he did not say how, but by Madame
                  Yermoloffski from Marzetta herself) which caused them to address a petition to the
                  king, praying for the recall of Signor Fiesco Felisquetto, and that he might be
                  made prime-minister.
               Aside from all national and individual interests which might in general be
                  actuating these worthy personages, there was one thing of which they all felt
                  sure, and which was presented prominently to his Majesty; viz., that the
                  tranquillity of the kingdom depended on a compliance with their prayer.
               The king had the good sense to see that the ambassadors were right; and, though he
                  was strenuously opposed by the clergy, they were silenced when they became
                  thoroughly conversant with the real character of Gonzalvo; for it was the Church
                  party that had placed and kept him in power against the wishes and better judgment
                  of Victor Emanuel I. When, however, they saw that public opposition was no longer
                  commendable, or rather available, they acquiesced quiesced with a good grace,
                  apparently, and concluded among themselves to bide their time.
               As soon as it was known in town that Madame Felisquetto had departed this life,
                  the Austrian ambassador went to call on the new and youthful duchess, the ever
                  gentle sylphide, in the humble cottage of the smuggler; and, though she was too
                  ill to receive such visitors, she caused him to be assured, that as soon as he
                  could secure the return of Signor Fiesco, and his appointment to the office made
                  vacant by the flight of Gonzalvo, she would resign to him all right and title to
                  the property which had been the cause of so much ill feeling, contention, and
                  scandal. She felt, that, by doing this, she gave up only a very small personal
                  advantage for the good of many; for, if Fiesco could be made prime-minister, how
                  different would be the condition of all classes, but more especially the poor!
               It was not long after the departure of Prince Metternich from the smuggler's
                  before Sir James alighted at the same humble abode. He learned what had been told
                  to the preceding visitor, and was satisfied that all would be well if (and he
                  found it to his interest to have it so) Prince Metternich could obtain Liguria,
                  and Fiesco could be prime-minister.
               None were more deeply interested in the health and prosperity of La Sylphide, none
                  more ardently desired the fulfilment of her wishes,—so far as known to them,—than
                  the Prince and Princess Yermoloffski. Daily their carriage was at the smuggler's
                  door, and many were the delicacies it brought to the gentle invalid.
               
               Semi-daily messages came from the Turkish ambassador's palace; for there were two
                  there also who had deep but opposite and conflicting interests in the little
                  fish-girl. Could Haffed for a moment think of losing her? Could Lindahara give up
                  Haffed to another? So long as he did not suffer much, the fair Circassian hoped he
                  would remain for ever where he was, and she alone for ever attending him. But
                  convalescence would come; short walks would follow; then longer and longer, till
                  some days hardly found him at home at all. Lindahara was then sure he passed the
                  time with the little elf of whom he had so often dreamed, and talked, thus
                  dreaming, while ill and under her care; and she became so melancholy and
                  miserable, that the ambassador began to fear that she was dying of
                  consumption.
               La Spinosa in her heart loved La Sylphide; but in her brain the fairy creature was
                  associated with her misfortunes, and hence, at times, was regarded with suspicion.
                  When, however, the whole villainy of Gonzalvo had been unmasked before her,
                  coupled with an account of the wicked imprisonment and almost miraculous escape of
                  the young girl, her affections were strongly fixed upon her. Now she was
                  constantly sending her notes of condolence, of congratulation, of sisterly
                  sympathy; and occasionally, when desiring to be particularly empressée, would inclose a portion of some old dried
                  bouquet, that, when fragrant and fresh, had been sent to her by Fiesco.
               The friar had no sooner left the death-bed of Kathleen, which had been a solemn
                  consolation to him in one of its aspects, but terribly harrowing, humiliating, and
                  saddening in another, than he set about a searching investigation of all the
                  circumstances that pertained to Marzetta's disappearance; for he had not believed
                  the announcement that had so happily come to smooth the dying pillow of his friend
                  in youth, for an hour his wife. Ere long, the glad tidings reached him, from one
                  whose veracity he could not doubt, that La Sylphide had indeed been rescued,
                  saved. In the ecstasy of his joy, he turned to hasten back to impart to Kathleen
                  the blissful certainty, when he suddenly recollected that she was dead. He reeled,
                  and would have fallen upon the walk, had not a passer-by, who had all reverence
                  for the monastic garb, sustained him. How could he appropriate to himself,
                  support, and enjoy alone, all this beatitude, with no Kathleen to share
                  it?—Kathleen, who would have given worlds to look on that sweet face once
                  more.
               When sufficiently recovered, the friar went to his convent; and there through the
                  livelong night, beneath the beautiful picture of the Magdalen, he knelt, and bowed
                  his head to the earth, praying and weeping, and pleading for Heaven's mercy on his
                  own soul and Kathleen's. Was she happy now? This was a question that overwhelmed
                  him with solicitude. At times, his own spirit seemed lifted up with sweet
                  assurance that hers had found a peaceful resting-place whence she could look down
                  and see the purity of his heart, and the good he aimed at in all his actions; then
                  he thought it possible that she had not really repented, or regretted those acts
                  of her life which hung so heavily over her in the last days of her existence. At
                  such moments, one would have thought him bordering dering on insanity, and that the silver cord of
                  life could not long remain unbroken. He was indeed wrestling with Heaven for a
                  blessing,—that comfort which the good feel when the angel-spheres seem open to
                  their inner vision.
               Whatever might betide the friar, whatever good or bad fortune might accrue to him,
                  he was unalterably fixed in his determination to serve God. In this he felt it
                  would be both his duty and pleasure to protect, support, and comfort the beloved,
                  the good Marzetta, whenever opportunity might offer, so long as life was spared
                  him by his heavenly Father. But he was now more than ever conscious that he was
                  doomed to bear a secret thorn in his side, a coal of fire upon his brain. His vows
                  compelled him to appear before men more perfect than he really was. It was the
                  chain he loathed. It ate into his flesh; yet he was forced to hug it to his bosom,
                  and lie down with it at night: the rust he tried to fret off with his tears.
               La Napolitana was interested in Marzetta's welfare, in part, on account of the
                  prince, her good friend and protector. She also was fond of her for the piquant
                  vivacity of her manners and conversation, as well as for her naïve and earnest espousal of the cause of the poor,
                  the lowly, the oppressed, in opposition to the powerful, lordly priesthood, and
                  minor tools of the government. And her interest in the little fish-girl did not
                  cease when she, Marzetta, passed into a somewhat different sphere of action; for
                  her gentle sincerity, truthfulness, active benevolence, never forsook her.
               The Turkish ambassador did not overlook the little heroine of the day; for
                  Lindahara often mentioned her, and persuaded him to espouse the side of the
                  Federati, partly on her account. The arguments used may not have been politically
                  potent; but, as there was nothing to be gained by an adherence to the opposition,
                  an easy assent was obtained for the Liberals.
               The reason why the beautiful Circassian was active in this matter had its origin,
                  principally, in her own imprudence; for she told Marzetta, on that day when she
                  confessed her love for Haffed, of their true relationship. This gave her rival the
                  mastery; for, if Marzetta should take offence at the ambassador's partiality for
                  the priestly rule, she might reveal to him the secret she had obtained, and thus
                  cause him to lose the favorable consideration with which he had ever regarded her,
                  and bring her, perhaps, to a state of degradation that would be wholly
                  unendurable. It was, therefore, of vital importance that La Sylphide should remain
                  on friendly terms, and feel assured that all possible influence was being used
                  with Mustafa Bey to secure his opposition to the Gonzalvo reign.
               Boppo loved Marzetta as his own child; and, when he learned that she had been
                  kidnapped, it was he who aroused the people to action, drove the prime-minister
                  from office, and the Jesuits from their colleges. But his knowledge and influence
                  were not sufficient to enable him to take advantage of the momentary ascendency
                  gained; and all had to fall back on a disorganized state of affairs, and wait and
                  hope for good out of the perturbed elements (worse could not come),—wait and hope for good emanating from
                  the influence of higher powers, acted upon by one of the mildest and humblest of
                  the gentler sex.
               Gonzalvo loved Marzetta as much as he was capable of loving any one: but his heart
                  had been doubly incrusted with selfishness; it distilled cruelty rather than
                  gentleness. His arteries throbbed with ambition; his veins were gorged with
                  mendacity; his nerves tingled with cupidity.
               Thus we see that there was hardly a prominent personage who was not either the
                  devoted friend or loving slave of our little foreign heroine.
               Of Gonzalvo, Marzetta had learned much from two different sources. One was the
                  gentle, dove-like Sappho, who seemed to have lived with the wing of night ever
                  hovering over her. The other is yet to speak for himself, in tones that will tear
                  away the mask of falsehood and deception behind which the arch-traitor had so long
                  duped the public.
               Gonzalvo knew that Marzetta had a clew to those secrets which it was absolutely
                  necessary for him should remain undivulged; but how she became possessed of them
                  was to him the profoundest mystery. He was, indeed, morally certain that no eye
                  but God's had witnessed his atrocious crimes: no other could have discovered the
                  sources whence, or followed the devious ways by which, he had obtained influence,
                  place, and power. But he who descends into the murky valley of crime knows not
                  what eye pierces its shadows; what ears the deep chinks in the rocks may develop;
                  what fingers lie in the brambles and scrawny twigs that hang from the cliffs, and
                  beset the path; what Cerberus dogs his steps.
               If it had been discovered, and he knew it, that he was a villain, and he could
                  have kept his place, it would have troubled him but little. He would have braved
                  the whole world together, and laughed at it, had he retained the power to wring
                  its neck; but, when both power and a good name sank beneath the execrations of an
                  enraged people, he felt it keenly, and began to reap the minimum portion of that
                  reward he so richly merited.
               When he seized upon Marzetta, it was his last desperate throw to sustain himself
                  where he was. It was desperate; for he had been assured by her that others besides
                  herself were cognizant of his infamous character, and that any injury to her at
                  his hands would bring upon his head the unstinted wrath of the Federati. He,
                  however, considered it possible, that, in her threats, there might be more bravado
                  than fixed intent founded on positive knowledge. He thought, that, by securing
                  her, he would at least remove a powerful witness and a bitter enemy should charges
                  of a serious nature ever be brought against him. Again: he feared, that, when he
                  silenced the innocent and harmless Sappho, he had crushed the wrong flower; for he
                  remembered Marzetta's exclamation, made in a moment of peril, "Manuellita lives!"
                  "One more victim then," he said to himself, "and I am, perhaps, safe. One more?
                  Pshaw! should a score stand between me and my reputation? What would Prince
                  Metternich say at such cowardice? Does not he as well as all other able
                  diplomatists look only at the end to be attained, regardless of the means? Would
                  not our amiable and most worthy sovereign declare war, and sacrifice a hundred thousand of his subjects, rather than have
                  his honor touched? And, when he has been on the point of doing so with Austria,
                  have I not set up barriers against it, and thus saved these men, and all the
                  misery their loss would have entailed upon widows and orphans? Why, then, may I
                  not sacrifice one or two, or even three, and yet feel that the balance is largely
                  in my favor?"
               Thus Gonzalvo, with this specious reasoning, strove to ease his not over-tender
                  conscience. Thus he argued with himself both before and after he had determined to
                  rid society of that little pest (to him), that he might lie down calmly at night,
                  and fear no thunderings at his chamber-door of either the executioner, or of the
                  angry and undeceived Genoese. When, however, he had accomplished his object, as he
                  thought, so far as Marzetta was concerned, he discovered his great mistake, and
                  would have given his right hand could he have retraced that one fatal step. How he
                  now strode his room, while harrowing, depressing thoughts furrowed his face! How
                  he now clinched his thin and nervous fingers into his bristling hair, and cursed
                  his mental imbecility! It was all too late. "Irrevocable, irrevocable!" he would
                  mutter to himself; then, after a pause, would exclaim, "In shame and disgrace to
                  depart from my place of power is preposterous! To fly before those plebeians whom
                  I have hated and trampled upon is doubly degrading! Thus to end the rôle of my ambition is damnable!"
               Gonzalvo, however, no longer thought of place and power when he heard the hostile
                  murmur of the citizens, as, like the sea lashed into a foam, they came surging up
                  around the palace-gate. Life became dearer to him than all else. His coward heart
                  sank within him; and in rags, on his knees, burrowing like a toad, he would thus,
                  if necessary, have made his escape to prolong his despicable existence.
               The king, as soon as he heard the first sound of the outbreak, fled to his
                  capital, Turino, leaving affairs in the hands of his ministers and the military;
                  and he was careful not to return till he was well assured that all danger had
                  passed. His astonishment, however, was great, when from time to time couriers
                  announced to him the developments made concerning the administration of Gonzalvo;
                  and he only wondered that his subjects had endured him so long. When he was
                  apprised of the death and unostentatious burial of Madame Fiesco, he was
                  profoundly moved. He went to his private library and shut himself in, and for days
                  refused admittance to any one but his confessor. Of Marzetta he heard unlimited
                  laudations, and was, in fact, not a little anxious to see one who was represented
                  as the most lovable, amiable, beautiful of her sex, and at the same time
                  controlling, and, almost like a Joan of Arc, leading the opposition; possessing by
                  her wonderful talents inimitable grace and accomplishments, and a power over all
                  the foreign ministers which made them perfectly her instruments in the support of
                  the cause of the Federati.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               A NEW VIEW OF LIFE.—LOVERS.—NEW RELATIONS.—A CIRCASSIAN
                  SLAVE.—IMPORTANT FACTS REVEALED.
               AS soon as Marzetta had recovered sufficiently to receive visitors, she wished to
                  see Haffed, to whom she was pleased to consider herself indebted for her life.
               The first meeting of these two lovers was one which imparted the intensest joy to
                  both. Words were hardly necessary. The young man entered the room with all that
                  deference which true affection inspires, approached the object of his soul's
                  longings with eager yet timid haste, extended one hand to grasp hers, and raised
                  the other as if he would clasp and hold her to his bosom. Marzetta received him
                  with her usual unstudied grace and simplicity of manner, adding the expression of
                  undisguised love and gratitude with which her heart was overflowing. She placed
                  her own delicate hand in his, laid her head upon his breast, and shed the first
                  tears of unalloyed, unstinted, inexpressible happiness of her whole life. In a few
                  moments she seated him at her side, but seemed to fear that this was not all
                  reality.
               "Why," she asked herself, "should the finer fibers of our being ever cease to
                  vibrate to such tender emotions? Perchance they may be those which are designed to
                  link us solely with the angels. Too delicate, perhaps, for the rough handlings of
                  crude humanity, they are only momentarily vouchsafed to give us a foretaste of
                  heaven."
               When one is young and gentle and guileless, how sunny and winning is every look!
                  how sinless every thought! how quick and tender are the sympathies! how pure all
                  the longings! how peaceful is every aspiration! how unsullying every expression!
                  How soothing, too, is the solicitude of youth! how confiding the trust! how full
                  of faith the future! Could any thing be more in harmony with heaven? And where but
                  there could all these sensitive strings find fitting termination and agreement?
                  Whoever maintains this union—the strings all bright and trembling—is justly called
                  angelic. But, alas! these gentle cords of love and harmony are too soon, too
                  often, laid aside to rest, to rust, to be forgotten, while new ones, linked with
                  sordid earth, invite the touch, enchain the ear, inthrall the mind, indurate the
                  soul, enslave the affections.
               Marzetta was entering upon a new phase of her existence. Every thing seemed more
                  sacred, pure, and lovely than heretofore: and she would fain have put the shoes
                  from off her feet; for she felt that she now stood on holy ground, at the very
                  portals of the sacred sanctuary of the Highest. Nor did any flaming sword forbid an entrance. Her beatitude,
                  however, being complete, she lingered where she was.
               "Blessed are the pure in heart." Haffed had found a veritable angel on the earth,
                  and her presence sanctified all that surrounded her. His first wish was that he
                  might possess her; the second, that he might be worthy of her, for he had
                  inherited a nobleness of character that would have done honor to the imperial
                  household itself.
               Though Marzetta had learned from the smuggler all the important facts regarding
                  the rising of the Liberals, and their success in part,—in part, as they had driven
                  Gonzalvo from power,—she nevertheless wished to hear, all the details of the
                  affair from Haffed, and more especially all that concerned his own exploits, his
                  wounds, his sufferings, his escape, his recovery.
               Haffed was only too happy to comply: but when he drew near to that scene where he
                  lay bleeding upon the ground, and heard that moan of despair which came up from
                  the caverned earth beneath, his voice was choked; the shock, the delirium, of that
                  hour, seemed to return upon him; and Marzetta permitted him to rest his
                  marble-like brow upon her polished shoulder, and cease the recital.
               It was now Marzetta's turn to go over the story of her betrayal (but, thank
                  Heaven! her high estimate of human nature was not destroyed by knowing that Madame
                  Fiesco had been cognizant of the crime), her inhuman incarceration, her lonely
                  agony in her long struggle for life, and her thrill of joy and immediate
                  unconsciousness when she heard Haffed's voice proclaiming claiming that she should
                  be saved. She thought, in that moment of bliss, that she had gone to a better
                  world, and that he was coming to her.
               Hours, that seemed but dreamy moments, thus passed away; but the sweeter and more
                  precious they were, the more Haffed regretted that he had ever experienced them.
                  He bemoaned his fate, and grieved that he had ever been born; for he began now to
                  be fully conscious of his real position,—that of esclavage, or servitude,—which he felt was incompatible with the
                  career a union with the beautiful Christian would necessitate.
               Haffed, like Lindahara, had been purchased. He was brought from a Caucasian home,
                  a hamlet of the mountains; the venerable Mustafa Bey, in the natural benevolence
                  of his character, having paid a large sum for one, to secure the happiness of the
                  other. Could Haffed obtain his master's consent to marry? and, if so, in what
                  relationship to him would his new bride stand? Must she become Mustafa's servant
                  also?
               These thoughts came pouring like icy water over Haffed's heart, and a death-like
                  chill seemed shivering all his nerves. Marzetta, wondering, looked up at him, and
                  felt a shadow fall upon her spirits as the melancholy expression of his beautiful
                  face set there its impress.
               "Do I offend you in any thing?" said she; and there dropped from her wreath of
                  bliss the first sweet flower.
               "In nothing save that you are too perfect for this impure world," replied
                  Haffed.
               
               "'To the pure, all things are pure,'" responded Marzetta.
               "Those words still more confirm me in my belief," said Haffed.
               "Because there are many, who from misfortune, from irreligious birth, bad
                  education, and worse circumstances, walk waywardly, and see no God or good in the
                  things around them, is it reasonable that none should appreciate them, and try and
                  grow in humble loveliness like the daisies in our meadows?"
               "Not that. But, when one sees an angel trail its wings in the dust, may he not,
                  should he not, grieve over it?" was Haffed's reply.
               "When it stoops to raise the low and groveling, and can shake its pinions white
                  again, let us joy in its mission," said Marzetta with a smile, as she thought how
                  sweet it was to do good. "But why," continued she, "this tone of despondency?"
               "I dare not tell you," responded Haffed. "I can only say that I have walked thus
                  far blindfolded, as it were; loving you madly, wildly, passionately, but never,
                  till now, seriously contemplating the consequences."
               "Look at the lilies of the field: think you they take thought for the morrow? Who
                  cares for them? May you not equally trust in Him?"
               "More of a true believer, more of a true fatalist, than even we of the high school
                  of fatalism," said Haffed.
               "If we can not rest in our faith, where should we look for repose?" replied
                  Marzetta.
               "The immaculate dewdrop, in its bright and laughing ing loveliness, confides
                  itself to the sun's rays, and is absorbed, as your sweet thoughts are into the
                  infinitude of heaven's perfections; but there are creatures that creep into the
                  earth at the approach of light, as many men, because their deeds are evil. You
                  have now no perception of any barrier between your pure aspirations and divine
                  anticipations; but, were you to walk with me the path of life, far away you might
                  be led from those templed hills to which your soul now looks, till not even their
                  domes and pinnacles could be discerned in the hazy distance."
               "But would you not come with me?" said Marzetta with an ingenuousness that seemed
                  angel-winged. "And, if it be that we wander in earth-paths for a time, need it be
                  so far away, that sounds of celestial harmony, the perfume of paradise, the rays
                  of God's love, can not reach us?"
               "My very first step, dear Marzetta," replied Haffed, "would be one of falsehood,
                  deception, ingratitude;" and for a while he pressed his hands upon his forehead,
                  and closed his eyes as if to shut out the light of the truth, while his heart was
                  torn with the conflict between love and duty. Could he, indeed, honorably leave
                  one to whom he not only belonged by right of purchase, but more by the fatherly
                  interest Mustafa Bey had always exhibited in his welfare? Situated as he was,
                  could he marry, and yet avoid the nominal, at least, enslavement of his
                  wife?—subject her to the caprice of a master as he had been subjected? Besides,
                  there was in the eyes the European a degradation in his position, to which he
                  dared not, could not, think of bringing so delicate, so divinely-endowed a creature as La Sylphide; though he
                  knew, that, in the Ottoman Empire, no avenue to greatness was closed against him,
                  and that by genuine worth he might yet himself become the sultan's
                  prime-minister.
               Marzetta was wholly unable to witness, unmoved, such sorrow; but she was ever as
                  hopeful and trusting as she was truthful and loving. "Come," said she, "confide in
                  me as in a sister: tell me the cause of your grief." And her tearful eyes, looking
                  up into his, pleaded eloquently her cause.
               "I was a fool, or was mad, to fall in love with you," said Haffed. "What could I
                  have expected from my position, my religion? Giving up my life for you, as I would
                  fain do if you desired it, would not be possessing you: possessing you without my
                  freedom, both religious and civil, might be even worse than death itself. Of this
                  I did not dream when I sought the first interview with you on board the ship;
                  when, all that evening at the ball, I pleaded my undying, my unconquerable love
                  for you; or when, at casual interviews, and in my various notes and messages to
                  you, I have tendered the homage of my whole heart,—all that reverential worship
                  which comes next to that which I owe to Allah, my Creator." And here the warm,
                  trembling hand which he had just taken in his own was pressed passionately to his
                  lips, and its taper fingers were bedewed with tears.
               "Was it madness to love one thus who thus loved you?" said Marzetta, gazing still
                  with her mild, humid eyes into his pallid face.
               "Were I worthy of you," responded Haffed, "had I been born in a Christian land, it
                  might not have been; but, as I am, I had no right to seek for a companion so far
                  removed from me in all things that make life valuable. Lindahara, or such as she,
                  should have been my choice. Then there would have existed no conflict of faith, of
                  nationality, of social position. Mustafa Bey would have given us his benediction
                  (had our antecedents and true relationship been known to and approved of by him);
                  and we should have each remained still his happy eulgies, or
                  submissive servants."
               "O Haffed! why did you mention that peerless Circassian? I tremble for fear you
                  have already pledged yourself to her. Tell me quickly, truly: if my life is
                  valuable to you, tell me if you are thus pledged." And her expression of agonizing
                  doubt made Haffed doubly wretched. "I am not jealous of her," she continued: "no;
                  I rather love her, because she is so ingenuous and lovely. I pity her because she
                  loves you, while she thinks your affections are bestowed on me. How should I feel
                  to see you daily walk before me, and know that I held no place in your heart?
                  Besides, I promised her I would try and forget you. I did try; but, the more I
                  strove to shut you out from my memory, the frailer grew the barriers which I
                  erected, till at last, amid their ruin, I found myself hopelessly insnared. She
                  will, I trust, forgive me. You must also forgive; for I see my doubt has wounded
                  you. I will not again do you such injustice. I will be ever to Lindahara as a
                  sister, and you must still be as a brother."
               "Why do you say as a brother?" inquired Haffed in a tone at once eager and
                  sad.
               
               "When Lindahara, in that moment of delirium almost, confessed to me how wildly
                  fervid her passion was for you, she was compelled to tell me you were not her
                  brother; and, more, she intrusted to me a mighty secret; and mighty it has been in
                  my hands, and is still so. But I fear she has done me an injustice. I fear she has
                  thought me ungenerous enough to betray her had she not acted vigorously in our
                  behalf. It is true, I pressed this upon her in requital for the promise I had made
                  concerning you; for while I longed to see her happy, and to remove that load which
                  burdened her brain almost, as I have said, to madness, I wished thousands of the
                  oppressed poor to be happy also. The cause of the Federati was dear to me: only
                  one object on earth was dearer." And Marzetta here timidly turned her gaze from
                  her lover's, leaned her head upon his shoulder, and for an instant was closely
                  pressed to his wildly-throbbing breast.
               "Forgive me," said Haffed, suddenly starting up. "Why should I plunge deeper into
                  this abyss, knowing, too, that I am dragging you with me? Farewell! If I have
                  power to endure this, courage to pass through the fiery ordeal," (and he lifted
                  his hands to heaven, and prayed, "God give me strength to sacrifice myself, and
                  not this dear idol of my soul!") "oh! I shall strive to be worthy of your love,
                  and, though far from you, to live in the thought that this sweet dream, this
                  heavenly episode in our existence, will sometimes kindly revisit your memory."
               "Must I, then, again dishonor you with a doubt, dear Haffed? Is Lindahara to shut
                  out from my soul all those rays of happiness in which it has basked since the
                  first day I saw you?" And, leaning forward, she grasped his hand in both of hers,
                  not only to prevent his departure, but, by their warm and earnest pressure, to
                  tell him of her sincerity and devotion. "Must I, then, believe," continued she,
                  "that that fair Circassian is to possess the one to whom I owe my life,—a life
                  priceless with him, but valueless without him? Must this heart then, lately so
                  full of unutterable bliss, be henceforth curtained round with night, and wear the
                  garb of mourning? O Haffed! speak to me. Thus humbly I plead with you." And she
                  fell upon her knees beside him; then, fainting, upon the floor.
               Marzetta had misjudged her strength: she was too ill to endure that terrible
                  conflict. Haffed gently, lovingly raised and placed her upon a sofa; then, by dint
                  of fanning, by cold water applied to her temples, by the aid of smelling-drops
                  found on the table, he restored her to consciousness: but she no longer seemed the
                  buoyant, hopeful creature he had found her.
               "Marzetta!" he exclaimed, "dear Marzetta! do you not know me?" But Marzetta's eyes
                  were turned towards heaven, while her lips moved as in prayer. "Dearest!"
                  continued Haffed, "say only that you hear me, and I will explain all, all, to
                  you!"
               Marzetta looked at him mournfully, but made no reply.
               "Haffed speaks to you, sweet angel! Haffed loves no one but you! Haffed is not
                  pledged to Lindahara! But, O God! Haffed is a slave: that is his only crime; the sole, the only cause of his
                  resolve to give you up."
               Marzetta smiled faintly on him, but again became unconscious, and thus remained
                  till medical aid could be summoned.
               As Lindahara had watched over Haffed, so Haffed now watched over Marzetta. Never
                  but once, till she was well, did he leave the smuggler's cottage: then it was only
                  to obtain permission from Mustafa Bey to remain away from home.
               During the relapse of the fair sylphide, and more particularly in the hours of
                  unquiet sleep at night, she talked about her imprisonment in the cold, dark
                  dungeon, and that Haffed would not come to save her. At such times, Haffed could
                  not repress his tears; and he would beg of the old housekeeper, who watched there
                  with him, to be permitted to awake her, that he might tell her he was really there
                  to die with or to save her. When fully awakened, finding Haffed bending over her,
                  Marzetta would regard him with a look of ineffable sweetness, and then, as if
                  consciously happy, repose for a while in enviable calmness.
               The doctor required that the utmost tranquillity should prevail in Marzetta's
                  apartment. All exciting subjects were, consequently, strictly avoided. Haffed, for
                  a number of days, did little else than hold one of the hands of the meek and
                  patient sufferer, to give her the constant assurance of his presence and unceasing
                  sympathy. One lovely evening, however, when the vine-clad slopes of the beautiful
                  city, its walls, domes, convents, and cottages, were all bathed in a flood of
                  golden light from a gorgeous Italian sunset, Marzetta gently drew her lover nearer
                  to her, and with a low and tremulous voice, as if still fearful that all was not
                  real, asked him if the sole reason for abandoning her, as he contemplated doing,
                  was that which he had given when believing her life imperiled; and, on being
                  assured in the most solemn and earnest manner that it was Allah's truth, she
                  repeated some facts obtained from Lindahara, that were as astounding to him as
                  would have been the resurrection of the dead, but filled him with unspeakable joy
                  and gratitude.
               "Haffed," she continued, "this is only a part of the good news I have to tell you;
                  but you must now pledge me your word that not a syllable of it shall pass your
                  lips till my consent is given. What is gladness to you will by and by be doubly
                  enhanced by participants whom you will learn to prize next to, if not even more
                  than, your own poor Marzetta. I, too, shall have a share in that pleasure. I must,
                  however, wait till I am entirely well before I can begin the task of unraveling
                  this mystery; for, though I seek the happiness of those who deserve it, I would
                  with equal solicitude strive to avoid making unhappy those who do not deserve
                  it."
               "To my boundless love and adoration," said Haffed, "I have now to add the
                  sentiment of gratitude; for, if you have felt indebted to me (though accidentally)
                  for your life, how much greater is my obligation to you for lifting into light my
                  soul's entombment!"
               
               Haffed now longed for the speedy restoration to health of his betrothed; but
                  Marzetta was too happy as she was to wish time away, and almost preferred
                  remaining ill, if Haffed could thus continue so near and so dear to her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               MARZETTA SHOWS ONE OF THE SOURCES OF POWER SHE HAS EXERCISED.—THE
                  PRINCESS YERMOLOFFSKI ALMOST REWARDED FOR YEARS OF ANGUISH.
               AS soon as Marzetta had sufficiently recovered her strength so as to be abroad
                  with safety, she called on the Princess Yermoloffski,—first to express her
                  gratitude for the many courtesies and civilities extended to her while ill, for
                  aiding in obtaining the order for the recall of Signor Fiesco, and the assurance
                  from the king that he should be the next prime-minister; secondly, to keep her
                  promise with the princess,—that promise which had made the latter her most humble
                  yet loving servant, and on the issue of which the princess's life seemed hanging.
                  But, as Marzetta had said, though she sought the happiness of some, she wished to
                  be equally solicitous about the unhappiness of others; and here now lay the
                  difficulty of her task. Nothing could be accomplished without revealing to the
                  Turkish ambassador the fact that there was no consanguinity between Haffed and
                  Lindahara. If of this deception which
                  had been practiced upon him he should be imprudently informed, he would doubtless
                  at once cause the extreme humiliation, if not something worse, of the fair, the
                  petted Circassian. Marzetta had therefore to exact, though with great reluctance,
                  a pledge from Madame Yermoloffski, and in behalf of her husband also, that there
                  should be no revelation made to Mustafa Bey concerning this strange affair till
                  they had received from him his sacred word that he would in no wise injure or
                  degrade the beautiful favorite on account of any thing they might communicate to
                  him.
               Prince Yermoloffski was a man of great influence and popularity among the
                  diplomats and representatives at the Sardinian court; and the princess could with
                  much confidence calculate on his success with the Turkish ambassador. Should he
                  fail, however, the princess herself would sue, even on her knees, if necessary;
                  and she knew the gentlemanly character of Mustafa Bey too well to believe that she
                  should sue in vain.
               When every thing had been so arranged that our little heroine felt confident that
                  she was going to do a great deal of good, and but little harm,—cause a vast amount
                  of happiness, and not much sorrow comparatively,—she went over the main features
                  of an event, which, at the time, was in part chronicled in the Russian journals in
                  this wise:—
               "Prince Yermoloffski, having been sent by the Emperor of Russia to take command of
                  the army of the Caucasus, proceeded on his long and uninteresting journey as far
                  as Vlaudicaucasse without accident or incident worth recording. Thence, however,
                  across the mountains to Tiflis (which is to serve as the future capital of New
                  Russia), the route, being one of countless difficulties and dangers, was not
                  likely to be traversed entirely adventureless by the most wary and prudent. The
                  road, the great military road, has just received its last and final touch in the
                  way of completion; and, though millions of rubles have been expended on it, it is
                  but a succession of break-neck acclivities and declivities, wild passes overhung
                  with towering rocks, and aerial ways running along the edges of unparapeted
                  ravines whose depths can hardly be penetrated by the naked eye. To free this from
                  marauding natives, Cossacks are constantly kept upon it, going from station to
                  station, well armed and watchful; but there is seldom a moment, night or day, when
                  some of the Circassians are not over-looking it from the peaks above, or prowling
                  along its borders, concealed either by rock or wood.
               "Schamyl is now the leader of the Caucasian brigands, and is considered the
                  boldest and most intrepid of those bold and hardy mountaineers; and when informed
                  by spies that the commander-in-chief of the Russian forces, and his family, were
                  on their way to Tiflis, he gathered a strong band of the Letzghini and others, and
                  awaited the approach of the enemy.
               "The prince, his lovely wife and child, and numerous attendants, moved forward
                  under a strong escort, and in two days had reached the heart of the Caucasus; and
                  not having seen, thus far, one single inhabitant of the country, concluded that
                  their reported hostility and treachery had been greatly exaggerated, and that there was, in reality, little
                  or no danger to be apprehended from them. The consequence was, that, when the
                  carriage that followed the prince and his wife lagged behind, no further notice
                  was taken of it. In one of these moments, however, when the Russian forces were
                  divided, and scattered along the route, Schamyl, who with his fierce warriors was
                  hovering like a vulture about his prey, ordered an attack; and, had the cliffs on
                  either hand descended upon the travelers, they would not have been more astonished
                  or more taken by surprise. The prince's forces rallied around him, however, and,
                  after a hard and bloody, struggle, beat off the assailants; but when they, the
                  Russians, returned to aid those in the rear, hardly one of them was found alive:
                  what was more, the carriage containing the prince's only child was empty; at
                  least, it had been rifled of every thing save the dead body of the child's
                  nurse.
               "No pursuit was undertaken or ordered. The Russian horses could not climb the
                  rugged, precipitous paths up which the Circassians readily escaped: could they
                  have done so, they never would have returned. Decimated as the escort had been,
                  the only safety for those who remained was in flight: hence every thing that could
                  encumber them was thrown away; and at a fearful speed they descended the southern
                  slopes of the Caucasus, nor thought of sleep nor repose till they reached the
                  Georgian town of Tiflis.
               "It was only after the princess had entered her new home that she was apprised of
                  her loss; that her darling boy was a prisoner, hopelessly a prisoner, among the
                  terrible Letzghini.
               "Those alone who have had stolen from them their first-born, their only and
                  dearly-beloved child, can know the quenchless sorrow which now fills the young
                  mother's heart. She has no voice, no words, for her grief; but at all hours, in
                  all places, the tears are rolling down her cheeks. Oftentimes, during the long,
                  dark hours of night, she will start up, thinking that she hears her little boy
                  calling her: she listens a while; then, remembering he is far away, bursts into
                  tears, and again buries her sleepless eyes in the pillow again to start up, and
                  again to return desolate-hearted as before.
               "Let us not linger over, the gloom that drapes every nook and corner of the
                  princess's trans-Caucasian habitation. Suffice it to say, that the event just
                  narrated has led to several fearful combats with the mountaineers; for it was one
                  of those blows which prompts the sufferer to brave all perils, seek danger, and
                  even covet death; and Prince Yermoloffski has suffered by this bereavement little
                  less than his youthful wife.
               "The Circassians, like the Arabs, undertake no regular warfare. They seek to make
                  a sudden and unexpected attack, but as suddenly retreat when meeting with much
                  opposition. When they descended upon the prince's escort, killed a number,
                  terrified the rest, took some arms and powder and one valuable captive, it was an
                  expedition of the most gratifying nature, and one that would for months and months
                  be the subject of conversation in every mountain-hamlet from the Black Sea to the
                  Caspian."
               Marzetta then related to the princess what she had obtained more particularly from Lindahara
                  herself.
               The little Yermoloffski was carried far into the interior,—to an almost
                  inaccessible dachra, or village, there to be reared by his
                  captor, who was his undisputed master, and who named him. Haffed Euldje,—Haffed
                  the Christian slave. At the earliest possible period, he was made to do all the
                  menial service of the household except such as devolved upon the women; but he was
                  also taught to manage a horse, the bow and arrow, and the Circassian knife, and
                  finally allowed to follow his master in his various expeditions against the
                  enemy.
               Though Haffed had great native ability, and succeeded admirably in all that he
                  undertook, he was rather distinguished for equestrian grace than the daring which
                  usually characterizes the mountain cavalier; was rather noted for the mischief
                  done with his large, tender blue eyes than with his yataghan,
                  or mkhieula; rather admired for his long flaxen curls than for
                  his strength at the bow-string. He became, in fact, a sort of pet slave, and an
                  immense favorite with all the dames and damsels of the dachra.
               
               Sixteen years had passed away in captivity, and Haffed had now arrived at the age
                  of eighteen: and, as his master was often receiving strange hints (though from
                  envious and interested parties) of a scandalous nature concerning him,—sometimes,
                  he surmised, pertaining to his own household,—he resolved to get rid of him; to
                  send him to Constantinople, and sell him When this was noised abroad, there were
                  many gentle cheeks in the village bedewed with tears. Some of the young women in
                  an indirect way sought the price demanded for the beautiful youth,—thinking,
                  perhaps, that some fairy would have compassion on them, and drop the sum slyly
                  into their laps; but no fairy came, and Haffed could not be retained among
                  them.
               At this juncture of affairs, Lindahara, the fame of whose charms and transcendent
                  loveliness and extended over the whole country, contrived the following plan to
                  secure him, in a measure, to herself; and when it is known that the first step she
                  was to take in the affair was not an unusual one,*
                   and when her marvelous beauty is considered, it will be understood on what
                  proper and reasonable grounds she based her hopes of success. She resolved to go
                  at once to Constantinople, and sell herself to the highest bidder (if she liked
                  him), with this stipulation,—whoever wanted her should agree to buy Haffed at the
                  price his master asked for him; and she would require this on the plea that Haffed
                  was her brother.
                     
                     *See the author's Circassia; or, A Tour to the Caucasus.
                  
               Lindahara had no sooner arranged her mode of proceeding than she began to act. She
                  went to Haffed's master, and told him that she was going to Stamboul
                  (Constantinople); and that, if he would retain his euldje, his
                  Christian slave, till he heard from her, she would get for him the sum demanded.
                  This was all readily agreed to. She then obtained the youth's ear; and, if his
                  master was willing to part with him for a large sum, he was no less willing to go,
                  particularly when there was such a good prospect of his being of the same household as the beautiful
                  Lindahara.
               Lindahara madjour, the orphan, hastened to the seacoast, and,
                  taking the first sandále that offered itself, sailed away to
                  Stamboul. When recovered from the effects of the voyage, she arrayed herself in
                  the picturesque costume of her country, and proceeded to the slave-market.
               "That is too costly a jewel," said one, as he east his eyes over the
                  exquisitely-molded Circassian,—"too costly a jewel for a man who has only a
                  thousand piasters to spend for a new wife."
               "She is for the sultan," said a second; "for who but he is rich enough to purchase
                  such a pearl?"
               "Even the sultan's treasury may be light for her," replied a bystander who
                  overheard the last remark. "Such a bird of paradise must indeed have a golden cage
                  placed in a costly bower; and then there must be many attendants to see that it
                  does not get away, or ruffle its fine feathers, or fret itself against the bars of
                  its prison. The sultan's treasury, however, is said to be empty; but his
                  minister's is full."
               Lindahara wondered greatly at what she thought was neglect on the part of
                  purchasers: still she noticed that men, women, and children paused to gaze, and to
                  turn again and again to catch still another glimpse of her ere they moved out of
                  sight. At last, a highly-respectable, venerable-looking man, who had a very
                  distinguished air and a mild expression of face, approached her deferentially, and
                  in a delicate and courteous manner inquired of her concerning her history, her
                  reasons for leaving her country try, and the like. Learning with no little
                  pleasure, it would seem, mingled with admiration, the terms on which she held
                  herself for sale,—the simple redemption of her brother,—he, with all prudent
                  haste, completed the bargain.
               Mustafa Bey was immensely rich: so the price asked for a good youth whom he could
                  make his perpetual secretary was of little moment, even if somewhat exorbitant. As
                  the agreement included the beautiful sister, whom he really needed for a
                  housekeeper, fortune seemed favorable; and he felt sure that so much loveliness
                  would hardly have been vouchsafed to a casket that held no precious gem.
               Lindahara was indeed truly noble, humane, benevolent, good. Nature to her had been
                  prodigal of charms; and she, in turn, was generous to a fault,—self-sacrificing
                  even to her sandals. In deceiving her purchaser, she had no wish to injure him, no
                  thought of doing him a wrong: her sole idea was that she could benefit Haffed, be
                  near and watch over him should he be ill; her heart beckoning that way with all
                  its force. Had she, however, studied duplicity, none would have wondered, since it
                  was, by example at least, a part of the education of the Circassians, who were
                  obliged to practice every species of cunning, of strategy, of deceit, to maintain
                  themselves against the Russians.
               When all the terms had been arranged to Lindahara's satisfaction, Mustafa Bey sent
                  an attendant to fetch a carriage; assuring her that she should be at liberty to
                  leave him if he failed to obtain her brother. For the latter he agreed to dispatch
                  an agent at once; and he doubted not,
                  that, within the space of a month, Haffed would be with her.
               Ere long, at the entrance to the slave-mart, Mustafa's carriage drew up. It was
                  occupied principally by a very fat Ethiopian dame, richly dressed, and lightly
                  vailed. Mustafa Bey informed the fair Circassian that the equipage was hers, and
                  the dusky beauty within her servant. He then instructed the fat lady in what light
                  the new-comer was to be regarded,—that she was to have the finest apartment in his
                  palace; that she was to go and come as she pleased; and that the entire household
                  was to be subject to her orders if she so willed it.
               It was difficult to say how far these instructions were in accord with the
                  feelings of the Ethiopian; for the master's wishes were as agreeable commands, and
                  to submit to them with an air of pleasurable interest was the suret way both to
                  obtain and secure his affection and esteem.
               Lindahara found within the palace every thing pertaining to Moslem magnificence;
                  but the very humane nature of its owner had made of it a miniature menagerie. The
                  lame, the poor, the blind, strange animals, as well as men, women, and children,
                  were supported there by his munificence. This seemed, in part, to compensate the
                  absence of children of his own, and the loss of several favorite housekeepers.
                  Now, in fact, the sole object of his life appeared to be to render happy every
                  thing he looked upon. Allah had blessed him with riches; but he knew they were not
                  his to keep. He was Allah's servant,—a truly humble, devout, good man.
               The winds favored Mustafa's sandále, and fortune his agent;
                  and, in less than three weeks, Haffed was safe in Constantinople. But Haffed did
                  not come alone. Half a dozen girls of the village left home and embarked with him
                  to seek their fortunes also in the mart of Stamboul,—the voluntary and favorite
                  resort, the El Dorado, of Circassian belles.
               Not long after the events just mentioned, Mustafa Bey was appointed, by the
                  sultan, ambassador to the court of Sardinia. He was about to leave Lindahara
                  charged with the care of his household, and take Haffed along with him; but he
                  soon learned that the former would be wretched without the latter, and so he
                  naturally consented to take them both.
               Haffed became, almost immediately, a great favorite; for he was exceedingly
                  tractable and courteous, and aided his new master in the minor burdens of the
                  diplomatic station as if he had been born to them. Little did the youth, however,
                  dream, when he went on board the man-of-war and sailed for Genoa, of the singular
                  fortune, the strange developments, the inexpressible joy, that awaited him
                  there.
               The Princess Yermoloffski had no words with which to thank and bless the beloved
                  Marzetta. When the recital was ended, she fell on the young girl's neck, and
                  sobbed as if her very heart would break. All that she could say was, "Haffed is
                     my boy, my lost baby, my long-lost son!"
               Would the happy mother, could the happy mother, refuse her assent to a union of
                  these two?—refuse to aid, encourage, favor, a marriage between Marzetta and the
                  one she so ardently loved, and by whom
                  she was unlimitedly adored? Had the question arisen when she was only a little
                  fish-girl, the wandering waif, the homeless sylphide, the princess, perhaps, might
                  have hesitated, though her kind, good heart would not; but now Marzetta was not
                  only the Duchesse de Liguria, and rich, but the savior, as it were, of her
                  long-lost child.
               Marzetta's whole ambition and desire was simply to be the wife of Haffed: all else
                  was absorbed in that one aspiration. Riches, titles, power, a name, were to her
                  but senseless baubles, sin-enticing clogs, worthless, soulless burdens; but
                  Haffed's love was priceless. For Haffed's love she would sacrifice life itself,
                  because, without it, life would be but one long, gloomy death,—death wearing the
                  habiliments of earthly vitality, with no one ray of that celestial light which her
                  fair spirit might find, would find, in heaven.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               THE FLIGHT AND THE FATAL SNARE.—RECAPITULATION OF
                  CRIMES.—CONSUMMATIONS DEVOUTLY DESIRED.
               WHEN Gonzalvo fled from his palace, and found his way, as has been said, by an
                  underground passage, to a fort on the hights, where as little loyalty was
                  manifested as in the city itself, he resolved to quit the kingdom. The resolution
                  was easy, but its execution somewhat difficult, if not nearly impossible; for the
                  Federati had their friends on the watch in every pass of the neighboring
                  mountains, on all the routes of the "diligences," and along the seacoast. Gonzalvo
                  thought this to be probable, and hence concluded that it was best to remain
                  concealed for a number of days, till the excitement of the outbreak had subsided;
                  then assume the guise of some poor mendicant, friar, or fisherman, and so pass
                  unchallenged and unnoticed. Accordingly, after procuring some food, he returned to
                  his subterranean shelter, and spent there three days and nights, tortured in mind
                  and body. On the fourth day he again appeared in the fort, and hired a soldier to go and purchase for him some
                  old worn garb of a laborer. In this he was soon arrayed, and immediately started
                  for the harbor, intending to take a boat to Chiavery, a village on the coast to
                  the eastward, and thus at once place himself beyond the points held under
                  surveillance by his enemies. He made application to several boatmen; but, as the
                  distance was great, they declined his tempting offers. At last he met with one who
                  seemed somewhat eager to accommodate him. He did not, however, let this disturb
                  him, lest it might arouse some suspicion. The man simply asked a delay of some ten
                  or fifteen minutes till he could go and call his shipmate. Gonzalvo granted the
                  request; but when finally he found himself seated in the boat, and began to
                  scrutinize his companions, he was not a little troubled by the conviction that he
                  had seen them before, and that they possibly recognized him. He, however,
                  maintained all the serenity and cheerfulness possible, and fabricated a foolish
                  story—a story about his having been a fisherman in the region of Nice, while his
                  relatives at Chiavery were rich, influential, and the like—an order to secure
                  their most respectful obedience, as well as change the current of their thoughts
                  should they happen to be at all suspicious about their passenger. Shadows,
                  however, thick and somber, fell around him as he proceeded: he was conscious that
                  the sword of Damocles was suspended over his head.
               Gonzalvo's features were so prominent and marked, that any ordinary observer who
                  had seen them once would be at less loss to recall them than he would his own, or
                  the physiognomy of his dog; and some years previous the smuggler had had occasion
                  to have them pretty deeply impressed on both heart and brain, while Boppo knew him
                  nearly as well as the house he lived in.
               When they were well outside of the "mole," and near "the rocks," where the brig
                  from Malaga had been wrecked, the smuggler, who sat facing Gonzalvo, was so lost
                  in and swayed by saddening memories, that he could scarcely refrain from tears:
                  but in a moment, as he looked up and saw the arch-fiend before him, his fingers
                  clutched the oars, as they ached to clutch the throat so near them; and his eyes
                  glared and swelled in their sockets till he was the personification of delirium.
                  Boppo saw the anguish of mind under which his friend was suffering, and in the old
                  language, Genoese, calmed him by words of consolation, and urged him to remember
                  that their hour of revenge was near, and that he must not mar it by too
                  precipitate action.
               Boppo's words were timely; for the smuggler was at that instant about to spring
                  forward, and hurl his hated foe into the gulf.
               Gonzalvo became more and more uneasy as the moments flew away, as the boat was
                  swept past the fatal rocks, as the water deepened and grew darker beneath them:
                  indeed, he saw, as he watched eagerly every movement, that there was something
                  dreadful to be feared from the very ones of whom he had sought safety. Concealed
                  about his person he had as much gold as he could well carry, and he thought of
                  proffering that for secure convoy; but he deemed the action premature, considering
                  it probable that his own excited mind enhanced the evils to be dreaded.
               
               Finally the smuggler brought himself under sufficient control to speak to his
                  adversary with that calmness and dignity which made his words the more forcible
                  and poignant:—
               "The rolling years at last, Gonzalvo," said he, "sum up the total of a great
                  debt."
               Gonzalvo started, turned pale, looked wildly at him, but said nothing.
               "'The rocks,' which we have just passed, though now silent," continued the
                  smuggler, "have spoken some sweet though melancholy words to me, but damning
                  truths concerning you."
               "What can you mean?" said Gonzalvo. "As I was never here before in my life, what
                  have those rocks, or any other, to do with me?"
               "That the dead tell no tales," replied the smuggler, "is an aphorism that long
                  since lost its potency."
               Gonzalvo trembled from head to foot, turned paler, if possible, than before, and
                  opened his mouth, essaying to speak; but both his tongue and his jaws refused to
                  act, and he remained silent, staring wildly at the speaker. Did he begin so soon
                  to read his doom? It would appear so.
               "To convince you that I am speaking the truth," continued the smuggler, "it may be
                  well to turn back to the record of your earlier days, when you robbed me of
                  Manuella."
               "Manuella!" groaned out Gonzalvo, pressing his trembling hand upon his forehead;
                  but soon recollecting that he was, as it were, assenting to what had been said, he
                  uttered a falsehood by adding, "It was my mother's name."
               "Manuella," resumed the smuggler," was my betrothed, and dearer to me than life.
                  The evening previous to the day on which she was to leave the convent, and become
                  mine by the sacred bonds of marriage, you took her to yourself, and afterward, by
                  the queen's connivance or orders, proceeded with her to La Corunna, where you
                  murdered her."
               "Murdered her?" shouted Gonzalvo, starting up, and shaking his fist at the
                  narrator. "It is false!"
               "Some time passed away before I discovered you. One night, when returning from the
                  care of some wounded soldiers, I saw her crossing the bridge with you, from your
                  dwelling to the Church of San Miguel. The light which she carried fell full upon
                  her face, and I at once recognized her. I passed to the other side of the
                  building, and, after much difficulty, scaled the wall, and entered by breaking a
                  window, and overturning a statue that obstructed my way. The falling of this stone
                  image, doubtless, alarmed you; for you appeared at once to attempt to escape up
                  the steps by which you had descended. What Manuella did, I know not; but a vivid
                  flash of lightning at that moment revealed to me the gleaming silver statue that
                  from your hands descended and crushed my poor innocent girl."
               The smuggler's voice trembled as he uttered these words, and tears filled his
                  eyes. Gonzalvo fell back upon his seat, convinced that he was lost. Seeing,
                  however, that this injured man had a tender spot in his heart, he resolved to
                  throw himself upon his mercy; but the smuggler would not listen to him, but bade
                  him hear the story to the end.
               
               "I sprang forward, and clasped her in my arms. She was not dead: she knew my
                  voice. Oh, what joy hovered around our agony! She lived long enough to tell me of
                  her constant love for me; that she had in every way been deluded, deceived; that
                  there was a little Manuellita,—in mercy let me call it her sister,—whom she wished
                  me to care for (I promised it; Heaven denied me, but for a short period, that
                  privilege); that her hope of heaven lay in the purity of her heart: and thus she
                  died, with angels hovering about her. So I left her forgiven of the Virgin whose
                  statue she had striven to save from desecration, forgiven of God,—I left her on
                  the steps of the altar, sure that so gentle a creature would receive a gentle
                  burial."
               The smuggler had ceased rowing during this recital; he had forgotten where he was;
                  and the boat had drifted into deeper, darker water, which Gonzalvo felt was
                  emblematic of his fate. Might not gold, however, save him? It had thus far in life
                  been his club of Hercules, with which he had shivered every barrier that opposed
                  him; and he now dragged forth one by one his hidden sacks of pelf, and proffered
                  them all in exchange for his life.
               "Put it back," said the smuggler with a shudder: "it is stained with the blood of
                  the one who was so dear to me. Put it all back: it will make you sink deeper!"
               Gonzalvo started to clutch him as if he would then and there make the final
                  struggle for his life; but the strong arm of Boppo, who sat behind him, fastened
                  him to his seat.
               "But that is not all," resumed the smuggler, recovering his wandering thoughts.
                  "In your flight, after having robbed the church, little Manuellita was left in the
                  mountains to be forgotten, or perish; but in that your fiendish intent failed. She
                  lived a destitute but Christian life, the very ravens seeming to care for her,
                  till the angelic Marzetta found her, and gave her the first happy home she had
                  ever known.
               "For some reason or other, her kind protector chose to call her Sappho; and by
                  that name we knew and loved her. The diary which Marzetta kept fell into your
                  hands; and hence, aided by the trinket shown you by the friar, by her face (the
                  image of Manuella's), and by her age, you guessed who Sappho was. You seized her,
                  and she perished in one of your dungeons; and this cross, which you must also have
                  seen, and which must have confirmed you in your belief, revealed to me, at least,
                  the certainty of her person and parentage." And here he drew forth the coral
                  ornament found on Sappho's neck; but Gonzalvo did not dare to look on it. "Remains
                  there, then, a doubt of who it was you murdered? But, thank God! one other whom
                  you sought to destroy, and who had learned from me your history,—for I had dogged
                  your steps, and become a peddler and a smuggler that I might the better track and
                  find you,—is now safe. Marzetta, the dear sylphide, the little, ever-beloved
                  fish-girl, escaped, as it were, by a miracle, and is now happy under my humble
                  roof."
               Gonzalvo's hopes disappeared beneath this accumulating load of infamy.
               
               "But your soul was not black enough from your first great crime," continued the
                  smuggler. "Wishing to injure the noble Fiesco, and, through him, the just cause of
                  the Federati, you did not hesitate to strike a blow at the happiness of an
                  innocent, unoffending girl; while I, to escape a long, unjust, cruel imprisonment,
                  was induced to aid you. La Spinosa, alas! my poor wife, I hear, is now hopelessly
                  insane. It has also been ascertained through her that you planned her meeting with
                  Signor Fiesco for the sole purpose of making his wife jealous; thus furthering the
                  scheme of securing her for the king's party. When Madame Felisquetto had been
                  apprised of your villainy, your atrocious wickedness, and of her husband's
                  constancy, who Marzetta was, and bethought herself that she had assisted you in
                  kidnapping her whom to protect and cherish should have been her chief joy and
                  duty, she fell ill, and is now rapidly sinking into a premature grave.
               "This, Sir Minister, is not all the villainy you contemplated; but it is all you
                  well executed. The hour of retribution in this world has now sounded, and you may
                  prepare for death. Manuella's spirit is hovering over me, and her smiles cheer me
                  in the execution of this solemn act. Load yourself now with your gold, and let it
                  aid you in sinking, as it assisted you in rising."
               Gonzalvo appeared to have lost all his strength through the terrible fear that had
                  seized him; and, though he essayed to obey, his hands failed to lift a single bag
                  of the gold that lay before him.
               "I will help you," said the smuggler. "Don Antonio, the matador of Madrid, whose
                  Manuella you murdered, will help you." And Don Antonio did help, and loaded him;
                  then took him in his arms, and threw him into the sea.
               A terrible groan escaped from the old man's quivering lips: it might have been a
                  curse. His eyes looked like expiring coals of fire as they glared at the smuggler;
                  and the lids refused to close over them. Thus, with face upturned, with a
                  spasmodic clutch at something which he hoped to find to save him, he sank and
                  sank; and bubbles long came up from the depths to which he had gone down in his
                  too late but lasting sleep.
               Only to Boppo (who revealed it on his death-bed) and the smuggler was the fate of
                  Gonzalvo known; and it was a satisfaction to them to their latest breath that they
                  had rid the world of such a monster.
               Signor Fiesco had been but a short time at Constantinople, and had hardly
                  recovered from his illness on board ship, ere he was again prostrated by the news
                  of Kathleen's death. The melancholy event was made doubly bitter to him by the sad
                  details pertaining to it. He learned how she had been deceived by Gonzalvo, and he
                  felt that he had done her much injustice. This weighed heavily upon his spirits:
                  and, though he considered it possible that he had some just grounds of complaint,
                  he could not but recall his asseveration to her before they were married, "that he
                  would forgive every thing in her past life;" that, indeed, it was only when he had
                  made this solemn promise that she consented to be his.
               
               It was well for this gifted patriot that he was not long allowed to brood over his
                  sorrows. Soon came the glad and stirring announcement of the revolution in
                  Sardinia, the fall of the Gonzalvo ministry, and his own recall, with friendly
                  expressions from Victor Emanuel himself.
               As soon as his health would permit, Fiesco hastened back to his own beloved
                  country, and was at once proclaimed prime-minister; and no administration was ever
                  more just, or more justly admired by the honest and patriotic, than Count Fiesco
                  Felisquetto's.
               Boppo was at once placed in a good office,—was made master of the port.
               Don Antonio was made superintendent of the revenues. Of noble birth (as stated in
                  the fourth chapter), and recently put in possession of a large estate by the
                  demise of his father, he felt, that, as his position was now equal to La
                  Spinosa's, he could reasonably claim his bride; and, if he had not the happiness
                  to see her restored in that degree which rendered her again a brilliant member of
                  society, he had the satisfaction of watching over her, and contributing daily to
                  her comfort,—making up, by unwearied efforts, by tender solicitude, by gentleness
                  and affection, for some of that sorrow, of which, in part, he had undesignedly
                  been the cause.
               Marzetta was married to the one she so fondly loved, and in spite of her unwelcome
                  birth, and hard fate through all her girlhood, became a princess of the noble
                  house of Yermoloffski.
               When Haffed returned to Russia with his worshiped shiped sylphide, he took her
                  father, Joseph the friar, along with them.
               After a couple of years, Count Fiesco found a devoted wife in La Napolitana, and
                  retired to private life.
               The Federati, though revered by the multitude, soon ceased to exist as a united
                  body. The Church party was again triumphant; and calmness, like the morning light
                  which follows the receding storm, settled on the fair face of the beloved, the
                  beautiful but slumbering Italy.
            
         
      
   
