
    ----CITATION----
        Hills, Alfred C.. MacPherson, the Great Confederate Philosopher and Southern Blower .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6747
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            MacPherson, the great Confederate philosopher and Southern blower 
            
               iMACPHERSOTh,
THE GREAT
CONFEDERATE PIJILOSOPHER

AND
SOUTHERN BLOWER.

A RECORD

HIS PHILOSOPHY, 1IS CAREER AS A WARRIOR, TRAVELLER,
CLERGYMAN, POET, AND NEWSPAPER PUBLISHER. IHIS
DEATH, IESUSCITATION, AND SUBSEQUENT
ELECTION TO TILE OFFICE OF
GOVERNOR OF LOUISIANA.

N

I
I

NEW YORK:
PUBLISHED BY JAMES MILLER,
(SUCCESSOR TO C. S. FRANCIS &amp; CO.,)
522 BROADWAY.
MDCCCLXIV.

BY
ALFRED C. hILLS,
EDITOR OF THE NEW ORLEANS ERA.

b

i
{'
,
r
.y

t
it
{
5
z
1,
t
t
c
1


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1S64,
BY JAMES MILLER,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Unitel States for
the Southern District of New York.

TO
MAJOR-GENEHlAL NATHANIEL P. BANKS,
COMMANDERS OF TIIE DEPARTM ENT OF THE GULF?
THE SOLDIER AND STATESMAN,
WIIO, BY IllS OWN LABOR AND CNIUS, RAISED IIM ELI FROM THE
OBSCURE AND HUMBLE WALKS OF LIFE, TO A DORm SOME OF THE
MOST  ONORHAULE CIVIL AND MILITARY POSITIONS; AND
WHO, GUIDED BY THE SAME SPIRIT OF UNSUR-
PASSED PERSEVERANCE, PLANTED THE FLAG
OF HIS COUNTRY ON PORT HUDSON,
BORE IT IN TRIUMPHI THROUGH
WESTERN LOUISIANA, AND UP THE RIO GRANDE,
bIIs lronumc,
BY PERMISSION,, IS INSCRIBED,
: R DY  G
SINCERE ADMIRER AN iD GRATEFIJL FRIEND,

rTHEjL' AUFITOR.


P R EFA CE.
TnE "Macpherson Letters" were
New Orleans EniA during the past y
pelted, and, perhaps, undeserved p
Southwest, and a very general desire
author's friends to see them in a boo]
for publishing them. His observation
1eans led him to believe that ridicule
tent weapon that could be employed
opinions and prejudices of that portio
the Southwest who sympathisedl w
He had, at least, the gratification of k
were very generally read, not o1ily
navy, but by the people, many. of w
some time, that " Macplherson" was a
Madisonville, and a genuine correspo
The blind prejudices, the. profoui
rance, the strong passions and bound
the rebels in New Orleans, must ap
those who have always lived in a
}

I
published in the
ear. Their unex-
opularity in the
on the part of the
k, are his reasons
ions in New Or-
was the most po-
against the absurd
ii of the people of
ith the rebellion.
knowing that they
in the army and
hom believed, for
n actual citizen of
dent of the EHA.
nd political igno-
Ldless credulity of
pear incredible to
free community,


i'k
i

C)

PREFACE.

where freedom of speech is tolerated, and where uni-
versal education renders every one more or less familiar
with passing events and the topics of the times. But
those who have freely mingled with that class of Loui-
sianians who still cling to the faith of Jeff. Davis, will
not be surprised to learn that Macpherson's philosophy
was so much in accordance with theirs, and that his
exaggerated style of speech was so faithful a copy of
secession bombast, that the "great Confederate Philos-
opher" was, for some weeks, quite a favorite with the
hot-headed rebels of the Crescent City.
Many of the incidents which the author attempted
to ridicule in these-" Letters," were too local in their
character to be understood by a reader not familiar
with the facts. So far as practicable, these parts have
been omitted in this publication, and such explanatory
notes have been prefixed to each chapter, as seemed ne-
cessary to give the general reader an understanding of
its import.
The author will state that when he commenced the
publication of these letters, he had no expectation of
writing but one ; and to that he signed the first name
that occurred to him, without reflection. He was not
then aware that an officer named James B. McPherson
held a commission in the United States Army,-an ig-
norance due, probably, to the :fact that for many

PREFACE.

7

months the author was in service where newspapers
seldom reached him. But the officer in question, by
his gallant conduct on many hard-fought fields, has
made a national reputation for skilful and daring gen-
eralship, and his name is as familiar as househlild
words to all who have read the story of Vicksburg,
and of the various movements of the noble army of
General Grant.
A.C.IH.
NEW ORLEAIS, LA., January, 1864.

-j7


- CHONTERNL
KFree Trade wit the                                                                          Hebel... ......
CHAPTER II.
Mr. Mapherson hathU~ Hopes1 for is IAdo
himself to be a good Union Man.--Co
Way to send it.-The True Plan of Con
CHAPTER IIL
The Great Secession Demonstration in Ne
by Louis T. Wigfall Macpherson.  .
CHAPTER IV
Macpherson takes the Oath of Allegiance
Davis-A Good Confederate Lady wit
A Gross Insult to the Confederacy, etc.,
CHAPTER V
Macpherson, Journeying to Madisonv ille,
erate Cross in the Hleavens.--He is sei:
rillas, and taken to the Place of Execul
Death etc....................
CHAPTER V:
A Full Account of the Great Macpherson
of the Noble Woman, in New Orleans.
y

TS.
PAGE
.............. .....  13
ic Bcy.---Hle declareth
rrespondence, and the
iciliation, etc.........16
w Orleans, as described
19
.-A Letter from Jeff.
h Yankee Boarders.-
etc................25
.
sees the Great Confed-
zed by Arizonian Gue-
tion.-His Escape from
.....................34
I.
Festival at the House
.,.   .. . ... .... .45


f
j{F
3
i
-'
t i
i}
r
{
rtc
I
t

The  Great Charity  Fair.....................................

66

CHAPTER IX.
The Confederate Arithmetic......................81
CHAPTER X.
Hymn  of Salvation.........................................  84
CHAPTER XI.

Macpherson dedicates himself to War and Larceny.-lIe encoun-
ters the  Honest Jew -. --..................................
CHAPTER XII.
The Great Confederate Traveller describes his Journey through
the Louisiana Lowlands Low.. ......................... .

CONTENTS.

11

4

85

91

CHAPTER XIII.
Macpherson appears as a Clergyman, and expounds the Confed-
erate Gospel.-Ie encounters the Weeping Orphan, and unex-
pectedly finds a Large Family on his hands.-Ie peaches
from the Text : "Blow ye I" etc., etc....................... 106
CHAPTER XIV.
Macpherson as a Military Chieftain.-He is appointed a Major
General of Confederate Volunteers.-He issues a Proclamation,
raises an Army, and wins two Battles in a single Day, etc., etc. 118

10                      CONTENTS.
CHAPTER VII.
PAGE
Macpherson, setting up as a Confederate Phiiosopher, explains
the Distinction of Races to his Idiotic Boy.-Advent, History,
and Adventures of the Unhappy Cuss.-Macpherson captured
by Duryea's Zouaves.-Interview with the "Southern Source,"
etc.,  etc.................................................  55
CHAPTER VIII.

:
R
I
i
i
i,
it

CHAPTER XV.
PAGE
Macpherson encounters and shoots a Midnight Assassin.-He
conscripts Iegroes, and addresses them in a manner calculated
to arouse their Zeal in the Confederate Cause.-He appoints
his Staff, etc., etc .................................... 125
CHAPTER XVI.
The Registered Enemies of the United States leave the Depart-
ment of the Gulf.--General Macpherson superintends their
Departure.-He "Gobbles" them as soon as they arrive in his
Dominions.-He unexpectedly meets the Honest Jew, etc., etc. 132
CHAPTER XVII.
An Account of the Death of James B. Macpherson, the Great
Confederate Philosopher, Warrior, Author, and Southern
Blower....    ..........................................142
CHAPTER XVIII.
The Resuscitation of Macpherson.--It is Discovered that he was
not Dead, only Dead Drunk.-His Method of Paying Debts..-
He makes the Acquaintance of the Reliable Gentleman, etc.,
etc.....................................................  149
CHAPTER XIX,
Macpherson encounters the Cussed Fool of Carondelet street.-
Betting on Vicksburg and Port Hudson.-Fourth of July Cel-
ebration  at Madisonville, etc., etc.......................... 160
CHAPTER XX.
The Phantom Confederate; or, the Ghost of Madisonville. (A
True  Story)........ ...................................... 168
CHAPTER XXI.
Macpherson is arrested for Assault and Battery.-He expounds
the Law of Responsibiiity.-He visits Port Hudson and Vicks-
burg.-He tests the Homoeopathic Principle, and is Chased by
the  Devil, etc., etc.......................................  175

i{


CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XXII.
PAGE
Macpherson is seized with the Newspaper Mania, and Determines
to become an Editor.-He dissolves the Army of Madisonville,
etc., etc................................................. 182
CHAPTER XXIII.
Macpherson, disgusted with the Newspaper Business, resolves
to acqui ic Office and Civil Renown- The Restoration of Civil
U overnm('nt in Loinsiana--Macpherson is elected Governor
of the State, etc., etc ................................188
CHAPTER XXIV.
The Governor is besieged by Office-seekers.-The ingenious
Method by which he dispersed the Mob.-The True Southern
Patriot, and why he would not accept Office.-The Idiotic Boy
chastised.-The Governor makes a Pilgrimage to Richmond.-
The Full and Authentic history of the Congressional Career
of the Cussed Fool and the Solitary horseman, etc., etc...... 199

THE LETTERS
OF
JAMES B. MACPHERSON.

CHAPTER I.
FREE TRADE WITH THE REBELS.

1]
n
E~

F
i
E
4
t
Ik{
1
E  i
. {
t  } (
t
1
f
{E
E
}
i  t
jj  '
#j I
7 '
j}
}
e
k

NOTE.-Madisonville is a town situated on the Tchefuncta river,
near Lake Pontchartrain, and was within the rebel lines at the time
these letters were written, as it is, in fact, at the present time. The
people were known to be destitute of many of the necessaries of life,
and the secessionists of New Orleans made a strong effort to induce
the authorities to permit free trade across the lake, on the ground
that humanity required it, and that the people were non-combatants.
The Daily Picayune advocated this theory, and a writer, signing
himself " Observer," published a communication in that paper urging
its adoption by the authorities. The notion appeared too absurd to
be treated seriously, and the author attempted to exhibit it in this
light in the following letter, which appeared in THE ERA, February
17th, 1863.
MADISONVILIE, LA.,
sunday Evening, February 15.
Sm:-I have a wife a        welve children, all of them
sons except the wife. Nine of them are in the Con-
federate service, and so am I.    The other three are not
in the service, because one of them is only three years

it

!  ,
3
1 a
i
Ic
'
'$
t
t
1 '4

ii

4
}1

12

{
i
E
t
t
a
{4
3
i
4
i
3
,
t


14           TIIE MACPIERSON  TTERS.

1

i
rr
f
t
it                f
i
ff4 +fj
4
4
f
f
t
4
t
t
{      f
4
t
4(
t            j{i
F     ti
S
i
SS
f
f     3
±     r
I
i
II
t 4
i
t4,
k
ei
Z a'
E
f
t
9

By all means let some one lend Mr. Observer the capi-
tal if he hasn't got it, for there is no reason why non-
combatants shouldn't be fed.
Yours, sincerely,
JAMES 3. MACPHERSoN.
P. S.-While you are about it, tell Observer to bring
me an English rifle, with a cartridge-box, and a hun-
dred rounds of ammunition.
J.B.M.

old, but he will probably be old enough to join the
army before the United States are crushed. Another
one has lost a leg in the war, so that he can't march;
and the other one is idiotic. I am home on a furlough,
and find my wife and three sons bad enough off. They
are destitute of many of the necessaries of life, and for
yav part I don't know what they will do.
think the United States ought to supply them with
food. They are non-combatants, and there is no chance
hat any of them will ever fight except the youngest;
ad Kilulatn i nmiht be made that he should not e t
any of the food sent over, if that should be deemed e-
esa ry.
So long as I and the nine able bodied boys stay in
the Confederate army, it will be necessary to have the
re't of the family receive supplies from INew Orleans;
n  humani y and philanthropy demand that trade
should be allowed.
I was pleased to read in this morning's P'iecayune, a
communication from Mr. Observer, on this point. lie
proposes to send salt and other indispensable articles,
and says lie would go into the business himself, if he
had the means, and could get the necessary authority.
I hope lie will go into it at once, as we need the salt
much, and the indispensable articles would also come
handy. le can make a good thing of it, as we are
willing to pay a large price for salt, flour, quinine,
clothing, cotton-cards, etc., all of which will bring a
larger price here than Observei' will have to give for
them in New Orleans. I would pay a large price for
what my family needs, as I could fight a great deal
better if I knew the folks were comfortable at home.

Ig        I
#Ff

Fi E TRADE WITH SHE TEJ3ELS.


i
1
t
x
i
f
t
i
i
3
I
t
t
f
p   }
f
t
{
.,    a

17

i
i
i
i
i
t
6
7
t
r
II
t

RIGHTS OF A NON-COMBATANT.

CHAPTER II.
MR. MACPHERSON HATH HOPES FOR HIS IDIOTIC BOY.--HE
DECLARETH HIMSELF TO BE A GOOD UNION MAN.-COR-
RESPONDENCE, AND THE WAY TO SEND IT.-THE TRUE
PLAN OF CONCILIATION, ETC.
NOTE.-Coplfederate prisoners who were to leave New Orleans on
p(arole,were discovered to have contraband letters sewed into their
clothing.
MADISONYILLE, LA.,
February 21st, 1863.
SI R:-I find that TnE ERA published my letter, in
which I showed that the United States ought to sup-
port my family as long as I am in the Confederate ser-
viee, and that the destitute people on this side of the
lake should be permitted to trade with New Orleans.
When I saw that letter in TImE ERA, I experienced all
the pleasure of a man who, for the first time, sees his
name mn print. I looked at it two or three hours, and
then handed it over to my Idiotic Boy.
I could not restrain my tears, when I thought of the
unhappy fate of that youth, doomed never to write a
letter for the newspapers, nor to realize the blissful
feelings which swelled in his father's heart at gazing
upon his own name in small-cap letters.
"Cheer up, my dear,' said my wife. "James, to be
sure, is an idiot, but idiots does sometimes write for
le wspapers.
Immediately she handed me "Observer's" letter in
Sunday's Pcayune, and I became calm. Whenever I
look at that letter I believe fully my wife's remark.

i ,
I
i
i
i
k
t
t
[(t
S
4 '
iS
i
s
!
j
I
{
t
3

I

f
f
i
s
r
i
.
i
6
7
t
r,

As I told you before, I am home on a furlough, and
so long as I remain away from my regiment, at Port
iHudson, I consider myself a non-combatant, and I de-
miand from the United States government all the rights
of a neutral. I wish, while my furlough continues, to
take a hand in trade across the lake, and as Observer
promises to go into it if anybody will furnish funds, I
now definitely offer him my assistance, and promise to
invest my last three months' pay as a private, which I
have just drawn from the paymaster in Confederate
treasury notes and Madisonville butchers' tickets, and
three dollars of which awor1tmee cents in coin.
What I want now, s, to make arrangements for get-
ting all the newspapers across the lake, and to gain in-
formation in regard to the Union soldiers in General
Banks's Department. So long as I am a neutral, I have
a perfect right to know what is going on, and the in-
formation thus obtained I could sell to my General for
a high price, which would do much towards feeding my
destitute family, and helping on our speculations. You
will therefore please forward to me immediately a full
statement of the number of troops in the Department
of the Gulf, where the camps are located, the quality of
arms, the number of guns, the amount of ammunition,
the number, strength, and position of the gunboats, the
maps and plans of future operations by land and water,
and any other small matters which would be of interest
and use to me, and which can do no harm so long as I
am a non-combatant. If, however, the military author-
ities should differ from the Picayune and me' in these
matters, please sew all necessary letters into the collars
and cuffs of the coats of Confederate soldiers, bound

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

_f   17
7
j,


}
e
e           }
r                         1
f     t
{                 i
r     T(Ej
t                 R
t
i
{
r
1
{     i
e
t
{     kk
{
}
F          4
{     }
{
R    }     ,
I
i
fi   z
f
}
4
c
1
ei
i
d
d
7
i
}

only by a parole of honor, and stuff all the newspapers
you can find into the legs of their breeches.
But there can be no possible objection to permitting
free correspondence with me. I am, in fact, a good
Union man, and boldly proclaim my Union sentiments
among my comrades. My doctrine is, that the United
States ought to lay down their arms at once, and then
ask for an armistice, preparatory to a recognition of the
Southern Confederacy. Such a step would place the
Confederate States under great obligations to the United
States, and would engender a sentiment of friendship.
It would, to be sure, result in the complete success of
the Confe:d rate cause ; but it would heal all feelings
of wounded pride on our part, and perhaps ultimately
restore thlinen. I, for one, would then go for a re-
establishment of the Union, on condition that all the
Nor th1emi men who do not agree with inc should be hung
or expelled from the country. If the United States
would consent to this, and purge itself effectually of all
men of opposite politics, I think we might be reunited
and live together in peace. But so long as any one
favorable to the United States government is tolerated
in the North, I, for one, am opposed to the Union, and
will urge the Confederate army to fight, and make all
I can out of it. Let the United States government
pursue a conciliatory policy and hang all its friends,
however, and I believe then a happy peace will dawn
upon this land, and the advocates of war will skulk
away in terror and disgrace.
Yours, truly,
JAMES B. MACPHERSON. .

SECESSION DEMONSTRATION.

CHAPTER III.
THE GREAT SECESSION DEMONSTRATION IN NEW -ORLEANS,
AS DESCRIBED BY Louis T. WIGFALL MACPHEIIsoN.
NoTE.-On the 20th February, 1863, a large number of rebel pris-
oners left New Orleans to be exchanged. They were to have been
taken on the steamer Empire Parish; but that vessel met with some
accident before she got ofl 'The departure of these prisoners was
made the occasion of a grand demonstration on the part of the seces-
sion women of the city, who thronged the levee by thousands, to cx-
press their sympathy for the cause of treason. The prisoners all
went away wiath new suits of clothes, furnished by rebel women in
the city, and would have carried other suits had the authorities per-
mitted it. The a-sembly became so noiy and insolent, that a regi-
ment of soldiers finally cleared the levee.
MADnSONvILLE, LA.,
February 28th, 1833.
SIR:-I now forward a copy of the letter of my son
Louis T. Wigfall, of the Confederate Army ; and here
I deem it proper to state that I am a 'descendant of
revolutionary sires, and consequently that I named my
sons after the greatest lights of American history.
They are: George Washington, Louis T. Wigfall,
Thomas Jefferson, Roger A. Pryor, Ben. Wood, John
C. Breckinridge, Andrew     Jackson, Toussaint l'Ouver-
ture, and Horatio Seymour. Those are the names of
my nine boys in the army. The idiot I have named
James Buchanan Floyd, the cripple Braxton Bragg,
and the infant Mason Slidell. Having premised thus
much, I will proceed with the letter:

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

{i

19

18)


YOl/NG MACPHERSON's S ADVENTURES.  21

I

Louis T. Vigfall .ilapherson's Adventures in New
Or1eans.
Louis T. Wigfall Macpherson writes:
"I've had the biggest kind of a time sense you hurd
from Me last. I was took prisoner by the Yanks. I
had sworn never to surrender alive, and I never would
have done it, only My back happened to be turned at
the minit, and so they got Me and sent Me to New
Orleans with the rest. They locked me up for a while,
but 'then they let Me out on payroll in the streets, and
I had the fredum of the sitty.
"Well, as I went saunchering along the streets I met
a lady whose dress and proud bearing told, me at once
she belonged to the alight, and so it proved. She
stopped and looked at me inquiringly, and finally bend-
ing her proud head towards me, she says: 'Pardon
Me, sir, but isn't you a Confederate. soljur ?' Says I:t.
'Yes, miss, I is.' Says she to Me: 'I thought so by
your proud and hauty bearing, and by your dilapidated
gray garments, which is dearer in my eyes than the
vestments of a monarch, or the costly robes of the
Prince do Joinville.' Then I bent my hauty head to-
wards her and said : 'I thank you, miss; you do Me
proud.' Then says she : ' Come and see us;' and says
I : 'Where do you live;' Then she told me, and I
went to see 'em that very night.
"I found that the family belonged to the alight, and
was all of the wright stripe. The lady had ate dau-
teis, seven of them grown up, and all of them lovely
and charming as rose-blossoms, and all as secesh as
Lovell or Vallandigham. The old lady had a stick

about two feet long, which she had saved from the
rebel flagstaff at Fort Jackson ever since our victory
there over Farrigut. It was beautiful to see her wave
this stick over the heads of her obediunt dauters and
hurrah for the Confederacy.
"Says all of them to Me : 'Make this your home as
long as you are in New Orleans.' Says I: 'Thank
you, kind ladies, I will do so;' and I did. I staid in
that house until I was exchanged, and it was beautiful
and romantic to see the devotion of them lovely dauters
of the South. I was as ragged as Lazarus, and liadn't
a red, and so the old lady sent for a Confederate taylor,
and had him make Me a sute of close-a nice ;gray uni-
form; and then they took Me up to the photographic
gallery and had My likeness took, Sut this wouldn't
do, and each of the ate dauters had a sute made, and
each one of them presented me with a Confederate uni-
form complete.
"Purty soon the time cum to be exchanged on the
Empire Parish, and then I put on my whole nine sutes
at a time. I felt grand and looked like the Irysh jiunt,
only not as tall. Says they all: 'We are sorry to lose
your society, but the Confederacy needs your services,
and we must let you go.' Then they all cryed.
"It was now time to go down to the boat, and these
lovely ladies was determined to show their devotion to
our hoely cawse. So the old lady took her stick, and
she with the ate dauters, all wearing. seceshun flags
around their wastes, formed a holler square around Me,
and I marched in the senter with them as a escort of
onur. As we was going to the levee we met a Yank
soljur, who shouted out: 'Go it, grayback !-you need

9
E
7
r
t
fsf
e    S
s
t
f
I
I       S
t
i
pk
{    i
t
t
f

20          TIIE MAOPEERSOIT LETTERS.

s
i
4
f 4R
4
F f


22           THE MACPIIEPi5ON LETTERS5.

NEGRO SOLDIERS.             23

an escort of women.' The old lady said : 'I'll take no
insult from a Yank !' and then she knocked him down
with the peace of the flag-staff allewded to; and I ap-
plawded her and the dauters laft. It was a beautiful
site to behold that woman bend her proud and hauty
head and raise her delicate white snowy arm in the
cawse of her country, and to see those lovely dauters,
so alight, smiling sweetly upon her.
"There was a glorious time at the Levee. Holier
squares kept coming in, and all true to the cawse; and
in order to show em I was not afrade to fite, I knocked
a lig mngger Of the wharf into the river. Just as I
wa   on      orteodld          lpe    Me On the
w  s g i g a  oad  th  ol  la y sa  ed  M  on shoulder;  but I  didn't feel it, her  hand  was  so  delicate
and I had so many sutes of gray close on. But says
she: ' There's one thing I've forgot.' Then she ripped
open my cufps and collers, and sode in a catalogue of
Farra'ut's ships and General Banks's troops, saying:
That's for Jef. Davis.' Says I: 'Miss Im on my
payroll of onur not to do so.' Says she : 'A Confeder..
ate payroll is not wuth a red,' or words to that effect;
and so after they had put a newspaper and a plug of
tobacker in each pocket, they all kissed Me, and the old
lady said: 'Brave son of the Confederacy !-the alight
of the cty has come to see you off and to shour on your
heads the blessings of patryotic matruns and spotless
mades, and to fill your pockets with letters and to-
backer. Axcept these toakuns of our patriotic devo-
shun, and think of us when you are far above Baton
Rouge!   Says I: 'Thanks, miss, to you and your ate
alight dauters for your patryotic wishes for the tobacker
you have bestowed on my unworthy head, and for

teaching me the value of a Confederate payroll of
onur.'
"Then I went aboard, and the old lady she swung
her stick and we all give three cheers for Jeff. Davis;
and then I fell off of the paddle-box into the river, over-
cum with the manly emotions which swelled in my
bosom. A Yank pulled me out, for I had so many
close on I couldn't stur. If I ever meet him in battle
I'll ring his neck for him.
"I was so heavy with wet close and things that it
took the whole ship's crew to pull me out. They set
me on the paddle-box, and I was so heavy that the
whole concern broke down, and they had to put us on
another ship.
"As soon as we got up to Port Hudson, I sold all my
close for $800 a sute, bringing me a total of $7,200,
and now I'm perfectly destitute-haven't got a decent
sute to put on. Send my order to the United States
for a new uniform, and invest my money in salt and
ship it up to Port Hudson on a flag-of-truce-boat im-
mediately, and oblige
"Your destitute son,
"Louis T. WIGFALL MACPHERSON,
"Co. I, 18th La. vols."
.1f. Jfaepherson's Views on Negro Soldiers.
I now wish to make a few remarks on the subject of
negro soldiers. I am opposed to negroes in the abstract,
and am dead set against having them enlisted as soldiers
in the service of the United States; and I regard such
enlistments as inhuman, wicked, barbarous, and damn a-
bl e beyond description. The English Dictionary does


s
i
7
i
{#
i
}
6
t
f

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.

24           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS,
not contain adjectives strong enough to paint the hor-
rors of making Union soldiers of negroes; but when
you come to make them Confederate soldiers, I, for
one, am in favor of it; and if nine regiments are
raised, I mean that each of my sons shall be a Colonel.
I will then get my furlough cancelled, and take the field
in person, as a Brigadier-General, in command of the
Macpherson Brigade. As soon as the war is over I will
buy a plantation and set them at work on it, and I mean
to be the largest slaveholder and autocrat in the Con-
federacy.
Yours respectfully,
JAMES B. MACPHEESON.

r
f
i
i
[k
6

25

CHAPTER IV.
MACPHERSON TAKES TIHE OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.-A LETTER
FROM JEFF. DAVIS.-A GOOD CONFEDERATE LAD rWITH
YANIEE BOAuDEns.--A GROSS INSULT TO THE CONFEDER-
ACY, ETC., ETC.
NOTE.-Many secessionists in New Orleans took the oath of alle-
giance to the United States, merely to save their property from con-
fiscation. It was .not uncommon for them to boast that such was
their only motive, and that they did not regard the oath as binding
upon their consciences. This was true of some who gained their
daily bread by boarding Federal officers. It was not an unusual
spectacle to see ladies cross the street rather than pass under a flag
of the United States ; this was one way in which they exhibited
their hatred of the Union, and their sympathy for the rebel cause.
MADISoNVILLE, LA.,
March 7th, 1863.
S :-You should know that my letters in TILE ERA
have been regularly forwarded to Jeff. Davis, at Rich-
mond. With the one in last Sunday's paper, I sent a
request that my furlough might be extended ; and in
reply I received, by telegraph, the following:
Letter from Jeff. Davis.
"RICHMOND, VA., March 3.
"My DEAR MACPHERSON :-I have received from
time to time the copies of THE ERA containing your
wise and patriotic letters, which I have read with ever-
increasing pleasure.  The sufferings of your family and
the destitution which prevails among my subjects have
touched my paternal heart; and I now        recommend
that you go at once to New Orleans and take the oath
2


STRUGGLE WITH CONSCIENCE.         2{

t
f
4
7
}i}
ts3
tt
t
7
}
J
{ j
I

of allegiance. Of course you will understand that no
oath is binding upon the conscience of a Confederate,
unless taken before a Confederate magistrate. Having
eaten enough to last you until your next visit, and
made such observations as will be useful to the cause,
you will return on the first flag-of-truce-boat, and im-
mediately communicate to me all information you can
obtain. Also, bring your satchel full of edibles for
your family.
"I have directed my Adjutant-general, S. Cooper, to
make out a new furlough for you, excusing you from
all duty with your regiment, so long as you continue to
write for THE EnA.
"I also forward herewith a commission for your son,
John C. Breckinridge Macpherson, as Colonel of the
8th Georgia Negro Confederate Liberty Guards.
"I am, my dear Mac,
"Yours in Confederate bonds,
"JEFF. DAVIS."
I was proud enough, the Lord knows, when I first
saw my name printed in THE EEA ; but what shall I
say of my feelings when I received the above letter?
"Is it possible," I cried aloud, clasping my hands and
raising my eyes impressively, in a manner which would
do credit to Vining Bowers; "is it possible that the
President of the new nation, the anchor of Southern
independence, the fag-staff of our proud stars and bars,
the chiefest demigod of Confederate mythology, has
condescended to write to me in terms of fraternal en-
dearment ?" I clasped my Idiotic Boy to my bosom,
waved my letter aloft to heaven, seized my satchel,

26         THE MACPUERSON LETTERS.

and, with emotions only equalled by those of Floyd
when he first espied the United States treasury build-
ing, started hurriedly for New Orleans.
ilacpherson's manly Struggle with his Conscience.
The first encounter I had was with my own con-
science. Said conscience to me: "Macpherson, re-
member.that thou art the descendant of revolutionary
sires, the proud representative of an honorable house
and name, the great light and mirror of Madisonville
chivalry, and, more than all, the confidential agent of
Jeffi Davis, the greatest man that ever trod in Confed-
erate shoes, worth $300 a pair. Then how canst thou
O Macpherson, lover of honor and hater of Yankees,
raise thy hand to heaven and swear allegiance to a
flag which, to thine illuminated mind, is the symbol of
ungodly power and basest tyranny? and how canst
thou consent to eat the bread of Yankees, gotten under
the false pretense that thou art faithful to their flag?
o Macpherson! pause and go home !"
But I told my conscience to dry up. Did not Daniel
eat the bread of the pagan king, and was not Daniel
bold as a lion? "I will take the oath," said I, "but
there is not Spaulding's glue enough among living
men to stick me to it !"
.acpherson takes the Oath of Allegiance.
Well, I went and took the oath. It was a matter of
compulsion, because it was the only way I could get
side the lines without becoming a prisoner ; and when
a man takes an oath under compulsion, he is allowed to

I


1i
ii

THE MACPHEESON LETTERS.

4
3s
r'
t
( 4
1}
Ii
{
i
i
}
t
1
}
1
t
}
I
1

THE CONFEDERATE LADY.

29

break it the first chance. But when I went up to take
the oath of allegiance, I asked the Yankee officer if he
would have the goodness to let me look at the Bible
before I swore. He kindly assented, and looking at
the imprint I found it had been published in Boston,
and was a regular abolition concern; and then con-
science gave way, and said I could swear to any thing
I chose on a Bible printed north of Mason and Dixon's
line. I swore to a lot of stuff-more than I like to
think of now ; but one of the points was that I would
never bear arms against the United States. But to
this I mentally added the words, "so long as my fur-
lough lasts," and my conscience went to sleep as sound-
ly as though it had been soothed by twenty whisky-
skins at Marble Hall.
Macpherson fnds a good Confederate lady.
As I expected to remain in town most of the week,
I resolved to find a boarding-house with some good
Confederate who had taken the oath of allegiance. I
soon discovered such a place--a house kept by a Con-
federate lady, whose husband and three sons are in our
army, boldly fighting for Southern independence, and
who has taken the oath of allegiance to save the prop-
erty from confiscation. I found this good lady to be
true blue.  "Macpherson," said she, when I applied
for board, "have you taken the oath of allegiance to
the Abolitionists ?" I blushed all over, from the crown
of my Confederate head to the soles of my Confederate
shoes, as I replied, "Yes."  "Well, then," said this
brave lady, "if you have done that git out of this
house! Them as leaves the army when they ought to

28

be bearing the burden and heat of the Confederate day,
musn't come sneaking around this house for shelter.
If I was a man, do you think I would be here? No
sir-ee. I would have a Jeff. Davis musket on my shoul-
der, and would be sending death and blood abroad
among the Yankees as a besom of destruction. Where
is my sons and husband ?. Isn't they doing their duty
to the Confederacy on the bloody field, and one of them
in the commissary department ! Oh! I hate cowards
and traitors, and a man as leaves the Confederacy and
comes over to live on Yankee bread is all three com-
bined in one mean hateful critter, who can't find no
encouragement nor shelter under this roof! Git out of
here, James B. Macpherson !-or I'll have my nigger
kick you into the gutter !"
As she gave utterance to these noble and patriotic
sentiments, her tall form was erect, her eyes flashed
with Confederate fire like the bolts of Olympian Jove;
her fists were clenched in the very ecstasy of anger,
and cowering before her for mercy, I could but feel
that I was in the presence of a goddess.
"Minerva of Louisiana !" I exclaimed, kneeling be-
fore her-"iPallas Athen6 of the Confederacy! let me
explain to you the manner and meaning of my visit.
Allow me to-"
Just at this stage of my address, the good lady's nig-
ger, in obedience to a wave of her hand, came stealthi-
ly behind me, opened the door, and seizing me by the
collar, kicked me out of the house, landing me square
in the gutter.
I sat there a considerable time, when suddenly a
Yankee officer approached, and he asked me into his

I

i
a
i
i

,


30           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

room. To my astonishment, he walked into the very
house from which I had just been so summarily ejected.
I sat down and wrote an explanation of my position,
and sent it to the good lady. In five minutes she sent
for me, said she was delighted to see me, proud to have
me under her roof, and that I needn't pay. a picayune
for board as long as I staid there. She then had the
nigger whipped for kicking me out, and from that mo-
ment we were fast friends.
I found that her house was full of Yankee officers,
except two beautiful young ladies who boarded there,
and were true as steel to the Confederacy.
"How comes it, madam," I inquired, "that a woman
of your proud and patriotic spirit ever consented to
take the oath of allegiance, or to have your establish-
ment supported by Yankee officers ?"
"Because," replied the good lady, "necessity is the
mother of invention, and being a mother myself I can
appreciate it. As to taking the oath of allegiance, that
don't amount to nothing. The oath never went
through my teeth ; it was necessary to save my proper-
ty, and I say it boldly, I have no more respect for that
oath than I have for the President of Ilayti. As to
the Yankee boarders, the times has been when there
wasn't Confederate treasury notes enough in Jacob
Barker's safe to hire me to feed a Yankee officer ; but
times has changed, and finding that I could live on
Yankees and hate 'em at the same time, I yielded to
the mother of invention."
If Mrs. Macpherson could have looked into my heart,
as the good lady gave utterance to the above honorable
and patriotic sentiments, I fear she might have been

B
1
_               i
f
97j) i
t    t
i
a
3
i
t
9
¢ i E
yF
i     i
a
F
I
j
(i
yi

jealous of the lively admiration with which the good
lady inspired me. But whatever emotions were rising
in my heart were suddenly overwhelmed by a great
event.
The two young ladies referred to previously, came
into the room, trembling with excitement and pale with
ghastly anger.
"Has it come to this !" cried the beautiful maiden.
"Are we to be insulted at our very doors !"
My chivalric Madisonville blood was aroused by the
sight of suffering beauty. "Haste me to know it !" I
cried, springing to my feet, "  that I, with wings as swift
% s meditation or the thoughts of love, may have the
vile ruflian whipped. Where is the big nigger that
kicked me out of dodrs ? Madam, bring him hither,
that we may avenge the injuries of your house !"
"Such insolence !" cried the beautiful maiden, "and
at our very door! I never !".and she stamped her deli-
cate foot upon the carpet, as though she would crush
the United States beneath it.
"What's the matter ?" demanded the good lady, in
tones of angelic thunder.
But the beautiful maiden could not answer. She be-
came speechless with patriotic rage, and fell to the
earth, pointing to the door and gasping with her faint-
ing breath-
"The flag !-the flag !"
Hastening to the door, we beheld a loathsome spec-
tacle. The man living near our door, a citizen of New
Orleans, had displayed a United States flag from his
dwelling. A more gross insult to the Confederacy and to
the good people who have taken the oath of allegiance to

INSULTED BY THE FLAG.        31


I1
ii
IA
_ti

save their property, could not be imagined. As the
good lady gazed upon that detestable emblem of tyranny
and bloody despotism, to which she had taken the oath
of allegiance, she ground her teeth together, so that
you could hear them around the corner. Then we shut
the door, and all fainted.
As soon as we recovered, we held a family consulta-
tion, and it was discussed whether to leave for the Con-
federacy or to commit suicide. The beautiful maiden
argued in favor of the latter course, as a sentimental
way of serving the Confederacy. " How romantic !"
she exclaimed ; "what a splendid subject for a Confed-
erate Sylvanus Cobb !-what a touching picture for the
artist of Harper's Weekly or Frank Leslie's ]l1us-
trateci I-Oh! let us commit suicide, and be first in the
book of Confederate martyrs, as a lovely matron and
maid, who died rather than live under the flag to which
they had taken the oath of allegiance, to save their
property ! I wish," she added with a sigh, which moved
me to tears, "that the whole Southern Confederacy
would commit suicide I"
This noble and patriotic sentiment would have pre-
vailed, only we wished to preserve the property and
make some more money out of the Yankees; and so
we decided that every time we went out of the house,
we would go bolt across the street and walk on the
other side until we had passed the hateful flag, and then
recross the street, thus omitting to walk under it. And
the ladies went and took down the name and number
of the man who had committed this outrage against the
Confederacy, and I immediately sent the memorandum
on to Jeff. Davis, asking his protection.

Just before leaving New Orleans, I got very drunk.
In that state I went to the telegraph office and got
Bulkley to send the following dispatch to Jef. Davis:
"DEAR JAvIs :-Honor report drunkenness alarming
extent. Banks's army thoroughly demented-18 divi-
sions actual mutiny manifestations increasing ladies
true great want of Madisonville bread and whisky.
Full particulars in full letters by next dispatch. Block-
ade broken and Federal fleet sunk.        MAc.
I fear the head of the new  ation can't comprehend.
the above, but it is less obscure than the Southern Con-
federacy, and he professes to understand that.
Yours untiringly,
JAMES B. MAaPnEUnsoN.
P. S.-My Idiotic Boy is preparing an attack on the
Know Nothings and Pilgrim Fathers, which will be
sent to the True Delta for publication.  J. .
2*

TELEGRAM TO JEFF. DAVIS.

 I I
ti
111
IY

32

33

THE MAOPHERSON LETTERS.

i

i


34          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

CHAPTER V.
MACPHERSON, JOURNEYING TO AIADIsONYILLE, SEES THE GREAT
CONFEDERATE CROSs IN THE IIEAVENS.-IE IS SEIZED BY
ARIZONIAN GUERILLAS, AND TAKEN TO TIE PLACE o' Ex-
ECUTION.-IIS ESCAPE FROM DEATH, ETC.
NoTE.-The New Orleans Picayune, of March 7th, contained the
following extraordinary announcement of a great phenomenon in
the heavens:
A CRoss IN THE IIEAVENS.-A well-defined cross was seen in the
sky over Kingston, N. C., some two weeks since. A correspondent,
writing from that point to the Wilmington (N. C.) Journal, gives the
following description of the phenomenon:
"The moon rose cloudless. At a little before seven o'clock, two
bright spcts, some twelve degrees (Qr. in extent?) were visible, one
North and the other South, and immediately thereafter a cross was
seen in the heavens, the moon joining the four arms of the cross.
About half-past eight o'clock the Northern light went out, but the
cross and the spot to tile South remained until past ten, when I re-
tired. Can any one tell when the cross appeared before since the
days of Constantine, when the letters of I. H. S. accompanied the
Sign ?"
Sibley, it is known, commanded a body of Arizonian cavalry ; and
a detachment of these wild and irregular troops one day "gobbled"
a correspondent of THE ERA. He was made to follow them nineteen
hours, when he was released in consideration of his gold watch and
fifty dollars. The Memphis Appeal was in high favor with the seces-
sionists of New Orleans, and its reports of rebel successes were about
as truthful as the account contained in Macpherson's letter. The
guerillas were much given to destroying the telegraph within our
lines.
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
February 14th, 1863.
SIR:-I approach my subject with awe and supersti-
tion.
I am the illuminated Confederate who saw the Great
Cross in the Heavens, described by the Wilmington

Journal, and reverently believed by the New Orleans
Picayune.
It will be remembered that, on the occasion of my
recent visit to New Orleans, where I took the oath of
allegiance to the United States, in order to get some-
thing to eat, I left that city in a state of beastly intox-
ication. In one pocket of my breeches I had a bottle
of whisky, and in the other a copy of the Picayune,
of the 7th inst.
As I crossed the line and set foot upon the sacred
soil of my beloved Confederacy, I cried aloud : "I ail,
sweet Confederacy 1-land of my ancestors 1-land for
which George Washington was shot at by an Indian
seventeen times, in a single battle !-for which Jackson
fought at New   Orleans - for which Burgoyne sur-
rendered at Saratoga Springs, as thousands have done
since !-welcome thy faithful Macpherson once more to
thy Confederate bosom ! What graphic recollections
of hunger and thirst crowd upon my patriotic mind, as
I tread again thy consecrated soil with a newtpair of
shoes ! For thy sake, I see Ethan Allen demanding
the surrender of Ticonderoga, Columbus prowling
around in search of the New World, and the Pilgrim
Fathers building huts in the wilds of New England!"
Narrow Escape from Death.
Just at this stage of my apostrophe, I was startled
by a loud crash, and a flashing line of fire from the
thicket in my rear, followed by a voice which cried:
"Die, base Yankee dog !"   The Confederate picket
had been deceived by my allusion to the Pilgrim

II

I'
CI
, il

i'1

NARROW RSCARE FR.QM DEATH.

1

E
e
E
k
f

f


36          THE MACPIHERSON LETTERS.

z

Fathers and New England, and, supposing I was a
Yankee, had fired upon me a whole volley of Confed-
erate musketry. Overcome by a strong emotion of
fear, I fell prostrate upon the soil, and was left for dead.
But gathering myself up, I soon discovered that I was
as alive as ever, and that the only result of the volley
had been to deprive me of a considerable portion of my
pantaloons.-
Grateful for my deliverance from premature and un-
natural homicide, I fell into a train of serious reflection ;
and conscience, with a heavy hand, chastised me for
approaching my native land in a state of beastly in-
toxication. I therefore fell upon my knees, and took
the pledge of perpetual temperance. I vowed in the
most solemn manner that never again, while life should
last or the Confederacy endure, would I, under any cir-
cunstances, taste, touch, or handle one drop of spirituous
or malt liquors, wine, Louisiana rum, or cider. I then
danced a double-shuffle, and chanted the Bonnie Blue
Flag,with a snatch of Stonewall Jaeckson's Grand 2JfarcJ.
Overcome by patriotic emotions, I determined to
modify my temperance pledge so far as to take one big
swig of whisky. And as I had now come within sight
of Madisonville, I sat down by the fence, and taking
the bottle from my pocket, cried aloud: "0 Bacchus !
son of Jupiter and Semel6, thou the victim of Juno's
unrelenting hatred, who didst cause the women of
Thebes to run wildly through the woods like Confed-
erate Gorillas, to thee I dedicate my last parting drink 1"
I then took the biggest swig of whisky I ever took in
my life, and the effect was so pleasing, that I kept
drinking until the bottle was empty.

MACPHERSON'S VISION.         37

The Vision.
In this frame of mind, and while still seated by the
highway, under the fence, I imagined myself at home
in my own room. I trust I shall be excused for allud-
ing to the subject, but the truth of history requires me
to state, that under this strange inwression I undressed
myself and went to bed, hanging the remnants of my
pantaloons on a fence post, believing it to be a chair.
Little did I imagine that my bed was Confederate soil,
and my shelter the brave o'erhanging firmament, the
majestical roof fretted with golden fire. Yet, so it was,
and there, upon the all-nourishing bosom of the Con
federacy, there on the highway, in the sight of the
spires of Madisonville, I lay down under the fence and
slept the sleep of intoxicated innocence, dreaming of
Jeff. Davis, the Confederate States of America, Con-
stantine, Temperance, Bacchus, and Macpherson.
Now it was that a wonderful vision broke upon my
bewildered gaze, which I fear the English language is
too feeble to describe. Nevertheless, I will try.
Nor erat. The moon arose cloudless. At a little
before seven o'clock two bright spots, about twelve
degrees, were visible, one north and the other south
and immediately a cross was seen in the heavens, the
moon joining the four arms of the cross.    About
half-past eight o'clock the northern light went out,
but the cross and the spot to the south remained
until past ten, when I became too drunk to look at
it longer, and retired again to the soil of the Confed-
eracy.


THE ARIZONIAN GORILLA.         39

38          THE MACPHERSONI LETTERS.

The vision, according to the best of my recollection, '
which I admit, is somewhat obscure, presented the fol-
lowing appearance:

'EN TOU-

TO NIKA.*

C
8
A
As I have already stated, the northern light went
out at half-past eight o'clock, and by casting his eyes
at the above diagram of the vision, the reader will per-
ceive that the northern light was Jeff. Davis.
Having gone to sleep at half-past ten, I turned un-
easily on the soil and partially awoke, exclaiming:
"Heaven sends miraculous signs whereby it maketh
known its approval of the Confederacy. I will imbrue
my hands in Yankee blood, and do such sanguinary
deeds as will make the name of Macpherson synony-
mous with human gore. My new shoes shall become
slippery with homicidal claret."
* "With this you will conquer," The words seen by Constantine
on the cross in the sky.

ti

Advnt of the Arizonian Gorilla.
Just at this stage of my patriotic address, I was in-
terrupted by a voice like that of Mars, when he roared
amid the ranks of the contending Greeks and Trojans,
far on the ringing plains of windy Troy. It said :
"Death to the 'American fanatic and the blind and
vindictive Unionist!t'"
"That remark," I replied, arousing myself, "is a-
quotation from the True Delta's editorial of the 12th
inst. Allow me to inquire to whom you refer in that
noble and patriotic expression ?"
"To you, vile abolition renegade !-you, 'American
fanatic and blind and vindictive Unionist !'-you, impu-
dent hireling of Abraham Lincoln, a bloodier despot
than Nero-a man whose shameless and sanguinary
deeds, compared with those of Caligula or Helioga
balus, stand black as a Congo African beside a spotless
maiden !"
"Allow me to inquire," I responded, "to whom I am
indebted for the expression of these noble and patriotic
sentiments, at this lonely hour, while the celestial vision
whispers peace to my Confederate bosom ?"
"I am the Arizonian," he shouted; while the woods
trembled with the roar of his beautiful voice ; "I am
the Chief Gorilla, whose will is Confederate law. I
am the bloody avenger of my country's wrongs-the
gobbler-up of Yankee emissaries and ERA correspond-
ents, whose purpose to tear out thy vile heart is as
relentless as destiny. I am Don Antonio Maria de
Santiago Sibley !" And then he smote his breast and
howled.


CONFEDERATE WAR BULLETINS.        41

"Pardon me," I replied, "for interrupting you ; but
allow me to inquire if you have the latest news through
Southern sources
He then drew from his pocket the latest lMfempshi
Appeal, and read as follows:
"We have to record a great Confederate victory over
the Hessians, at Madisonville, but the lateness of the
hour and the scarcity of rum will not permit us to give
full details. Suffice it to say that Gen. Bragg passed
through Madisonville on the 12th inst. with a force of
four hundred thousand volunteers, and after marching
forty-five miles encountered the Yankees with greatly
superior numbers. The fight lasted eighteen hours, and
the Yankees were totally routed.
"On the first discharge of our musketry, fifteen thou-
sand Ohio troops fell dead. At the close of the en-
gagement we buried two hundred and eighty-seven
thousand of the enemy's slain. Not a man was hurt on
our side, notwithstanding we were exposed to a terrible
and destructive fire from the enemy's batteries for a day
and a half.
"Nine hundred batteries, two hundred thousand
prisoners, a million stand of arms, nineteen major-gen-
erals, and thirty thousand commissioned officers are
among the spoils of our victory. The commissioned
officers will be turned over to Gov. Moore for execution,
and the privates will be offered double pay and com-
missions to join the Confederate service.
" Gen. Bragg will reach New Orleans on the 13th
inst., at daylight.
"Stonewall Jackson is at Madisonville with eighty-
four thousand prisoners.

Latcr.

"Not one of the enemy survived. Those who were
not killed were mortally wounded.
"England has recognized the Southern Confederacy,
and a French fleet has blockaded New York and Phil-
adelphia. Lincoln is a prisoner.
Still Later.
"We regret to learn that Gen. Bragg's victory was
not so decisive as at first supposed. He has fallen back
upon Madisonville, and thinks he will be able to hold
his position.
latest.
"The enemy is in full possession of the field, and has
advanced two miles. It is believed that Gen. Bragg's
loss is but little more than that of the enemy. Full
particulars in our next edition."
As the Gorilla read the above reliable intelligence, I
had an opportunity to survey the extraordinary person
before me. his brow was dark almost to blackness;
his shoulders were as broad as those of Hercules; his
breast was covered with a shaggy Confederate blanket,
and his breeches were made of leather. his beard and
hair nearly swept the ground, while his head was sur-
mounted by a hat with a broad and dilapidated brim.
He carried a lasso in his hand, and hurling it with
Arizonian agility, he caught me round the neck and
drew me to his horse's feet with the'strength of Dr.
Windship. He then ordered me to prepare to march
immediately to the place of execution.

40          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.


42          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

MACPHERSON RANSOMS HIMSELF.       43

IH

The Vision Eeplained.
As I took my unmentionables from the fence, I found,
much to my astonishment, that the two arms of the
cross disappeared, and I discovered that the fence stake
on which they had been hanging, formed the upright
part of the great celestial vision and that the moon,
shining through the large hole in the above-mentioned
garment, had given it the appearance of joining the
four arms of the cross, while the Greek inscription and
the cabalistic letters were easily accounted for by the
vividness of my imagination, and the presence of the
Picayune in one of my pockets.
"Idiot !" shouted the Gorilla, "mount a steed and
make haste, for to-morrow thou shalt die."   I obeyed,
and we started off, the squadron all singing a song of
which I remember only the following:
"I am the bold Gorilla;
I wears a ragged shirt.;
My face is like Attila,
All covered o'er with dirt.
Upon the Mississippi,
I walk along so sly,
A-watching for to whip a
Gunboat a-sailing by.
"We've stolen many chickens,
We've emptied many a cup;
We've given the Yankees lickings;
We are the Gobblers-up !"
This beautiful and patriotic song was interrupted by
the sight of a telegraph pole, which immediately in-
spired the Gorilla and his followers with uncontrollable

rage. "Cut the connection !" was the shout, and dash-
ing boldly forward in line, they demolished the tele-
graph pole, and cut the wire in thirty-five pieces with
their sabres ; after which we resumed our march, over
rough and dangerous roads, impenetrable swamps, and
impassable bayous, occasionally stopping to turn a
family out of the house, or to rob a hen-roost.
In nineteen hours we arrived at the place of execu-
tion-a beautiful and romantic spot, surrounded by
mud and overhung with cypress-trees. "Now," said
the Arizonian, "prepare for instant death !"
"Is there nothing," I asked, '  that will change thy
relentless purpose ?"
"Nary," he replied. "I am a patriot, and no base
considerations move me. I despise the Yankees for
their speculations-their mean tricks of traffic ; I hate
them, because they may be approached with bribes,
and will sell out for gold or greenbacks. But, as for
me," lie continued, haughtily smiting his bosom, "I
am swayed only by chivalric devotion to my country.
I was educated at West Point, at the expense of the
United States, and think I got the best of the Yankees
whei I turned against them, notwithstanding their
shrewdness. So did Beauregard. But to what didst
thou allude, Macpherson, when thou didst ask if any
thing might not change my purpose ?"
"I alluded," was my answer, "to the condition of
the exchequer. I know that such patriots must live,
and that Confederate hen-roosts are much exhausted,
and on condition that you spare my valuable life, I
will contribute to your financial resources."
".Hast a gold watch ?" asked the unselfish patriot.

r
I
i
{


44          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

TILE MACPHERSON FESTIVAL.         45

" I have."
" Hast greenbacks ?"
"I have."
"Greenbacks," quoth the Gorilla, " are not as good
as New Orleans shinplasters and car-tickets. I prefer
ragged three-dollar bills cut in two in the middle, for
'they remind me of charity concerts, the proceeds of
which are used to clothe Confederate prisoners."
"Thy wish shall be gratified, most noble of patriots !"
I answered; "I will give thee my gold watch, and$50
in cut bills, in exchange for my valuable life."
"I consider I have got the best of the bargain," said
the Gorilla, as he smilingly appropriated the money
and watch. "Macpherson, thou hast paid more than
thy life is worth."
I then returned to Madisonville, thinking of the
noble patriotism of those men, actuated only by the
love of the new nation, and longing in my heart to
kill a Yankee or destroy a telegraph pole.
Yours, perseveringly,
JAMES 3. MACPHERSON.

C!CHAPTER VI.
A FULL ACCOUNT OF THE GREAT MACPHERSON FESTIVAL AT
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLE WOMAN, IN NEW ORLEANS.
NOTE.-Previous to the departure of the British war-vessel Rinal-
do from the port of New Orleans, in the spring of 1863, a party was
given to the officers of that ship at the house of a secessionist, in
great secrecy. The officers had, on every occasion, exhibited their
sympathy for the rebel cause, and the party was composed only of
faithful secessionists. The toasts, songs, and all proceedings were
of the worst rebel description. A flag of the United states was
thrown under the table, where all present trampled upon it, and the
rebel colors were displayed and honored. -  The tickets of the New
Orleans City Railroad Company are used for small change, their
value being a picayune-five cents.-At the time this letter was
written, the secessionists confidently expected "Stonewall" Jackson
to capture the city. Indeed, the race of those who expect to see the
rebel power re-established in New Orleans, is not yet extinct ; but as
the armies of the "Confederacy" are driven back and defeated by
our forces, the rumors of large rebel armies, just ready to dash in
upon the city, become more vague and less frequent.
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
March 21st, 1863.
SIR:-I arrived in New Orleans on Saturday, ac-
companied by my Idiotic Boy, and had scarcely regis-
tered my name at the St. Charles, when I was imme-
diately surrounded by a great crowd of admiring
friends, who thanked me for .my able defense of the
Confederacy, and for my brilliant assaults upon the
United States. I replied, that the Confederacy alone
was worthy of our devotions, and that I received their
kind remarks, not as a compliment to me, but to the
Confederacy I represented ; and they admitted that
such was the fact. I had long believed that I was a

"f
'


46           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

descendant of German ancestors, and in order to settle
the question definitely, I measured heads with a Dutch-
man, and as our heads were exactly of the same size, I
considered my Gothic descent fully established.
But the principal object of my visit to the city was
to accept the- invitation of a Noble Woman-a widow,
whose husband has lost his life in the cause of the Con-
federacy. This lady, charmed both by my patriotism
and my literary abilities, had begged that I would visit
her, in company with my Idiotic Boy, and promised to
give me a grand dinner and festival if I should accept;
and I will now give you a full account of
The Great fMaepherson Festival.
I found, on entering the house, that the most elabo-
rate preparations had been made for my reception, and
neither time, car-tickets, nor labor had  spared to
make the occasion worthy of the great purpo
A mammoth hoop-skirt had been manufactured ex
pressly for the banquet, so large that it filled the whole-
room. This was spread over the table and surmounted
by a Confederate flag a hundred and sixty feet long,
the whole forming a beautiful and spacious canopy.
The Noble Woman and her daughters had a Confed-
erate flag in each breadth of skirt, while a miniature
flag-staff had been fixed into the back of their h ads,
from which gracefully streamed the emblem of the new
nation, and saucy rebel rosettes covered their craniums,
beautifully mingling and contrasting the Confederate
colors with the darkness of their shining raven locks.
The concave of the spacious canopy was decorated

MACPHERSON s RECEPTION.          47

with appropriate mottoes and inscriptions, painted in
beautiful red ink, which would make a column of the
ERA; but I shall give only a few of the most striking,
to-wit :
"Oh, welcome, great Macpherson!
Our hearts no more are light ;
We breathe a bitter curse on
our Yankee foes to-night."

" THE CONFEDERACY : It must and
served."-Andrew Jackson Davis.
"DIE, BASE YANKEE DOG !"-James
80T.

K

shall be pre-
B. ]lfacp.her-

"I AM OPPOSED TO NEGROES IN THE ABSTRACT.'-
Ibid.
As I entered the house, followed by my IdioticBoy,
the Noble Woman advanced, and bowing in a stately
and inviting manner, said : " Welcome, great Confeder-
ate !-Literary Light of Madisonville and New Orleans !
-you who have defended us when our rights were in
peril, and stood up to the scratch when Lovell sold the
city to Farragut !-we wish to pay a tribute to your
great abilities, which is only equalled by your devotion
to the Confederacy." To which I replied, that I did
not regard this as a compliment to me personally, but
to the Confederacy I represented. A nigger fiddler,
who had been hired for the performance, now struck
up Beauregard'$ ifarch, and we all danced a jig around
the table.
A retired and secluded residence had been selected,
and the door was locked, double-bolted, and chained,
while the windows were barricaded with empty barrels
and cotton bales, to hide the light and prevent the

VI

I 5
4

I


THE NOBLE WOMAN'S ADDRESS.        49

II

noise being heard outside.  "These precautions are
necessary," said the Noble Woman, "because the peo-
ple of New Orleans live in a condition of abject bond-
age. We are not permitted to arm ourselves against
the United States, nor to keep heavy ordnance in our
houses preparatory to a Confederate insurrection, nor
can we have Confederate processions unless we attend
funerals, nor boldly hurrah for Jeff. Davis."
"Unhappy people !" I exclaimed, my heart wrung
with the deepest pity; "you remind me of Prometheus,
the son of Iapetus, and the instructor of mortals, who
is said to have surpassed all men in sagacity. For
having brought fire from heaven to earth in a hollow
cane, lie was chained to a rock with an eagle to prey
upon his liver. Even so, enslaved ones, are you bound
to an unbappy destiny, with bands of iron and hooks
of steel, and the American eagle is gnawing out your
vitals. But let not your hearts be filled with despair,
for in thirty thousand years Hercules, the son of Jupiter,
hastened to his relief, snapped asunder his bonds, and
he, Prometheus still, arose clothed with all the dignity
of Southern independence. And as promptly as 11er-
cules hastened to the relief of Prometheus, shall Stone-
wall Jackson come to snap the Yankee bonds which
chain this enslaved people to an unhappy destiny, and
you shall arise and shine in the light of the Confed-
eracy! He may be expected Anno Domini 31,863, if
nothing happens, meantime, to prevent. Were it not
for the scarcity of provisions existing at Madisonville,
I would invite the enslaved populace to visit that classi-
cal town, and extend to all the freedom of the city in
a box. But at present that is impracticable."

A great many guests had been invited, male and
female, and all of them first-class Confederates, and
neutral citizens and foreign subjects. No small-fry were
present, I assure you.
I was introduced to each one, and they all compli-
nented me until I blushed; but I told them I did not
consider it a compliment to me personally, but to the
Confederacy which I represented.
At last the time came for dinner, and we formed a
procession in the parlor and marched in under the
magnificent canopy. _ As I entered the room, the nigger
struck up, "Hail to the Chief!" when the whole assern-
bly gave three cheers for Macpherson and Jeff. Davis.
I replied: "I thank you for these manifestations of your
kindness, but I do not consider it a compliment to me
personally, but to the Confederacy which I represent."
Whereupon we all sat down.
Two niggers then entered the room with a United
States flag in a miniature coffin. It was taken out and
spread under the table, and we all tramped on it. Then
the nigger played the ]Mansfield lovell Quikctep up
the Jackson Railroad, when the Noble Woman'said :
"Ladies and gentlemen--we have assembled this night
to honor the great light of Confederate literature, Lames
B. Macpherson. [Deafening sensation.] I have erected
this hoopskirt canopy as an appropriate emblem of the
courage, valor, and daring deeds of the Confederates
who still reside in New Orleans. For, to the disgrace
of the United States be it said, such is the uninterrupted
and infamous tyranny under which we groan, that the
brave sons of the Confederacy who now inhabit this
unhappy city, and even French subjects and British
3

I

k

It

48           TIIE MACPITERSON LETTERS.

t
i
i
c
t
a

r
3t
I

, {
_  i


THE REGULAR TOASTS.             51

sailors, are compelled to seek protection and safety
amid the skirts of our beautiful women ; and here alone
it is, in secluded places, with double-bolted doors and
barricaded windows, with hushed voices and throbbing
hearts, stimulated by champagne and nigger-fiddling,
and overshadowed and concealed by a mammoth skirt,
that we are permitted to trample upon the flag of the
United States, that detestable emblem of despotism,
whose stripes are painted with innocent Confederate
blood, and whose stars are more malignant than Sirius !"
As the Noble Woman uttered the closing sentence of
her eloquent invective, an electric shock of patriotic
rage ran around the table, similar to that which one
would experience holding on to a galvanic battery or
grabbing the electric eel, and rising to our feet we swore
eternal and undying devotion to the Confederacy. The
Noble Woman then said that as I had not had any thing
to eat for several days, I had better proceed uninter-
ruptedly with my dinner, and speak afterward. To
which I replied that I did not regard it as a compli-
nent to me personally, but to the Confederacy which I
represented. Having eaten, the cloth was removed, and
then it was that the fun commenced. The first regular
toast was given by the Noble Woman. It was:
" MACPIRsON."
The whole assembly arose, and I was drunk standing,
when the audience called out: "Speech!"  To which
I replied : "I thank you, enslaved citizens of New Or-
leans, lovely women with shining locks, and eyes radian\
with beauty, countenances rivalling those which come
to us in our dreams of fairy-land-brave and stalwart
men, devoted to the Confederacy, but prudently wait-

ing for the coming of Stonewall Jackson before you
risk your lives in the glorious cause--French subjects
and English mariners, justly abusive towards the United
States, and enjoying its protection--I thank you all for
this spontaneous and undeserved manifestation of your
good-will, but I do not regard it as a compliment to
me personally, but to the Confedegacy I represent."
The second regular toast was then announced:
"DEATH TO THE YANKEES.,
Drunk standing, and music by the nigger.
Third regular toast: "CONFUSION TO FARRAGUT."
At the mention of this name the whole assembly
turned pale, except the nigger, who instantly struck up
the Bar Hollins Polca. Unable to restrain my rage,
I emptied two bottles without stopping.
Fourth regular toast: "JEFF. DAvIS AND THE SOUTH-
ERN CONFEDERACY-may they float over the North
American continent, so long as a loyal Confederate is
hunting for the last ditch."
Air: Braqg's Xfrfreesboro' Lament.
Pifth regular toast: " THE PRESs OF NEW ORLEANS."
Response by my Idiotic Boy, James Buchanan Mac-
pherson, Jr., whose noble and patriotic address was re-
ceived with shouts of applause; and the moment my
Idiotic Boy sat down, he was surrounded by the great-
est secessionist, of the . city, and by foreign subjects,
who shook him by the hand, and told him he talked
much like their greatest sages, that he ought no longer.
to be called an idiot.
But a chap who hadn'tsaid much previously, but had
sat reading the newspapers, approached me and said:
"Mr. Macpherson-for your genius and patriotism I

50          THE MACPHEESON LETTERS.

k


52          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

have the greatest respect ; but as for your boy, he is a
humbug. The speech which he palmed off on the
audience is not original, but was stolen bodily from the
Picayune's editorials of the 17th and 19th inst., with
a few alterations for the better ; and for my part, I con-
sider the young man's idiocy fully established." He
then handed me copies of the papers referred to, and,
upon exmnn        ine, I found that my poor boy had
copied his speech, word for word, from them, with some
trifling alterations, and I ordered him to leave the
house. "The name of Miacpherson," I said, "is the
synonym of honor, and the undying antagonist of pla-
giarism, and I do this to show you that the man whom
you this night feed, will sacrifice paternal endearment
to the principles of integrity."
Volunteer toasts were now called for, and arising
with my most fascinating bow, I proposed, "THE
LADIES."  To which the Noble Woman responded:
"The ladies of this City, that is, them that deserves to
be called ladies, is true to the Confederacy ; for the
moment that a female is decently civil to a Yankee, she
should, and in my estimation does, forfeit the name of
lady. I hope the time will come when, like the royal
Saxons, from whom we have descended, we may drink
champagne from the skulls of our enemies; and when
the freedom of speech and of the press shallbe restored,
so that those who whisper Union may be hung to a
lamp-post."
As the Noble Woman uttered these sublime and
patriotic sentiments, I was animated with overpowering
admiration, and springing to my feet, I cried: 'o
Hebe ! step-daughter of cloud-compelling Jove, and

spouse of serpent-strangling Hercules, now indeed do I
believe that Jupiter dismissed thee from the skies, and
sent thee to New Orleans! Such elevated sentiments
as the beautiful being before me has expressed, could
not have emanated from lips wholly mortal, and verily
do I believe that the sweet orator who just took her
seat is the Hebe of the South, crowned with immortal
youth!"
Champagne now flowed down the table in torrents,
and the scene became one of unalloyed enjoyment.
Youth, beauty, genius, there mingled together in songs
of sweet accord to the Confederacy, until one by one
the guests disappeared, leaving me alone beneath the
spacious canopy, with an unfinished bottle before me.
I tried to think of a subject for my next letter, but all
was dim, uncertain, and confused. As clouds driven by
the winds chase each other fitfully across the pale
moon's face, even so flitted the thoughts and visions of
the undersigned; and as the hollow sea at last engulfs
the wrecked mariners struggling vainly for life, even so
were the thoughts of Macpherson, vainly struggling
for shape, form, and consistency, lost in the wide ocean
of unconsciousness.
And in conclusion, let me warn young men never to
drink any thing intoxicating ; for now it was that the
name of Macpherson was first brought into disgrace.
I fell under the table in a condition of drunken insen-
sibility, from which I was partially aroused the next
morning by a scream from the Noble Woman and her
daughters.
They, in fact, entered the dining-room the next
morning after the great festival, and there discovered

MACPI LERSON IN DISGRACE.      53


MACPHERSON AS A PHILOSOPHER.        55

54          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

me stretched upon the floor, with the detested flag
which we had so eagerly trodden under foot wrapped
about my person, as I had mistaken it for a Confederate
blanket. Incensed at an insult so gross, the Noble
Woman and her daughter without giving me time to
arouse and explain, fell upon me with broomsticks and
pokers, driving me into the street. I was still too
drunk to real ize what had happened, and actually
walked the whole length of Canal-street wrapped in
the folds of that detested flag, exciting the admiration
of all Yankees, the indignation of Confederates, the
grin of darkies, and the loud yells of a procession of
boys who followed me to my lodgings. There my Idiotic
Boy tore the hated emblem from the person of his ven-
erated father, and we put back to Madisonville, without
stopping once to drink.
Yours in disgrace,
JAMES P1. MACPHERSOK.

CHAPTER VII.
MACPHERSON SETTING UP AS A CONFEDERATE PHILOSOPHER
EXPLAINS THE DISTINCTION OF RACES TO HIS IDIOTIC Boy.
--ADVENT, HISTORY, AND ADVENTURES OF THE UNHAPPY
CUSS.-MAC PHERSON CAPTURED BY DURYEA'S ZOUAVES.--
INTERVIEW WITH THE "SOUTHERN SOURCE" ETC., ETC.
NOTE.-It is well known that "thechivalry" were accustomed, be-
fore the war, to claim for themselves superiority of blood, culture,
and refinement.--The reader will need no instruction to recognize
in the "Unhappy Cuss," a representative of that class of Northerners
who used to come to the South, and change their principles with the
climate ; and who were prepared to change them as often as their
pecuniary interests required.-Contraband trade across Lake Pont-
chartrain was carried on to a considerable extent, and at great risk;
the cargoes frequently falling into the hands of the military. But
when the rascals succeeded in eluding the military and getting their
cargoes into the market, they realized rich returns.--About the
time this letter was written, Pontchatoula, a village in Eastern
Louisiana, was captured by an expedition under Colonel Clark, con-
sisting of the Sixth Michigan regiment and the Second Duryea's
Zouaves (165th New York).--" News through Southern Sources,"
was the title under which the secession press of New Orleans was ac-
customed to publish the mild sensation reports of rebel victories
that were sent from Jackson and Mobile, to comfort the faithful seces-
sionists of the Crescent City. These reports were frequently without
the slightest foundation in truth, and the "Southern Source" became
the synonym of unblushing mendacity.
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
March 28th, 18G3.
Sm :-It was a cloudless and lovely afternoon, and a
refreshing breeze brought to my nostrils all the com-
mingled odors of Madisonville, as I sat in the open door
of my Hospitable Abode. half asleep. N y mind wandered
back to Plato, the greatest philosopher of the Greeks, and


56          THE MACPHERSON LETI ERS.

I therefore determined to set up as a Confederate Philos-
opher. It was not long before an opportunity of enter-
ing upon this new and honorable career presented itself;
for my Idiotic Boy approached and asked me what a
Yankee is. I replied: "An abolitionist."
"What is an abolitionist ?" inquired the imbecile
youth.
"A Ijessian," I answered.
"What is a Hessian ?" persisted the youth.
"Sweet Idiot !" I said, "the human family is divided
into two great classes-Scutherners and Yankees. The
Southerners are a superior race, and inevitable gentle-
men. On the other hand, all who are not born inside
the Confederate lines are Yankees, Abolitionists, and
Hessians, which, in the Confederate lexicon, are synony-
mous terms.   The Yankees are .an inferior race by
birth, and are forever unfit to associate on terms of
social equality with Southerners. My advice to all
future generations is, Be born in the Confederacy.
Otherwise, they will lack that chivalric and indescri-
bable grace which belongs to every white man born in
the Confederacy-that charm which clings to your re-
vered father, and which,, thank heaven, I can visibly
trace in thee, my poor, Idiotic Boy."
Actvent-of the Unhappy cuss.
The Idiot wept for joy, and clasping him to my bosom
in a glow of paternal pride and fondness, we mingled
our Confederate tears together, when the touching and
beautiful scene was interrupted by the approaching
footsteps of a stranger, whose grief-stricken countenance
unmistakably indicated that he was the Unhappy Cuss.

"Who art thou? whence comest, and whither goest ?"
I inquired.
"I am," he answered "a victim of the greatest mis-
fortune that can fall to the lot of articulate-speaking
men!"
"Alas! wretched one," I answered, "make known
the cause of this calamity, and I pledge my assistance."
"Thanks, generous and sublime Macpherson !" quoth
the stranger, "great and admired Confederate philoso-
pher, for thy proffered help ; but, alas ! my malady is
beyond mortal aid !"
" Unhappy Cuss !" I exclaimed, in a tone of meek
pity; "Despair is the twin-brother of Death, and the
system of philosophy I am about to bring to light, em-
braces this great principle, that when a man won't
stand by himself, no one is longer obligated to stand by
him."
"Wisest of all Confederates !" responded the Un-
happy Cuss, "greatest of living teachers! thy maxims
of philosophy may place thy name on record as the
Confederate Plato, but they cannot heal a bleeding
spirit, nor bind up a wounded heart. My malady is of
the blood; I inherited it at birth; I inhaled it with
the air I breathed, and no medicine in the world can
do me good."
"Explain," I said, "this leprous distilment which
hath blighted thy young hopes.   Speak, Unhappy
Cuss !"
"I will unfold to thee the great secret of my life,"
quoth he ; "but let me whisper it, for I. have not the
courage to pollute the air with these fearful words.
He then rolled over three times in the dirt, and placing

THE "UNHAPPY CUSS."


t
.
t

his lips close to my ear, while a look of ghastly despair
ilitted across his protruding under-jaw, whispered these
fearful words :
"Ia kTVc P  nee blood n 'myve insI"
As the Unhappy Cuss said the above words, he was
seized with spasms, and fell rolling in the dust pt my
feet. The Idiotic Boy, who had been a silent but tear-
ful spectator of the scene, immediately threw a barrel
of ran  water upon his prostrate form, and I rubbed his
head with an inlikstand until consciousness once more
returned.
Is'tory qf the Uit apply (Juss.
le then proceeded to unfold his woful tale. "I
am," he said, "a native of Connecticut. My ancestors
came from England in the Mayflower. They were, in
fact, adherents of those detestable Puritans and iRound-
heads, who had the insolence to overthrow a King, and
cut his head off to boot. I was taught to believe in
those bloody wretches for saints, and I also thought
that the American Union was the greatest monument
of wisdom and liberty ever erected by the hands of
mortal men. Every 4th of July I was drunk for a
week in honor of George Washington and the United
States, and 'Yankee Doodle' was my favorite air.
"Fortune at last decreed that I should leave my
native land and come to New Orleans. As I stood on
the deck of the vessel, and saw the hills of New Eng-
land sink in the distant horizon, my eyes were filled
with tears, and I vowed that never, while life should
last, would I prove recreant in thought or deed, to
those great principles of national unity which were so

impressed upon my affections. But the moment the
warm breezes of the South touched me, I began to real-
ize a change. It seemed to me that the Roundheads
ought to have been whipped by the Cavaliers, and that
virtue triumphed with the restoration of Stuart's cavalry.
"The instant I set foot on the levee at New Orleans,
the scales fell from my eyes, and I was seized with
shame for my Yankee blood. I swore that I hated
Yankees, and this patriotic sentiment grew day by day
until it goaded me on to deeds of bloodshed and theft.
I carefully studied the habits of Southern society, and
carried a revolver in each breeches pocket, and a bowie-
knife and corn-cutter in my belt. I knocked down a
nigger and cursed the Yankees at every public gather-
ing; and when secession got under way, I hung three
Union men to a lamp-post with my own hands, stole
five thousand dollars in cash, and out-confederated the
Confederates in niy devotion to Southern independence."
As the Unhappy Cuss closed his narrative, a glow of
Confederate pride overspread his features, and my class-
ical mind arose to the full height of the sublime occa-
sion. "Benignant stranger !" I exclaimed, "such is
the glory of the Confederacy that its light strikes dumb
every Yankee who sets foot upon its sacred soil, and he
cannot wag his tongue except in praise of the Confed-
eracy. I hail thee, Unhappy Cuss, as a Confederate
Yankee. But you will excuse me if I decline to in-
troduce you to Mrs. Macpherson; for while I admit
the great worth of. a man who is, ready to fight and
steal for the Confederacy, I cannot welcome him on
terms of social quality, if he has Yankee blood in his
veins."

THE UNHAPPYY CUSS."

08

r I iE MACFIIERSON LETTERS.

59


60          THE MACPHERsON LETTERS.

Mrs. Macpherson now entered the house and turned
up her nose at the Yankee Cuss, and remarked that the
person could sit down at the second table.
The next day was Jeff. Davis's fast and humiliation,
and the Cuss and I went to church. The parson
preached from the words: "Hold fast." It was very
convenient, for we had nothing in the house to eat, and
I could starve the guest without a violation of the laws
of hospitality. We both got drunk, however, as a Con-
federate humiliation, and the Cuss opened to me a
great plan of speculation.
"I have," he said, "a scheme of wealth, which will
make us both richer than Judah P. Benjamin. Phi-
losophy is good in its way, but let me tell you, Mac-
pherson, that philosophy don't pay. Hast thou Con-
federate treasury notes ?"
"I have only $95,000 by me at present," I replied.
"That is just the amount I want," answered the
Cuss. "I have run the blockade with a satchel of
quinine and salt, which cost me $150 in New Orleans,
and which I have already disposed of for $150,000. I
want $95,000 more, which will enable me to buy a
schooner and load her with cotton, and with this I will
run the blockade and sell it in New Orleans, and will
divide the profits, which will be perfectly enormous."
" Give me thine honest hand !" I cried aloud.
"Give me thy treasury notes I" responded the Un-
happy Cuss.
I gave him all the money I had in the world, and we
immediately started for Pontehatoula. We hid in a
swamp, and waded in the water above our knees for
twenty-four hours, in order to escape observation, until

U

. we found a man who was ready to. deal with us, and it
was not long before a schooner was filled with cotton
ready for shipment. I noticed that the Cuss made the
purchase entirely in his own name, and did not recog-
nize me at all, except to make me run of errands.
When I required an explanation of this, he replied in
the following noble and patriotic words:
"You, Macpherson," he said, "are too great a nian
to mix yourself up with the affairs of material wealth.
That occupation belongs wholly to the Yankee mind.
You, who are a great philosopher, and in whose veins
courses only Confederate blood, should not bend the
gigantic intellectual energies of your mammoth brain to
any such grovelling object. No, no!--leave that to me,
and I'll fix the thing for you."
As he was paying this just tribute to my intellectual
worth, the earth suddenly trembled beneath our feet,
as if suffering in the throes of mortal agony ; while a
howl of terror and frenzied panic rolled through the
swamp in which we were situated. A whizzing noise
penetrated the branches of the trees, and pale with
abject fear, we saw the Gorillas dashing wildly through
the woods in confusion, crying out in tones like those
of Stentor, the Grecian warrior whose voice was, louder
than the combined voice of fifty men:
"The Yanks ! the Yanks are upon us !"
On they flew, like the winds, while the Unhappy
Cuss and myself, were transfixed to the earth, with
amazement and fright. Soon the woods around us
flashed with the fire of musketry, and the highivay
swarmed with the red-breeches, which, in my terror, I
believed to be devils, like those in the opera, who carry

A JOINT COTTON SPECULATION.         61

t


ii
4
I
i

63

off Don Giovanni, as he is taking a drink of champagne.
The next thing in the strange chapter of my adven-
tures, I was surrounded by a squad of the red-breeches,
with fierce looks and flashing bayonets, who demanded
an immediate and unconditional surrender to Duryea's
Zouaves. I replied that the proud chivalric blood of
Macpherson, was at any time prepared to be shed for
the Confederacy, but that while I had a leg to stand on,
or an arm to smite with, I would never surrender to a
Yankee.
i.faepherson a captive.
"Fiddlesticks !" replied the Zouave, rapping me on
the head with the butt of his musket. My hands were
then tied behind me and I was carried to the command-
ing officer, a prisoner of war. But let it be known to
all men forever, that I did not make any formal sur-
render.
I then looked around me to learn the destiny of the
Unhappy Cuss, and expected to see him hanging to a
limb. I knew that the Yankees prosecute this war on
a plan of such bloody and barbarous ferocity, that
neither of us had the slightest chance of life. Imagine
my amazement, therefore, when I saw the Unhappy
Cuss seated on a log, side by side with a Yankee officer,
taking a drink, and conversing in the most friendly
manner.
"I am glad to see you here," I heard him say to the
vile Yankee. "I have a load of cotton here ready to
be shipped to New Orleans, and I have been waiting
my opportunity for several weeks to slip off with it, and
now I shall be able to do so. I hail you as a deliverer

from the cruel oppressions of the traitors ; there is not
an impulse in my heart which is 1iot true to the flag of
the Union. Let's take a drink !"
"Liar ! Base dog !" I exclaimed, "the cotton is mine,
and you are a Confederate according to your own con-
fessions."
"Who is that ?" asked the Yankee officer, pointing
to me.
c A crazy man whom I hired by the day to watch
my cotton," replied the Cuss, "but I discharged him
for evident insanity."
Reader ! are you human? Has your compassion
been eviscerated? Think of such an insult to me, the
great light of Confederate literature, and the Plato of
Madisonville, and weep with pity for the depravity of
man. My hands were untied, and I was told to go
home, for the Yankee commander said he pitied an in-
sane man ; to which the Unhappy Cuss responded that
for this reason he pitied the whole Confederacy.
"Good by, Macpherson," he said. "I am grateftil
for your hospitality, and I admit the inferiority of the
Yankee race."
"Liar !-swindler !-thief !-traitor !-villain!" I re-
plied, and started for home.
Interview with the Southern Source.
As I was going along, I saw a chap dodge from be-
hind a tree in the swamp, and wave his hand to me. I
approached, when in a mysterious tone he whispered:
"I am a Southern Source!"
"What's new, my honest friend ?" I asked him.

I

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

62

THE "SOUTHERN SOURCE."

i


a
t
tt
s
t
t
s-
i
It  1
tt
3

"Much," he said, at the same time waving a news-
paper before my eyes.  I reached out to look at it,
when he suddenly slipped off and put the paper in his
pocket. "Seven hundred and ninety dollars," said he.
"The brokers in New Orleans will give me $800, but
I will take $790 here."
"I must first know whether the news is worth the
money," I answered.
"Did ever a Southern Source deceive the publicaV"
he inquired. "Is not my name and reputation for
veracity a shield against such base imputations? But
I will give you one little item to show that the paper
is worth it. It contains an account of Jeff. Davis in
New York."
"Jeff. Davis in New York !" I exclaimed, raising
my hands in gratitude; "then is Pontchatoula aveng-
ed !"  I borrowed the money, and the Southern Source
disappeared, legging it through the woods when last
seen.
I proceeded to examine the paper, when I discovered
that it was of the 29th October, 1858, and contained
an account of Jeff. Davis's speech at a democratic
meeting in Palace Garden, New York. Let me tell
you that the man who sold that paper upon false pre-
tenses, is a disgrace to Southern Sources; for the char-
acter of these Sources is above reproach or the sus-
picion of falsehood ; and whatever you read in a Con-
federate newspaper you can safely accept as the unadul-
terated gospel of truth.
I must draw my letter to a close. I have once more
reached my hospitable abode at Madisonville, and, as I
write these closing sentences, I look back upon the ex-

perience of the past week with a philosophic eye.
I have been shamefully swindled by the Unhappy Cuss
and the Southern Source, but my faith in the Confed-
eracy is not dimmed. The light of victory shall flash
upon our banners, and I pledge my word that if the
base Yankee foe ever takes possession of Madisonville,
he will first walk over the prostrate and mangled body
of
Yours, philosophically,
JAMES B. MACPHERsON.

THE' MACPHERSON LETTERS.

t
: a
f
i
i
i
i
f
F
i
t

61

SHAMEFULLY . SWLTDLED.

65


I

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

APOSTROPHE TO THE TCHEFUNCTA.

CHAPTER VIII.
THE GREAT CHARITY FAIR.
NoT.-Mr. N. 0. J. Tisdale, formerly President of the New Or-
leans City Qas Company, and a well-known registered enemy of the
United Staves, who finally left the city and went into the "Confede-
racy," held a fair at his residence, professedly for the benefit of the
Protestant Orphan Asylum, but really, it was generally believed, for
the purpose of raising funds with which to clothe the rebel prisoners
then in New Orleans. In the name of charity, tickets were sold to
all who would purchase, and many Union men and women purchased,
not suspecting the true character of the entertainment. The fair was
a full-blooded secession demonstration ; the rebel colors were dis-
played, rebel airs were played on the piano, and certain rebel poems,
printed secretly, were sold at twenty-five cents apiece. These poems
were entitled respectively, "The Battle of the Handkerchiefs," and
"The Battle of the Fair."  The authorship is attributed here to Mac-
pherson's Idiotic Boy ; but they were really written by a young lady
of New Orleans, who has composed several ingenious secession poems,
and who sometimes signs herself Emily M. Washington. Mr. rTis.
dale was arrested, and his trial, which continued several days, at-
tracted great attention in New Orleans, and was the subject of com-
ment in the Northern papers. While witnesses were brought by the
prosecution who swore positively that "The Bonnie Blue Flag" was
performed, and other secession demonstrations made, Mr. Tisdale
brought. witnesses in large numbers, who swore that they neither
heard that air, nor witnessed any thing indicating sympathy for the
rebel cause. The court, in its decision, acquitted Mr. Tisdale, on the
ground that these negative witnesses for the defense were present all
the evening, and that it was a moral impossibility that they should
not have heard the air had it actually been performed.  The ar-
rest and punishment of the Idiotic Boy for hurrahing for Jcff. Davis,
was intended to exhibit the folly of the light punishment of such of-
fenses, which at one time consisted of a small fine. It was currently
reported and believed that every fine imposed for such offenses was
promptly paid by the secessionists, and a little purse given to the
"martyr" as a bounty on impudent treason. It is said that this
bounty was sometimes as high as fifty dollars ; so that one who

should hurrah for Jeff Davis could do so without expense to himself,
and make a handsome little sum out of it besides.  The author
cannot close this note without expressing his admiration for the bold
and able manner in which the prosecution in the Tisdale case was
conducted by the City Attorney, Mr. L. Madison Day.
MADIsoNVILE, LA.,
April 4th, 1863.
SIR: It was midnight, and the pale beams of the
heaven-traversing moon shone down upon the pellucid
bosom of Lake Pontchartrain, and streamed through
the crevices of my Dilapidated, Hospitable Abode, and
silence and slumbers prevailed among living men. But
I, moved with pity for the wrongs of the Confederacy,
and, like much-planning Ulysses, revolving many
thoughts in my mind, was no more able to sleep than
was Calypso, inconsolable at the departure of her Gre-
cian hero. Therefore, I arose from    my lofty couch,
and in gloomy meditation, walked to .the banks of the
Tchefuncta, whose beautiful, muddy water, seemed to
be a reflex of my own sombre and philosophic thoughts.
Seating myself upon the all-nourishing earth, I thus
poured out my soul to the noble river :
"0 Tchefuncta'! thou, whose beautiful mud is as
clear as the hopes of the Confederacy, listen to the
moans of thy philosophic son!     Tell me, ye lonely
depths of dirt ! whether in a time of national calamity,
with the stars and stripes floating over the blood-stained
heights of Pontehatoula, a philosophic mind may devote
itself to the pursuit of occult truth, or whether it be not
the duty of every Confederate, even though like me, he
be gifted with a mammoth brain, to bare his arm in the
cause of his country ? I pause for a reply."
Having delivered this eloquent apostrophe to the

/

'7

00

r
f
t
t
r
x
't
s
i
}
d
)f
)S
j{[S1
}}{X
3
3
4
1
Z
t
i
c
i
J
}
s
s
A
H
f
#3
P
S
lfj
t


68           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

Ii
ij
f' E

noble river, I fell partially asleep, when I heard a mys-
terious voice, crying from the depths:
"Bare the arm! bare the arm!"
"I will !" I responded; "for in that voice I recog-
nize a Confederate sign and miracle, surpassing in won-
der the dreams of the Picayune; and I shall forthwith
proceed with my long-cherished design of forming a
Congo Body Guard."
I then went to sleep, when I was suddenly aroused
by a kick in the back, which sent me headforemost into
the muddy depths of the sluggish Tchefuncta.
"Spirit!" I exclaimed, "who but recently spake to
me from these waters, unless, indeed, my eyes were
bent on vacancy, and I with incorporeal air did hold
discourse, receive thy son, and assist him to reach dry
land !" I then waded back, comparing myself to
Venus, who rose from the sea, while the moist-blowing
west wind wafted her in soft foam along the waves,
and the gold-illeted Seasons received her on the shores
of Cyprus, clothed her in immortal garments, placed a
golden wreath upon her head, and led her to the assem-
bly of the gods. And as I wallowed in the mud of the
noble river, I exclaimed: "I am the Venus of Madi-
son ville, arising from the Tchefuncta, and waiting for
immortal honors !"
I then stepped upon the bank, when a wild mule
kicked at me and brayed, and I found that I had mis-
taken the mule's familiar voice for a Confederate mir-
acle, and that the heels of the said animal had given
me midnight baptism. Nevertheless, I accepted the
advent of the mule as a celestial sign, and immediately
mounting the same, I started for New Orleans.

The Solitary Horseman.
I had proceeded seventy-five rods on my journey,
when my attention was attracted by the clatter of a
horse's hoofs, and soon the Solitary Horseman, whose
appearance and history have been fully described by
the late Mr. James, burst upon my vision. Immedi-
ately I apostrophized him as the Confederacy, for the
seal of the New Nation is to be a Cavalier, and I found
the Solitary Horseman to be the bean ideal of a Confed-
erate gentleman.
No sooner had I spoken, than he dismounted his foam-
ing steed, and embracing my knees, exclaimed:
"At last I behold thee, Confederate Plato, Venus of
Madisonville, and chiefest light of Confederate letters!
I am the delegate of three thousand citizens of New Or-
leans, who have charged me to express to you the pro-
found respect which they entertain for your august
person, and invite you to attend a Grand Charity Fair
to-morrow evening, at the residence of a gentleman
whose heart is as true to the Confederacy as is Jacob
Parker's to his safe. Charity," continued the Cavalier,
"like the dews of heaven, falls upon the lowly and the
poor ; and when I think of th hard lot of the unhappy
orphan, cast upon the heartle world without a guiding
and protecting hand, my heart is torn with a thousand
pangs of agony, and the hot blood goes rushing wildly
through my swollen veins.   0 Macpherson ! let us
weep for the unhappy lot of the poor and debased
orphan !"
The Solitary Horseman burst out in a fit of inconso-
lable tears as he uttered this sublimnely charitable sen-

i'

I

I.'

THE SOLITARY HORSEMAN.         69


'70          TiE MACPHEESON LETTERS.

G

timent, and I was about to press his gentle hand in
mine, when the Wild Mule gave an awful kick which
frustrated my affectionate design. The brave Cavalier
then mounted and we dashed furiously along the high-
way.
Is this Fair political ?" I asked.
"It is charitable, charitable, Macpherson,"ihe replied
-   a Fair in behalf of the Protestant Uniform Asy-
lum, an institution for the manufacture of graybacks,
where the weary Confederate may find rest, and the
naked Confederate may become clothed."
" Who hath contril)uted thereunto ?" I inquired.
Much to my astonishment, the tender-hearted Cava-
lier burst out in a fit of uncontrollable laughter, which
arose far above the clatter of his horse's hoofs. "That's
the joke !" he shouted, as his beautiful laugh rolled
through time lonely swamp ; "that's the joke !-the
Yankees have contributed ! Tickets were sold for ten
cents apiece, and in the blessed name of Charity, sweet
mother of the helpless, we sold many tickets to Union
men and women, and Yankee officers !"
Reining in my Wild Mule, I cried aloud : " Then
indeed do I wash my hands of this matter ; for I will
take no part in a Fair, even for Charity, if base Yankee
gold is mingled with the spotless currency of the Con-
fed eracy !'
The Cavalier whistled, as he drew from his pocket a
Richmond Examiner, and read the price of gold, $5.25,
and an advance of two hundred per cent. in a week.
" Be not too hasty, Confederate Plato," he observed.
" You are aware that the end justifies the means; and
in the present instance the great end to be achieved is

I

to clothe the Confederacy. To rob a Yankee or to
deceive a Yankee is the highest virtue of the Confed-
eracy. And since the grinding tyranny of the United
States will not permit us to operate openly, we invoke
the broad mantle of Charity, which we will cut up and
make into Confederate uniforms !"
"Give me thine honest hand, sweet messenger of be-
nievolence !" I exclaimed.  " Charity, indeed, shall
cover a multitude of sins ; and the mantle of Charity
is gray in the Confederacy."
It was night before we reached the city, and as the
mud of the Tehefuncta still adhered conspicuously to
my person, I determined to go to the St. Charles and
take a bath before attending the Fair. But as we were
riding towards that massive structure, the Solitary
Horseman suddenly reined in his steed, and pointing
to a palatial abode, said : "This is the place-listen !"
A confused din of lovely voices, strains of angelic
music, and trippings of the light fantastic toe cane to
my ears, grateful as the odor. of Louisiana Rum to a
thirsty Confederate; for I knew that every lovely
voice was a Confederate voice, every strain a Confed-
erate strain, and every light fantastic toe a Confeder-
ate toe.
Jifacpherson's Extraordinary Advent at the Fair.
I was about to hasten to the baths, when my Wild
Mule kicked with extraordinary violence, liftingme
clean from his back, tossing me over the fence and
through the open door of the palatial abode, and land-
ing me in the hall on my face, with a force which
caused the blood to ooze freely from my nostrils, and

f  j
'f(
f} ;
t
s
:  S
,
t
F
fffI
7
}
;
f
F
}
I,
t ji
a k

I
A
i
S
x
i
i
i
4
2

MACPHERSON AT THE FAIR.        71


72           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
mingle its crimson hues with the mud of the Tche-
functa, which still adhered conspicuously to my person.
The hall was crowded with beautiful Confederate
girls; and as I arose from my recumbent posture,
with my classcial mind slightly confused by the vio-
lence of the concussion, I imagined myself in a Vestal
temple. I therefore cried aloud: "0 lovely Confeder-
ate Vestals, who attend the sacred flame, fear not me,
for I am the Venus of Madisonville; and my only re-
gret is that, placing her hand upon the head of Jupiter,
your goddess swore perpetual celibacy."  The Vestals
then joined hands and danced around me, to the en-
livening strains of the Pomtohatoula Quickstep, and the
Great Host approaching, bade me welcome to the
abode of Charity.
"Allow me to inquire," I said, "whether you have
obtained permission to hold this Fair ?"
"I did not deem it necessary," he replied, "for I
consulted a gentleman who has held a similar concern
at his house, and he assured me that permission was
not necessary. I trust the time will soon come when
we can worship the Confederacy according to the dic-
tates of our own consciences, with none to molest or
make us afraid ,and when the ladies can spit in the
face of Yankees in the streets with impunity."
"Amen !" I responded to this noble and patriotic
prayer.
The Great Host lovingly took my arm, and, conduct-
ing me to an obscure corner, pointed in a mysterious
manner to a pile of publications. " To you," he said,
"the great light of Confederate letters, I need not ex-
patiate upon the beauties and blessings of literature ; 1

CONFEDERATE TRACTATES.

73

need not tell you of the- power of the press, which en-
ables us to poison the public mind, and inundate the
land with Confederate principles."  He then handed
, me two beautiful Confederate tracts, one them entitled
" The Battle of the handkerchiefs," and the other
" The Battle of the Fair," and informed me that the
price was two bits each, which sum I gladly paid as
he informed me the proceeds of those two beautiful
and patriotic publications would go towards clothing
the Confederacy.
"Perhaps," he remarked, "you would like to see
the author of those great works of genius and patri-
otism."
"I should rejoice to know him," I relied; "for
herein I find the evidences of that peculiar genius and
grace wjich belongs, in a greater or less degreeto
every thing Confederate."
"You shall be gratified," he answered ; and he im-
mediately led me face to face with my Idiotic Boy!
"There he is !" said the Great Host; "look upon
the author of those beautiful productions of the human
intellect."
My double surprise may be imagined. I supposed
the imbecile, youth was quietly sleeping in his mother's
arms ; but to find him there, surrounded by a galaxy
of youth and beauty, and to learn that he was a full-
fledged Confederate author, overpowered me with
amazement and gratitude. "Happy father of such a
son ! I exclaimed, clasping him to my muddy bosom,
"who in early life devotes the energies of his idiotic
brain to the true path of rectitude, and contributes the
efforts of his intellect to the great and heaven-ordained
4

I

f

Y

h 3
a


74          THE MACPIERSON LETTERS.

behests of Charity, by furnishing mental pabulum to
the followers of the naked Confederacy !"
Just then the Idiot dodged behind me, and pointing
to a lady across the room, said: "Shield me, for the
love of heaven !"
What is the row, sweet Idiot ?" I inquired.
"It is my misfortune to know that lady," he replied.
"I have eaten at the same table, drank wine from the
same bottle, played whist and euchre with the same
cards. But she is a Union woman, and it will be a
disgrace to recognize her here."
"Well said, dear Idiot," I responded. "But show
yourself worthy of your revered father and of the Con-
federacy you represent."
"I will !" he exclaimed, tearing his hair with vehe-
nent determination, and then walking coldly by the
Yankee woman, without recognizing her. Afterwards
he watched his opportunity and winked at her, in order,
if possible, to save her good opinion without compro-
mising himself.
"Sir !" I said with a frown of Confederate displeas-
ure upon my features, and addressing myself to the
Great Host: "You are a registered enemy of the
United States, and I was not prepared for'the affront
put upon me by the presence of a Yankee woman."
"Gas !" responded the Great Host, his eyes gleam-
ing like two burners, "you are over zealous. It is pos-
sible that the vile tyranny under which we groan, will
summon me to answer for this night's business, and
the presence of a few Yankees is a shield against sus-
picion."
I now proceeded to examine the spacious apartments;

r
t,
i'
"i
t
i.
i °
. tt
i
r
} 3
is
i
t{"
i
ii
E L
r"
ii
_     s
i#
f
X;
E,      ii
s
s7
f
V
7
ggg
S
9
i
i

and at every step I found something to gladden my
Confederate heart. I learned that beautiful maidens
of tender years had worked with the mothers of the
city, day after .day, and night after night, in manufac-
turing miniature Confederate -flags, which they brought
here and sold at high prices, the proceeds all going
into the Confederate treasury. I saw, also, Confeder-
ate doll-babies, Confederate roosters and hens, Confed-
erate pigs made of sugar, Confederate dogs, and Con-
federate alligators, all manufactured by fair hands in
obedience to the dictates of charity. But the princi-
pal feature of the evening was a Confederate donkey,
gayly caparisoned, on which sat my Idiotic Boy, wav-
ing the proud banner of the New.Nation, and winking
at the girls.
1w Great Confederate Seal.
" That Donkey and th 't boy," remarked a bystander,
"are the proper and fitting emblems of the Confed-
eracy. I see that our Congress is discussing the pro-
priety of adopting a Cavalier as the seal of the New
Nation; and I for one recommend Macpherson's Idiotie
Boy mounted on a Donkey as the most expressive and
appropriate Boy and Beast that can be found to repre-
sent the Confederacy."
It was suggested that I myself, mounted on my
Wild Mule, would do better ; but the opinion of the
audience was in favor of the Idiot, and so I yielded my
claims gracefully, soothing my disappointed, ambition
with the gushing stream of paternal pride.
During all this time the piano was sending forth its
angelic strains, the keys thereof being thumbed by

THE CONFEDERATE SEAL.          75


6          THE M A CPEHRESON LETTERS.

MACPHERSON ON MEMORY.          77

snowy delicate fingers, whose gentle touch upon the
temples might soothe a tiger's rage, or thaw the cold
heart of a conqueror. The Bonnie Blue Flag was
played, as the most popular air ; but whenever that air
was struck, I observed that twelve persons immediately
left the room and put cotton in their ears. I demand-
ed of the Great Host the cause of this extraordinary
proceeding, which appeared to me to be an insult to
1         the Confederacy.
The Great Host applied his forefinger to the side of
his nose, giving the end a twist and winking as he re-
plied;,
"Witnesses !"
"What witnesses !' I inquired.
" You see, Macpherson," he replied, "that my case
may come up in court, and it is possible that some who
are here may have the baseness to testify that The
Bonnie Blue Flag wAs performed on that piano.
In such a case it will become necessary for me to prove.
that it was NOT played. So I have arranged to have
twelve witnesses be present through the whole perform-
ance and not hear it. If the tune was actually played
it is morally certain that these twelve persons must
have heard it ; and these witnesses live in a Christian
community, and are, as you will perceive, p     of
the highest respectability. Cotton will do it, Mac-
pherson-cotton will do it !"
"Cotton is king," I answered; "and your case is
sure to succeed. When I was justice of the peace in
Madisonville, a case came up precisely like yours.
Citizen Jenkins accused my nephew, Peter Macpherson,
of stealing a pig, and brought three creditable witnesses,

who swore positively that they saw Peter steal him.
But Pete brought four men of the highest respectability,
over from New Orleans, who swore quite as positively
that they did not see him steal the swinish animal; and
on this testimony I was, bound to acquit him. Negative
testimony is sure to win in courts that take a proper
view of events, particularly if the magistrate is an
uncle of the accused, as in the case referred to."
The night wore away, and our delightful Confederate
communion strengthened our weary souls. At a late
hour I Wvas called on for a speech, and wishing to ap-
pear in my true character, as a Confederate philosopher,
I proceeded to deliver an original phrenological dis-
course, on one of the most important bumps which the
human head contains.
Macpherson on memory.
"Ladies and gentlemen," I said; "proud children of
our great Confederate parent, and you of the rising
generation ; as mile-boards are set up on the highway
to indicate the direction in which the roads run, so
hath nature built bumps on the human cranium, to in-
dicate the bent of character, and the destiny of man.
"The most important of these bumps indicates the
organ of Memory ; and in looking around on this audi-
ence I see by a glance at that bump that you are all
Confederates. The Confederate bump of Memory is
peculiar in this, that it has the gift of remembering
every thing to its own credit and interest, with the
most wonderful distinctness. Indeed, it remembers
more than the facts will justify. At the same time it
is wholly incapable of remembering any thing contrary


If
a'
II
4I

to the plans, wishes, principles, and interests of the
Confederacy. For instance, it remembers that George.
Washington was a Virginian, and a slaveholder ; but
*it forgets stubbornly and hopelessly that he was a
strong Union man, and freed his slaves on his death-
bed. It remembers that gold arose in New York to
173, but it forgets that it tumbled down faster than it
rose. It remembers that the Mississippi was sunk at
Port Hudson, but it forgets that the Hartford and Al-
batross went by. It remembers that Beauregard won
the battle of Manassas, but it forgets that the Yankees
whipped the devil out of us at Fort iDonelson. Such,
ladies, gentlemen, c d rising generation, are the char-
acteristics of the Confederate bump of Memory-char-
acteristics of which I am proud, and which I see per-
vade every head in this great charity fair. Were you
called on to swear to-morrow before a Yankee court,
whether a Coifederate flag was displayed here to-night,
could you remember seeing it? No! Were you asked
whether the Bonnie Bue Flag was played on that
piano, could you remember that you heard it? No !
Were you asked whether any disloyal sentiment has
been expressed here to-night, could you remember hear-
ing it? No !-for you are all loyal to the great princi-
ples of the new nation, and may God bless you, and
the Confederate bump of Memory forever !"
Arrest of the Idiotie Boy.
This speech was received with loud applause, and
we were about to separate, when a clamor arose in the
street. "A Confederate rising !--to arms !-to arms !"

TIlE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

78

A MARTYR OF FREEDOM.             79
I shouted ; ' the day of deliverance has come !"-Stone-
wall Jackson has arrived with nineteen hundred thou-
sand patriots !" With this exclamation I rushed into
the street, the excited assemblage following at my heels,
when I found that my Idiotic Boy had been arrested
for hurrahing for Jeff. Davis publicly, and basely im-
prisoned in a Yankee jail. "Martyr .of freedom !" I
cried; "Iam proud that the spirit of the Macphersons
has not been crushed, and I resign thee to a glorious
death and a crownof martyrdom !"
I found, however, that the penalty for the offense
was $2.50, and soon a purse of $200 was made up, the
fine paid, and the boy released, with the balance jing-
ling in his pocket. As he left the court-room he set up
another tremendous roar for Jeff. Davis, when he was
immediately arrested again, and fined $2.50 more. "I
appeal to the Confederates," I said, "to assist my son
to get his release from the vile Yankee tyrants." Im-
mediately another contribution of $200 was made up,
the fine paid, and the boy released, with a clear balance
of $395 in his pocket; and with this we immediately
returned to Madisonville.
I must now conclude my eighth epistle to THE ERA.
What is writ is writ. Would it were worthier. The
winding up reminds me that I am mortal; and as that
is a subject I do not like to reflect upon, I turn my
philosophic eye to the unfading glory of the Confeder-
acy, and there I behold unending power and immortal
honor. The stars shall fade, but the Confederacy shall
endure forever.
Yours, weekly,
JAMES B. MACPHERSON.

,
{:
tF
t
{#
4'
}
f
(jy
t
E


t t
#c
3 t
{ S
3j
}}55
;4f
If
t   e
3
q
t
.$ f
, i

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

P. S.-Since writing the above, I have received the
following letter from my son Louis T. Wigfall:
PORT HUDSON, April 2.
"DAD:-Give My love to the Great Hoast, and to the
bewtiful ladies which attended the Charity Fare. I
have received the uniform they sent Me, and it's the
only rag of close I've had sense I sold the nine sutes
which was given Me by the ladies as I left New Or-
leans on the Empire Parish.
" While a heart beats in My Bosom, it will vibrate
with the Gratitude of
Your patriotic Sun,
Louis T. WIGFALL MACPHERSON.

THE CONFEDERATE ARCHIMEDES.

81

CHAPTER IX.
THE CONFEDERATE ARITHMETIC.
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
April 11th, 1863.
Sm:-On Tuesday last I sat on the bottom of an in-
verted brass kettle in my door-yard, training up my
Idiotic Boy in the way he should go, and rejoicing to
find his den ented brain so capable of absorbing the
ideas whi h mderlie the Confederacy. "I am," I said
to him, "the Confederate Archimedes.  Never, since
this great planetary system was called into existence,
has there been a nation whose glory and power could
compare with the Confederacy which I represent.
Wherever the glorious flag of the new nation floats,
freedom of speech and of the press prevails to an alarm-
ing extent.
"The resources of the Confederacy are inexhaustible.
Ever since the formation of the Union, the South has
supported the North; and therefore it was, that as soon
as the South withdrew from the concern, the North
was reduced to poverty and famine. Grass now grows
in Broadway, and in the Central Park of New York.
A reliable gentleman who has just returned from that
place, assures me that he pastured his horse in front of
the Astor House, during his sojourn in that deserted
and ruined city.
"But the Confederacy can never become impover-
ished; and I will now explain to you the principles of

80

i
7i

t
t
'H
E
t    f(
f
1
1
f
F
;j
1¢¢
4
4
{
i
9
A


e
F
a
t

the Confederate Arithmetic-principles of the greatest
simplicity, yet productive of astounding results.
" The Confederate Arithmetic has two rules, Multi-
plication and Subtraction. Multiplication is only em-
ployed in the affairs of the Confederacy, and Subtrac-
tion in the affairs of the Federals.
The Confederate fultiplication-table.
"The Confederate multiplication-table, my Sweet
Idiot," I continued, "employs two numbers-0 and 50.
0 multiplied by 50 equais 50. 0 represents the basis of
Confederate currency, and by multiplying it by 50 you
get $50 in cash. Multiply this by 50 again, and you
have $2,500; and this once more multiplied by 50,
gives you $125,000; and this again multiplied, gives
you $6,250,000; and so on, until the Confederate Treas-
nry groans beneath its enormous and insupportable
burden of cash.
"The rule here laid down also applies to military
operations. A Colonel sends out a Captain on a scout-
ing expedition, and 0 represents the number of Yankee
prisoners actually captured. This the Captain multi-
plies by 50, and reports to the Colonel that he has
bagged 50 Yankees. The Colonel then multiplies by
50 in his report to the Brigadier General; the Brigadier
General multiplies by 50 in his report to the Division
General; the Division General multiplies by 50 in his
report to the Commander of the Department; the
Commander of the Department multiplies by 50 in his
report to the Secretary of War ; the Secretary of War
multiplies by 50, and sends it to the Jackson Appeal;
the editor of that sheet multiplies by 50 and prints it,

CONFEDERATE ARITHMETIC.

83

and the Southern Source then multiplies by 50 and
starts for New Orleans, and by the time the report gets
to the St. Charles Hotel, we have captured thirty-five
trillion sixty-two billion and five hundred million
(35,062,500,000,000) Yankee prisoners, as any one will
see who will work out the sum according to the princi-
ples of the Confederate Arithmetic.
"Every thing in the Confederacy is multiplied by 50.
But when we speak of the affairs of the United States,
we apply the second great rule of the Confederate
Arithmetic, which is as follows :
Confederate Rule of Subtraction.
" Deductfrom every Federal number twice its actual
amount.   Thus: a Federal scouting party captures
100 Confederates. From this 100 you must deduct
200, which leaves a balance of 100 in our favor; and
instead of the Yankees getting 100 Confederates the
Confederates get 100 Yankees. It was by this rule
that Gen. Bragg defeated Rosecrans.
"Thus, Sweet Idiot,".I said, "I have explained to
you those great fundamental laws of mathematics
which underlie the Confederacy; and I am. the Confed-
erate Archimedes, he who was equally skilled in as-
tronomy, geometry, mechanics, hydrostatics, and optics,
in all of which he excelled, and produced many ex-
traordinary inventions; but, in my opinion, notwith-
standing his miraculous skill as displayed in the defense
of Syracuse, he never conceived an idea so grand as the
Confederate Arithmetic."
Yours, mathematically,
JAMEs B. MACPHERSON.

11
ii
it j
iii
I y
it,

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

:
_


84           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

A SUBLIME FAITH-             85

CHAPTER X.
HYMN      OF   SALVATION.
BY JAMES B. MACPHIERSON,
Poet Laureate of Madisonville.
SMITE and slay the savage Yankee!
Break and pulverise his bones !
It is done; and I will thank thee,
Great Confederate Paul Jones !*
Lo ! E. Pluribus and Unum
Now are rolling in the dirt!
Brave Confederate,who hast hewn 'em,
Rise and put on a clean shirt !
Now the Pelican is flopping
His broad wings in feather high;
On, (1onfederacy ! no stopping-
Every Yankee Dog shall die
Never more an EXTRA ERA
Shall announce a blown-up Queen ;*
Oh, P. Jones, you are my deary,
And the biggest brick I've seen!
Light is breaking from the heaven !
lea, it st teanis athwart the sky!
I myself Canl slay eleven-
Every Yankee Dog shall die!
New Orleans has been delivered !
Do you ask the reason why?
Fate's designs shall be uncivered-
Every Vankee Dog shall die!
"Queen of the West," a vessel captured by the rebels, after
having run the Vicksburg batteries, and destroyed during the cam-
paign of General Banks up the '1eclie, in the spring of 1863. She
was commanded by Fuller, who aspired to the title of the Confed-
erate Paul Jones!

CHAPTER XI.
MACPHERSON DEDICATES HIMSELF To WAR AND LARCENY.-
HE ENCOUNTERS THE HONEST JEW.
LOUISIANA LOWLANDS Low,
April 25th, 1863.
SIR :-For some time rumors of the most painful
nature reached my ears, while, in my dilapidated hos-
pitable abode at Madisonville, I was preparing my
mind to offer my life in the sacred cause of the Con-
federacy. I read in THE ERA that Gen. Banks had
advanced froni Brashear City with a large force of Hes-
sians, and that the blessed sons of the Confederacy had
been whipped, their gunboats destroyed, and their
transports captured or sunk, while they were running
before the vile Yankee foe or falling into the hands of
Ibid. But I did not believe it. I swore it could not
be true ; for with that sublime faith in the Confederacy
which leads our people to receive Confederate currency
and to set facts at defiance, I scorned these statements
as Yankee inventions and falsehoods. I knew that I
was the only contributor for THE ERA who dared to
speak the truth, and blow the Confederate trumpet,
and so long as the True Delta and the Picayune had
not a word to say on the subject, which they hadn't
for many days, I possessed my sublime soul in Con-
federate patience, and clothed and fortified my serene
mind with stoical Confederate disbelief in every word
uttered by a Yankee.

.
"t
i
t     ,
l
e
i          S
#
t 2
# #           {{
1
°S
1    f
'  }
t {     9
s    i
i    44
#;     4
,
xt ,

t)
'i7
'1

t
1  f

i
r
t


7*

f
F
{ I
F
tg
7

THE HONEST JEW.

87

86           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
But on Wednesday last I was aroused from my dream
of security and Confederate bliss, when the Picayune,
a paper in which I have full faith, broke the long and
pleasing silence that had sealed its -lips, and made
known to inc that there was at least some foundation
for the diabolical reports in THE EnA which had ap-
peared from time to time a week or ten days before.
Then it was that, resting my teeth upon the leg of a
chair, I gave myself up to momentous meditations.
I'efore mv mind arose the incredible vision of Confed-
erates flying before Yankees, and I cried aloud : " Ig-
I)l)lC. debased villain that I am!- why sit I here while
Scouniitrvien starve ald run leaving their bones
behind them to bleach  )uon the bloody field of car-
Image, and while one of the children of my loins lan-
uiiVIhes iii a loathsome dungeon in Baronne street ?
\ rise. Macpherson ! abandon the seductive paths of
ph ilosopllv and poetry, buckle on a C. S. plate, shoulder
a double-barrelled shot-gun, and plunge headlong into
the deep-flowing tide of Yankee homicide and larceny !"
I then arose in my terrible might, while my dilapi-
dated hospitable abode trembled to the top of the
stove-pipe beneath the massive heel of my new boots,
with which I smote the quaking ground ; and I swore
by the mud image of Jeff. Davis, which had just been
set up by my Idiotic Boy, that I never would wash my
face or taste a drop of water until I had exterminated
every Yankee, man, woman, and child, in the States of
Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, and the First Con-
gressional District of Texas !
"Not drink any water, James !" exclaimed my wife,
in a tone of astonishment; "what will you drink ?"

"IRum!" I answered, with a voice like bellowing
thunder ; "rum, my love! and rum alone !"
Therefore I dedicated myself to the god of war:
"0 Mars !" I exclaimed, " the fatherless son of Juno,
whose delight was in contest and strife, and who wast
a warrior of severe countenance, with a cuirass and an
Argive shield upon thine arm! -thee I invoke, and to
thee I dedicate my vast and comprehensive intellect,
and the death-compassing stroke of my unapproach-
able arm !" I then went forth on my mission of de-
struction, breathing revenge and blood from my nos-
trils at every step.
.Te Honest Jew.
Just after crossing the Yankee lines, I encountered
an individual who informed me that he was an Honest
Jew. "Right glad am I to meet you, my noble
friend," I said: "for honest men are scarce in these
unwholesome days. I trust you are an Israelite in
whom there is no guile."
"I ish dat," responded the Honest Jew; "and vat I
say, dat pe truee"
"Then," I answered, "you are a good Confederate ;
for Confederates alone are capable of speaking the
truth."
"You vait vun little pit," returned the guileless Is-
raelite, "an' I show. you I make seventeen hunder
tollar in fifteen minutes !"
"fHow ?" I asked.
"I shut up Yankee's eye.
The Honest Jew then beckoned me to follow him.
Approaching the Yankee sentinel, he said:

tt M
{#S
.k #
9  .
i
,}9 t
g e
,{
a
rs
i
;
. ;  }
}
,a
Y      f
t
_4
ip
4
si
.;
,s
it
q
8
- '' !
t
!   r   t
l
4
p        1
q     r
,, i
. ,
;j
_
,.
,
,,
9
t  .
t;  f
f  ff1
'  4
t  a
{
a         qaf
E    .tt
lp
t
}   .


88          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

"I habe tree hinder tollar goods back yonder. I
take 'em across that bayou I get two tonsan'. Now
you must shut your eye vile I goes py, an' I gives you
fiftv tollar '"
All right," replied the Yankee sentinel, "give me
the 8O and Il shuit my eye while you pass."
The honest Jew paid the Yankee the sum specified,
and the Jew went back after his goods. But I noticed
that the sentinel called the corporal of the guard and
had some private conversation with him, after which
the corporal disappeared.
Soon the Jew came up with his goods, and the
Yankee sentinel didn't see him at all when he passed ;
but he hadn't got fifty yards before the corporal and
four men dodged out from behind a tree and arrested
him. His goods were seized and confiscated, and he
was told that if he ever tried such a dodge again, he
would be sent to Fort Jackson with a ball and chain
to his leg.
"Var's mine fifty tollar " said the Honest Jew,
shaking his fist at the Yankee sentinel.
"I have it," replied the base Yankee dog; "you
gave it to me to shut my eyes while you passed, and I
fulfilled my part of the bargain."*v
I then resumed my journey to New Orleans, accom-
panied by the Israelite in whom there was no guile,
and whose deep-heaving sighs and groans of agony
over his loss, touched inc with pity, and filled my mind
with tenfold anger against the foul despotism of the
United States.
* A true incident. ED.

THE HONEST JEW.              89
"My guileless and honest friend," I said to him,
"you are a victim of unmitigated villany and iron op-
pression. You would do good by supplying the Con-
federacy and getting rich at the same time; but the
damnable and debased despotism of the United States
steps in your way !"
"Oh, I pe very boor-very boor, indeed!" groaned
the Israelite in whom there was no guile.
"My boor friend !" I exclaimed, clasping him to my
bosom, "I will avenge thy manifold wrongs. I have
dedicated myself to Mars, the death-scattering hero of
bloody wars; and now I also dedicate myself to
Hermes, the god of thieves, and the son of Jupiter
and Maia ; he whose first act was to steal the cattle of
Apollo. Henceforth, I am the champion of larceny,
and I swear by the soul of the Confederacy, that I
will not rest from toil and labor until I have stolen a
horse!"
"You gives him to me, eh ?" asked the Jew, his eyes
lighting up with eager fire.
"Yes," I replied, "I'll give him to thee, my wronged
and outraged friend."
"But tree horses only make me cood for mine
coods."
"Then three shalt thou have" I exclaimed. "Yes,
I swear it by the honor of a Confederate Warrior, that
I will steal three horses for this outraged Jew, and one
for myself, before I consent to a cessation of hostilities
or return to the pursuits of philosophy in Madison-
ville"
The Honest Jew pressed me to his bosom as we
parted in New Orleans, and promised to wait at the

IL

C


90           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
Opelousas Depot, in Algiers, until I should send him
the three horses.
Successful Scheme of Finance.
It was about this time that I put into practical op-
eration a great scheme of finance that I had studied
out in my secluded and meditative hours, in my dilap-
idated hospitable abode at Madisonville, and I found
that it worked to perfection. The principle is as
follows: Never invite a man to drink, but always
drink when you are asked. By the application of this
simple rule, you get for your own use all the liquor
you pay for, and also get a good deal which doesn't
cost you any thing.
I crossed the river on the Canal-street ferry-boat,
with the firm determination not to pay a cent for food,
lodging, or transportation, during my travels. Since
then I have passed through many scenes, which it will
require a long letter to describe, and I hereby give
notice to the public that my Twelfth Epistle will be
devoted to a full and authentic account of my travels
in the Louisiana Lowlards Low, and to a description
of the many strange adventures I have encountered.
Yours unremittingly,
JAMES B. MAcPHERsoN.

Ii,
l~t
I~
t
f  btRt ;

BANKS'S TEOHE CAMPAIGN.

CHAPTER Xli.
THE GREAT CONFEDERATE TRAVELLER DESCRIBES HIS JOURNEY
THROUGH THE LOUISIANA LOWLANDS LOw.
NOTE.-Algiers is the name of a small town opposite New Orleans.
It contains the depot of the Opelousas railroad. Ferry accommoda-
tions are miserable. At the time this letter was written, General
Banks's brilliant campaign through the Teche country was in prog-
ress, and had already resulted in the destruction of the rebel army of
Western Louisiana. Two thousand prisoners had been captured,
and a considerable number of them had been confined in the Belle-
vile Iron Works in Algiers, which led Mr. Macpherson to suppose
that the building was in possession of the Confederates.  The
rebel army which was so effectually dispersed or destroyed by the
movement of General Banks, was in command of Gen. Richard Tay-
lor, a son of "Old Zack," the hero and patriot, whose devotion to his
country has rendered his name dear to every true American. As
Gen. Banks's campaign through the rTeche country seems not to
have been generally understood at the time, the author will briefly
give what he supposes to have been the theory of the movement.
"Why," it was asked, "should the United States forces march
through a country, take possession of it, and forthwith abandon it,
leaving the inhabitants who, expecting protection, had shown a love
for the Union, to suffer the penalty of rebel vengeance? This would
be a pertinent inquiry under ordinary circumstances, but the author
believes a brief statement of facts will explain this matter to the sat-
isfaction of every impartial reader.
The great object which General Banks must have had in view,
was the capture of Port Hudson and the opening of the Mississippi
river. But Port Hudson was a hundred and fifty miles above New
Orleans, and in order to invest it successfully, the General required
every soldier in the department. Indeed,with every soldier, his force
was seemingly inadequate to the undertaking. The rebel garrison
of Port Hudson, at the time of its investment, in May, 1863, number-
ed seven thousand effective men, and at no time during the siege did
Gen. Banks command more than ten thousand effective men. His
lines were necessarily much longer than those. of the enemy, and the
advantages were all with the garrison, except in the matter of sup.

Ii

91


FAREWELL TO THE CRESCENT CITY.

92

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

plies. In order to besiege Port Hudson, then, with any prospect of
success, it was necessary that he should take every available man
that could be spared. But Taylor, Monton, and Sibley were in
Western Louisiana with a large force of rebels, and if he moved his
entire army to Port Hudson, he left his rear and New Orleans itself
exposed to the enemy. As he had not a sufficient force to watch the
enemy in Western Louisiana and to invest Port Hudson at the same
time, it was necessary to destroy the rebel army of Western Louisiana
before Port Hudson could be invested. And this work was most
successfully accomplished. The Army of the Gulf accomplished a
march of three hundred miles in twenty days, fighting four battles
and winning as many victories. The first battle was at Camp Bis
land, christened after a planter by that name, whose plantation, now
a picture of ruin and desolation, is situated on the r1eche, between
Berwick City and the village of Franklin. The rebel army of West
ern Louisiana was completely broken up and destroyed by the cam-
paign ; and having accomplished this indispensable preliminary
step, Gen. Banks at once moved his whole force against Port Hudson.
Such, the author believes, was the theory of the Teche campaign-a
campaign which, in rapidity of movement, in general management
and important results, has not been surpassed in the history of this
war, if we take into account the number of men engaged.
Brashear City (why will people call such insignificant places cities ?)
is situated on Berwick Bay, near the confluence of the Teche and
Atchafalaya rivers, It was the base of supplies in the Teche cam
p ign, and T he more recent movement by which the rebel army was
(:rawn out of Texas, opening the way for the success of the expedi
fen to  e Rio Grande, The place was recaptured by the rebels in
June, 18G3, almost without resistance by our forces; and large quan
titles of stores, ammunition, and a considerable number of prisoners,
fel into the hands of the enemy. After the fall of Port Hudson, how
ever, the rebels hastily evacuated the place, and just in time to escape
capture. It is about ninety miles from New Orleans to the west-
ward, and the Opelousas Railroad has its present termini at Algiers
oaid Brashear City. r111e country between the two places is very low,
and wide forests are seen on either hand. There are plenty of alliga-
tors to be seen sunning themselves, and some are of enormous size;
although it requires the Confederate arithmetic to make them five
hundred feet long, as has been done by Mr. Macpherson.  The au-
thor made the journey described in the following letter (I. e. as far as
Brashear City), in the latter part of April, ior the first time; and his
experience at the lrashear City Iotel can only be appreciated by
those who have visited "the Great Temple of Wisdom."    He has
connected the philosophy of Macpherson with the ancient mythology,

because the credulity, mendacity, passions, and habits of the secession-
ists more properly belong to the religion of a pagan country than to,
a land and an age of civilisation. Gov. Moore, the last Chief Magis-
trate elected by the people of Louisiana, and his itinerant Legisla-
ture still claiming to exercise executive and legislative functions,
were frightened by the "Yankee" army, or the expectation of its ap-
proach, and "skedaddled" to some indefinite point, in or beyond the
extreme western portion of Louisiana. Moore still claims to be gov-
ernor of Louisiana. His power is about equal to that of Sancho
Panza, who, like Moore, also gloried in the title of "Governor."
MADIsONvnviE, LA.,
May 2, 1863.
SR :-As Ulysses, the much planning warrior of the
Greeks, wandered the victim of cruel Fate, searching
vainly for his home, whence he sighed to return vic-
torious from the siege of Troy, even so was I driven
from the paths of philosophy, and from my dilapidated
hospitable abode, by the articulate-speaking voice of
Fate, which sent me forth the great Confederate Trav-
eller in the Louisiana Lowlands Low.
Taking passage on one of those magnificent steamers
belonging to tie Canal street Ferry, that are fitted up
on a scale of magnificence surpassing the dreams of
Fairy Land, or the splendor and glory which surround
the President of the Confederacy in his stately and
oriental palace at Richmond, I stood upon the loft
deck and thus poured out my soul to the people of New
Orleans : "Farewell," I cried in tearful tones, "fair
Crescent City, 'gazing upon the great old Father of
Waters ! thee I leave behind. But when I return, I
shall come with banner, brand, and bow, leading the
victorious and unconquerable legions of Gen. I. Taylor,
and exterminating the vile Yankee foe, whose iron foot
rests upon the bosom of the Confederacy, with terrible
weight, as the great Polyphemus, the one-eyed Giant,

I

' .
r,
,, I,

I r
L(

I'

93

I
r
F

a
R
4
f
f
4
f
(tF}(
i
f
f    +   j
${
l!i it
"t


9 -          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

thirsting for human life, had plucked a woody moun-
tain from its base and placed it on my head !" I then
shouted three times, and committed assault and battery
on a newsboy who offered me THE ERA.
Arriving at Algiers, a magnificent city opposite
New Orleans, I discovered that the Belleville Iron
Works had fallen into the possession of the Confederacy,
and that it contained a strong garrison of Graybacks,
numbering several hundred. "Blessed be Jupiter," I
exclaimed, "the Father of gods and men, and the
overshadowing ruler of cloudy Olympus !-for now I
perceive that the invader of the Lowlands Low has
been driven back with terrific slaughter !" I then sent
a dispatch to the President of the Confederacy in
Richmond, announcing that General Banks had been de-
feated and con pletely wiped out; that GeneralR.Taylor
had captured eighteen hundred thousand Yankee pris-
oners, and that the head of his invincible column was
then in the Belleville Iron Works of Algiers, protected
and watched over by a strong line of Yankee sentinels.
I then went to the Yankee Railroad Depot, and de-
manded a free pass to Brashear City.
"By what authority," inquired the Yankee, " do you
make that demand ?"
"By the authority of the Southern Confederacy," I
replied, " and in virtue of my vow to Mars, the death-
scattering hero of bloody wars, that I will neither wash
my face nor drink water until I have exterminated
every damned Yankee in Louisiana, Mississippi, and
the First Congressional District of Texas !"
"You must be Macpherson," replied the Yankee.
"Well and truly hast thou spoken," I answered him;

  1THE CONFEDERATE RELIGION.     95
"I AM Macpherson, the great Confederate traveller,
whose Massive Intellect will produce a volume of
Travels more entertaining, though less truthful, than
the tales of the Arabian Nights."
"If that won't pass you over this road," answered
the Yankee, "I don't know what will." He then gave
me a dead-head ticket and introduced me to another
chap, who at once made me drink a bottle of cham-
pagne, after which I started off on my journey.
"Now, indeed," I exclaimed, "is the will of Jupiter
made manifest, and heaven sends auspicious omens;
for I ride at the expense of the United States, and am
drunk to start with, without cost-the indispensable
condition of a Confederate Traveller and Warrior."
"Why is it," asked a chap in the cars, "that you
still adhere to the religion of the Greeks and Romans,
believe in omens, and offer orisons to the divinities of
Olympus, whose worship has been overthrown by the
light of Christianity ?"
"Untaught Ignoramus !" I answered ; "benighted
heathen of Yankee darkness! if thy dull brain is ca-
pable of comprehending the Confederate principles, I
will explain them to you. The Confederate religion is
a conglomeration of the faith of Moses and the intel-
lectual fables of Olympus, which have been handed
down to us by th'e greatest poets of the earth. As the
Jews believe they are the chosen people, and a cussed
sight better than anybody else, so do the Confederates
believe that they are the salt of the earth-a position
fully sustained by the large saline deposits near New
Iberia. So far, then, our faith is founded on Moses
and the Israelites generally; but the rest of it Corre-

rI
ii

,i
i
i1   }
7
.,
U,
r     .!
i
n
s
r
A
t
J,   +
1
F+
r
i
j
t
F         j
t
#          i
f          {
r
M,.c'k
j    ,
r
i
;
i

' i
k
.


r
i
1
i
f
7
l
i t
f

sponds pretty faithfully with the pagan religion, except
that ours surpasses the pagan in the magnificent splen-
dor of its fables. Let me illustrate this point to your
ignorance-besotted mind. Ancient Troy was a village
about half the size of Algiers, and the siege of the
place was a series of fist-encounters between Ajax,
Heenan, Priam, and other prize-fighters. But Homer
has converted his pugilists into demigods, and has in-
troduced nearly all the gods of heaven, earth, and hell
as interested spectators, or active co-operationists. For
all this there was a slight foundation in truth ; and the
Confederate Religion differs from and surpasses the
ancient, in the fact that its biggest stories and achieve-
ments have no foundation in fact whatever !"  I then
presented him with a copy of Macpherson's Confed-
erate Arithmetic, and told him that if his muddy and
debased brain could comprehend it, he was smarter
than I was.
The people along the road turned out by millions to
see me, as the train passed on through the Lowlands
Low, all giving a hundred and fifty cheers and fifty
tigers, in honor of the Plato of the Confederacy and
the Fenus of Madisonville, whose Mammoth Brain
first brought together in a condensed and intelligible
form the famous religion and philosophy of the New
Nation, which are destined to sweep every other from
the earth, from Greenlandis Icy Mountains to India's
Coral Strand.
The car in which I was seated was soon filled with
bouquets, hurled at me through the window, formed
of red, white, and red, indicative of the Confederate
flag, and in imitation of those which the Confederates

96

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

z     xr
i
r      -
T
i
,7r
Ill.    r'
h    3
'z' +Y
f
1
'.r
t
t

97

MACPHERsON SHOOTS AN ALLIGATOR.

of New Orleans have been accustomed to throw at the
players, since the damnable despotism of U. S. will
not permit them to throw out-and-out secession flags.
At last, the accumulated weight of bouquets and of
my Ponderous Intellect proved too much for the labor-
ing Engine, and it gave out, when we were kept wait-
ing for three hours, surrounded by impenetrable woods
and dirty water, moccasin snakes and deep lagoons
overhung by weeping cypress-trees, and echoing for-
ever with the melodious notes of bull-frogs and alli-
gators.
Then it was that I walked into the gloomy forest,
and recalled to my mind the adventure of Balboa, who
discovered the Pacific Ocean, and wading into it up to
his waist, stretched forth his sword and took possession
of that important stream in the name of his king.
Therefore I waded into a mud-hole up to the top of my
breeches, and stretching forth my brawny arm, took
possession of it in the name of the Southern Confed-
eracy!
l[acpherson's Interview with an Alligator five hundred
feet long.
As I was wallowing back, I met an alligator five
hundred feet long by Confederate measurement, which
is equal to ten feet in Yankee mathematics. I imme-
diately drew my Jeff. Davis revolver, a terrible brass-
mounted weapon, presented to me by the ladies of
Doctor Palmer's congregation, and shot the animal, ex-
pecting to see him die at my feet. He paid no attention
to it, but rolled over in the dirt and yawned, as though
nothing had happened. Then it was that my mind

t
I
t


t
f
r
"
t
t
F
I t
G

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

was filled with admiration and love for the noble ani-
mal, to whom I delivered the following able address :
"Majestic Confederate mudsill !-aboriginal inhab-
itant of the Louisiana Lowlands Low !-thou art im-
pregnable as the defenses of Camp Bisland, and
impervious to water and mud alike. Would to heaven
that, deployed as skirmishers in R. Taylor's army, you
might wad2 in Yankee blood, even as now you wallow
in mud, the natural ally of the Southern Confederacy !"
Arrival at Tigerville.
The engine having been repaired, it gave a Confed-
erate snort, and with lightning in its eye and steel in
its sinews, drew us to Tigerville, just as the sombre
mantle of all-enshrouding night settled over the earth.
The conductor shouted " Tigerville," and I looked out,
expecting to see a city equal to Madisonville, but
could discover nothing but a wide and lonely forest, in
which the deep-laid shadows seemed to conceal a thou-
sand phantom  forms. But as the train moved on
again, I got a sight at Tigerville, which apparently
consisted of a grocery store and a brass kettle; and I
found that by a miraculous junction of nature and art,
while the engine was in the centre of the city, the rear
car, in which I was seated, was in the midst of prime-
val forests, stretching away for miles o either hand.
At last we reached Brashear City, town larger
than New Orleans, if you include the woods.: A pe-.
culiarity of this city is, that it has no streets.

rips,
It t,
.F
J    s          k
v+            s
F    s
5y
pv t R
r            § n
"y           ,  E
4
x
i
r
1
kta            .
2
1

BRAsTEAR CITY HOTEL.

99

The great Temple of Wisdom at Brashear city.
Immediately I proceeded to the Brashear City
Hotel,.which I soon discovered was a vast temple of
wisdom and economy. It so strongly resembles my
dilapidated hospitable abode in Madisonville, that I
burst into tears as the sweet image of that home arose
before me with the Idiotic Boy, now the exponent of
Confederate Philosophy, and of my spouse, who sighs
for the return of her roving protector, even as Penelope
sighed for the return of Ulysses ; but I hope she has
fewer suitors than the excellent Greek lady alluded to.
Calling for supper, I. was told that none could be
had_; as it was past the usual hour, and the chief cook
had gone to bed. Then was I filled with admiration
at the Arcadian simplicity of life in those remote re-
gions, where the repose of a cook begins at nine o'clock
in the evening, and is guarded by the changeless law
of custom. Gladly, therefore, did I go to my room,
supperless.
The apartment in which I was placed, and from
which a Yankee was expelled to make room for me,
filled me with love and admiration beyond the power
of language to describe. There was such an absence
of all luxuries, or even necessaries of life, that I at once
saw that the architect and proprietor of the establish-
iment was a philosopher and a political economist.
The rude walls were constructed of rough Confederate
boards, undefiled by the carpenter's plane, the luxu-
rious covering of the paper manufactory, or the un-
necessary embellishment of the white-washer's brush.

98

m"


100         TILE MACPHERSON LETTERs.

101

!
i
4# }J i.
"r .
?: ,

"Thanks to Jupiter !" I exclaimed, "the wall-paper
which might otherwise have been wasted upon these
walls, can now be used for publishing secession jour-
nals." I then got into bed, and pulled down the mus-
quito-net. I discovered that the mattress was made
of cane-stalks, the products of my native Louisiana,
with an immense one in the centre, very convenient to
hang upon to keep one's self in bed. The only unne-
cessary luxury I observed consisted of two table-cloths
on the bed in place of sheets ; and I got up early in
the morning, thinking they might be needed for use
on the table. I had not been in bed a great while be-
fore the nusquitoes, that were buzzing by millions
around the net, commenced pouring through im close
co1 tllby battalions ; while an immense force was held
back as a reserve to fill up the ranks shattered by the
death-scattering blows of my manly arm. Now it was
that a great physical rencounter commenced, surpassing
in bloody destruction the battle of Forts Jackson and
St. Philip. I slaughtered them without mercy ; but I
found that the wide forests surrounding the city were
filled with dauntless legions ; and however many
millions I might destroy, it was probable that I should
be compelled at last to surrender to overpowering
numbers. Therefore, I thought I would try to stop up
some of the holes in the musquito-net. I stuck my
hat into one of them,' my boots into two others, my
breeches into another, my Confederate coat and vest
into another, and finally, the washstand and pitcher
into the biggest one. But these precautions scarcely
checked the overpowering advance of the hostile
armies, and 1 went to tying up the holes in knots,

fiu'}1_ir
[yfs  y lti
if ;  Si{e
Y,
s     :fr
y +/t      }.
'  11,Je
4?      it
.t    et E
s ;           -[  M
If
[.^

INTERVIEW WITH GOV. MOORE.

I.

until I had tied twenty-five hundred by the Confeder-
ate arithmetic, which is fifty in Yankee mathematics;
but all to no avail. I at last collected the carcasses of
the slain, and piled them up around me; after which I
was enabled to enjoy a night of strength-nourishing
repose.
Arising in the morning, I discovered that there was
no soap in the room, which I regarded as a high per-
sonal compliment to my cleanliness ; it was as much
as an admission on the part of the landlord, that I was
clean enough already. Neither was there any looking-
glass; and I knew at once that the landlord did not
mean to encourage the sentimnenth of worldly pride,
engendered in men and women when they survey their
persons in a glass.
I immediately took passage for Opelousas, whence I
walked to Shreveport to find Governor Moore and the
Legislature, the custodians of the civil rights of Louisi-
ana, and the guardians of the State treasury.
Interview with Governor Jloore.
I inquired diligently for them, but the inhabitants
reported that they had left some time previous, at
double-quick, carrying the treasury and archives in a
one-horse cart. I followed on and reached the Red
River ; and there I discovered Governor Moore weeping
on a stump, in the depths of a dismal forest, surround-
ed by insects and wild beasts. Seeing me, he fell upon
my neck and cried like a child. "Guardian of law
and order !" I exclaimed ; "protector of States' rights
and the treasury, dauntless commander-in-chief of the


07102

MAOPHERSON IN THE LEGISLATURE.

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

"  _
tyy
t
F
kiyytt
t1
a
I i
#f
1
1
{
;

State militia ! thee do I embrace in fraternal and un-
dying Confederate affection. Tell me, I pray thee, the
cause of thine overwhelniiingg rief "
"Macpherson !" he said, in tearful tones ; "look
here on this picture, and then on this. When I took
charge of the Legislature, it sat in the fine State-house
at Baton Rouge, and I was the proud potentate of the
great sugar-planting State, while the treasury was
overflowing with funds. But where am I now
"In a swamp, on a stump !" I replied.
" Where is the treasury ?" he continued.
" That's what I'm after," I answered.
" Well, thou shalt see it," he replied ; whereupon he
led me to the borders of a mud-hole, and drawing aside
the thick overhanging foliage, displayed to my vision
a one-horse cart attached to a mule, and both stuck in
the mud. "To this complexion hath it come at last !"
he groaned; "for you see before you the archives and
the treasury of the State !"
I immediately overhauled the contents, and discov-
ered the Act of Secession, of January 6,Q1861; a copy
of Macpherson's Confederate Arithmetic, by which he
had tried to multiply ) by 50, and so fill the treasury ;
and an order conscripting all able-bodied niggers into
the Confederate ranks as soldiers. "Those," said the
Itinerant Moore, " are the State archives. Look now
at the treasury." I looked, and discovered a five-cent
shinplaster on the bank of West Baton Rouge, a blue
car-ticket, ,nd a receipt for two barrels of whisky.
"That," said the weeping Moore, "is what remains of
the wealth of Louisiana, after passing through the fiery
ordeal of civil war, and the more trying ordeal of my

I

"i    y M1
i I
r
4        _  A    c
f
li
}
.y
6
t      4.

policy. The mule represents the motive power of the
Confederacy, and the whole concern is now stuck in
the mud."
"But the glory of the New Nation still remains," I
answered him. "Jeff. Davis still sits enthroned in
oriental magnificence in Richmond, and the Idiotic
Boy is monarch of Confederate Philosophy. Let us
arise and exterminate the Yankee race
We arose, and taking me to the recesses of an im-
mense hollow tree, I discovered the Legislature in ses-
sion. It consisted of. three members, all dead drunk.
"Join us," said the governor ; and I joined. We
soon became happy in the consciousness that we might
soon recover the whole territory of the United States.
I was accordingly elected a member of the Legislature,
and we forthwith passed an act declaring the power of
the Yankees at an end, and seizing the whole conti-
nent of America, in the name of the Southern Con-
federacy, the said act to take effect immediately.
"Thanks to Jupiter !" I exclaimed ; "the  r is now
at an end; the North is subdued, and the flag of the
New Nation floats in triumph over every inch of ground
on the vast continent." We then got blind drunk,
from which I was aroused by the recollection that a
week before I had made a vqw of larceny, and had
promised to steal three horses for the Honest Jew, who
had promised to wait in Algiers until I should setd
him the specified number of animals. I accordingly
started off at double-quick, and returned to the Yankee
headquarters at Opelousas.

it
rt
hi E

1y4

103

r;
l
f

f
t
t


i   t
It  I
i't
j 1
sI f

105

GREAT CONFEDERATE PARSON.

The Vow of Larceny fulflled.
I was there advised that the late battle-field of Camp
Bisland afforded great facilities for stealing horses, and
thither I went. Looking around, I discovered not less
than sixty animals, and I immediately telegraphed to
the Honest Jew, that if he would come up there, I
would give him thirty horses instead of three. He
went and met me with a glowing face on that field of
bloody encounter, in which R. Taylor's forces drove
the Yankees thirteen hundred miles in thirteen hours,
averaging a hundred miles to the hour. He immedi-
ately embraced me.
"You pe vun shentlemans," said he; "I bays your
pills at the hotel."
"All right," I answered him; "there are sixty
horses up there; you shall have thirty; take your
pick."
He started off on the run, but soon returned with
fire and indignation in his eyes.
"You pe vun tam fillain !" he exclaimed,
"What's the matter, sweet one !" I asked, in a tone
of tenderness.
"You tam fillain ! the horses pe every vun tead !"
"Dead !" I exclaimed, "and so young-the oldest
not being quite twenty! But weep not, my Honest
Jew; they died in the sacred cause of the Southern
Confederacy. Ilce et decorum est pro patria mori.
You never tried it, poor Jew, and you never will.
But, I tell thee, I did not promise that the horses
should be alive; and now, o hIermes ! god of thieves,

I have fulfilled my vow of blood and larceny !" I
then kissed the honest Jew and returned to New Or-
leans, having been invited to preach in a secession
church on Sunday, April 26th, in consequence of my
able exposition of the Confederate Religion to the
Yankee Ignoramus, and in view of the fact that the
proclamation of that bloody despot, Abraham Lincoln,
had been ordered to be read in the churches on that
day. The prevailing belief among the Confederates
was, that I was the only Confederate parson smart
enough to do the thing up properly, and outwit the
dull Yankee brain. Therefore did I haste, with wings
as swift as meditation or the thoughts of love, to as-
sume the robes of divinity. In my next letter, I shall
appear as the Great Confederate Parson, reading the
Proclamation, and will reproduce the sermon I deliver-
ed on that occasion.
My task for this week is done. I travelled through
the Louisiana Lowlands Low, with a rapidity that
would do credit to an engine on the Opelousas road.
I am the greatest traveller in the Confederacy, and my
only wonder is that my heart does not swell with pride
and egotism when I think of my accomplishments.
But with all my Massive Intellect and power in the
Confederacy, I am not egotistic in any degree beyond
what is warranted in the Confederate Code of Egotism.
Yours, modestly,
JAMES B. MACPHERsoN.
5*

TIHE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

10O

w  l
_ =s
*rx
I
a;r,
i;


I
f i
d
ItS
t
##i
t
1
F
f i
i}
f         ;
k
a
1   I
i1
} r ,    F
tip      
i  k i   f

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

CHAPTER XIII.
MACPHERSON APPEARS AS A CLERGYMAN, AND EXPOUNDS THE
CONFEDERATE GOSPEL.-IE ENCOUNTERS THE WEEPING
ORPHAN, AND UNEXPECTEDLY FINDS A LARGE FAMILY ON
IIIS IANDS.-IIE PREACHES FROM THE TEXT : "Biow YE 1"
ETC., ETO,
NoTE.-P4resident Lincoln issued a proclamation, setting apart the
80th day of April, 18(L, as a day of national humiliation, fasting, and
prayer. (haral James Bowen, Pi ovost Marshal General of Louisiana,
issued a circular, in which lie "rinqested" (that was the word used)
all the clergymen officiating in the churches of New Orleans, Jeffer-
son, ('arrolilon, and Algiers, to read the proclamation of the President
to their congregations, oni -unday, the 2th of A pril-the Sunday pre-
ceding the day desig nattd by the President. Some of the clergymen
paid no attention to this request. Others read it, and the reading
was made the occasion for very noisy and disgraceful demonstrations
tn the part of th  secessionists in the congregation. The women
sk the lead in the sacregious proceedings. The moment the read-
ing commenced, they left the churches in a very noisy and offensive
manrhllCe1. bhatl ing thai r feet, upsetting stools, and otherwise disturb-
ing the peace and good order of the sanctuary. Some of the clergy-
men, nlxiols to soothe the nerves of their secession hearers, an-
n unced that they would read the Proclamation because they had
been ordenid to read it-an assertion as false as it was cowardly,
since, as ha s been stated already, they were only i'equested to read it,
Ontie of the clergy who neglected to read it at all was Father Joubert,
of St. Augustine's chuteri, who, the author has been told, refused to
aiinister the sa.'rament to colored men who had enlisted in the
a rmvi ;thus making it an offense punishable with eternal damnation
fr a negro to fight for the Union ! Father Lemaitre, of the St. Rose
tic Lima, read the proclamation, and preached an out-and-out Union
sermon to an immem" congregation. He was soon after excemmu-
nicated by Arch bishop Odin; but the author is pleased to learn that
in paid no attention to his sentence, refused to be damned in all his
pirts for the sin of being a Union man, and still continues to exer-
cise his ecclesiastical oflice. One clergyman, whose congregation un-

DISPATCH FROM JEFF. DAVIS.

107

derstood only the French language, read the proclamation in English ;
which would seem to warrant Macpherson in reading it in the
IEthiopic.
MADISoNVILLE, LA.,
May 9, 1863.
SIR:-I am greater than Hercules, the son of Jupi-
ter, for he performed but twelve labors of immortal
distinction; but I, having performed twelve, now enter
upon my thirteenth with my Mammoth Brain un-
dimmed, and the fires of genius glowing more brightly
than when I began.
Returning from my immortal travels through the
Louisiana Lowlands Low, I had scarcely set foot upon
the Levee at New Orleans, when a courier, mounted
on a Confederate mule, came riding up with the rapid=
ity of lightning. "I am," lie said, "the bearer of im-
portant dispatches from your Idiotic Boy, the Great
exponent of Confederate Philosophy in Madisonville,.
since your departure from your dilapidated hospitable
abode."
I opened the dispatches with a trembling hand, and
was startled at the vast importance of the matter
therein contained, Jeff. Davis, whose mud image
stands upon my shelf in Madisonville, and which I
always approach with uncovered head, had telegraphed
to the Idiotic Boy as follows:
eJ6f Davis's Dispatch.
The Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln appointing
a day of national humiliation and prayer, must not be
read in the churches of New Orleans ; or, if read, it
must be received with hisses, howls, and Confederate

106

4

, ;1
j; t
.1 {
.E
f
)ss4J
i1  f
l    s
}1    {

i'
.  i
[
s'

i
1
w        i
mg }

i


108         TilE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

i
J
1
k             t
I             i
4
k
pE
7
}jt
t

snorts. Your father, James B. Macpherson, is charged
with the execution of this order.
I am, my dear Idiot,
Your faithful imitator,
JEFF. DAVIS,
President of the
American Continent.
"Thanks to Jupiter !" I exclaimed, "the son and
conqueror of Saturn, whose thunders resound from
Olympus like the roar of a Confederate shot-gun ; it is
my pleasant duty and province to stay the tide of
Yankee sacrilege, and save from defilement the great
Confederate Temple of Holiness ! " I then looked at
the town-clock to see what time it was, and found
that it was precisely six P. M.
As I was gazing upon the clock, whose massive
hands mark the rapid departure of the fleet-footed
hours, I was tapped upon the shoulder by a man of
giant frame. His form towered on high more lofty
than that of the bloody despot Abraham Lincoln,
whose throne at Washington is built of human skulls,
and whose daily food is a fricasseed Southerner. His
large and glowing face was red as a Confederate army
shoe, and his threadbare gray garments showed me
plainly that he belonged to the glorious New Nation.
He gazed upon me with a look of melting tenderness
with those fiery eyes, beaming in their sunken sockets
like the orbs of night, or the all-warming sun in his
meridian glory, and falling at my knees, he burst into
a flood of tears.
"I am a Weeping Orphan!" he said: "I am six

TIIE WEEPING OI Pll A N.   109

feet and five inches high, and forty-nine years of age.
Weight, two hundred and eighty pounds."
" Unhappy youth ! " I exclaimed : " thine enormous
height entitles thee to the sympathy of a Confederate
philosopher, even if thou, tender bud and sweet honey-
suckle of affliction, hadst not been cast upon the cold
charities of the world at a tender age."
"How do you make that out ?" asked a Yankee, in
a gruff voice, interrupting my train of sublime medita-
tion ; "up North we-call a man of forty-nine years
well advanced in life!"
"And so he is,"I answered, "in those unhappy realms
of Yankeedom ; but in the celestial Confederacy a man
does not arrive at the years of discretion until he is
fifty-one."  I then fell upon the breast of the Weeping
Orphan, and told him that I would share with him my
last crust, and invited him to my quarters at the St.
Louis Hotel, which invitation he accepted with flow-
ing tears of gratitude.
iacpherson finds himself with a large family on his
hands.
Scarcely had we taken four drinks, before the Or-
phan burst into a flood of such violent tears that I
feared the effect upon his tender constitution. "Oh!"
he cried, "what will become of those sweet buds of
affection, my wailing infants, who groan for bread;
and my tender spouse, whose grief surpasses my own
"Bring them hither," I exclaimed ; "I will protect
them from the cold blasts of the world, and fill their
mouths with bread and jerked beef."

tt
4


Fl
i
i1

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

"Generous stranger !" exclaimed the Orphan; "I
accept the proffered hospitalities of your house." ie
then brought in his family, which consisted of a wife
and thirteen children, and all about the same size.
"These are the cause of my anxiety,'' le exclaimed,
" and for these I weep almost as much as for my own
bereaved lot, cast as I am, at a tender age, upon my
own resources."
"I will keep this charge !" I answered, " and thou
shalt know that none ever in vain appealed to the
charity of the Plat of the Confederacy."  I then
ordered supper for the crowd, and found that it would
cost me 885 per day to feed my unhappy guests.
Sunday morning, April  G, 18(3, dawned upon the
world with resplendent glory. The all-beholding sun
shone from a cloudless sky, and the birds sang sweetly
around the lofty chimneys of the St. Louis Hotel,
where I might have l)eelI seen arm-in-arm with the
Weeping Orphan, followed by his wife and thirteen
infants, wending our way towards the Great Confed-
erate Temple of holiness in Camp-street. The people,
attracted by the understanding that I was to expound
the Confederate religion, and read Abraham Lincoln's
Proclamation in a Confederate manner, turned out in
overpowering numbers. At least three hundred thou-
sand registered enemies were present, and as many
more went away, unable to gain admittance.
Not having a pastoral robe I pulled off my coat,
and mounted the pulpit in my shirt sleeves, where I
was received with loud applause. The women waved
their handkerchiefs and cried, " God bless you !" I
was always popular with the women of New Orleans,

CONFEDERALTE .SAINTS.

1i

and the reason of it is that I so profusely and ably
represent their thoughts,.feelings, and wishes. I am
endowed with the extraordinary gift of nature, which
enables me to read the innermost emotions and thoughts
of the human mind. I comprehend to its fullest extent
that deep, and intense, and passionate, and divine super-
human hatred, which the true ladies of New Orleans
cherish in their glowing bosoms for the whole Yankee
race-a hatred as deep as the twelfth circle of Dante's'
Inferno, and as high as the flag-staff of the St. Charles
Hotel before it was cut down. hate the Yankees?
Yes! I hate thirst, when there is no Confederate ruin
within a hundred miles of me ! I had rather be a door-
keeper in a Confederate hog-pen than to play a piano
in the parlor of a Yankee. Therefore it is that I am
popular with the true ladies of New Orleans; and there-
fore it is, that the moment I stepped into the pulpit I
was loaded down with bouquets and sympathy.
The audience began to cry out, "Macpherson ! Mac-
pherson !" I was about to respond, when, much to
my astonishment and indignation, the Weeping Orphan
dodged in ahead of me, and with streaming eyes in-
formed the people of his unhappy lot in life. It
occurred to me that something might be made out of
the affair : I proposed that a collection should be
taken up for the weeping object of sympathy before
me. Three thousand dollars were collected, which I
put in my own pocket, and then proceeded with the
exercises.
"Confederate saints," I said, "and believers in the
only true faith, we shall begin this performance by
singing a beautiful hymn, composed by myself, and

110

h


t
E.
t
r
t
f
i
F
3t
t
ijj
}

113

touchingly appropriate to the mournful occasion on
which we meet."
YANKEES.
hymn in L. M., by Rev. JAMEs B. MACPHERSON, of Madisonville, Poet
Laureate, Author, Philosopher, Warrior, and Traveller.
1.
Yankees have horns and hoofs and tails,
The soil is blighted where they tread,
And be they women, be they males,
I wish the Yankee race was dead.
2.
Confederate vengeance, like a blow
From the avenging hand of Fate,
Shall lay all the damned Yankees low
In our brave Louisiana State.
I requested the choir to omit the first and second
stanzas of the above beautiful hymn, which they did.
The singing concluded, I proceeded to deliver my great
discourse.
iacpkerson's Sermon.
Confederate saints and ladies," I said, "my text
this morning may be found somewhere, if any of you
will take the trouble to look for it ; but a Confederate
philosopher is necessarily so much engaged in rumma-
ging over the Classical Dictionaries and hunting up
Olympian fables with which to maintain the cause of the
Confederacy, that I have not had time to ascertain the
exact place where it may be found. The words are
these:
"' BLOW YE!'
"In the text, as it stands in the Book, I think there

. 1
I     f
y _r
4

THE MACPHERS ON' LETTERS.

III;

1 1 2

BLOW YE 1

is something said about a trumpet ; but it is a beauti-
ful and sublime feature of the Confederate religion,
that you can strike out any part .that don't please you,
and add any thing you'd like to see there. I have
accordingly struck out from they text the words, 'the
trumpet,' and this gives us a splendid expression of the
basis of the whole Confederate establishment, and reads
simply : 'Blow Ye!' I cannot imagine how two words
could possibly be found which more fittingly express
the duty of every Confederate. I have searched the
annals of by-gone ages ; I have explored every tongue,
living and dead ; I have sought in the hieroglyphics of
Egypt, the euphonious language of the Greeks, the
sublime speech of the Ronans, and the fiery words 9f
the Gauls; but nowhere have I found two words so
worthy of the obedience of every one in the Confed-
eracy, as those I have selected for my text on this
occasion ; and therefore I cry with  loud voice:
Blow Ye !
"I have endeavored to live up to thi great funda-
mental principle of the Confederacy, and in my life to
give a touching and noisy example of the faith. I am
the great Confederate Blower, and the reason of my
fame among men is, that I blow in a more faithful
manner than the general run of Confederates, although
the average of the Confederate race is but very little
behind me. To the Confederates \of New Orleans I
give the deserved and proud distinction of Blowing in a
manner perfectly satisfactory to our King, Jeff. Davis,
President. of the American Continent. To you, fair
ladies, whose beauty is unsurpassed by IIebb herself, I
award the meed of supreme merit next to myself, in


114

TUE MACPUERSON LETTERS.

I,

MACPIIERSON1S SERMO1N.

living up to this great fundamental principle of Con-
federate faith. I defy any man with a spark of coin-
.mon humamty im his breast, or the faintest gleam of coin-
mon sense mnhis muddy and idiotic brain, to mingle
with the Confederates of New Orleans, whether in
public or social life, and say that they do riot faithfully
follow the divine commandment of this text. Yes,
brother saints of both sexes, the Blowing which has
been done in your city, vindicates youfrvr gis
beendon inyou cit, vdictesyou forever against
the foul suspicion that you ineant what you said when
you took the oath of allegiance to the United States.
Continue in this grand career, and you shall win im-
mortal honor. As for myself, whether in sickness or
iii health, in victory or death, in carnage and slaughter,
or in peace and innocence, I will Blow and Blow for-
evermore. Yea, from the table of my memory I'll
wipe away all trivial fond records, all saws and books,
all forms, all pressures past, that youth and observation
copied there ; and this commandment all alone shall
live within the book and volume of my brain, unmixed
with baser matter !" I then placed my hands inge-
niously over my mouth, and blew so fiercely that it
frightened the thirteen infants of the Weeping Orphan,
and they cried in concert with me, making a most
beautiful illustration of Confederate theology.
At this stage of the proceedings, a delegation entered
from Algiers, leading a small live alligator by a red
string, which lhe presented to me in behalf of the
Yankee Railroad men at the Algiers Depot. The head
man informed me that this beautiful animal was cap-
tured in the Louisiana Lowlands Low, and that the
captors presented him to me as a token of regard for

115

::,
t:
, ,za i
, ;
.
+.   ;,
r
:
,r,
4'
F
'  _,.
i  } °   t
{  '
tr
'
i .'
r. «  ,  ' a
A ?rf
.  a
'4r ~ =
. Frey; s
' 'a  -
Y gi', fir,~i.
sf  T: ?
_  S i4
y  y'+  a
t  v
tr
S  .
L  r  s
','.
t"
r , !   .
.
X+
. .
r   ,q    r

the noble animal; and also that they wished to know
his dimensions by Confederate measurement. I found
that according to the rules of Confederate Arithmetic,
he was seventy-five feet long, which is equal to eigh-
teen inches by Yankee measurement. And here allow
me to say, that the Confederate Arithmetic is perfectly
simple, and if the public will pay proper attention to
its rules, they can learn to cipher as well as I can, and
I shall not then be bothered by people coming to have
me do their sums for them. Multiply every Yankee
figure by fifty, and you get the Confederate total. The
delegation then departed, and I resumed my discourse,
having sent the animal under an escort of Stuart's
cavalry, to my dilapidated hospitable abode.
Confederate Saints !" I said, " I have now a most
loathsome and unholy duty to perform. I have been
ordered by the Provost Marshal General, under the
penalty of death, to read in your hearing a loathsome
and unholy proclamation by that most foul and un-
natural despot, Abraham Lincoln, a tyrant more base
than Caligula or the princes of Central Africa. The
proclamation fixes next Thursday as a day of national
humiliation, fasting, and prayer, and I had rather give
a thousand dollars than to read it in my temple of
Confederate Holiness, provided I was allowed to take
up another collection. But my life is of great value
to the Confederacy, and the fundamental faith of the
New Nation is, that every man shall look out for his
own neck. Rather than have my able brain separated
from the gigantic frame on which it now stands, I will
read this most hateful proclamation, and I hope the
arrangements will prove effective !"

1
{
i
a
r
i
;


t
Ii
f
If
ji
IL

MACPHERSON PHILOSOPHIES.      117

116         THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
I then commenced reading the proclamation in the
.Ethiopian tongue, and, simultaneously with the pro-
nunciation of the first word, the whole audience gave
the Confederate snort, while a nigger fiddler struck up
the R. Taylor Gallopade, and forty others danced a
grand hoe-down in the gallery. The Weeping Orphan
pinched his thirteen children until they screamed at
the top of their voice, and the ladies went to upsetting
stools and drumming on the pews with their fan-
handles. As soon as the reading was completed, the
audience knelt and received my benediction.
Thus did I outwit the dull Yankee brain ; thus did
I obey the order and trample it in the dust at the same
time; thus did I save the great temple of Confederate
Holiness from defilement and sacrilege.
Returning from church, I indulged in liberal pota-
tions, and made the proposition to the Weeping Or-
phan of taking five hundred drinks in succession, and
we went at it. Irecollect swallowing the thirtieth, and
then my Massive Brain lost a consciousness of mundane
events. But when I awoke, I found that the Weeping
Orphan had stolen $3,000 out of my pocket, and ske-
daddled, leaving his wife and thirteen children on my
hands to support. Thus, in a moment, was I reduced
froim luxury to abject peulry and degrading poverty;
and my scanty earnings barely sustain the life of the
helpless ones that fortune has so unexpectedly thrown
under the protecting egis of my Benevolence.
But such is the fate of all sublunary greatness. The
light that streams down from the morning sun is, ere
long, hidden in the shadows of all-enshrouding night.
The smile that lights up the face of innocence and

beauty is soon dissipated and lost in the haggard lines
of grief. The step of youth must some day totter with
age; the glory of life is transient as the meteor's flash ;
and until I have an opportunity to take up another
collection, or to steal a thousand dollars, I must grapple,
single-handed and alone, with the ill fortunes of life,
and remain gaunt with famine and thirst.
Yours, theologically,
JAMES B. MAOPHERsON.

t
Ii


THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

119

AN ABSORBING PROFANITY.

C1IAPTER XIV.
MACPIIERRON AS A MILITARY CHIEFTAIN.-IE I5 APPOINTED
A MAJoR GENERAL OF CONFEDERATE YOLUNTEERS.-IIE
ISSUES A PROCLAMATION, RAISES AN ARM1Y, AND WINS
TWO BATTLES IN A SIN U LE DAY, ETC., ETC.
NOTE.--The rebel forces at Pontchatoula, the capture of which
place has already been noted, were composed, in part, of Choctaw
Indians. Some of these were captured and brought to New Orleans
as prisoners of war.
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
May 16th, 1863.
Sin:--Pliunged suddenly into the depths of military
glory and renown, it l)C OICs mfly pleasant duty to ac-
(quamt the adiring millions who read my able pro-
ductions, that Jefl Davis, the great Confederate Jupiter,
has appointed and commissioned me a Major General
of Confederate Volunteers, with my Idiotic Boy as
Chief of Staff, and has erected this part of the Con-
federacy into a military district, to be known as the
)epartiment of Madisonville.
My first official act was to get blind drunk on Con-
federate whisky, after which I directed my Idiotic
Joy to issue my Proclamation, as follows:
XJfacpherson's Proclamation.
IEhADI) Qns. DEPART MADISONYILLE,
Madisonville, La., May 10th, 1863.
cern1 Or Ier No. 1.
In acerdanee with the unparalleled glory and dignity which
-OW surround me, 1 hereby assume command of the army and

ill
ii
b t
I  y
i

navy of the Department of Madisonville. I shall demand and
enforce the fullest obedience to the Confederate Articles of War;
and all male persons between the ages of ten and one hundred
are hereby notified to report to me at once, armed and equipped
for military service. Any citizen or resident of this Department,
male or female, who shall hereafter pronounce the word "Yan-
kee" without placig before it the Confederate adjective "damned,"
shall be hung without trial.
Soldiers and females of Madisonville! arise in your might and
glory, and hurl the terrific thunderbolts of merciless vengeance
against the United States! In me you have a leader worthy of
your highest confidence and admiration, who will lead you to im-
mediate victory and undying renown. With my own hand I will
plant the victorious Stars and Bars on the Custom House of New
Orleans, and on the St. Charles and City hotels ; and sweeping
with my legions like a bosom of death-scattering destruction, I
will not pause in my onward career of homicide and slaughter,
until my unconquerable army shall enter the Arctic regions, and
plant the almighty and overpowering flag of the Confederacy
upon the North Pole, there to float as long as the all-nourishing
earth shall revolve in the boundless and unfathomable realms of
celestial space.
By order of MAJ. GEN. JAMES B. MACPIIERsON.
TIHE IDIoTIC Boy, Chief of Staff.
The first extraordinary result of my promotion was
an absorbing profanity, which compelled me to swear
every time I opened my mouth ; and I believe that
my experience in this respect is similar to that of most
military men1 Whereas, but a few days before I stood in
the pulpit and expounded the Confederate religion to
a benighted world, and presented myself as a model of
the Christian virtues and graces, and a strict temper-
ance man, I found, the moment I put on a uniform, I
was bound to swear like a Second Dragoon, and drink
like the Tenth Infantry.
"Where is your army ?" asked the Idiotic Boy.

118


, .
e _.
S
jA
f

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

k
s
9

A COLUMN IN ORDER OF BATTLE.

121

"Damn the army !" I replied. "It is a peculiarity
of Confederate warfare, that a Major General requires
no army. Proclamations, sir, proclamations are the
things with which to crush the Yankee foe. How did
Beauregard raise the blockade of Charleston ? With a
Proclamation ! How did Magruder do the same thing
at Galveston ? With a Proclamation ! How did Gov-
ernor Moore conscript the niggers in the Trans-Missis-
sippi Department? With a Proclamation ! Are they
greater Generals than I?  No, sir!  You damned
Idiot ! talk to me about an army ! I'll show you
that I'm Major General and Commander of the Depart-
ment. Pen, ink, paper, and gas are the only imple-
ments necessary to secure a Confederate victory at
every step !" I then wrung the Idiot's nose and swore
to be revenged.
Subsequently I determined to raise an army, and
opened a Recruiting Office in Madisonville, and swore
that 1 would fill the ranks at all hazards. I raised a
Confederate flag two hundred feet long by Confederate
measurement, which is four feet in Yankee mathemat-
ics, and sent a nigger through the streets pounding on
a tin pan to drum up recruits. The first one that came
in was seventy-four years of age, blind in one eye,
walking on two crutches, and armed with a buzz-saw.
"Welcome !" I exclaimed, "young and ardent sol-
dier of your country, to the headquarters of Confeder-
ate glory. You are the nucleus of the army of this
department, and I will lead you to endless conquest !"
He then whirled his buzz-saw and took his place in
line-of-battle. I conscripted two niggers to hold him
up on his crutches while he should fight.

120

II
Ii

It
ii

Finding that this patriotic yotth was the only per-
son who would voluntarily enlist, or voluntarily obey
my orders, I resolved to enforce. my authority at the
point of the sword, 'mid scenes of broil and battle. I
therefore mounted the Confederate Mule, the same an-
imal that carried ine to New Orleans when I attended
the great Charity Fair, and drawing my shining blade
with a Confederate flourish, placed myself at the head
of the column, determined to lead in person, according
to Macpherson's Confederate Tactics, a profound work
on military science, which I had compiled the night
before. I marched off in the following order : 1st.
The General Commanding, viz., myself. 2d. Music,
viz., the nigger with a tin pan. 3d. The column in
order of battle, consisting of the patriotic youth, sup-
ported on either flank by an African.
I determined to make my first demonstration on the
abode of a Choctaw Indian, who had some time been
seen about Madisonville dressed in the peculiar and
fantastic style of his race. Halting in front, I gave
the order to deploy column in the back yard, for the
ptirpose of cutting off retreat, while I should attack in
front, with the musician supporting me as a reserve.
These dispositions having been made on scientific
principles, I gave the Confederate snort, the great sig-
nal of attack. The Indian, started from his morning
slumbers, without waiting to dress, jumped out of a
side window and cut for the woods. "Sweet Choc-
taw !" I exclaimed,-"for the moment thy speed gives
thee success; but this is no fault of my tactics, and
thou owest thy safety to the fact that I have not an
adequate force to support my flanks. If thou thinkest
6

i
4
f
f k
T
F
3
i
7
2
,,
*
"
I

s
'


r
E
i      f             r
i
E      ,
3      s
L       f
X
1      +
{
f
4
j{
1
i
t
i
Z
t
i
t
t
i         ,E
t
t
j!
1
f
4
t
E
t
t
r
E
i
i
t
t      +
i
f
I..

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

me deficient in the art of war, try and make thine es-
cape through the back yard, over my invincible col-
umn !" I then put spurs to my mule, and started in
pursuit. After a race of two miles, I overtook him
and held him, while, in obedience to my orders, the
column came up, and the Choctaw was conscripted,
and took his place in line of battle, a willing and obe-
dient soldier of the Confederacy. "The Great Spirit,"
I said to him, "will not send any Choctaw to the
happy Hunting Grounds, unless he fights for the Con-
federacy." The column then marched back to Madi
sonville.
My Chief of Staff reported a case of gross and dam-
nable insubordination, which I resolved to punish in
Confederate style, with the fullest extremity of military
vengeance. A young and able-bodied man, only sixty
years of age, living in the suburbs of the city of Madi-
sonville, had disregarded the order to enlist, and had
concealed himself in the woods, armed with a shot-gun,
determined to die rather than take up arms against the
United States. I immediately ordered my forces,
white and Choctaw, to advance, and halted at the res-
idence of the accursed Yankee. Dismounting, I en-
tered the house, where I found a woman and five chil-
dren. "Where," I demanded in tones of thunder,
flourishing my sword, and stamping my foot, "where,
woman, is thy Yankee husband ?"
"Oh, sir !" said she, falling at my feet, and looking
imploringly in my face, "for the love of Heaven, spare
him ! He is old and feeble, and we shall starve with-
out him. We are poor and hungry, and he is our only
hope. Look upon my children, and pity us."

e
J
f
i

CONFEDERATE JUSTICE.

123

"What are children to me, or I to children ?" I
asked. "I am a C nfederate General, sworn to win
innumerable battle with this shining sword, and to
exterminate the whole vile race of detested Yankees.
Your husband shall die ! He is a Yankee !"
"He is not a Yankee," said the woman; "he was
born and raised in Louisiana."
"What do I care where he was born ?" I answered.
"Every man who does not fall down and worship Jeff.
Davis and the Southern Confederacy, and is not will-
ing to leave wife.and children behind him to starve to
death, for the sake of'Southern independence, the same
is a Yankee, and shall suffer death ?" I then ordered
the Choctaw Division to advance, with two blood-
hounds thrown out in front, as skirmishers and detect-
ives, and gave orders to bring the villain, alive if pos-
sible, but dead, if necessary. The Division gave the
Choctaw warwhoop and advanced at the double-quick,
and the bloodhounds soon got on the scent. In a few
hours the accursed villain was brought to my head-
quarters, bleeding from wounds inflicted by my skir-
mishers.
"I am sold and feeble," he began to say, "and
wholly unable to bear arms."
"Silence !" I exclaimed. "Perhaps your benighted
and besotted mind does not understand the great fun-
damental principles of Confederate Justice, so beauti-
fully illustrated in the official career of General Hind.
man, who reprieved two men after they had been shot.
It is a peculiarity in our system of jurisprudence, that
we understand a case without asking any questions,
and convict and punish a man without investigating

122


A MIDNIGHT ASSASSIN.            125

124         THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

his case. I have Confederate brains in my head, and
it is as clear to me as the light which beams from the
all-beholding sun, that you are a Yankee Abolitionist.
You will, therefore, prepare for instant death."
A gallows was erected in front of his house, and he
was hung by the Choctaw Division, under my order.
As an act of mercy, I permitted his wife and children
to witness the execution.
Thus, in a single day, did I raise and equip a Con-
federate army, discipline them, put them on a war
footing, and win two battles. I retired for the night,
thankful for the success of my patriotic efforts, and
panting for glory upon the field of carnage.
Yours undeviatingly,
JAMES B. MACPHERSoN.

CHAPTER XV.
MACPHERSON ENCOUNTERS AND SHOOTS A MIDNIGHT ASSAS-
SIN.-IIE CONSCRIPTS NEGROES, AND ADDRESSES THEM IN
A MANNER CALCULATED TO AROUSE THEIR ZEAL IN THE CON-
FEDERATE CAUSE.-IE APPOINTS HIS STAFF, ETC., ETC.
NOTE.-In the following letter the author attempted to exhibit the
Southern method of treating negroes, and the inducements which the
Richmond Government might offer them to serve in their cause.-
" The Inconsolable Thug," who receives a staff appointment, is a gentle-
man whose history has been omitted in this volume. He had a phys-
ical fight with Macpherson, in which the Confederate Philosopher
was so badly worsted that he had to wear his head bandaged with
"a material poultice" for some weeks.
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
May 23, 1863.
SiR:-Arousing from a dream, I looked up and saw
a Midnight Assassin stealing into my room with fierce
looks, and with a dagger in his hand, which he pur-
posed to plunge into my vitals. This sight it was that
harrowed up my soul, froze my young blood, made my
two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres, my knot-
ted and combined locks to part, and each particular
hair to stand on end like quills upon the fretful porcu-
pine !  "Is this a dagger which I see before me ?"    I
exclaimed: "or art thou but a dagger of the mind; a
false creation, proceeding   from   the rum-oppressed
brain? Avaunt ! and quit my sight! Let the earth
hide thee !"
But the earth declined to do it, and tee stealthy
Midnight Assassin, with murder in his heart and the


MADIsoNVILLE CONGO GUARDS.      127

instrument of death in his hand, stood over me, ready
to perpetrate his crime of blood. "Such," I thought,
"is the unhappy lot of greatness; to be exposed to the
shafts of malignant envy, to be watched, hunted, fol-
lowed, assassinated ! Oh that I were but an ordinary
man ! Oh that nature had withholden from me the
prolific gifts of Genius, and the masterly qualities of a
military commander! Then I might have lived in
quiet seclusion and peace; but now I must die the vic-
tim of envied greatness !" It then occurred to me
that as a great Confederate General, it might be proper
to show fight, and die in heroic combat, falling with
my face to the foe. "What man dares, I dare!" I
exclaimed. "Approach thou like the rugged Russian
Bear, the armed Rhinoceros, or the IIyrcan Tiger,
and my firm nerves shall never tremble ! " As I said
this, the cold perspiration stood upon my forehead. I
then drew my Jeff. Davis revolver from under my
head, and shot the villain dead on the spot!
The moment I had committed this deed of homicide,
my conscience reproved me, and trembling with fear,
I wrapped my head up tight in the Confederate Blan-
ket which always covers my martial couch. "I am,"
I said, "a foul and unnatural murderer ; and if justice
dwells in Madisonville, I shall be hung by the neck
until I am dead !"
Aurora at last mounted her golden chariot, and the
light of morning shed its celestial lustre over the man-
inhabiting earth. But I, overcome by a consciousness
of guilty homicide, dared not look up for two hours.
Then I was moved by a conviction of duty, and wish-
ing to drill my army in Confederate tactics, I resolved

1 Sp s.Y
t  t L
Cf ,
r'   fYa
rr  yt
c
'M171FCw J
std
(aaq 'G 1
fr
9sF
I
k
ilL
t°
Vf
S
1        S
l
{
Y
is
L
i

to leap boldly from my couch, gaze indifferently upon
the mangled remains of my victim, and deny all knowl-
edge of the transaction. Therefore, hurling the per-
spiration-besmeared blanket from my august person, I
leaped from the bed and opened my eyes, to fix them
on the dead corse of my red-handed homicide. But I
discovered that nobody was hurt. There was, how-
ever, a distinct bullet-hole in my Gray Confederate
breeches, that were hanging on a chair at the foot of
the bed; and these I had mistaken and shot for a Mid-
night Assassin.
The Madieonville Congo Guards.
Therefore, I determined to conscript all niggers
between the ages of nine and one hundred, within five
miles of Madisonville, and issued orders to that effect.
But the vile darkies did not heed my commands, and
I therefore deployed the buzz-saw Division as skir-
mishers, with orders to fetch in every nigger that
could be found. Ten of them were captured and
brought to my headquarters; whereupon I proceeded
to address them in a very able and patriotic manner,
both upon the destiny of articulate-speaking men, and
the duty of Confederate soldiers in the field, with the
hope of instilling into their besotted intellects, some
gleamings of the lofty and humane philosophy of tho
Confederacy.
"You damned niggers!" I said; "you are about to
be enrolled as Confederate soldiers, under the laws of
Louisiana, and in accordance with the proclamation of
Governor Moore. This is the highest honor that could

1 2 6       THE MACPHERSON  LETTERS.


128         THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
be bestowed even upon a white man, and for you to
receive it is a blessing so vast and incomprehensible
that none but a Mamnoth Brain can understand the
full and imperishable felicity that has descended into
your black souls. But you will please understand that
tis is not a compliment to you personally, but to the
Confederacy which you represent; and you will also
comprehend distinctly that you are not human beings
at all, and that the design of the Infinite was'that you
should be slaves and wild beasts forever. The Con-
federacy is based upon this divine law of nature, which
made the Confederacy to boss and abuse niggers and
keep them on a perfect equality with Confederate
mules. You are the connecting link between man'
and the monkey, and differ from the Orang-)utang
only in the gift of speech. This was given you by the
Almighty, in order that you might better serve your'
masters ; for everybody must admit that a dumb nig-r
ger will not bring as high a price in the market as
those that can utter speech. Vice President Stephens
has nobly said that niggers are the corner-stone of they
Confederacy, and this I wish to impress upon your
debased and idiotic minds. Your heels are long andF
your shins tender, and that proves the truth of Judgoe
Taney's declaration, that you haven't any rights that
white men ought to respect. The Lord cursed Ham,
and the ham was smoked. Therefore you are blackI
damn you! and must be enslaved by the Confederates
for evermore.  I can prove it by the Confederate
Bible ; for the theology of the Confederacy, as I
showed in my celebrated sermon from   the words,
'Blow ye,' permits true believers to strike out any pas-

ADDRESS TO THE CONGO GUARDS.      129
sage of Scripture they don't like, and to put in any
thing they'd like to have there.
"Therefore it is that the Confederate Theology is
superior to every other. You can prove any thing
you want to by it, or you can confound every theory
ever started or adopted by mortal man. The Confed-
erate Bible is on a par with the Confederate Arithme-
tie, and I am the author of both. Therefore, let no
nigger dispute my words, for I can prove every thing
I say. You are niggers, and niggers are not men, and
it is now your glorious privilege to fight for these di-
vine principles of the Southern Confederacy-princi-
ples founded upon the great and everlasting law of
Confederate veracity."
The effect of this splendid oration upon those to
whom it was addressed, was, indeed, like magic. The
bold declarations of truth smote upon their heathenish
and bestial intellects, and inspired them with overpow-
ering and matchless zeal for Southern Independence.
They gave five hundred cheers for the Confederacy,
and six hundred for me, and threw their hats a thou-
sand feet in the air by Confederate measurement, while
the biggest nigger, grinning from ear to ear, struck up
the Old John Brown song, the whole Congo Division
joining in the chorus: "Glory, glory, hallelujah !"
Immediately the spirit of prophecy and of poesy de-
scended upon me, and I composed a Confederate war-
song, to be sung on all occasions, as follows:

}
t
r

i
i
t
i
{£
!_
i+


TIrE MACPIIERSON LETTERS.

131

SONG OF TIE CONGO GUARDS.
By JAMLS B. MACPIImRsON, Author of the Confederate Arithmetic and the
11p uin of Salvation.
1.
Oh the niggers they are monkeys and were born for slavery,
The niggers they are monkeys and were born for slavery,
The niggers they are nonkey s and were born for slavery,
As we go fighting along.
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
As we go fighting along'
2.
Oh the abolition Yankees they are a set of thieves,
The abolition Yankees, &amp;c., &amp;c.
I should have proceeded further with this beautiful
production, but I have adopted the rule that I will
never write a poem of more than two stanzas.       I then
proceeded   to  arm  the   Congo Division with     sheep-
shears, and issued the following General Order:
IIEADQUARTERS,
DEPARTMENT OF MADISONVILLE,
Madisonville, La., May 20th, 1863.
General Order No. 2.
The General Commanding hereby gives notice that the follow-
ing high-toned gentleman and officers will constitute his staff,
and will be obeyed and respected accordingly until further
orders:
rTIE IDIOTIC IloY, Chief of Staff.
THE lION EST .JEW, Chief Quartermaster.
TIHE UNIAPPY CUss, Chief Commissary.
Tn Soit'rAn I Ioinomiv, Chief of Cavalry.
TIIE NoII.: WOMAN, Superintendent of the Great Confederate
Clothing Emporiumn in New Orleans.
TIHE INCoNSo LABLE TH UG, Chief of Artillery.
THIE WEEPINGOInIA_   J udge Advocate.
THE SoUTIHERN SouRc! , Chief of Signal Corps.

130

yt
_e
t
_   t
r/4 k
t
34,
t t
k      E
}
t h3 Aix'
E +1.5'Y R
'fit
-K
r niYY(
z f%
r
C
iI     ]t
pak.'Yi-
rY
n  1
fFt

The officers above named will report immediately at the Great
Confederate Clothing Emporium, in Canal street, and the ladies
of New Orleans are hereby directed to furnish a uniform for
each, out of the great Charity Fund.
By order of MAJOR GENERAL JAMES B. MAOPHERSON.
THE IDIOTIc BOY, Chief of Staff.
It will be seen that in the above order I have fol-
lowed the Confederate law of promotion, and given a-
posish to each of miy friends. I shall make each of
my nine sons a Brigadier General as soon as I can re-
eruit nine men.
Yours, boldly,
JAMES B. MACPHERSON.

COI FEDERATE LAW OF PROMOTION.


THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

i

I

132

CHAPTER XVI.
THE REGISTERED ENEMIES CF THE UNITED STATES            LEAVE
THE DEPAWIMENT OF THE GULF.-GENERAL MACPHERSON
SUPEINTENDS THEIR DEPARTURE.-IIE "Go3m4ES" THEM AS
SOON AS THEY ARRIVE IN IlS DOMINION S-lE UNEXPECT-
EDLY MEETS THE HONEST JEW, ETC.. E IC.
NOTE.-On the 30th of April, 1803, an order was published by Major
General Banks, requiring all registered enemies of the United States
to leave the Department of the Gulf, on or before the fifteenth day
of the next month. As no one could sail for any port in the United
States or a foreign country without taking the oath of allegiance to the
United States,_the registered enemies were compelled to go over to the
-Confederacy," for which they had professed such a profound rever-
ence and love. So long as they were forbidden to go, they were loud
in their complaints that the cruel and despotic government should
prevent them from joining their friends; but when they were or-
dered to go, all their zeal disappeared, and they were equally loud in
their complaints that the cruel and despotic government should com-
pel them to go. When the time of their departure actually arrived,
they presented a melancholy spectacle ; a more dejected set of wretches
was never seen. To add to their grief, as soon as they arrived in
Mobile, the able-bodied men were forced to join the rebel army. The
order sending them out of the Department was received with great
exultation by the Union citizens of New Orleans; for some of these
registered enemies had become very insolent, under the lenity that
permitted them to remain in the city. Many of them had registered
their names as enemies of the United States, in order to make them-
selves popular with the secessionists, and without any expectation
that they would ever be compelled to leave the I)epartment. And
when they found that the tact of being registered enemies in-
volved the necessity of going away, and, as was the case with many,
of leaving home, fIanily, and kimdred behind them, perhaps forever,
the romance all melted into thin air, and they discovered that a sen-
timental attachment for the land of Jeff. Davis, which could be cher-
ished in security at a distance, was quite a different matter when it
exiled them from the coulfirts and pleasures of civilised life.

ti'; w   i
'   ; ,
d,

REGISTERED ENEMIES.           13
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
May 30th, 1808.
S1R :-A Macedonian cry came to me as in my dilap-
idated hospitable abode I meditated schemes of blood-
shed and revenge. It came from New Orleans, from a
Registered Enemy, and said : "What shall I do? Come
over and help me
Arriving in New Orleans, I immediately called upon
the Macedonian, and with him forthwith went down to
Lakeport to witness the departure of the first regular
load of Registered Enemies. "        I said, "there
will b° a grand secession demonstration, exceeding that
on the levee, when the women turned out en masse to
kiss the departing Confederate prisoners. I will sm-
mon the people to arms, raise a revolt, capture New
Orleans, and add it to the Department of Madisonville !"
But when I arrived at the point of embarkation my
soul and face became swollen with Confederate indig.
nation. For instead of a grand secesh demonstration
I only found a small crowd of weeping women and
wailing children, who said they wished their husbands
and fathers had taken the oath of allegiance to the
United States, instead of running off to the Confederacy
and leaving them to starve alone.
"Stop such treasonable talk as that !" I shouted in
tones of Confederate : thunder. "Every person who
utters a sentiment favorable to the Union, will have his
name written down, and he shall be hung when the
Confederates come here 1"
"What has the United States done so bad ?" asked a
woman who was weeping in a base and cowardly man-
ner at' the departure of her husband. "Did we not


I

THE MACPHEiSON LETTERS.

ill II

REGISTERED ENEMIES.

135

live together in peace and plenty before the South
seceded ? What wickedness did the United States
commit ?"
"It robbed us of eternal rights," I answered.
"Is it not the eternal right of a wife to be protected
by her husband, and to have her children fed and cared
for by their father ?" asked she, in a violent flood of
tears.
"Base, cowardly woman !" I exclaimed ; "the great
light of Confederate Science has never pierced your
weak and debased intellect. Women and children,
food and raiment, are nothing beside Southern Inde-
pendence. Were it not for the rebellion, would I ever
have been a Major General? No ! Would Jeff. Davis
have been a President? No! Would My Idiotic Boy
have been Chief of Staff, or the Honest Jew a Quarter-
master? No ! Such, madame, are the happy fruits of
rebellion. What to me are weeping women and starv-
ing children ?-what desolate firesides and blasted fields?
-what trenches of buried soldiers and plantations gone
to waste? Nothing ! These are the price of Confed-
erate shoulder-straps and. civic crowns. What though
they are stained in innocent blood and bathed in wom-
an's tears? They glitter all the same, and glory still
summons the Confederate Warrior to the field ! Starve,
for ought I care ! The more that starve, the less there
will be to feed on the next crop !"
"You are an unfeeling brute !" sobbed the woman.
"Madame," I replied, drawing myself up to my full
height, and smiting my breast with great dignity ;
"madame, if my position does not protect me from in-
sult, my sex at least should be respected !"

134

I ,
t
_
t
r

I then turned away with an air of justly offended
pride, and turned, my eyes upon the black ship, about
to depart for the lovely shores of my native land. I
expected to see countenances gleaming with joy and
patriotic pride. "These true and devoted friends of
the Confederacy," I said, "have filled the earth with
their moans, to be allowed to come to us, when they
knew they couldn't ; and now that they are at last al-
lowed to come to our sweet land of cotton and inde-
pendence, their faces will glow with unspeakable de-
light !" Imagine my burning wrath, when instead of
this, I saw a pack of the most dejected devils that my
eyes ever rested upon. One was looking at his wife
and children with streaming eyes, and asking in a low
moan if it was too late to take the Oath of Allegiance.
"Too late !" replied a Yankee Demon. Then the
Registered Enemy smote his forehead with his hand,
and said he had made a damned fool of himself, to
which the Yankee Demon nodded assent.
"Beloved Confederates !" I said, addressing them
from the shore; "as the Children of Israel, represented
in Madisonville by the Honest Jew, wandered for forty
years in the Wilderness, but at last found the happy
land of Canaan, so have you, while twelve times the
Moon hath filled her horn; borne with meek patience
the unsufferable and loathsome bondage of the United
States, sighing for the happiness of the Confederacy.
But now the long night of your vassalage has been dis-
pelled by the brilliant splendor of the rising Confederate
Sun, and you are about to plant your weary feet in
Madisonville, a land that flows with milk and honey,
where the butchery of the Yankee Demons cannot dis-

4
's
3
}
Y


r
f
{S
F
}
i
i
7Q
i
r

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

i
t

k
6
r
1
#p
t
i
s
r
I

THE HONEST JEW FINANOIERING.

137

turb the quiet security of your throats, and where the
S ears and Bars will stand between you and all harm."
Even this eloquence did not arouse their stupid souls,
and I turned away in disgust, reluctantly concluding
that the Registered Enemies were a lot of blockheads.
I immediately started for Madisonville on my Con-
federate Mule, in order to get there before the Regis-
tered Enemies reported at my headquarters.
Afacpherson meets the honest Jew.
As I was going hurriedly home, I saw a man in the
woods tucking rolls of paper into the trunk of a hollow
tree. A pproaching him stealthily, I was astonished to
recognize in him my integrity-loving friend and Con-
federate co-laborer, the honest Jew. Wishing to give
him a pleasant surprise, I caught him violently by the
collar and planted my right foot stoutly against his
shin1s, beoic he was aware of mily presence.
lie lumped eight feet in the air, and struck the
grond(, looking pale as a corpse, exclaiming with fero-
clous earnestness:
"I no steal 'em! I pe berfectly innocent !-berfectly
innocent !"
"iMy innocent and outraged friend !" I replied, " of
course you are innocent. Who accused you of stealing ?"
"Gott i  hiinmel !" shouted the Honest Jew; "I
taut you pe van tam tief and robber. Inow know you
pe mine tear Sheneral." We then clasped each other
in a tender, loving embrace, until our bosoms were
bathed in tears of mutual love.
"A pleasant surprise, my dear," I said.

16)

"Oh, yah, vun sehr tam bleasant surbrise," he an-
swered.
"What have you here ?" I asked, approaching the
tree.
"Noting, noting at all," he answered.
"Then there can be no harm if I look at nothing," I
answered, and then proceeded to examine the tree,
when I discovered several very large rolls of Confed,
erate treasury notes. "Sweet disciple of Moses," I
said, "whence and for whom this vast treasure ?"
"Mine !" he cried, while a look of agony passed over
his features.
"Sir !" I said, "you are a swindler and thief! I am
your superior officer, and I swear that unless you divide
with me justly and fairly, I will hang you, and expose
to the world your infamous crimes !"
The Ionest Jew then swore lie always intended to
divide with me, and that he hid the bills only as a
means of security. I then asked him how he had man-
aged to accumulate such vast wealth.
"I sells the glothing and horses," he replied. I then
learned that, after conscripting an army, the Honest
Jew had drawn clothing and horses from the Govern-
ment, and that he had sold the clothing to the soldiers
and the horses to the highest bidder, and that the
money in the tree was the fruit of this scheme, alike
creditable to his head and heart.
"Nothing," I remarked, "but an equal distribution
of the proceeds, could have reconciled me to this ahni-
rable trick. Come once more to my bosom "
"I make you very rich in five tays," said the Honest
Jew.

i


ra
.,
t

"how," I asked.
"You vait for the Registered Enemies," he answered.
Arriving at Headquarters, I found that great numbers
of Registered Enemies had arrived and were arriving
from New Orleans, and thereupon I immediately issued
an order on the subject, as follows:
HEADQUARTERS,
DEPARTMENT OF MADISONVILLE,
Madisonville, La., May 28th, 1863.
General Order No. 3.
Whereas, it has come to the knowledge of the Major-General
commanding this Department, that certain and numerous persons,
pretending to be Registered Enemies of the United States have
nriived within the limits of his command from New Orleans, it
is therefore ordered: That all the Registered Male Enemies of the
United States coming to these shores, not over one hundred years
of age, shall be immediately conscripted and enrolled as a part of
the military force of this Department ; unless they shall pay over
to the Chief Quartermaster the sum of one thousand dollars, in
which ease they shall be exempt from the draft.
By order of Mason GENERAL JAMES B. MAOPIIERSON.
THE IDIOTI Boy, Chief of Staff.
The first Registered Enemy who reported himself at
Headquarters was the Macedonian, who came with a
smiling face, and, slapping me on the shoulder, said:
"Our relations have been so pleasant heretofore, that I
shall find in your sweet society full compensation for
the sacrifice I make in leaving my native land." But
I put on a look of offended dignity, and inquired who it
was that presumed to make himself so familiar ! I then
handed him a copy of the above order, and he turned
pale as a ghost when he read it.  However, he paid one
thousand dollars to the honest Jew. In all five hundred

men paid their thousand dollars, which made the hand-
some sum of five hundred thousand dollars to be equally
divided between theIIonest Jew and myself. I then
issued the following:
HEADQUARTERS,
DEPARTMENT OF MADISONVILLE,
Madisonville, La., May 29th, 1863.
General Order No. 4.
So much of General Order No. 3, as relates to the Exemption
of Registered Enemies from the operation of the Conscript law
on payment of one thousand dollars, is hereby rescinded; and all
Registered Enemies, without exception, will immediately report
armed and equipped for military service, the same as though the
said sum had never been paid.
By order of MAJon GENERAL JAMES B. MACPILERSON.
THE IDIoTIC Boy, Chief of Staff.
"By wha4 code of justice is it," inquired the Mace-
donian, "that, after taking our money on promise of
exemption, you conpel'"us to enter the service ?"
"By the code of Confederate justice," I replied:
"the same principle that is in force in New Orleans,
which compels negro property-holders to pay taxes for
the support of schools, and then forbids them to send
their children to school; and the same principle by
which John C. Breckinridge, sitting in the Senate of
the United States, and drawing his salary from the
United States treasury, plotted and toiled-for the down-
fall of the Union, and the up-building of the Southern
Confederacy,"
Settlement with the honest Jew.
At midnight, in my guarded tent, I summoned the
Honest Jew to my presence, and told him we had

THE COMMUTED MEN 0ONSCRIPTED.

138

139

'FIlE MACPIJERSON LETITERS.

r f
4


If

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

made a million dollars, and it was time to divide. I
therefore ordered him to settle immediately, and to
pay over to me one-half the profits, in accordance
with the bargain fairly agreed to by both parties.
"Show me your receipts," said the Jew; "I can bay
no monish mitout receipts to show I owe it !"
"Loathsome and disgusting reptile!"  I exclaimed,
"is it thus you trifle with pecuniary rights and eternal
justice? Is it thus you seek to subvert the principles
of Confederate veracity, and uproot the very founda-
tions of society? Can you expect to rob the Confed-
eracy and its loyal subjects with impunity, and not
divide the profits with your Commanding General ! I
will show you that it cannot be done. For half thy
wealth, it is Macpherson's ; the other half comes to the
general State which I represent, and so I'll take the
whole."
"Nay, take my life and all, pardon not that ;" re-
plied the honest Jew, " you take my house when you
do take the prop that doth sustain my house; you take
my life when you do take the means whereby I live."
ringig hither the cash and abjure thy vile faith,
and thou shalt live and have half," I said.
" Yah," replied the honest Jew, " I do that mit time.
1 goes now and pring you the monish."
lie then started off to bring to my tent the treasure;
and I lay congratulating myself that I had made half
a million dollars, and converted a Jew to the true faith.
13ut hour after hour passed, and the Honest Jew did
not return. Two o'elock, three o'clock, four o'clock,
daylight, and no welcome Mosaic footstep came to
cheer me in my waiting loneliness.

THE HONEST JEW SKEDADDLES.

141

"Oh Honest Jew!" I cried in my distress, "what
evil hath befallen thee? Oh whither hast thou wan-
dered? Did thy pious youthful feet go astray in the
woods?"   I then hastened to the hollow tree, hoping
at least to find the treasure, even if I could not once
more clasp the Honest Jew to my bosom in a loving
embrace. But imagine my grief, terror, rage, when I
discovered that the vile villain had gobbled up all the
money and skedaddled to distant and unknown places,
leaving me once more to groan and moan in honest
poverty, the victim of loathsome and disgusting ras-
cality.              Yours eternally,
JAMES B. MACPHERSoN.

140


142          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

CHAPTER XVII.
AN ACCOUNT OF THE DEATH OF JAMES B. MACPHERSON,
'IE GrtEAT Co N1EDERATE PILOSOPHER, WARRIOR, AUTHOR,
AND SOUTHERN BLOWER.
NOTE.-The author determined to discontinue Macpherson's Let-
ters, and knew of no better way than to kill him off. Accordingly
the following obituary notice was prepared and published in Tim
EnA of June 7th.
IIUxc be the heavens with black !-yield day to night!
Con ets, importing change of times and States, bran-
dish your crystal tresses in the sky, and with them
scourge the bad revolting stars, that have consented to
Macpherson's death !
It becomes our painful duty to announce to the
world the death of JAMES B. MACPIERSON, of Madi-
son ville, Louisiana, Major General of Confederate Vol-
unteers, invincible warrior and pugilist, Plato of the.
Confederacy, Archimedes of the New Nation, Author
of the celebrated Confederate Arithmetic, Traveller
through the Louisiana Lowlands Low, Father of twelve
sons, Clergyman, and Southern Blower-the scintilla-
tions of whose Ponderous Intellect have so long illu-
mninated the columns of THE ERA. The Mammoth
Brain of our revered correspondent no longer works;
the Herculean Arm is no longer bared in the cause
of the Confederacy   he so faithfully and zealous-
ly represented ; the tongue of persuasive eloquence
has been silenced in the embrace of all-devouring
Death! le expired at his dilapitated hospitable

t{ 4
f
i{
I
s' sI
ii4444 F
F;
}
i
I
j{{ggE
E
t
i
ft {

MACPHERSON DRINKING HEMLOCK.      143
abode, in Madisonville, at the solemn hour of mid-
night, last Monday, being the six hundred and sixtieth
Olympiad and the third year thereof, and the year 3 of
the Southern Confederacy.
The cause of his death is melancholy beyond de-
scription. He did not fall in battle, as was his ardent
desire, at the head of his invincible legions, dealing
death and destruction among vile Yankee foes ; but he
fell a victim. to his own hands. In a word, he com-
mitted suicide. Calling his Idiotic Boy to his side, he
exclaimed :
"Oh that this too too solid flesh would melt, thaw,
and resolve itself into a dew! or that the Everlasting
had not fixed his canon 'gainst self-slaughter! Now
indeed I fear the avenging wrath of the offended gods
of Olympus. But if I would reach the Elysian Fields,
where dwells the soul of the great Achilles, I must die
at once, like Socrates, the Philosopher, by drinking
poisonous hemlock!"
Having announced his determination, his family and
his staff in vain gathered around him with tears, striv-
ing to win him from his fatal purpose. They pointed
out to him the deadly stroke the Confederacy would
suffer ; the pallor with which Philosophy and Reli-
gion would hear of his death ; the inconsolable tears of
his wife and staff; the exultation of the Yankee De-
non, and the honest grief of THE ERA. But all in
vain. "I love the Confederacy with intense and pas-
sionate love," he answered, "but the will of the gods
and the Voice of Oracular Fate must be obeyed1"
He then ordered the hemlock to be brought to him in
a five-gallon demijohn, and calmly entered upon the

I

f
i
i
!s
1
E
f
i


144          TiE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

business of preparation for his journey across the Styx,
-or to quote from his own beautiful words, for "the
coming of that solemn hour, when neither worldly
pomiip, nor martial renown, nor yet the brave love of
the Confederacy which pervades every impulse of my
soul, and every throb of my heart, can stay my foot-
steps in the last pilgrimage to the realms of Pluto."
3faepersom's Will.
lie then took four drinks of the hemlock, and pro-
ceeded to make his will, with all the calmness and dig-
nity of Confederate greatness.
To my faithful and beloved wife," lie said, " I give
and bequeath my dilapidated hospitable abode, and
all it contains; to my Idiotic Boy, the mantle of Phi.
losophy and the management of Confederate Policy; to
my staff I give my sword and uniform, and it is my
wish that after my death they shall contend for it in
single combat, as Ulysses and Telamonian Ajax con-
tended for the armor of divine Achilles; and to the
combatants for the splendid prize, I say in the words
of man-smiting Heenan, may the best man win!
"To the Noble Woman and the ladies. of New
Orleans, I leave the task of fanning and keeping alive
the fires of treason in the Yankee-oppressed Crescent
City."
Having made the above disposition of his worldly
affairs, lie took four drinks of the hemlock, and re-
marked that the working of the Mammoth Brain would
cease the moment the working of the fatal hemlock
began.

"To the Unhappy Cuss," he said, "I leave the ar-
rangements for the funeral. I wish to be buried with
military honors worthy of my rank and name. I wish
to have my funeral modelled on that of Alexander the
Great, a warrior whose fame was only surpassed by my
own. In the third Section of the sixteenth Book of
Rollin's History, you will find an account of the cer-
emonies performed at the interment of the Conqueror
of the World; and I wish those performances to be
carried out to the letter, over my own remains."
At this stage of the solemn scene, there was a loud
wail heard in the door, and looking aro ilthere was
seen the Honest Jew, pale and haggard, and bathed
with tears. He fell upon the floor, rolled over, threw
himself upon the neck of the expiring" Philosopher,
tore his hair, and asked to be forgiven.
"To err is human-to forgive divine !" answered the
dying General. "Your arrival is most opportune, for
the treasury is empty and the preparations for my
funeral will involve an immense outlay. Promise to
defray these expenses, and I will forgive you all."
"I bromise," said the Honest Jew; and then the
two great men, happily reconciled,.embraced with
touching affection.
"It has been the great purpose of my life," said the
expiring Warrior, " to re-establish in all its glory the
worship of the Olympian gods; for the pagan religion
alone, with such additions as I have made, is fitted to
the demands of the Confederacy. But I am cut off by
Fate in the midst of my labors, and I desire to be
buried after the manner of the Greeks and Romans."
Midnight at last cast the shadow of deepest gloom

iii

TIIE I)EATH-BF1) SCENE.     145

1


I   t(

TIlE MACPHIERSON LETTERS.

over the face of universal nature. The great Macpher-
son had now nearly emptied the demijohn, and' all felt
conscious that the fatal hemlock must soon do its hor-
rible work. Suddenly he gave a wild groan, and, rising
in his couch, smote his breast and spake his last words,
as follows:
Last Words qf Ifaeplerson.
"The long day has passed," he exclaimed ; "the
long night is come! O Jupiter! thou great father of
gods and men, the most high and powerful among the
immortals, whom all others obey ! avenge the wrongs
of the Confederacy, and smite the Yankees with the
bolts of thy thunder! Farewell, brave Staff ! Carry
out the policy which I have inaugurated, imitate my
valor, and always buy your hats of Stapleton, 95
Canal-street."
A cold sweat then stood upon his intellectual brow;
the eyes became fixed, the lips ceased to move, and
JAMES B. MACPHERSON, the great light of Confederate
letters, the favorite of the ladies of New Orleans, ceased
to breathe the vital air.
We have the authority of the Southern Source, a
member of his staff, for saying that prodigies of na-
ture attended the departure of the valorous chieftain to
the realms of Pluto. He informs us that cloud-com-
pelling Jove, at the moment of dissolution, hurled a
living bolt of thunder from Mount Olympus, which
smashed the five-gallon demijohn, that had held the
impious poison, into a thousand atoms, and tore the
musquito bar worse than was torn that one which Mac-

=I
4

MACPHERSON's EPITAPH.

147

pherson described in the great Temple of Wisdom at
Brashear City.
Long and bitterly did his staff and his friends gaze
upon his serene countenance; not even the pallor of
death could erase the lineaments of thought or hide
the phrenological developments of the MammQth
Brain. Then the Honest Jew brought in a coffin of
baked clay, and every thing was prepared for the im-
posing ceremonies of the interment, which were per-
formed with great pomp, and were an exact copy ofy
those performed in honor of Alexander the Great, ex-
cept that Macpherson's chariot was trimmed with brass
instead of gold. The following inscription, composed
by Macpherson himself, was placed over his Tomb, at
his own request:
JACOBUS B. 11ACPHERSON.
ILLUSTRISSIMUS
SCRIPTOR, POETA, MATILEMATICUS, FIEDERATUS,
PRAEDICATOR, MILES EXERCITATUS. JOVI, FILIUS
TERTIUS, HERCULIS E1FBACCIII FRATER, FO DERIS
AUSTRALIS PLATO, ET PERIGRINATOR CELEBERRI-
MUS.
IMMATURA MORTE ABRIEPIEBATUR OLYMPIADIS
SEXCEN'TESIM E ET SEXCENGESIM.E ANNO TERTIO7
ET FEDERIS AUSTRALIS ANNO TERTIO.
DEOS OLYMPIACOS ADORABAT, ET UT IN CAM-
PIS ELYSIIS MANES ACIHILLIS CONJUNGERET, E
VITA CEDEBAT.
Our task is accomplished; our mournful duty is done.
If the Southern Confederacy has lost its brightest or-
nament, the Editor of THE ERA has lost his most high-

U


148          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
falutin contributor. In conclusion, we have to ac-
knowledge our indebtedness to the Idiotic Boy, and
other members of General Macpherson's staff, for the
particulars of his death. The great Philosopher and
hero who has departed, has often reminded our readers
that man is mortal, and that earthly greatness soon
vanishes, like the dews in the sunshine of the unclouded
heaven. Let each take the lesson home, remembering
that even the Mammoth Brain of Macpherson had to
succumb to the power with which earth's greatest men
have contended in vain. There is no fountain of per-
petual youth, even in the Southern Confederacy, nor
yet in Madisonville, a place which Macpherson assured
us flows with milk and honey !

RESUSCITATION OF MACPHERSON.

149

11

CHAPTER XVIII.
THE RESUSCITATION OF MACPHERSON.-IT IS DISCOVERED THAT
HE WAS NOT DEAD, ONLY DEAD DRUNK.-HIIS METHOD OF
PAYING DEBTS.-IIE     MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF THE
RELIABLE GENTLEMAN, ETC., ETC.
NoTE.--During the siege of Port Hudson, New Orleans was daily
filled with rumors of disasters to the army, of General Banks, which
were industriously circulated by the secessionists. Men apparently
made it their principal business to lounge around the St. Charles Hotel,
and to retail these unfounded reports. Every statement made by the
"Reliable Gentleman" in his conversation with Macpherson, the
author himself head at different times in that building. The noise
made by piling wood on the levee was, on one occasion, mistaken for
the roar of artillery by some negroes ; and from this incident arose a
report of a disastrous repulse of our army.--Macpherson was re-
suscitated in obedience to what appeared to be a very general demand
on the part of the readers of IHE ERA.  The Registered Enemies
who went from New' Orleans to Mobile, carried most astounding
news. On their statements one of the Mobile papers issued an extra
announcing that New Orleans had been captured by the Confederates
under Magruder, who immediately started for Forts Jackson and St.
Philip with a force of fifteen thousand men.  It may be proper, in
this connection, to state that during the siege of Port Hudson, a for-
midable force of Texans advanced into Western Louisiana, with the
intention of taking the fort at Donaldsonville (a village about eighty
miles above New Orleans), cutting off the supplies of General Banks,
seizing all the vessels that could be found, crossing the river and
making a descent upon New Orleans. This force was variously esti-
mated at ten thousand to eighteen thousand men. The plans of the
rebels were frustrated by two serious defeats-one at Lafourcho
Crossing, and the other at Donaldsonville. The defense of the fort
at the latter place was one of the most brilliant of the war. The
garrison consisted of about a hundred and fifty men, under command
of Major Bullen, and many of these were convalescents. The attack-
ing force, under General Greene, consisted of an entire brigade. The
gunboat Princess Royal, under Commander Wolsey, checked the ad-
vance of the enemy. A desperate hand-to-hand fight occurred, the

I

4
{
Z
i
t
4415
eli
t
i
ii
1
fi
"         f
i


i
1=
1
f       !
1
A       t
N
t
t
t
j!1 } pp
j a    d
t      1
i       ,
1      {
f      {
t
1       "
t       ,
r
f
S
t '
a
3 f
e
i
;i
r ,

THE MACPHERSON LETTER  .

enemy advancing to the parapet. A hundred and twenty rebel pris-
oners were actually captured by the garrison, inside the works.
About a hundred of the enemy's dead were buried by our soldiers ;
and the rebel loss in killed, wounded, and prisoners was about four
times as large as the entire force defending the place. Our loss was
inconsiderable. The fight at Lafourche Crossing was also a brilliant
affair. There were, in fact, two engagements, in both of which the
enemy was repulsed with severe lows. Colonel Cahill and Colonel
Stickney gained great credit in the successful defense of the place.
General Emory was at that time in command of the defenses of New
Orleans, and no-officer could have performed his duties more vigilant-
ly or faithfully. The capture of Brashear City, and the erection of
rebel batteries on the river, threatened to sever all communication with
General Banks's forces at Port Hudson, and New Orleans itself was
menaced. Tph e secessionists were in constant expectation of the ar-
rival of a rebel army, for many days ; and the Union citizens, as well
as the officers in conmnand, were not certain their expectation would
not be realised. General Shepley, Military Governor of the State, called
upon the people to rally for the defense of their homes, and formed a
brigade for sixty days' service. General Emory called for negro volun.
teers, and two regiments were promptly raised  The author has
deemed it propel to make these explanations, in order to show the
reader what a fruitful field New Orleans presented, in those days, for
"Reliable Gentlemen" and "Intelligent Contrabands."
MADISo)vLIE, L.A,
June 27th, 1863.
SIR :-I died in the consoling faith that I was the
Biggest Liar in the Southern Confederacy ; but 'after
the arrival of the Registered Enemies in Alabama, I
found they were going so far ahead of'me in that line,
that I should have to rise from my grave and vindicate
my noble reputation by the invention of more sublime
falsehoods than ever before graced my able produc-
tions. In truth, the mendacious stories those unhappy
exiles spread in the streets of Mobile actually made my
bones rattle in their coffin ; and I came forth like that
mythological giant whose name I have forgotten ; but
who, smitten to the earth, always arose with renewed

NOT DEAD-ONLY DEAD DRUNK.

151

strength; and I will now tell such astounding lies as
shall cause the Yankees to howl and the Confederacy
go mad in the ecstasies of biss !
An account of my death and burial has been pub-
lished, and a Latin inscription placed on my tomb, so
ponderous and incomprehensible that all hope of resus-
citation seemed to be at an end. It was given out that
I had committed self-slaughter, by drinking poisonous
hemlock from a'five-gallon demijohn. But the truth
is I was not dead, but only dead drunk, and the hem-
lock was only ordinary Louisiana Rum.
Alexander the Great drank the health of his friend
Proteas in the Cup of Hercules, a Dutch Lager Beer
arrangement, that held six bottles. He pledged his
friend the second time in this enormous bumper, and
immediately fell flat and died. Socrates, the greatest
philosopher of the Greeks, as I am of the Confederates,
took one swig of hemlock, and expired. In order to
show myself superior to both of these, I drank the five
gallons of Louisiana Lum, convinced that it is more
fatal than the liquid consumed by Alexander, or the
hemlock imbibed by Socrates. But I played dead to
see what the newspapers would sy about me, and
what action would be taken by the Confederate Gov-
ernment.
IMuch to my astonishment, the Yankee EnA was the
only paper in New Orleans that paid any attention
whatever to my death. The others had been profuse
in their tears over Stonewall Jackson ; they had made
themselves and their readers perfectly miserable over
every two-penny Confederate hero who got killed or
drank himself to death ; but when I, who had always

1 50

j
a
4
41;
t
i i


1
Ii
S' 3
ii
i ti
} 9
{l '

NEW WAY TO PAY OLD DEBTS.

153

I O1        THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
praised them-I, who had been the champion of their
creed, and lied on the same side-I, Macpherson, the
great and shining light of the Confederacy, the Invin-
cible Warrior and the most magnificent Blower the
Confederate Sun ever shone upon in all his course-f
say, when I, greater and wiser than all, was supposed to
be dead and gone to my grave, they had not a tear to
shed for me; not a black column-rule with which to
express an emotion of grief; not even a line among the
editorial notices of auction sales and health-restoring
patent pills, to announce the destruction of my noble
mind, and the overthrow of the greatest Intellect that
the world has ever known. Then it was I found how
sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a cussed
fool for a friend.
23acpherson comes forth.
Wednesday evening, June 17th, in the third year. of
Confederate Independence, was the anniversary of the
Yankee battle of Bunker Hill, where the ragged
American militia clinched boldly with the British
Regulars. The pale new moon presented the faintest
possible crescent outline of beautiful silver, sinking
into the boundless expanse of Western Louisiana, when
I arose in all the habiliments with which the Honest
Jew had clothed me, and proceeded to my D. H. A.
(said initials being a classical abbreviation for my
Dilapidated Hospitable Abode).
As I entered that renowned mansion, more famous
than the White House at Washington, or the Pewter
Mug of New York, the Idiotic Boy fell fiat on the

floor, overcome with strange unearthly fear, and cried
aloud: "Tell me why thy canonised bones, hearsed in
death, have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
wherein we saw thee quietly inurned, hath oped his
ponderous and marble jaws to cast thee up again !
What may this mean, that thou, dread corse, again in
complete steel, revisitest thus the glimpses of the moon,
making night hideous?"
"Dry up!" I replied, at the same time hitting him
in the chops, and loudly demanding a drink of gin.
.Miacpherson pays his Debts by a General Order.
I found a vast number of bills from all quarters, and
claimants immediately besieged my dwelling, demand-
ing instant payment. In the first place, there was the
Confederate tailor, with a bill of $18,000 for my outfit
as a Major General, who said his family was starving,
and nothing but proml1pt liquidation would save them
and him from famine.
"Prompt liquidation is my rule," I replied, and
immediately took four drinks.
Then came the butcher with a similar bill for six
months' supply of sole-leather steak ; then the grocer,
the shoemaker, and so on to the end of the chapter.
"Something must be done for these nudsills of soci-
ety," I said. "It is one of the evils of our existence,
that laboring men have to eat and wear clothes ; and
were I to suggest improvements in the formation-of
the Universe, I would arrange it that the mudsills
who wait upon the Southern aristocracy, should grow
fat on air, and look with contempt on base pecuniary
7*


154         THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

means.    I must at once pay these debts ; and the devil
of it is, there isn't a dime in the treasury !"
Then it was that light burst upon me from        South
Carolina, the great fountain of Southern Independence.
Then it was that I remembered that on the 6th day of
June, IS1, Governor Pickens paid all the debts of the
South by a proclamation, declaring it to be treason for
a Southerner to pay up in cash.       Therefore I deter-
mined to relieve my creditors, and pay all bills by a
General Order ; and accordingly I issued the follow-
ing -
IIEADQUATans, D)EP'T OF MADIsoNNVILE,
Madisonville, La., June 18th, 1863.
General Order No. G.
Having come to life after consuming five gallons of Louisiana
Rmn, and having again assumed colmand of this Department, and
having been pained at the sufferings of my deserving creditors,
andt( annoyed by their impertinent supphications for payment, in
ortler to relieve them and ime by an ingenious Confederate device,
it is hereby ordered and declared as follows:
1. It shall be regarded as treason for the Major General com.
landing this Department, or any of his staff, to pay any tailors'
bills, butchers' bills, grocers' bills, promissory notes, or debts of
any description whatever.
2. Any person presenting a bill to the Major General command-
ing this Departlnent, or any member of his staff, or demanding
payment for articles supplied, shall be guilty of misprision of trea-
son, and shall be punished with death by hanging, and his estate
and personal etects shall be confiscated to the personal use and
possession of the Major General coniinanding this Department.
By order of MAJon GENEnAm. JAMEs B. MACaPriaRsoN,
UHE  IOTI Boy, Chief of Staff.
The Reliable Genleman,.
The Unhappy Cuss and myself then started for New
Orleans, to get the latest intelligence. Arriving at the

-
::
, ,
"
;
F
is
i
(
F

St. Charles Hotel, we put up for the night, when a
man came up, and pulling me to one side, asked what
the news was from Madisonville. I replied that I had
not the honor of his acquaintance, and that he would
do better to mind his own business, and not exhibit
any of his impertinence to a Major General of Confed-
erate Volunteers.
Hereupon the fellow drew himself up with great dig-
nity, until he looked quite tall, and said:
'"R. G. S. C. II."
"I am familiar with every language," I replied,
"known to articulate-speaking men, since the accident.
at the tower of Babel; I understand all science and
philosophy: I am, in fact, an Eneyclopomdia of Useful
Knowledge, revised and enlarged; but I cannot, with
all my learning, master those mystic symbols:"
"I am," said the offended fellow, "the Reliable
Gentleman of the St. Charles Hotel !"
"Come to my arms, sweet one I" I cried, clasping
him to my heaving bosom in a loving embrace. "I
regret that the Southern Source is not here to make
your acquaintance ; for there is such a remarkable re-
semblance in your personal appearance, impudent man-
ners, and unblushing mendacity, that you might be
mistaken for twins, or for one and the same person."
The Reliable Gentleman bowed profoundly, and re-
plied: "I am proud, General; you do me infinite
honor. I am, so to speak, the Ears of the St. Charles ;
for I hear every thing."
"Judging from the enormous development of your
acoustic organs," I replied, looking admiringly at his
ears, "I am fully prepared to believe your statement."

THE RELIABLE GENTLEMAN.       155


15 6        THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
Again the Reliable Gentleman bowed his pleasure.
"I am," he continued, "the Repository of all informa-
tion; nothing occurs without my knowledge ; I am,
sir, a Boiling Caldron, wherein are thrown all scraps
of information, to be cooked up into reliable intelli-
gence; and as the witches of Macbeth threw poisoned
entrails, fillet of snake, tongue of dog, adder's fork, and
lizard's leg into their caldron, so does every Big Liar
hurl his reliable information to me. I button-hole
every man I see; I pump him until he tells all he
knows and all he don't know ; and I spread the news
around town, adding such suggestions as will please the
person to whom I speak."
"Dear Caldron !" I replied, kissing him fondly,
"you are the man I have long desired to find. Come
now, sit down, and tellme all that has happened during
the last four or five weeks."
You should have seen the dignity and pride which
the'a sat enthroned upon the countenance of the Boil-
ing Caldron and Repository, as he drew himself up,
apparently believing that he was an India Rubber
Man, and could stretch himself out as tall as Honest
Old Abe, if he but put himself to it. Iowa. I never saw
Wisdom until I looked upon that majestic countenance.
Retiring to the front of the Rotunda, and placing our
feet higher than our heads, the Reliable Gentleman
proceeded to give me the following additional par-
ticulars:
"During the period you mention," he said, impres-
sively, "the bloodiest battle ever fought on this Conti
nent has taken place at Port Hudson. Shiloh, Fort
Donaldson, Malvern hill, were as a drop compared

}
i
r
l
E
s
(
9
9
r " s
E-
}}t ((ft
iE
f,
f;     +
_   R
rt{   t
2    f
t   4i
EJ- f
4a }It k
r     + 1
i
t
t
i
{
     E.
i k
fE    +{
ii
it
f
E      i
9
+F
.ii
f
{      E
{
e     t
c          3
1

1
'
.L
y /'a
lY
r
;,
f
{
1
s
r
4

157

to the red ocean of blood which there flooded the
land."
"Which whipped ?" I inquired.
"The advantage was decidedly with our arms," he
replied; "but the victory was on the side of the
enemy."
The Reliable Gentleman was about to proceed with
his narrative, when he suddenly espied an Intelligent
Contraband on the opposite side of the street. Quicker
than Olympian lightning he darted off; seized him by
the button-hole, and showered upon him a series of
questions in such rapid succession, that the Intelligent
Contraband was almost paralysed.
" Dey's at it, massa !" said I. C.
"At what ?" inquired R. C.
"Fightin' up dar !" was the reply; "I'se hearn 'em!"
Immediately the Reliable Gentleman rushed fran-
tically through the streets, grabbing every man he met,
and telling him that a bloody battle was in progress up
the river ; that he had just seen a highly respectable
gentleman direct from the battle-field, and that the
slaughter was dreadful. Immediately the street corners
were crowded by an excited populace, eagerly devour-
ing the news, and repeating it with wild exaggerations.
Soon the Intelligent Contraband approached me, and
said: "Par's a mistake, massa. Pat ar fightin' noise
was den niggers on the levee, pilin' up wood !"
The Reliable Gentleman then returned, and resumed
the history of events. "A negro regiment went in a
thousand strong," he said, "and seven hundred 'of them
fell dead on the first fire. The slaughter was terrible.
One was caught and hung, and three escaped lame for

THE RELIABLE GENTLEMAN.


t
a
1
1
i
s
$
f!
+

life. Thirty-five Federal Generals were killed on the spot.
The slaughter was awful. Federal loss in two hours,
seventeen thousand five hundred and two. Meantime,
General Johnston concentrated a force of ninety-seven
thousand in General Banks's rear, ready and willing to
tear him in )pieces. General Banks and staff were cap-
tured, and Colonel Grierson, with his whole command.
The slaughter was frightful. General Breckinridge next
made his appearance in General Banks'srear, with an im-
imemne force, and just before he arrived at Jackson, sent a
nigger to General Balks, to let him know that he was in
rear. On the 3d of June, General Banks raised the
e, and, with his whole connnand, retreated to Baton
Rou2ge, which place was suybseqlently captured by the
enemy.   The slaughter was appalling. Kirby Smith
then crossed the river at Bayou Sara, moved towards
Port Hudson, and got into General Banks's rear, with
an immense force, sufficient to crush him, while Sibley,
just returned from a flying visit to Texas, hung upon his
flanks with a tremendous force. The slaughter was
unparalleled. General Taylor, about this time, got in
General Banks's rear. A portion of General Banks's
forces were then sent to Vicksburg to reinforce General
Grant. About this time a detachment of General
Grant's army was sent to the aid of General Banks,
from Vicksburg. The slaughter was tremendous !"
here the Reliable Gentleman put on a look of such
awful wisdom and solemnity that I thought I should
die. If my Idiotic Boy knew twice as much as that
man, I'd make him Grand Blow-Master of the Con-
federacy. lie then looked around with his fingers on
his lips, indicative of profound secresy, and making sure

.  f
-^i
tV

_
r
i

that no one could overhear him, made the following
confidential comnunicatioi: "Every human being in
Western Louisiana, white and black, old and young, has
been put to death! Every house, barn, shed, outhouse,
tree, stump, shrub, cotton-bale, and combustible sub
stance of every name and sex, was burned by the torch
of the incendiary! The country is depopulated; the
human race in that part is extinct, and the inhabitants
are suffering all the toihnents of famine !"
Having delivered this crushing and reliable announce-
ment, he started for the Bar-Room in great haste, and
I left instantly for Madisonville, satisfied that the ser-
vices of the Great Confederate Blower were not re-
quired in New Orleans.
Yours, sufficiently,
JAMES B. MACPIERSON.

158  ~ lEMAAPI1I~5N I~TTRS.TILE 1  ELTABLT GENTLEMAN.

tf{ ,
}F
sl
x }
it
t
t
'i
4tt
1!
F
}
a !
!
s H
}
gs
.tl
I
!} {
d    #S !
s
{ s
e    '$
i4
{
k
it
4 t
e
t,
If
{
t
4
L+

159

158

THE MA CPITERS01. I LETrl ICRS"

ti


160

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

CHAPTER XIX.
MACPIERSON ENCOUNTERS THE CUSSED FOOL Or CARONDELET-
SIREET.--BETTING ON VICKSBURG AND PORT HUDSON.-
Founiti o JuLY CELLJRA'O'ION AT MADISONVILLE, ETC., ETC.
NOTE.-The Union citizens of New Orleans will not soon forget the
unbounded joy inspired by the news of the capture of Vicksburg and
Port Hudson. The rebels stoutly refused to believe that either place
had fallen, and pronouueed both reports " Yankee lies." They talked
loudly, and offered to bet against odds ; but it was fund that when
brought to the test, they generally "backed out."
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
July 18th, 1803.
SI :-As I was sitting in Jacobs's Picture Gallery,
undergoing Photography, I chanced to cast my eyes
upon the sidewalk, and there I saw     a CUSSED FOOL,
whom I knew at once was a good Confederate. There-
fore I rushed out, without waiting to bid my friend
good-day, or to pay my bill, and clasping him warmly
by the hand, asked him what he was driving at.
"Betting," he replied.
"What are you betting on ?" I asked him.
" On Yicksburg," replied the Cussed Fool.
"What's the matter with Yicksburg ?" I asked.
" Nothing," he answered ; "and that's what's the
matter with me.     Come to my place in Carondelet-
street, and I will show you something. that will make
your Confederate eyes gleam with joy."
Walking to his place I was delighted to find that he
was none of your poor white trash, but an out-and-out

J

VIOKSBURG NOT TAKEN BY GRANT.

161

Southern aristocrat. We took four drinks of wine, and
I told him it was very choice, but that for an honest,
steady drink, Louisiana Rum could not be beaten.
"Now then," said he, "I am going to prove to you by
the Confederate Arithmetic that Yicksburg is not taken,
and that the dispatch published by the Yankee editor of
THE ERA was a foul and infamous invention--a lie made
out of whole cloth, for a bad purpose, which, it is sup-
posed, was to affect the price of sugar and molasses, etc."
"Proceed," I said, "for I am author of the Arithme-
tic of which you speak."
"In the first place," said he, "Vicksburg is impreg-
nable. It is a Gibraltar, as I can prove to you by all
the Southern papers that have published any thing on
the subject." Ie then took down a file of Southern
papers and pointed out eight thousand places in which
Vicksburg was called " Gibraltar," and declared to be
"impregnable."  "Now," he continued,"the combined
forces of France and Spain were unable to reduce Gib-
raltar, and a place that is impregnable cannot be taken,
according to my views. But when we come to analyse
the question we find that the intrenchments of Vicks-
burg are equal to twenty thousand men by the usual
estimate, and this multiplied by fifty, according to Con-
federate mathematics, would make the works equal to
one million of men. One Confederate is equal to five
Yankees, and this would bring it up to five millions of
men. Then we will take the garrison, which amounts to
forty thousand. This sum multiplied by fifty gives us a
garrison of two millions, each of whom is equal to five
Yankees, and so, in fact, the garrison is ten millions
strong. The garrison and the intrenchments together

I

w

Fe'

4

i
f
jf
E
i
i
_    t
i
f
i           id
(!
7


PORT HUDSON NOT CAPTURED.       163

thus give us fifteen million brave Southern patriots, all
armed and ready to fight with desperate valor for Con-
federate independence. That nearly equals the entire
population of the free States, and-if they cannot hold
out against Grant's army, then I will sell out and go to
France."
"You satisfy me," I replied, "I am sure that Vicks-
burg is not taken !"
"I'll bet ten thousand dollars on it !" passionately
cried the Cussed Fool.
Just then a Yankee came up, and said : "I'll take
that bet !"
"What !" cried the Cussed Fool, in amazement.
"Pll take the bet," he repeated, and at the same time
put down ten one thousand dollar greenbacks.
A smile of wonder passed over the face of the Cussed
Fool, as he surveyed the Yankee from head to foot, as -
though he had been a curiosity inl Barnum's Museum.
Understanding his meaning, I proceeded to explain:
"You Damned Yankee," I said, "you do not under-
stand the principles of well-regulated Southern families.
When a man says he will bet on the Confederacy or
that Vicksburg is not taken, do you suppose he means
it? Not a bit of it ! It is an ordinance with the great
doctrine e of Blowing ; a doctrine which I preached in
the Temple of Confederate Holiness in Camp street,
and which is faithfully followed by every secessionist in
New Orleans."
"That's true," said the Cussed Fool of Carondelet-
street. "°11 not bet a dime; put up your money !
Bitt I know a man who will bet ten thousand dollars to
one thousand that Yicksburg is not taken"

"Show him to me," said the Damned Yankee.
We then walked down to Hawkins's, and there we
found him. His face was red and swollen with blow-
ing, and immediately I recognized him as the Great
Southern Sinorter. He knew it was a lie-he had seen
a paper of a later date, and Vicksburg held out and was
impregnable. He was ready to bet ten to one, up to
any amount, that the Yankee dispatch was a lie.
"Up to what amount, sir ?" inquired the Yankee.
"Up to any amount you please I" cried he, at the
same time sending out a peculiar blowing sound from
his nostrils.
"Say ten thousand," replied the Yankee.
"Say any thing you please !" cried the Great Southern
Snorter.
"I say, then," replied the Yankee, "that I'll bet you
ten thousand dollars against five thousand that Vicks-
burg has been taken by General Grant !"
"You must excuse, me," said the great Southern
Snorter, "I just remember that I have an imperative
engagement. I have no time to talk with you, and,
besides, if I should bet, most likely I would get ar-
rested."  The great Southern Snorter then walked ofl
with a sad look, and all the Yankees laughed.
Just then a fiendish newsboy came up, and thrusting
papers in our faces, cried out : "Here's your Extra
EPA--Fall of Port Hu ddson I"
"Its another Yankee lie !" cried the Cussed Fool;
"P11 bet ten thousand it is a lie ! I can nrove that
Port Hudson is impregnable and the Gibraltar of the
Lower Mississippi !" ie then ran the sum over on the
ends of his fingers, as a devout Catholic would count the

r}
I
F
4 '
f
t
ff +
4             ieF
i
P
a
'                 r
i } t(
F              ii
1 f
s
f 4
f°
e
= f
i
F

1(32       THE Mi(JPHEECON LEVEES.


{
F
R
f
jt
t
i     j
E      }
i
i
a
E
gi
2
E
t
t
j
,E
f
S,
4
n
t
.F
i
3
s
F
,
i
i
e1
s
,
r
1
F
7 t
lj
F
f

165

beads, and I was pleased to see that he had the whole
Confederate Arithmetic at his tongue's end. "Garrison,
10,000 by 50 is 500,000, by 5 is 2,500,000. Fortifica-
tions, ditto is ditto; total number of Confederates,
5,000,000! The whole Yankee army could not contend
with one-tenth part of that number, and I know that
Port Hudson is not taken !"
How the Rebellion saved Property.
We then walked off; arm-in-arm, the Cussed Fool in
a most thoughtful abstracted mood,
"Fool," I said, "you are one of the best Confed-
erates I have seen, and I now wish to ask what you and
the rest of the Confederates got up this rebellion for ?"
"To save our property," he replied.
Just then we observed a red auction flag in front of
a most beautiful residence, and halting at the door, we
discovered TYLER in all his glory, selling the furniture
and every thing else at auction. "This," said the
Cussed Fool, "is a sale by order of the Quartermaster;
the house and furniture were confiscated and sold by
the United States, because the former owner was in the
Confederate army. Now see his splendid furniture, his
mirrors framed with massive gold, his statuary of
Carrara marble, his pianos, his library, all and every
thing put up for sale by Yankees, and bid off by Yan-
kee purchasers, and the fruits thereof going into the
treasury of the United States, a government that every
Confederate despises."
"Where are his niggers-?" I asked.
"Niggers !" shouted the Cussed Fool, while a flash.

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

C ',
.;
,_.
,r;.  ..
F
'' ,,
",,
x

ing glow of pain overspread his fine face ; " echo
answers, Where? They have skedaddled, and refuse
to return. They have enlisted or found employment
elsewhere, and the proprietor thereof may say, in the
words of the poet : 'Never again shall I behold
thee!'"
"And this is the way you saved his property by the
rebellion !" I remarked.
"Macpherson," said the Cussed Fool, "if the South-
ern Confederacy should bust up, I'm going to France."
"Go it," I replied, and whistled the new Confederate
air of "lee in Pennsylvania."
July 4th-lagruder in New Orleans.
On the 4th of July, the people of Madisonville as-
sembled in a vast multitude around my residence, and
demanded an oration. The Idiotic Boy read the Con-
federate Declaration of Independence, which, for want
of a table, he rested upon the head of a nigger. I
then mounted a soap-barrel, and proceeded to expatiate
on the beauties of Southern Independence. "It is
eighty-seven years ago to-day," I said, "that George
Washington and John B. Floyd laid the foundations of
the Southern Confederacy, by proclaiming to the na-
tions of the civilised world the eternal and heaven-
ordained doctrine of secession. But it took Jeff. Davis
and the Miles Legion to complete the noble work; and
it was not until the year 1861 that Truth, robed in
light gray, and bearing a Palmetto tree in her hand,
stepped forth from the shores of South Carolina, and
clasping Jeff. Davis and A. II. Stephens in her arms,

164

FOURTH OF JULY ORATION.


THE PHILOSOPHY OF HONESTY.      167

r
i
i
+
; t
i
i
i '
ii
}i
3
e

I replied as follows: "I agree with your definition,
and in my opinion Brigham Young is the most honest
and self-sacrificing man on this Continent.' He be-
lieves in Bigamy, and lives up to his creed by mains-
taming forty wives, thus depriving him of every
earthly comfort to illustrate the great principle of
his creed!"
Yours, heroically,
JAMES B. MACPHERsON.

5
t
.y
ti
.{9}7
ti
i
i
t
;
,
a
.{
.1
fs
.
}
'S
f
I   1 7
E    j
(((F
ii
i
i
E
' l
t
'a
I !!   s
i+
t
5
i
j4
S

a4  -
4'

THE MRCP}IERSON LETTERS.

carried them  to Richmond, there to found a dynasty
more permanent than that of Denmark Vesey or Gov.
Dorr, of Rhode Island."
. During the inspiring ceremonies of this great cele-
bration, the Buzz Saw Division paraded under arms,
and the Honest Jew peddled jewelry among the crowd.
I then had the following General Order read aloud,
and the vast assembly dispersed to their respectable
abodes
IIEADQUARTERS,
DEPARTMENT OF MADISONVILL ,
Madisonville, La., July 4th, 1863.
General Order No. 7.
1. The General Commanding felicitates the people o{ his De-
partment on the recent brilliant Confederate Victories at Port
Hudson and Vicksburg, and also in Pennsylvania and Tennessee.
The splendid valor of our troops has demonstrated to the world
that an impregnable Gibraltar cannot be taken, and that an in-
vincible warrior cannot whipped.
2. General Magruder, having captured the city of New Orleans
and Forts Jackson and St. Philip, will immediately report to me
for duty at these headquarters.
3. The city of New Orleans and vicinity are hereby annexed to
the Department of Madisonville.
By order of Major General JAMES B. MAcPEnsoN:
THE IDIOTIC Boy, Chief of Staff.
The Phiosophy of honesty.
Before leaving the Cussed Fool, I asked him to de-
fine Honesty, and he replied that it consisted of form-
ing an opinion and sticking to it through thick and
thin, in spite of facts or arguments. "The man," said
he, "who lives up to his faith atithe greatest sacrifice
of comfort, money, and common sense, is the most
honest man.    Tell me who you think he is."


THE PHANTOM CONFEDERACY.        169

168          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

,
,
i    i#
i
1
g
s
,    3
s}s
&amp;
t
a
.
~c
f     #
.
4
I
to
i
e1S
#
'1
{
y
1    A
t
s
'
£{   s
3
.,
,''
i ,  ,
,
.j
'
s    t.{
s
$     i
sd
! e
S
I      !!E
i
J
¢:
A°s
i
If
i
p
r
4     t
-
t
s
'~              _
F
({i(7
!      }
}e
fy
;
y

I;

CHAPTER XX.
THE PHANTOM CONFEDERATE; OR, THE GHOST OF MADISON-
VILLE.
(A True Story.)
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
August 1, 1863.
SIR :-It was in the full of the Moon, in the month
called Julius by the Romans, and anno tertio de Ia
Southern Confederacy, at the very witching hour of
night, when churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes
forth contagion to the world, that I might have been
seen seated on a cypress stump, in the midst of a blasted
heath, near the classical city of Madisonville, C. S. A.,
with a roll of plug tobacco in my hand, (a present
from Gov. Lubbock, of Texas), and a Confederate can-
teen of Louisiana Rum by my side. Thus sitting did I
meditate upon that beautiful scene described by Vir-
gil, in which Eneas, with his Trojan followers, as
ragged and dirty as a Confederate army, was visited
by Venus, his good-looking mother, who came in the
form of a huntress, with a commodious bow hanging
from her white shoulders. O Dea certe! cried the
pious Eneas; which, being translated into the Con-
federate tongue, means: O goddess for certain!
"Why," thought I, "if goddesses for certain, gods,
apparitions, ghosts, hobgoblins, phantoms, and spec-
tres visited the great warriors and philosophers of
ancient days, why may they not also visit me, who

surpass all mortals both in the invincible strength of
my arm, and the magnificent gifts of intellect ?"
Scarcely had this sublime thought turned itself
over in my mind, when I heard a low sound floating
upon the air, in tones as gentle as the Lolian Harp,
and immediately I recognised it as a spiritual Con-
federate snort.
"0,..Deus Uonfederatus, cete !" I exclaimed, "be
thou a spirit of health or a Yankee damned; bring
with thee airs from heaven or blasts from Boston ; be
thy intents wicked or charitable, thou comest in such
questionable shape that I will speak to thee! I'll call
thee-Macpherson, Confederate Royal Blower !"
"I am," responded the as yet Unseen, "the Phan-
tom Conftderate, or the Ghost of 2XIadisonville, doomed
for a certain space to walk the night, and by day con-
fined to fast on mule's meat, until the surrender of the
garrison shall ensure us Yankee rations ! List, list, Oh
list !-if ever thou didst thy dear Confederate love-"
.Macpherson-" Oh heaven !"
Phantom Confederate-" Then give me thy can-
teen ; for now am I consumed by devouring thirst !"
.2lac.-"Thirst ?"
P. C.-"Ay, thirst most dry, as in the best it is; but
this most dry, queer, and unnatural !"
Iac.-" Haste me to know it, that I, with wings as
swift as meditation or the thoughts of love, may swoop
to my revenge!"
I then seized the canteen in a glow of generosity,
placed the muzzle to my lips, and drank the contents
at a single gulp, after which I gave him my canteen
as he had requested. " Behold !" I said to him, "the
8

1.


C'

170)

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

generosity of a true Confederate. Thus did the Louis-
iana Secesh Convention of 1861 gobble up the Custom-
house, Mint, light-houses, arsenal, and revenue cutters
of the United States, while Honest Old Abe stood
looking on, greedily begrudging the same ! Approach,
dread corse ! that I may gaze upon thee ! Is it not
enough that the whole Yankee race should be leagued
togethe: against me, that spirits must be summoned
from the vasty deep, to disturb the repose of the great
Confederate warrior ?"
The ghost then approached, and, turning my eyes
upon him, I beheld a being of majestic mien, dressed
in a gray uniform, with a cadaverous countenance, and
very dirty. His garments were tattered and torn in
such a manner that whenever he stepped, the legs of
his breeches released his limbs to the gaze of the mid-
night Moon.
"Wherefore," I asked, "presumest thou, thus ragged,
to come into the presence of a Major General of Con-
federate volunteers ?"
"Because," replied the ghost, "I haven't got any
other clothes. I am the representative phantom of the
Southern Confederacy. I was born in South Carolina,
and have relatives in eleven States, besides New York
city and Vallandigham's district." He then showed
me a neck-tie with eleven stars in it, emblematic of the
Bonnie Blue Flag, and wrought by the ladies of New
Orleans. As he was showing this to me, he smote his
head with pain, raised his eyes upwards and exclaimed.
"Oh!"
"What's the row, sweety ?" I enquired.
"That," replied he, "is occasioned by a contraction

FAREWELL TO THE CRESCENT CITY.

171

of the Federal lines; I feel it squeezing the brains out
of their natural channels."
"Fear not," I answered, "you have not brains
enough to suffer serious damage."
Suddenly the Phantom began to dance with the
wildest joy, while his whole ghastly face became lighted
up with enthusiastic bliss. "Tell me," I said, "the
cause of this sudden revulsion of feeling, which seems
to have lifted you from the lowest sub-basement of
Despair to the highest attic of Delight ?"
"A. great victory in Pennsylvania !" he replied.
"The field of Gettysburg fills me with unspeakable
happiness !"
As he spoke, however, I noticed that one of his eyes
had been gouged out, and one side of his face complete-
ly smashed in, while a stream of blood was coursing to
the earth. I inquired the meaning of this, and he re-
plied it was the result of casualties at Gettysburg.
"No great victory," he said, "is ever won without ap-
palling sacrifices of life and limb; but Lee has succeed-
ed in getting out of Pennsylvania, with a loss of only
forty-five thousand men
" Is'that all?" I asked.
"Every bit, sure as you live, Macpherson !" cried
the Confederate Ghost; and, jumping up, I began to
whistle the air of ".Molly, put the kettle on," and then,
seizing each other's hands, we danced a compound
double-shuffle for thirty minutes, in honor of Gettys-
burg. This magnificent exhibition was interrupted by
twinges of excruciating pain, which caused the Ghost
to writhe and swear like a man with the gout. "What
now ?" I enquired.     I

fI

t   t
iii
Ff

3
k


i {t
fS
{
f
{ e
Ik
I   F
r{
{
T
i '
.
3
.f
c+

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

" That disease," he answered, "is known in the Con-
federacy as 'Roseerans in the Legs.' Whenever a Con-
federate General gets that disorder, he starts off at a
double-quick, and cannot stop until he falls, out of
wind. I've got the disease !" he cried, with a tone of
terror. "I caught it in Tennessee and Pennsylvania.
Curse those malarious Yankee dens of death and per-
dition !" And so exclaiming, the Ghost started ofi,
and ran so smartly that even I, fleet of limb as I am,
could scarcely keep up. Over the blasted heath,
through the silent streets of Madisonville, down the
lane, and around the dilapidated hospitable abode,
ran the fleet-footed Ghost, with Macpherson at his heels.
The Idiotic Boy jumped out of bed, and joined in the
chase, without waiting to dress. In vain did we try to
tree him-in vain to intercept him ! To run, run, run,
now and forever, seemed to be the strong passion that
possessed his Soul, and bound his body obedient to the
Will. " Tullahoma !" he cried, as lie leaped a wide
ditch. "Chattanooga !" he screamed, as he jumped a
fence, and fell on the other side, exhausted and appar-
ently defunct. Raising him to his feet, I rubbed his
head with a shoe brush until the left eye opened, his
lips quivered, and' he faintly whispered in my ear the
word " Bragg-adocio !"
A Strange Phenomenon.
Now it was that a most extraordinary phenomenon
presented itself to my eyes. The Ghost, starting up,
suddenly leaped iii the air like a bullet-pierced Indian,
and fell to the earth in two pieces. Upon examination,.

EXTRAORDINARY PHENOMENON.

178

I discovered that he had been clean split in two length-
wise, as even and slick as though an immense razor,
dropped with the accuracy of a guillotine and the
power of Hercules, had severed him in twain. It ex-
tended to the top of the cranium. One piece was, in
short, the right half of a human body, and the other the
left half. It now became doubtful whether conscious-
ness would ever return; but return it did, and each
separate part began to talk on its own hook, the left
part saying his name was J. Davis, and the right that
his name was Magruder Lubbock. The conversation
of the two was so incoherent and contradictory, it was
evident neither side knew what the other was about,
and both bled so copiously that I was in constant fear
of instantaneous dissolution. I asked J. Davis to give
me the name of this extraordinary disease, and he re-
plied that it was called "Open iJfississippi River," in
the Confederacy. "When a man gets this disorder,"
he continued, "his case is incurable ; there is no possi-
bility of ever again uniting his disjointed parts. I
caught it at Vicksburg and Port Hudson, and there is
no medicine in the world that can do me good !"
Visit to Tew Orleans.
The Idiotic Boy and myself tore up a Confederate
blanket, and with the pieces tied together the two parts
the best we could, and all three of us started for New
Orleans in a butcher's cart. As if wonders would
never cease, when we arrived in front of the St. Charles
Hotel, I found that half of the Ghost had disappeared.
On enquiring of the remaining half what had become

172

I
1a

t ,
t     f
S        '
" i
i
1


Si.
}
'4
,1
ii
I'
$  g .

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

of his fellow, he replied that on drawing up before the
Hotel, the right eye had espied General Weitzel stand-
ing on the steps, and had immediately left for Texas,
procuring a new crutch at Brashear City.
Curiously did I watch the movements of the remain-
ing half of the Phantom Confederate. He strayed leis-
urely down to the Clay Monument, and informed the
crowd that foreign intervention was now a fixed fact,
and that a French fleet was about to be sent to New
Orleans, in obedience to the petition of our French cit-
izens to the Emperor, through their consul here, to be
protected against a negro insurrection that broke out
in this city on the Fourth of July, and has been raging
with terrible fury ever since. Having made all his
friends in that neighborhood happy, by this announce-
ment, he then walked up to Carondelet-street and visit-
ed the Cussed Fool, who read Yallandigham's second
letter aloud from the balcony, to an admiring audience.
At this stage of the proceedings an Extra ERA an-
nounced the total suppression of the great Confederate
Revolution in New York city, whereupon the Phan-
tom put on a look of dismay, and disappeared through
the back door, in a sudden and unaccountable manner.
I have not seen him since.
Let no' one question the literal truth of my ghost
story. I give the world the untarnished honor of a
Confederate soldier and a chivalric Southern gentleman,
that every word I have written is exact, literal truth.
Yours, intermittently,
JAMES B. iACPIIERSON.

174

ONE MAN RESPONSIBLE FOR ANOTHER'S ACTS. 175
CHAPTER XXI.
MACPHERSON IS ARRESTED FOR ASSAULT AND BATTERY.-HE
EXPOUNDS THE LAW OF RESPONSIBILITY.-HE VISITS PORT
HUDSON AND VICKSBURG.-IE .TESTS THE HOMEOPATHIC
PRINCIPLE, AND IS CHASED BY THE DEVIL, ETC., ETC.
NOTE.-The Author takes the liberty of introducing an extract
from a very complimentary introduction to the main portion of the
following letter from the Indianapolis Journal, as explanatory of its
spirit.
"The responsibility of the 'Abolitionist' for the beating Mac-
pherson gave the 'nigger,' is exactly that which the Copperheads
fasten upon the people of the North for the Southern rebellion. 'If
you had only done what the South wanted,' they say, 'there would
have been no war. Why didn't you get down on your knees and lick
the dust, and take your kicking kindly, as we did, and wanted you to
do? If you had, this unnatural and unconstitutional war would
never have happened. You are responsible for it. The blood is all
on your skirts, you mean, cowardly whelps.' Macpherson epitomizes
the speech of Judge Perkins before the K. G. C.'s last winter 'to a
dot.' The judge, himself, could not state its main point and spirit
better."
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
August 22d, 1863.
Sm:--As I was going along Rampart street, in New
Orleans, last Wednesday, I met a nigger on one side of
the street and an Abolitionist on the other. "Abo.," I
said, "you go over and pull that nigger's wool."
"What for ?" asked Abo.
." Because I tell you to," I replied.
"It wouldn't be right," replied Abo. ; "the boy has
done me no harm, and I shan't pull his wool."
"If you don't do it," I replied, "I'll knock him down
and pound him within an inch of his life."


t
Y
e
x
[     t
R        i
}i
i      {
4      }
'  {
.
i
4        t
t
+
i
#
r    %
_       i
e
t
i f
s i
j    k 3
t
}  .
'
,  .
4 j   w
;i    i  .
F   $  #}e
' i'
t: ;
t t  9;
g
i   e
if
_
t
e$
{i
i '
i
f {_
[ ' F
iSf  f
i (1  v
y     )jA
}   a
i  $  f
}  y     +
t i
t   t

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

"I shan't do it," said Abo.; "and I would like to
know what he has done to you."
"Nothing," I replied, "but he's a nigger, and that's
enough. If you'll pull his wool I'll let him off. But
you won't, and if I whip him to death, you'll be re-
sponsible for it, you vile inhuman, Abolition renegade !
Where's your humanity for the nigger? Where's your
philanthropy? Where's your regard for human rights
and liberties? The owner and overseer are the only
true friends of the nigger! I implore you to save him
from  the awful mauling I'll give him ; but you
won't, you infernal, hypocritical, sneaking, puritanical,
drawling, damned Massachusetts, Boston, round-head
Yankee Abolition fool !" Saying which, with a stream
of fire flashing from both eyes, I rushed upon the darkey
with the ferocity of a tiger, knocked him flat on his
back, kicked his face into a jelly, and whipped him with
a raw-hide until he wasn't able to stand on his feet, and
a stream of blood ran from every vein in his body.
"What's you gone an' done, massa ?" said the un-
happy wretch, when I let up on him.
"I, you black numbskull !" I answered; "1 didn't
do it: it was that sneaking Abolition nigger-thief that
did it. I am your best friend and protector !"
A policeman came up and arrested me for assault
and battery. I was arraigned at the bar as a crimi-
nal, and made the following address to the Court:
I3faopherson's eloquent Plea in .Defense.
"May it please the Court : I do not suppose any thing
I can say will alter your predetermined decision, or

DEFENSE FOR BEATING THE NIGGER.

your fixed resolution to offer me up as a sacrifice to
Abolition fanaticism. As Socrates stood up to be tried
by a pack of heathen numbskulls, so do I stand up in
the presence of Yankee nincompoops, who no more
comprehend and understand the rul s and regulations
of Confederate Courts of Justice, than Jeff. Davis com-
prehends the meaning of his own proclamations. And
as Socrates fell a prey to the lubberheadedness of the
popular Athenian tribunal, so shall I fail, with all my
learning, to prevent this besotted Court from commit-
ting Scandalum Magnatum-an offense against Con-
federate prelates and dignitaries, which, under the old
statutes of England, was no offense when committed
against common folks, but a crime when done to big
men like me. Nevertheless, if the truth can permeate
your bestial intellects, allow me to call your attention
to the law of this case. In the first place, I take the
ground that the authority of Governor Moore and the
Louisiana Legislature (which at last accounts was in
session behind the Rocky Mountains), is in force in this
city, and that the Black Code of Louisiana is binding
upon Yankees who come into the Department of the
Gulf. I also plead the usages and customs of the Con-
federates in justification of my conduct ; and this
brings me to a logical analysis of the case. The wit-
nesses against me are two-a nigger and an Abolition-
ist. Under the Black Code of Louisiana, a slave's
testimony cannot be taken in a Court of Justice, and
under the former precedents. and usages of this great
Confederate Commonwealth, an Abolitionist should be
hung without trial. Therefore, the nigger's evidence
is no evidence at all, and the Abolitionist has no busi-

176

17i


178          THE MACPHIERSON LETTERS.

ness here; he had better go North and sing psalms, and
not venture into my Department, for if he does I'll
hang him higher than Haman or John Brown. I there-
fore ask the Court to discharge me, send the nigger
back to Confederate slavery, and hang the Aboli-
tionist."
The Court didn't see it, and so I continued my thrill-
ing discourse:
"In the second place, the Abolition Cuss is responsi-
ble for the pounding of the 'darkey ; since, had he
pulled his wool as I requested him to do, I should not
have touched the black brute. But Horace Greeley is
the author of this war, and Wendell Phillips got up the
late riots in New York, as I can prove to you by an
editorial in one of the New Orleans papers: and what
can you expect of an Abolitionist any how ? They
alone are responsible for the war and for slavery, and
therefore I ought to be discharged."
In spite of this irresistible logic, which should have
secured my instant release, the Court declined to let
me off, and was about to pronounce sentence, when I
jumped out of the second-story window, and made off
for Madisonville so fast that the whole Department of
the Gulf couldn't catch me.
facpherson visits Port Hudson and Vic7csburg.
I went up to Port Hudson and Vicksburg on the
steamer Crescent, with a whole load of Yankee generals,
colonels, congressmen, lawyers, and editors, and shed
tears of inconsolable grief as I gazed upon the deserted
Confederate rat-holes behind the parapets of Port Hud-

APPARITION OF THE.DEVIL.        -179
soli, where we stopped to look at the works. Not
believing that the place had been taken, I inquired for
the headquarters of General Gardner, and was direct-
ed to an old house that had many holes through the
roof, and the balcony clean knocked off by Yankee
shells.
"Is General Gardner in ?" I enquired of a sentinel.
"Yes," was the reply, "he is in jail."
I knew then that Port Hudson was taken, and so
telegraphed to the Cussed Fool of Carondelet street. I
regret to add that my observations at Vicksburg were
equally unsatisfactory.
Similar Simlibus curantur.
Heart-sick and discouraged at the drooping condition
of the Confederate cause on the Mississippi, I returned
to Madisonville, and devoted myself wholly to drink-
ing. Having swallowed one demijohn of Louisiana
Rum, I became beastly drunk ; and then it was that the
great principle of Hahnemnann--"like cures like"-burst
upon my mind. If it be true, I thought, that like
cures like, then will another demijohn of the same de-
structive liquid restore my mind and body to their ac-
customed activity. Accordingly I applied the remedy
in doses larger than those which had produced the
disease, and it resulted in a perfect cure. I got over
being drunk, but in doing so I got the delirium tre-
mens, which lasted me for two weeks, and confined me
to my room. That is the reason I have not written
any letters recently.
I never suspected that the Devil was a hod-carrier


THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

THE DEVIL'S DITTY.

until I was prostrated by this singular disorder ; but as
soon as the thing was fairly on me, I saw him with a hod
of bricks on the top of his head, grinning at me hideous-
lv, and every now and then picking out a brick and
pitching it at my head with unerring aim. I cut around
the house because the Devil was after me, but he was
too fast, and hit me at every step.   He was dressed in
gray uniform, a good deal soiled and faded, and his
shoes had burst out so that it showed his cloven foot.
This performance continued at intervals for fourteen
days, and whenever the Old Boy chased me around the
house, he hummed the following :
DITTY, SUNG BY OLD SCRATCH AS HE CHASED MACPHER-
SON WITH BRICKS.
Dear Jeff. 's sick they say,
But I mean he shall stay
On earth a while longer ;
My cause will be stronger
With his plotting you see;
So a while let him be!
Secession I like,
It was a ten-strike ;
My clerks are all busy-
Writing names till they're dizzy !
Yet awhile, it is planned,
Jeff's card-house shall stand !
I like men that lie
So much faster than I
Ever could, I believe,
E'en in dealing with Eve !
Yes, the Rebs are a wonder,
They lie so like thunder !
I love New York rioters
And slung-shot proprietors,
Who'll burn an Asylum;
Not yet will I " spile" 'em!

I've suspended my orders
To bring 'em into my borders !
The Copperhead faction
Suits me just to a fraction,
They follow Fernando
And play to my hand so,
And never pulltriggers
But in shooting poor niggers!
And as for that standing sham,
Mr.Vallandigham,
And New York Judge McCann,
There never was better one;
They preach habeas corpus
And blow like a porpoise !
Yet a while let 'em hobble,
But soon will I gobble
The whole, as guerillas
Seize chickens or fillies,
With greater momentum
Than grape could have sent 'em!
When he finished up the performance of this ditty,
he disappeared, and I arose clothed and in my right
mind.
Yours, occasionally,
J. BUCHANAN MACPHERSON.

181

-                         r .f
.Y  .aii1  J41't,4 5 fi .,y        -
S         t.,,5  " 4y   t.
'  a  Y w. J Y
F'ta         ,  ra  j t

180

F
#t
'
.
r
{
it


182         THE MACPHERSON LETTERs.

I

CHAPTER XXII.
MACPHERSON IS SEIZED WITH THE NEWSPAPER MANIA, AND DE-
TERMINES TO BECOME AN EDo0a.-HE DISSOLVES THE ARMY
of MADISONVILLE, ETC., ETC.
NOTE.-At the time this letter was published, a great lumber of
newspaper schemes were on foot in New Orleans. No less than three
new dailies were in contemplation, beside one which had actually
been started.
MADISONvILLE, LA.,
Oct. 9, 1863.
Sm:-Returnng from      the Convention of General
Magruder and the kicked-out Governors, recently held
in Texas, I stopped in New Orleans on my return. But
I soon discovered that a malignant and destructive con-
tagion had broken out in that city, which, in its devas-
tating ravages, spared neither age, sex, color, nor condi-
tion. From   the high in position down to the lowest
son of a gun, it took all, sparing none in its onward and
miraculous progress. As the hot and noxious simoonr
sweeps over the burning sand, while a thick sulpburous
exhalation rises from the earth, first in hurried gyra-
tions, and then ascends the air and covers the whole
heavens-while hissing and crackling noises are heard,
and animal life perishes as though touched by Greek
fire, even so had this pestilent epidemic seized with an
unyielding grasp every one who ventured within the
circle of its magic influence. The millionaire was taken
in the midst of luxury and splendor ; the lawyer in his
office; the literati in garrets; fair women fell its vie-

tios ; even a Confederate, fresh from ort Jackson, was
stricken before he had been three days from prison.
My first impulse was to skedaddle, as unceremoni-
ously as the Reliable Gentleman of the St. Charles Hotel
did, when he heard there was a case of yellow fever in
town. But learning that the disease seldom proved
fatal, except to the pocket, I determined to take my
chances, especially as I had no money, and was, in fact,
a travelling object of charity. But I had not been in
the city two hours before I was seized with a violent
and uncontrollable desire to start a daily newspaper, or
to get an interest in one already started. It came upon
me like a flash of lightning hurled by the hand of Jupi-
ter, when he darts the destructive bolts from the summit
of divine Olympus ; and it worked upon my mind in a
manner so violent that I soon fell sprawling on the
floor, as flat as one of Sylvanus Cobb's novels. The
crash of my fall hastily brought a friend to my side.
"Great Heaven !" he exclaimed; "Macpherson has got
the contagion ! A physician, quick! for the love of
Confederate intellect !" A distinguished physician soon
appeared, felt of my bounding pulse, and began to
question me as to the symptoms of the disorder.
"This desire to start a newspaper," he began-" have
you ever had it before ?"
"Only in slight degree," I answered him. "For
some fime I have had it in my head to put the Idiotic
Boy in editorial charge of a paper ; for the manner in
which the press in New Orleans is conducted, has con-
vinced me that he would be a bright and shining light
among his cotemporaries. But that was as nothing
compared to the desire which I now feel. A wild,

A MALIGNANT CONTAGION.       183

i
a
t
4
i
3


THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

restless fatality, Sn irresistible purpose, consume me,
as if one of Gillmore's batteries had been opened,
sweeping Greek Fire through my bones."
"There is no doubt as to what ails you," said the
good Doctor, shaking his head gravely ; "you have
caught the prevailing distemper, known in medical
parlance as the Newspaper Mania ! "
"Is there no remedy!" I asked.
"Only one that I know of," he answered.
"And what might that be? ", I inquired.
"To pay the bills of some newspaper establishment
for a month," he replied, "receiving in return the re-
ceipts of the concern, has, so far as my observation
goes, proved an effectual remedy for all complaints of
this nature."
"Is the remedy severe?" I asked.
"Alas! yes," he answered; "none but millionaires
can indulge in it; and unless you have plenty of
metal, your case is hopeless."
I therefore hurried back to Madisonville, hoping that
a change of climate and the quiet repose of my home,
might restore my mental equilibrium ; or that, con-
certing measures with the Honest Jew, I might gratify
the terrible desire that now burned to the very mar-
row of my bones.
Imagine my horror, therefore, when on reaching my
abode, I found that the very disorder from which I
had hoped to escape, was raging with tenfold fury in
Madisonville. The Idiotic Boy, first among the vic-
tims, had already started a daily, and was astonishing
the human race with the wisdom and genius of his
leaders. Three secret prospectuses were in circulation

THE NEWSPAPER PROJECT.

185

for rival sheets; and even the military had not escaped
the distemper. The whole Buzz-Saw Division had
turned job-printers, and every stationer and bookseller
in town was printing posters. I asked the Honest
Jew, how much the average profits of a newspaper,
were ; and he answered with glowing eyeballs, that a
daily newspaper made a hundred thousand dollars
every three days; and that it was his intention to set
two running at once, in a large building fronting on
two streets-a newspaper at each end. Both, he said,
could be printed from the same form, and as the public
would never read either, they would not discover the
base deception.
"The press of Madison ville is already large," I be-
gan; "its papers, in fact, are more numerous than its
readers; and if we are to establish a new concern, or
seize an old one, we must advocate some principle that
nobody believed, or ever can believe; so that ours will
be the exclusive organ of that Idea, and meet with no
competition."
"Vat brinciple do . you call dat ? " enquired the Is-
raelite.
" That," I replied, "is yet to be evolved from the
Mammoth Brain of him now before you; it is a ques-
tion of intellect that I alone can solve."
"I have him ! " said the Jew.
"What is it?" I asked.
"No brinciple ! "he replied, with a look of triumph.
"Brinciple be tampt ! Bublish a baper mit no brin-
ciple at all."
But the great Idea, I saw, was Consolidation. I
would buy or seize all the newspaper establishments

i
e

18 4

,

z
t
8
f
t
}
i
1
: ee(
L
E


186          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

in Madisonville ; all their presses, all their types. I
would then construct a building of gigantic propor-
tions, eighteen stories high and five thousand feet
front on four streets, and into this magnificent temple
of art should be put all the materials of all the offices
in this city ; and my great mind and overshadowing
genius should be the ruling and guiding spirit of the
splendid whole. All rival factions would then bow to
me, and all give me their patronage. The lion should
lie down with the laib, the Confederate with the
Yankee, the tiger with the jackass, the elephant with
the baboon, and the greatest man of the age should
lead them. Filled with this Idea, even as my insides
were tilled with liquid Rum, I arose and issued the
following

General Order No. 9.

HEADQUARTERS,
DEPA RTMENT OF MADISONVILLE,
Madisonville, La., Oct. 1st, 1863.

The General Commanding announces that the Army of Madison-
ville is hereby dissolved. The men have fought bravely without
pay, and l should consider it an insult to their pride and patriot-
ism to offer them money in this late stage of their protracted de-
privations and sulThrings. They will, therefore, be immediately
mustered out of the service without further compensation than the
consciousness of having done their duty, and of having served
under the greatest warrior of ancient or modern times. The
money which would have been paid to the troops under different
circumstances, will be turned over to the honest Jew, who will
disburse the same in accordance with verbal instructions from
these headquarters. Soldiers of the Department of Madisonville !
your swords shall be beaten into printing presses, and your bay-
onets into ink-rollers; no more shall you grapple with bloody
foes, but you shall stick type and do job printing. But, under all
circumstances, you will be cheered by the grateful reflection that
your General will retain his rank and pay, whether sweating

MACP1IERSON'S EDITORIAL PROGRAMME.      18
blood on-the field of carnage, or swaying the destinies of the hu-
man race with the editorial pen.
By command of MAJOR GENERAL JAMES B. MACPHERSON.
THE IDIOTIC Boy, Chief of Staff.
Thus, Consolidation and the downfall of all rivalry
is the grand Idea that now possesses me. I shall ex-
change the gray gory garments of war for the editorial
robe, and shall make my paper the organ of every prin-
ciple and sentiment known to mankind. I shall take
one position in one article and follow it immediately br
another, taking a directly opposite view ; and thus will
I be able to conciliate all conflicting opinions and in-
terests. Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars
that make ambition virtue ! Oh, farewell the braying
mule and the shrill trumpet, the ear-piercing fife, the
Confederate flag, and all the pride, pomp, and circum-
stance of glorious war-except the pay ! And oh, you
mortal Confederate engines, whose rude throats the im-
mortal Jove's dread clamors poorly counterfeit, Fare-
well!-Macpherson's occupation's changed !
Yours, undeviatingly,
JAMES B. MACPIIERSON.

a

t
i
-,
,


188

TIE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

CHAPTER XXIII.
MACPIIERSON, DISGUSTED WITH THE NEWSPAPER BUSINESS, RE-
SOLVES 1O   ACQUIRE OFFICE AND CIVIL RENOWN.-THE
RESTORATION OF CIVIL GOVERNMENT IN LOUISIANA.-MAC-
PHERSON IS ELECTED GOVERNOR OF THE STATE, ETC., ETC.
NOTE.-The pro-slavery party of Louisiana, hoping to retain the
"divine institution" in New Orleans and other parishes where it was
not abolished by the President's Proclamation, formed a scheme to
hold an election on the second day of November, 1863, the day fixed by
the old( Constitution, for a Governor, Congressmen, State officers, and
a Legislature. Of course there could have been no legality or au-
thority in such an election, since it had not been called by the Gov-
ernor, or countenanced in any manner by the military authorities.
rT he State officers who were in Louisiana previous to the outbreak
of the rebellion, had deserted their posts and joined the Confed-
eracy ; and the only government in Louisiana, since the occupation
of New Orleans by the United States forces, has been the military
government. A few Copperheads-perhaps twenty, all told-met
secretly in Masonic Hall, and nominated candidates for the different
offices. Their proceedings and designs were kept profoundly secret,
as long as possible. 'They determined that on the Wednesday pre-
ceding the election, they would issue a call for a mass-meeting, to
be held the next Saturday evening, to ratify their nominations. In
other words, the people were to have five days' notice before the
election. The matter "leaked out," however, a little sooner than
the conspirators intended to have it. But on the Wednesday pre-
ceding the day fixed for the election, the Masonic Hall clique issued
an 4 Address to the People of Louisiana," calling upon them to con-
vene at the usual places of voting, the next Monday, and elect civil
officers, and assuring them there was "nothing to prevent" it; that
th e military would not interfere, and that this course would meet the
approval of the national government. "On the second of November,
then," said the address, "go to the polls and cast your votes as usual ;
your chosen Congressmen will take their seats on the first Monday of
December ; your chosen Legislators will meet on the third Monday
of January and organise; your State olficers will on the same day be

MACPHERSON IN THE NEWSPAPER BUSINESS.             189
inaugurated, and thus the wheels of civil government will be once
more set in motion in our State, and we trust prosperously and for
the benefit of mankind. Fail to make this little effort, and your last
opportunity for renewing Civil State Government, in accordance
with legal provisions, will fruitlessly pass, with the probable de-
struction of Republican Institutions. * * *
"Let us arise, then, and go forth and perform the imperative and
sacred duty of electing the officers of a Civil Government in Louisi-
ana, on Monday, the second day of November, the time appointed by
our laws ; and if we fail, it may be the last time we will have the
power of acting as freemen."
The purpose of this movement, it was well understood, was to re-
store the infamous Black Code of Louisiana-a code most barbarous
in its provisions-and to re-establish slavery on its former founda-
tions. But the scheme, as soon as it was exposed, subjected its
authors to such ridicule and contempt, that they "backed out" of it,
and published an announcement that the election would not be held,
since it was feared that the people would not vote ! But the end it
seems was not yet ; for the gentlemen who were nominated by Masonic
Hall, had the assurance to claim that they were entitled to exercise
the offices for which they were named, on the ground that had the
election been held, they would have received a majority of the votes!
Nearly all the men nominated by Masonic Hall for State officers
were residents of New Orleans. Some of them were notorious for
their rebel proclivities; some had signed or voted for the Ordinance
of Secession, in the Convention of 1861.
MADIsoIL~vLE, LA.,
October 30th, 1863.
Sm :-As the Devil, after the great secession move-
meut described by Milton, was hurled headlong flam-
ing from the ethereal sky, with hideous ruin and com-
bustion, down to bottomless perdition, there to dwell
in  adamantine chains and penal fire, so had I been
pitched heels over head from the lofty position I once
occupied, and was nowhere. The few days' experience
I had in the newspaper business came near worrying
the life out of me. Every five minutes during the
night, my door-bell would ring furiously, and ,some
new candidate for newspaperial fame and wealth would


i

present himself, with propositions to buy me out at
half price or to steal the concern outright, until finally
in disgust I told the Honest J ew to take the whole con-
cern and go to the devil with it, or anywhere else, pro-
vided he would give me an hour's sleep.
11 having disbanded the army of Madisonville, and the
Buzz-Saw Division having all turned job printers, I
have felt my powers sensibly decline. I turned my at-
tention to philosophy, which is a good thing in its way ;
but even Socrates was as poor as a Confederate pack-
horse, and was abused for it by his wife. In short, phi-
losophy don't pay bills. Therefore, having lost military
power, I determined to acquire enough civil grandeur
to make up for it ; and I planned a grand scheme for
inaugurating civil ,government in Louisiana. Secresy
was very important, since the plot was one so wise that
the lubberly-headed niasses of the people could never
comprehend or appreciate it. Therefore, I called a
meeting of the faithful in the attic of my dilapidated
hospitable abode, to lay before them the splendid con-
ception that had sprung from my Mammoth Brain.
The better to ensure secresy, a grip and pass-word were
adopted. The grip consisted of a grab at the nasal or-
gan, and the pass-worcl was : " Treasury."  The fol-
lowing distinguished statesmen were present
James Buchanan Macpherson, the Confederate Phi-
losopher and Southern Blower ; his son, and Chief of
Staff; the Idiotic Boy ; his Quartermaster, the honest
Jew ; his Commissary, the Unhappy Cuss ; his Chief
of Cavalry, the Solitary Horseman ; his Chief of Artil-
lery, the Inconsolable Thug ; his Chief of Signal Corps,
the Southern Source ; his Judge Advocate, the Weep-

ing Orphan; his Aids-de-Camp, the Macedonian, the
Reliable Gentleman, and the Cussed Fool of Carondelet-
street.
It was a touching sight, and one calculated to bring
tears to the eyes of an alligator, to look upon this as-
sembly of fallen greatness. Every man of them had
enjoyed a fat office under me in the days of my martial
glory ; but now they looked like a set of darned loafers,
with lank jaws and seedy breeches. They reminded
me of the congregation of registered enemies that Satan
got around him in the infernal regions, after his repulse
by the heavenly army. I arose and addressed them
as follows:
.Jfacpherson's Address.
"Fellow-citizens of Louisiana ! We address you as
loyal to the Government." [A voice : "Which Govern-
ment ?"] Jlfiacpherson: "None of your d-d business,
you hounds! Wait till my scheme is put into execu-
tion, and then learn what it is by the results. As loyal
citizens you have duties to perform to me and your-
selves, your State and country. We are in danger, and
immediate action is required. The fact is, you are like
me in one respect-you all want office; and the want
of civil government in our State can, by a proper effort
on your part, soon be supplied, under laws and a Con-
stitution formed and adopted by yourselves, in a time
of profound peace. It is made your duty as well as
your right, to meet at the usual places, and cast your
votes for me as Governor, and for yourselves to fill the
best offices in the State. Heretofore in our history the
direction of these elections has been had by legal

THE MACPIIERSON LETTERS.

1o1

INAUGURATING G CIVIL GOVERNMENT.

190

c
a
f
t
s
i
R
55
i
i
' i
It
t
R }

E
c j
c
f
ft
F' #


PAnELLII&amp; OTr TE CANDIDATES.

agents ; but the legal agents now have no authority of
any sort, and, therefore, we will take charge of the
whole business ourselves. We held a State election in
1861, and nothing has since happened that amounts to
any thing. We promise you that the military will not
interfere, there being none in this part of the country ;
and we think we can assure you that your action in
this respect will meet the approval of the National Gov-
ernment." [A voice : "Which National Government ?"]
Jfacpherson : "Dry up, you vagabond ! We urge upon
you action in this important crisis. It will convince
the world of our wish and determination to manage the
offices of the State and the public revenue in the man-
ner most satisfactory to ourselves ; it will encourage all
desirous of making a splurge in other States, and will
have a tendency to cause the soldiers to throw down
their arms, and give us our own way, overawed by the
civil grandeur that will surround us. Go to the polls
then ! Your Governor will assume his constitutional
functions, and the Legislature will convene in Madi
sonville forthwith ; your Congressmen will take their
seats as soon as they can find them." [A voice: "In
Washington or in Richmond ?"]
3facpherson: "Silence, you low-lived scoundrel!
It is our intention to assume our old status, in order
that we can clear the State of Yankee office-holders,
and whip our niggers under our own vine and fig-tree,
with none to molest or to make us afraid. Let us
arise, then, and go forth and perform the imperative
and sacred duty of electing ourselves to office ; and if
we fail, it may be the last time we shall have the
power of acting as freemen-that is, thrashing the

192

193

TUE MACPIIERSON LETTERS.

niggers and spending the public fund according to our
own discretion !
At the conclusion of this able and patriotic address,
a burst of applause greeted me like the roar of battle.
The Southern Source then arose, and stated that he
had just had an interview with Jeff. Davis, and had
been assured of his approval and support. The Em-
peror of France had also promised a land and naval
force to co-operate with the new governor. [Applause.]
The Idiotic Boy was loudly called for, but declined
to speak, as he was about to be a candidate for the
suffrages of his fellow-citizens for one of the highest
offices in their gift. Modesty,.he said, prevented him
addressing the audience; but he nevertheless went on
and spoke two columns, saying that the facts of seces-
sion and rebellion had changed nothing, except to turn
the offices over to the present company, which he be-
lieved to be a good thing. In conclusion, he expressed
the hope that the advertising and job work necessary
to be done, would be given to the paper with which it
was well known he was connected. [Hisses by the
Honest Jew and other publishers.] I interfered, say-
ing, that the newspaper business had played out, and
had nothing to do with political questions.
The Honest Jew said: " Pefore I gives mine subbort
of der measure, I vish to know if I be made Dreasurer.
You makes me Dreasurer, I zteals the bublic funds
and tivides mit you vun half the brofit !" [Applause,
and the nomination of the Honest Jew as State Treas-
urer by acclamation.]
The meeting then proceeded to nominate candidates,
when the following ticket was agreed to:
9

t
a


GRAND RATIFICATION MEETING.    195

t
f
a

STATE ELECTION.
For Governor:
JAMES BUCHANAN MACPHER.SON,
Of Madisonville.
For Lieutenant Governor;
THE IDIOTIC Boy,
Of Madisonville.
For Secretary of State:
THE UNHAPPY CUSS,
Of Madisonville.
For State Treasurer:
THE HONEST JEW,
Of Madisonville.
For Auditor :
THE RELIABLE GENTLEMAN,
Of Madisonville.
For Attorney General:
THE WEEPING ORPHAN,
Of Madisonville.
For Superintendent of Public Education :
THE SOUTHERN SOURCE,
Of Madisonville.
For Congress-Madisonville District:
THE CUSSED FOOL,
Of Madisonville.
For Congress-State at Large :
THE SOLITARY HORSEMAN,
Of Madisonville.
It was suggested that Madisonville was not properly
represented on the ticket. We had the ballots printed

II

194         THE MACPHEESON LETTERS.

immediately, and to each one was attached the fol-
lowing:
NoTIcE.-Gentlemen wishing to become members of the State
Senate and Legislature, can be accommodated by paying their
initiation fee and becoming members of the patriotic association
that manufactured the above ticket. As soon as the party is large
enough, a candidate will be named for each district in the State.
J. B. M., Governor
Grand Ratification ]ileeting.
It was voted unanimously that time was of great
consequence, and that the sooner we were elected the
surer we would be of our offices. Wishing, however,
to give the lubberly-headed people a fair show, we called
a grand Ratification Meeting, to be held at Merritt's
Hotel, in Madisonville, the next morning at five o'clock.
The sun was not up when the assembly convened,
but that made no difference. On motion, James B.
Macpherson, of Madisonville, was chosen President; and
the Idiotic Boy, of Madisonville, was appointed Secre-
tary. A list of Vice-Presidents was then appointed as
follows: The Unhappy Cuss, of Madisonville; the
Honest Jew, of Madisonville; the Reliable Gentleman,
of Madisonville; the Weeping Orphan, of Madisonville ;
the Southern Source, of Madisonville; the Cussed Fool,
of Madisonville; the Solitary Horseman, of Madi-
sonville.
The audience consisted of the Inconsolable Thug, of
Madisonville, the bar-keeper of Merritt's Madisonville
Hotel (drunk), and three niggers of Madisonville, sleep-
ing on the sidewalk.
"Fellow-citizens of Louisiana !" I said, "I am thank-


10 )

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

ful for the honor conferred upon me, in being called to
preside over the deliberations of this great assembly.
I am happy to greet my fellow-citizens of Louisiana
upon this auspicious occasion. [Three cheers by the
Inconsolable Thug, who knocked down the barkeeper,
by way of a 'tiger.']  Our principles are well known.
We go for restoring the State as it was before the Yan-
kee brates came down here and took New Orleans ; and
we believe that the offices of a State belong to the
great men of the State. If elected to the office of Gov-
ernor by the suffrages of the people, I shall perform the
duties of the office in a manner perfectly satisfactory
to myself." [Applause on the platform.]
The Idiotic Boy suggested that the ticket had been
enthusiastically endorsed by the people of Louisiana,
and that the election ought to come off at six o'clock the
same morning. We therefore adjourned to the usual
places of holding elections, and in fifteen minutes there-
after the polls closed. The result was proclaimed
in a loud tone of voice, and it was found that every
candidate nominated in the attic had been elected with-
out opposition.
The only disturbance at the polls was occasioned by
the Inconsolable Thug, vho rolled up his coat and
pulled off his sleeves, and fought the barkeeper and
the niggers for the drinks.
At seven o'clock A. Mi. of the same day, I was solemnly
inaugurated Governor of the State of Louisiana. The
ceremonies were performed at Merritt's Hotel, Madi-
sonville. A high stool was arranged in front of the
bar, with a decanter and glass within reach; and on
this stool I took my seat, looking as wise as though I

i
!    E
T .
F
I   t
f
tl
F        t
f         t
{

MACPHERSON AS GOVERNOR.              197
had had my head soaked in sage tea for four months;
while on my left was the Lieutenant-Governor elect and
the other State dignitaries. The oath was administered
by the barkeeper, after which I delivered the following
Inaugural Address:
"Fellow-citizens of Louisiana! It is customary on
occasions of the solemn inauguration of the Chief
Magistrate of the State, that his predecessor should be
present. But in the present instance I am    authorised
to say that it is not convenient for Governor Moore to
attend. I beg leave to say that I shall pursue the
same policy that he did, and I sincerely pray that my
gubernatorial career may be crowned with results no
less brilliant than those he realised."
Amid the plaudits of the crowd, I was then escorted
to the D. H. Abode, now become the Executive Man-
sion, amid salvos of artillery from a hundred-pound
wooden howitzer.     I rode on a triumphal horse-car
decorated with old newspapers and drawn by eight
jackasses. The officers of State having been sworn in,
I issued the following :
PROCLAMATION
TO THE PEOPLE OF LOUISIANA.
I, James Buchanan Macpherson, having been unanimously
elected Governor of the State of Louisiana, hereby issue this my
Proclamation, and decree as followsR:
1. That the State House at Baton Rouge having been burned
down, the seat of Government is removed to Madisonville, where
the Legislature will convene at one o'clock this afternoon.
2. The salaries of all public officers are hereby doubled, and a
year's salary shall be drawn in advance.
3. The public debt having increased beyond the capacity of the

,
i-
r  '
t
«¢
S
f
t
a
4
s
z
i
1

i
a
1
I
f


198           THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

REBELS WANTING OFFICE UNDER MACPIIERSON. 199

treasury, the same is hereby cancelled, and the State Treasurer
will rub out and begin anew.
4. The Confederate Arithmetic is hereby designated as the offi-
cial mathematical system, and the Superintendent of Education
will see that none other is taught.
5. Civil government having now been firmly established in the
whole of Louisiana, the United States army is directed to pack up
and leave by the next steamer for the North; and every damned
Yankee found in the State after the second day of November, will
be hung to a lamp-post.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set the seal of the State
of Louisiana, on the twenty-eighth day of October, Anno
Domini one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of
the Southern Confederacy, three.

THE UNHAPPY Cuss, Secretary of State.

By the Governor.

I will now conclude my epistle, expressing the hope
that the life of the undersigned may be prolonged to
an unnatural extent, and that he may be re-elected at
the expiration of his present term.
Yours, Gubernatorially,
JAMES BUCHANAN MACPHERsON.

I

i t ?
{   i  S
t i
f
4    }
i      yFli
.'i4  '
Sfi( .
i 1
ii
i
R
p
S
'
L
" .S
}
4
.
F
I     e
t

CHAPTER XXIV.
THE GOVERNOR IS BESIEGED BY OFFICE-SEEKERS.-THE INGE-
NIOUS METHOD BY WHICH HE DISPERSED THE MOB.-THE
TRUE SOUTHERN PATRIOT, AND WHY HE WOULD NOT ACCEPT
OFFICE.-THE IDIOTIC BOY CHASTISED.-THE GOVERNOR
MAKES A PILGRIMAGE TO RICHMOND.-THE FULL AND AU-
THENTIC HISTORY OF THE CONGRESSIONAL CAREER OF THE
CUSSED FOOL AND THE SOLITARY HORSEMAN, ETC., ETC.
EXECUTIVE MANSION,
MADISONVILLE, LA.,
Dec. 31st, 1863.
S1R:-Since my elevation to the lofty position of
Governor of Louisiana, every Confederate within five
thousand miles of Madisonville has applied to me for
an office. I was delighted beyond measure to see the
amount of patriotism which these faithful sons of chiv-
alry possessed. Every one of them, I found, had first
raised the Confederate flag in New Orleans, and had
been, last to pull it down when the infernal Yankees
took possession of that impregnable city. Every one
of them had suffered tenfold persecution, and the ago-
nies of purgatorial punishment for the holy cause of
Southern rights; and there was not one who did not
declare that his soul would swell with gratitude, if I
would point out to him a method in which he might
immediately spend the remnants of his fortune and
pour out his heart's blood for the sacred Confed-
eracy.


t
t
a
r

how the Governor got rid of 'em.
"Sweet Confederate patriots !" I said, addressing
them from the roof of the house; "you all want office.
I sympathise with your honorable ambition and I will
give every one of you a position [loud shouts of
apljplause on all sides] on certain terms. [Many voices:
Give us the terms, Governor!' and, ' We accept.']
Don't be in a hurry about accepting, you hounds! un-
til you hear the conditions. You are all anxious to
serve the Confederacy in the most effectual manner.
[Cries of 'yes,' 'that's so,' et cetera.]  You would
willingly lay down your lives, your fortunes, and your
sacred honor on the glorious altar of Southern Inde-
pendence. [Loud cries of 'yes,' and 'bully for the
Gov. !']  Well, sweet ones! you shall be accomino-
dated. [Cheers and shouts for fifteen minutes.]
Every one of you shall have a posish under my admin-
istration, if you will enlist in the Confederate army for
three years or during the war, unless sooner dis-
charged !"
A hum of voices was heard on all sides, like that
described by Homer, when the Greeks issued from
their black ships to pounce upon Priam. It grew
fainter and fainter, until it fell upon the ear like strains
of distant music, and then it died out altogether. On
looking about me, I discovered that the vast assembly
of patriots had disappeared. Every mother's son of
'em had skedaddled ; not one has since asked for an
office or shown his head in Madisonville.

The True Southern Patriot.
I then made the acquaintance of the True Southern.
Patriot; the man who didn't want office. He was a
man of meek manners, and said he only caine to assure
me of his supreme admiration of my great abilities,
and that he was mine respectfully until death should
us part. I asked him if lie would like to go to Con-
gress, whereupon he seemed stricken with horror.
No," he replied, " the time of my political ambition
has passed; nothing on earth would induce me to
accept an office."
On questioning him, I found that he already held
four offices under the Confederate Government; and
to this fact I attributed his reluctance to take a posish.
The Idiotic Boy chastised.
I have prepared my letters to Tu Eux for publica-
tion in book form, and the manuscript has already
gone on to the publisher in New York. It will be the
greatest work that ever emanated from the human. in-
tellect, and as a history of Confederate Glory will
equal in truthfulness the story of Sinbad the Sailor. I
gathered all the letters together in a big pile, and
taking up a pair of scissors, remarked to the Idiotic
Boy that I should cut from them every part not worth
printing.
"If you do that," replied the Imbecile Youth,
"your book will not make two pages."
I flogged him like Satan for that speech. But when
9*

IDIOTIC BOY CRITICIZING THE LETTERS.

200

TIlE MACPHERS011T L1 TTERS.

201

{L
t i
f
i" ,
# j
k
; ,
t,
a
,
.
3
i
i
f
yF
1 '
«
4
'
.r
r


a
F
S
is
s
S   ,
i
f
t
'
a
}
i
. j
1
x

a            ;
i
r t
9
!f
3
i
F
}
t
i
1
i
i
1
i
i y !
S
I
r ,
I
i
t
E.
i
c
FI
t
f
2}
z
i
x
f
1 }
i

NOVEL EXPEDIENT TO GET MONEY.

203

202          THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.
I came to look over the letters, I found he was alto-
gether too near the truth, and for this I flogged him
again within an inch of his life.
The Governor' 8Pilgrimage to Richmond.
As the faithful Mohammedans make a pilgrimage
to Mecca for the good of the soul, so did I start for
Richmond in the search of political power. It will be
remembered by the readers of my former able produc-
tion, that at the time I was elected Governor of Loui-
siana, a whole set of State officers was chosen, and that
the Cussed Fool and the Solitary Horseman were
elected as representatives in Congress. The election
was held in Madisonville before daylight, on the morn-
ing of October 28th, 1863, and the barkeeper of Mer-
ritt's Hotel administered the oath of office. It may
seem strange that the Chief Magistrate of a great State
should be hard up; but such, nevertheless, was the
case: for the Treasurer, the Honest Jew, stole all the
money, and ran away. I therefore called a council of
State, and addressed them as follows:
"Brother dignitaries of the Commonwealth of Loui-
siana ! called, as all of us were, by the unanimous suf-
frages and sufferings of our fellow-citizens, to uphold
the dignity and power of the State, and to dispose of'
the public revenue according to the dictates of our own
consciences, it becomes our duty to stand by the ship
of State in adversity .as well as in prosperity. Honest
poverty has been held as a mark of honor by the wisest
sages of antiquity ; and if it be in truth an honor, then
are we entitled to the highest respect, for there isn't a

red in the treasury, and it becomes our duty to raise the
wind. Happily, an honorable way is open for the ac-
complishment of this most desirable object. I have
therefore to propose that the Cussed Fool and the Sol-
itary Horseman shall go to Richmond to get seats in
Congress, if possible. But for fear they may not sue:
ceed, I will go with them, and we will collect mileage
from the Sergeant-at-arms, before their claim is passed
upon by the House. This will yield a very handsome
sum, and we will divide it equally among the various
officers of the State."
This proposition was received with loud shouts of ap-
proval; and accompanied by the two members of Con-
gress and the Idiotic Boy (Lieutenant Governor), we set
out for the great Confederate capital. I journeyed over
hills and mountains and through valleys, until I ar-
rived in a big swamp, which, I was told, was. formerly
known as the Chickahominy Bottoms, but is now called
Strategy Swamp, because a whole army got swamped
while practising strategy in those gloomy regions. I
sank to my middle every time I stepped; and the Idi-
otic Boy informed me that it only required a siege of
the malarious fever to ruin my constitution and com-
plete my military education.
I then debouched from the woods, and, lo and be-
hold ! the city of Jeff. Davis loomed upon my vision.
"0 great Confederate Jerusalem !" I exclaimed, "as all
the honest Jews shall some day be gathered together in
Palestine, so shall all the Confeclerates soon swarm with-
in thy gates, when Meade, Grant, and Gilmore im-
piously crowd them up in one place. And as the foot-
print of Mohammed is preserved in a sacred temple, so


ii

TIE MACPIIERSON LETTERS.

,
i
.
it
t
'  c'
1     f
i
t
!t
i
{
i
if
}    .
,.
f     ?
1  r  f
I
f
{     t
4      ,
t
"
i
d'
.
i"
'
S   9
a  i

201

shall the mark of my Confederate shoes form a shrine
for future generations ?"
We then advanced to the city by the right flank, and
I immediately visited the Executive Mansion, and had
an interview with Jeff. Davis. Jeff. was glad to see
me, but said he had been a little more near-sighted than
usual since Chickamauga. I told him we came as rep-
resentatives of a great principle.
"What piriciple is that ?" asked Jeff-
"Mileage," I answered.
lie said he hoped we would succeed, and that the
best plan would be to get the Clerk of tle House
drunk, and hire him to place the names of the two
Congressmen on the roll before any objection was
raised ; and then to apply immediately to the Sergeant-
at-arms for mileage.
It is a melancholy fact that the human mind is so
constituted, in some instances, that it is open to the
voice of duty and justice only after it has received the
inducement of a liberal fee. And it is providential,
perhaps, that the Louisiana Delegation had no money;
otherwise we might have been tempted to try to bribe
the Clerk. But we found this unnecessary. The Clerk
was anxious to be re-elected, and in order to accomplish
this he determined not to enroll the names of any but
those who would vote for him, and a promise to vote
for him was all that was needed to secure a place on
the roll of members.
The great and molnentons day at last arrived for
Congress to assemble.  The Louisiana Delegation
looked pale and ihvjgard, but I told them I would stand
by them until they got their mileage. We approached

MACPHERSON9S TWO DELEGATES IN CONGRESS.        205
the Sergeant-at-arms, where, in accordance with in-
structions, the Cussed Fool and the Solitary Horseman
fell prostrate before that official dignitary, and in tears
and lamentations sufficient to move a house, implored
him to pay them their mileage. The Sergeant-at-arms
replied that he didn't see it, and I haven't seen it yet
myself.
The Louisiana Delegation then arose to its feet, and
we all went into the House of Representatives together,
when the following proceedings occurred:
Mr. STEVENS. said : I ask to have the credentials of
the persons claiming to be representatives from Louisi-
ana read.
CLEnK just drunk enough to be funny).-The Clerk
will gratify the curiosity of the gentleman. [Laughter
by the Idiotic Boy, the Louisiana Delegation, and me.]
Now came the greatest triumph of my life ; for the
Clerk proceeded to read, in a clear and distinct tone of
voice, the credentials which I had prepared by four
weeks' labor, and a careful study of Webster's Diction-
ary and the Black Code of Louisiana:
CREDENTIALS.
I, James Buchanan Macpherson, Governor of the State of Lou-
isiana, duly and legally elected by the voters of said State, in pur-
suance of my twenty-second letter to the EuA, and the Constitu-
tion and laws, and inaugurated by taking the oath administered
by the barkeeper of Merritt's Hotel, do certify that at an election
begun and held in Madisonville, before daylight, on the morning of
the twenty-eighth day of October, 1863, in accordance with Masonic
Hall, for the purpose of electing Representatives from said State
and raising the wind, the following named persons were regularly
elected to represent said State in said Congress for the term of
two years from the fourth day of March, 1863, namely :

}  t
1 c .
k
t
t
2!
3
7
k
[j4
S)
e


i
il
I,
t

THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

The Cussed Fool.
The Solitary Horseman._
All of whom were regularly elected in accordance with the
Constitution and Laws of said State of Louisiana, as by me con-
strued and interpreted.
In testimony whereof, I, James Buchanan Macpherson, Author
of the Confederate Arithmetic, Traveller through the Louisiana
Lowlands Low, Clergyman, Poet, Philosopher, Plato of the Con-
federacy, Warrior, great Southern Blower, and Governor, elected
as afore'aid, do hereby commission said persons, so elected as
aforesaid and duly sworn, to represent said State in the said Con-
federate Congress, on condition that they shall pay my hotel bills
as long as 1 remain in Richmond, and divide their mileage with
me honorably and justly; and I do hereby give these credentials
in evidence of their fair and square election ; and I do hereby af-
fix my private seal of office, my predecessor and friend, Moore,
having carried off the great seal, and having had no opportunity to
send it back, in consequence of General Banks chasing him like
the devil last spring, from which he has never recovered; and
my said private seal I have hereunto affixed this twentieth day of
November, in the third year of Jeff. Davis, and the year of our
Lord, 1863.
JAMES BUCHANAN MACPHERSON,
Governor of the State of Louisiana.
My private seal, which I affixed to the above docu-
ment, is the picture of a jackass grabbing at a crib be-
yond his reach.
Stevens moved to strike the name of the Cussed Fool
and the solitary horseman from the roll of members ;
but was induced to withdraw it, and we proceeded to
the election of a speaker. The Louisiana Delegation
voted for a candidate of their own, and thus succeeded
in getting their names in the Congressional proceedings.
The future historian, the unborn ierodotus, will be
struck with the appearance of those euphonious names,
and he will also be struck by the fact that they never
appear afterward.

BROOKS SUSTAINS THE LOUISIANIANS.

207

After the election of a speaker, the members went
up to be sworn ; and now there was a row with the
Louisiana Delegation. Stevens objected to the Louisi-
ana Delegation, and Brooks came forward, prompt
as ever, to vindicate the cause of innocence and justice.
He said that he hoped the House would go on in the ordi-
nary way, and swear in every man, woman, and child
that applied for admission. It was hard work to stand,
and he thought the gentlemen from Louisiana should
have seats. If, after admitting them and paying their
mileage, it should be found desirable to get rid of them,
they could be kicked out or put out in any manner the
House should determine. lie knew nothing of the
rights of the members from Louisiana, and he didn't
care a damn, so long as they were good Confederates
and would vote on his side. The country was rich and
could afford to pay. These gentlemen had come a long
distance for seats, and it would not be in accordance
with the rules of chivalry or hospitality to keep them
standing, except on one of the standing committees.
Memminger could easily print off a few more treasury
notes. [Applause by the Louisiana Delegation.]
STEvENs.-These credentials are no credentials at all.
Who has ever heard of this pretended Gov. Macpherson?
[Voice-" Read THE ERA."] By what right does he
claim that title ? There has been no election in. Louisi-
ana, and how was it possible for anybody to get elected?
Brooks moved that Macpherson's Twenty-second Let-
ter, containing an account of the State election be read
for the information of the ignoramus who had just taken
his seat. He would there find an official account of the
election and its results. But it made no difference

206

r
r=
tr
g
3 "G
i
Tg¢a
4
A
1         1
l
f
FF        §

a


208         THE MACPHERSON LETTERS.

whether there had been an election or not. He put it
upon the ground of courtesy. These gentlemen had
taken a great deal of trouble, and he believed if they
were refused admittance others would be deterred from
asking for seats in the House.
Stevens moved to refer the members from Louisiana
to the committee on credentials.
Allen moved to lay the Delegation on the table.
Lost. Stevens's motion was then carried; the banner of
freedom and truth trailed in the dust ; the free-born
citizens of Louisiana were virtually expelled from the
house. From this moment, in my opinion, dates the
visible decline of public virtue in the Confederacy.
What encouragement is there, henceforth, for patriots
ambitious to go to Congress ? None! What way is
there left open by which a pennyless Governor like me
can pay his hotel bills, if his friends get nothing to
divide with him? None!
The knees of the Cussed Fool knocked together, and
it was in vain that I strove to administer consolation
and hope to his wounded and bleeding soul. I asked
him to show that the spirit of a man had some place in
him yet, and to resign himself to his fate.
" Resign !" said he, brightening up; " that is a good
idea. I will resign myself," and immediately he wrote
his resignation as member of Congress, which I accepted
on the spot, and notified the Speaker of the fact in
writing. But that leather-headed ignoramus said the
Cussed Fool was no member at all, and he didn't see
how he could resign a seat which he never possessed.
Therefore, he would not trouble the House with the
matter.

The question then arose how we were to get away
from the city without paying our bills. We finally hit
upon the expedient of having every thing charged to.
the Solitary Horseman, who still remains in Richmond
waiting at the door of the House patiently, day by day,
for the Committee on Credentials to let him in. He
hopes by his patient conduct and meek looks, to arouse
the pity of the House; and praying that he may suc-
ceed, I remain,
Yours, officially,
JAMEs B. MACPHERSON.
P. S.-Jman. 1st, 1864.-This being leap year, sealed
proposals for matrimony will be received until the
thirty-first day of December next.
J.B.HM.
THE END.

[
1i

.
t
$ f
a
i
!
i x
i   v t
t
'i
t
i
}t
F
. F
i
t
1
i
yi
B

PROPOSALS FOR MATRIMONY.        209


ii
COURSE OF ENGLISH]
1                                                                                 ADAPTED TO EVERY TASTE- AND CA
BlY REV. JOSEPH PYCROFT
TRINITY COLLEGE, OXFORD.
A NE~W EDITI
1 Vol., 12mo, .- - - -
UNDIKE AND SINT
Translated from the German of Fouque
3 ol.,1l2mo, $1.00
I

READING,
PACITY,
, B. A.,
ON,
- - $1.00.
RAM.
. A new edition.
I.


FESTJJS;
A POEM,
BY PHILIP JAMES BAILEY,
BARRISTER AT LAW.

1 volume, Blue-and-gold, $1, 00. 12mo, $1 25.
"It is an extraordinary production."--London Literary
Gazette.

WORKS OF WILLIAM WARE.
Z E NO B3I A ; or the Fall of Palmyra. In letters of L.
Manlius Piso, from Palmyra, to his friend Marcus
Curtius, at Rome. 1 vol., 12mo, - - - - $1.50
A U R ELI AN; or Rome in the Third Century. In
Letters of Lucius M. Piso, from Rome to Fausta,
the daughter of Gracchus, at Palmyra. 1 volume,
12mo, - - - - - - -           -   - -   $1.50
J 1 L I A N; or Scenes in Judea. 1 vol., 12mo, - $1.50
JAMES MILLER, Publisher,
522 Broadway.

Published by James Miller, New York.
THE STORY
OF TUE
RED BOOK OF APPIN:
fatr tae of tjje tbble gs.
WITH
AN INTERPRETATION.
By the Author of "Alchemy and the Alchemists," "Swesenun 5
hermetic Philosopher," and "Christ the Spirit."
Price $1.00.
THE ICE MAIDEN,
And other Tales.
By HANS CHRISTIAN, ANDERSE.
Translated ly FANNY FULLER.-Price 75 cents.
ON THE
CHARACTER AND INFLUENCE3
OF
WASHINGTON.
By M. GUIZOT.
75 cents.
FRIENDS IN COUNCIL
A SERIES OF READINGS, AND DISCOURSES THEREON.
4 vols. 12mo.


Published by James Miller, X22 Broadway.
ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING'S'
P O EMS:
newly stereotyped edition, containing all the Poems of this highly
gifted Poetess; with a Memoir by THEODOBE TILTON,
and a Portrait on Steel.
IL our Volumes. Four Dollars.
In a separate form,
AURORA LEIGH.
One Dollar.
LAST POEMS.
WITH A MEMORIAL UY THEODORE TILTON, AND A
PORTRAIT ON STEEL.
One Dollar.
JUST    PUBLISHED,
ESSAYS
ON THE
GREEK CHRISTIAN POETS
AND Tr
ENGLISH      POETS,
FROM CHAUCER TO WORDSWORTH.
One Dollar.
*** The above can be had either in blue and golds
or brown cloth.

J AME S MI LLERE,
dularze, ug1Ltir, any        11ptthr,
522 BROADWAY, NEW YORK,
OPPOSITE THE ST. NICHOLAS HOTEL,
fas for sale a very complete and extensive stock of
ENGLISH AND AMERICAN BOOKS,
TN TILE VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS OF LITERATURE ;
INCLUDING
STANDARD EDITIONS OF TIIE BEST AUTIIORS IN
HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, BELLES-LETTRES, ETC.
FINELY BOUND IN MOROCCO, CALF, ETC., FOR
DRAWING-ROOM LIBRARIES;
LIKEWISE ORNAMENTED AND RICHLY EMBELLISHED BOOKS
OF PLATES FOR THE CENTRE-TABLE.
*** Particular attention given to orders from Public and
Private Libraries.
ENGLISH AND AMERICAN PERIODICALS
supplied and served carefully and faithfully to Subscribers
throughout the city, or sent by mail to the country. Orders
from any part of the world, with a remittance or reference
for payment in New York, will be promptly attended to.
IMPORTATION OF ALL BOOKS &amp; PERIODICALS
for which he may receive orders, a small commission only
being charged for the business. The same attention given
to an order for a single copy as for a quantity.
BOOK BINDING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.

t.
1


16K
PALEY'S
.EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY,
With Annotations
By RICHARD WHATELY, D. D.,
ARCHBISHOP OF DUBLIN.
One Volume, Octavo, Cloth, $1-75-
The Publifher feels great pleafure in calling the
attention of the religious and thinking portion of
the community to his very handfome edition of this
work of the celebrated PALEY, a man remarkable for
vigor anid clearnefs of intellect, and originality of char-
acter, and acknowledged by all to be the greatest
among the divines of his age, and without a fuperior
fince the days of the early fathers of the Protestant
Church. To add to the value of that which is in-
trinfically valuable in itfelf, the volume now presented
to the American Public is enriched with " Annota-
tions " by the celebrated Dr. Whately, Archbifhop
of Dublin, than whom there is no clearer thinker or
more powerful writer in the Proteftant Hierarchy of
our day.
Also, uniform with the above,
BACON'S ESSAYS,
With Annotations
BY RICHARD WHATELY, D. D.
One~ volume, Octavo, Cloth, - - - .. $2.50-
JAMFs MILLER, Publifher,
522 Broadway, New ror.
11}


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
             
         
       
   
