
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Double Suicide .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6311 wright2-0781
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE DOUBLE SUICIDE.
               The True History of the Lives of the TWIN SISTERS, SARAH AND MARIA WILLIAMS
               CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF MARIA'S LOVE, MOCK MARRIAGE, SUFFERING AND DEGRADATION. TOGETHER WITH, SARAH'S LOVE AND SUFFERING, AND THE REMOVAL OF HER FATHER WESTWARD WITH HIS FAMILY, THE DEATH OF THE MOTHER, BROTHER, SISTER AND FATHER, THE RETURN OF SARAH AND HER LOVER TO NEW-YORK, AND THE FINAL
               SUICIDE OF SARAH AND HER LOVER IN BROOKLYN; THE DISAPPEARANCE OF MARIA, THE REVELATIONS OF THE CORONER'S INQUEST AND THE FUNERAL CEREMONIES OF THE SUICIDE LOVERS,
               Who were found Dead in each other's arms by the Young Man's Mother, at the House of his Father, on the Morning of the 27th of June, 1855.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               H. H. RANDALL, 
                     No. 50 ANN-STREET.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               (COPY-RIGHT TRANSFERRED TO H. H. RANDALL.) Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, BY G. C. HOLBROOK, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
            
         
         
            
               
                  INTERVIEW BETWEEN SARAH AND MARIA—Page 21.
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The double suicide
            SARAH AND MARIA WILLIAMS;
            OR, THE TWIN SISTERS, AND THE DOUBLE SUICIDE.
            A REMARKABLE CASE OF LOVE, TREACHERY, DEVOTION AND DESPERATION.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     "O Love! Love! Love! O withering wight!"
                  
               
               TWENTY-FOUR years ago, on the 29th of May, 1832, the sun rose in splendor upon a little hamlet situated forty or fifty miles up the Hudson River. This little hamlet was peopled with a thriving and industrious population, most of whom went twice a year, and a few of them much oftener, to the American Metropolis.
               On that lovely morning, bright with the glories of waking summer-time, and in that little hamlet, the eyes of twin infants first smiled in response to fond parental joy, and to the glad greeting of radiant Nature, encircling in its green and rosy arms—all lustrous and glittering with morning's glories—that quiet little community, uniting earth to heaven, and making an elysium of the landscape.
               The joy on earth there and on that day was such as any community might gladly barter the remnant of the year to partake of, and such as angels might revel in.
               The parents, whose name was Williams, then in their early prime, above want, and high in the esteem of all who knew them, could scarcely control their ecstacy in spreading the glad tidings of the advent of their beautiful first-born—their twin daughters—who ever and anon made music which awoke an anxious thought in the parental breast, but music, nevertheless, grateful to celestial ears, because superior intelligence knew that the sound of those cherub voices proceeded only from excess of pleasure, from too great sensation.
               Fair as those babes were born, so fair they grew; and at the age of eleven months, at the baptismal font, while angels looked on and blessed them, and while tears of gratitude to Heaven glistened on the mother's cheek and subdued the noble and resolute countenance of the not less fond father, those cherubs took the names, respectively, of Sarah and Maria. The good, simple-minded parson sealed the act with a brief, but fervent prayer, imploring divine beneficence in behalf of the lovely little ones. All the villagers already took an uncommon degree of interest in them, on account of their sweet beauty, their exact resemblance to each other, and the real, though unpretending worth of the father and mother. And when the brief prayer ended, glad hosannas went up from the deep-throbbing hearts of the choir of the little church, crowning the event with gifts fitly presented in the temple of God, in token of remembrance that on that sacred morning, while Nature without was jubilant in the gala robes of early spring, human nature within was rejoicing in the addition to their number of two such human blossoms, swelling to the bloom of loveliness, grace and innocence.
               The world looked on in mingled admiration and envy, as Sarah and Maria Williams passed from infancy to childhood, and from childhood to the age of eighteen, when they entered the boarding-school kept by a former acquaintance of their mother's, in a neighboring parish.
               But in pursuing their history we have no ordinary boarding-school, or rather, no mere school-girl romance to unfold For the two daughters, from the cradle up always together, were not only so much alike in form and feature that even their own father often mistook one for the other, but in mind and manners, also, there was nearly an equal similarity. And as their deportment at home and abroad was dictated by remarkable sincerity, kindness, and judgment, they won the good will, nay, the love of all with whom they associated, from the moment of entering the boarding-school to the time they left it, which they did on account of Sarah's illness, eighteen months afterwards.
               By the careful attention of the mother, Maria and Clara, a younger and scarcely less lovely sister, Sarah was soon out of all danger; and a few days after, the father, who was a lawyer, and at that time jointly engaged in his profession in his own county and in settling up the affairs of a large estate of a deceased relative at the West, was called away to Ohio and Michigan, to be absent for some weeks. Taking affectionate leave of his family, he left all for the time to the protection of a student in the office and a wife at home, and started on his journey, which was to be pursued by various conveyances, but first by steamboat to Albany. The only son, George, then seventeen years of age, and the two first-born, Sarah and Maria, accompanied him to the nearest landing on a fine afternoon, and saw him on board the steamer, and waited till it was fairly out of sight beyond a beetling cliff in the bend of the Hudson before they turned homeward. As they drove slowly back to the hamlet, they seemed unable to speak. It was the first time their father had left them to be gone so long, and they felt sad, lonely, and desolate at the thought.
               How far from their minds, or the mind of that father, was the scourge of suspicion that with some one of those lovely children he who loved them so dearly had had the last happy meeting; and that the blessings there bestowed upon an idolized daughter were to be followed by curses upon the same fair creature, whose image smiled upon him even after he was beyond her sight!
               In a few days after the departure of Mr. Williams, as the general sense of loneliness on account of his absence began to wear away, giving place to more cheerful thoughts, Maria received a visit from a young man named Knight, from the city of New-York, whom she had seen two or three times when he came to call on his sister at the boarding-school. Young Knight had already bestowed upon Maria professions of attachment, though she was considered somewhat "vulgar" by the sage Miss Knight, the young man's sister, who had been educated, hitherto, in the highly perfumed and refined walks of New-York society.
               This young man was the son of wealth, snobbishness, and ambition. His father was a commercial character of a large pattern, and no small affair on 'Change. The son, whose chief occupation was spending the old Knight's money, which, to avoid any unpleasant interrogatories, he generally obtained through the "mercantile agency" of his mother, was a hopeful boy from the first—a compromise between the "fast man" and the exquisite—and, on the whole, a blood, who, as he said, "didn't stand for small change," and was ready to "go in on a fast boat, a tall nag, or a handsome woman."
               As complete deference was always paid to the wishes of her parents, Maria, on the first opportunity, told all to her mother, adding such evidence as she had gathered of the high standing and honorable reputation of young Knight's family. The mother was not prepared to doubt the story of the young man, as thus repeated; and as the daughter was now nearly twenty years of age, she could urge no particular objection to the acquaintance, though she warned Maria not to encourage a repetition of the attention until her father should return.
               But how weak are the timid counsels of cool reason against the ardent and dauntless impetuosity of a first love in a strong and unsophisticated nature! Against the hot torrent of such a love, words of abstract wisdom are but as reeds in the channel of the Amazon or the Mississippi, or a cock-boat in the surges of Niagara!
               The young man was well educated, elegant, plausible, liberal, and by no means ugly in personal appearance.
               Eyes accustomed to fathoming the thin crust of fashionable cupidity and hypocrisy which overlaid his real character, could detect the latent devil within him, even in his blandest moments. But he was under no such ordeal here, in the absence of Mr. Williams; and after having staid as long, and shown the pure and noble Maria as much attention as propriety would allow on the first visit, he departed, only to return again in ten days, without having received an answer to the following ardent missive:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              NO. — 5TH AVENUE, NEW-YORK, —, 1852.
                              MY OWN MARIA:
                           
                           I have not been happy a moment since I left you. Say that I may come again, and that immediately. I cannot live another week without you. I will die for you if I can die with you. I would brave heaven, earth, the torments of hell, anything to be united with you, never more to be separated. And thank God it is soon to be! But I cannot endure the agony of separation from you for a day, lest something should snatch the cup of love from my lips. In pity say I may come to you again immediately, and I shall be happy, and God shall bless you and your suffering
                           
                              GUSTAVUS.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               In spite of her previous determination, as her mother had waived her objection in allowing the young man to visit the house again so soon, Maria treated him with much greater familiarity on the second visit than on the first; and before the father's return, which was unexpectedly prolonged to six weeks, he had made his third visit to that house of gentleness and purity. On the last occasion he prevailed upon the two beautiful twin maidens to accompany him for an afternoon's ramble among the adjacent hills and fields.
               This, as the sequel will show, was a fatal point in the indulgence shown to the young New-Yorker. Already both the daughters felt an interest in him, and he an interest in both of them; so much were they alike even to one whose honorable position and education had made him a speculator in human hearts and human lives.
               Knight had the advantage of these two pure and loving human angels, not only in acquaintance with all the cruel machinery of fashionable treachery, by which men quaff the heart's blood of innocence, but in age also, being then in his twenty-fifth year. And while his interest in them continued from policy to be most particularly lavished chiefly upon Maria, still Sarah was made to regard him as honorable and sincere, and thus to favor his endeavors to win her sister. But while his interest was prompted by foul and fiendish motives, theirs, on the contrary, sprang from warm and honest hearts, and all that goes to make up the true companion, are heavenly bride, the devoted wife—the divine woman!
               They rambled in their excursion from knoll to vale, and from rivulet to the forest, gathering flowers, revelling in nature, and rejoicing in each other. By accident, as they came to an unfrequented roadway, near a creek which emptied its limpid waters into the mightier river, the young ladies encountered one of their school-mates, who lived not far off in a neat villa, upon the Hudson's borders; and as the sisters both insisted upon her joining them in their little holiday, she consented.
               Mirthful conversation and clear, ringing laughter echoed on the surrounding crags and forest for the next half hour, as they seated themselves upon a bare bold cliff not far off, to enjoy the soft south wind which came up from the sea over the green world intervening, freighted with the enchantment of richest odors.
               The sun was getting down the west sufficiently to relieve the gay quartette of its burning splendor. Tall pines whispered above their heads. Gorgeous hues mantled the distant horizon. White-winged coursers flew down the highway of waters bearing their commercial treasures. The evening sun lit up those maiden features with a bewitching glow. The herds of adjacent pastures lowed with quiet cadence as they beckoned one another to the farm-yard. The tinkling of the sweet-toned bell upon the neck of some vagrant member of the fleecy flocks sounded lovingly along the glade. The hum of myriad insects sporting in the genial sunbeams, relieved the plaintive melody of the forest songster. All animate life was in gentle raptures with radiant nature. What wonder if innocent hearts, born to love, should join the sentiment of universal joy?
               This was an hour of love, in comparison with which moonlight sentimentalities sink into rayless nothingness. And this was a place to love, in comparison with which regal palaces, with all the surroundings of voluptuous art, would sink to mere bubbles, and be forgotten in a moment.
               External loveliness soon wrought its proper work upon the internal senses of maiden grace. And as Sarah soon fell into a quiet reminiscence with her old school-companion, Maria and her suitor moved a little way off, and discoursed of those sweet emotions which he professed and she felt.
               It is needless to repeat what was said as young Knight fixed his longing eyes—eyes which looked love under their owner's compulsion—steadfastly upon the truthful, warmhearted, and hitherto inflexibly virtuous being beside him. It was a labor of love worthy of her, and equally ardent, though utterly soulless, with him.
               The little company returned as the sun finally hid itself far down behind the gorgeous curtains of the Occident. They did not return, however, till Maria had sown fruitful seeds of future misery, by promising to marry the wooing exquisite, who had exercised all his winning arts and magnetic power to gain that promise, without the consent of Maria's parents, whose counsel had always been her only guide, and against the direct warning of her indulgent mother. And the ever happy Maria was doomed to suffer in consequence.
               
               Young Knight took his leave of Maria soon after they returned from their walk, and spent the night in a neighboring town. On the following morning he returned to New-York to rejoice over his progress, and give himself up for the next week to his usual polite debaucheries.
               But what a terrible spell was upon the lovely Maria, that she should thus suddenly have given herself away by every obligation she could comprehend, by every obligation of her loving heart, without the consent of her parents, or even the knowledge of her sister! She went to her chamber with an agony on account of her rashness which forbade her sleep or rest through the long, wearisome night. She arose on the following morning with the delusive mesmeric power which had caused all that night's suffering still upon her. She was pale, cheerless, ill, and so continued through the day,—she who had not known before either sorrow or pain. She feared not so much for the past as the future. She was conscious of being under the control of another.
               The second night passed—the second sleepless night—and the next morning saw the beauty of health dying upon Maria's cheek; and Mrs. Williams, alarmed at the sad and increasing change, finally insisted upon a full confession of all that had transpired during the day previous to the first fading of this one of the two fairest flowers of the hamlet—her beautiful first-born.
               The confession was frankly made; and the mother, suppressing her own forebodings with a powerful effort, succeeded in comforting the suffering Maria by the fond hope that all would yet be well. But that night, she too, the devoted mother, laid her head upon a sleepless pillow. An undefined fear was now gnawing at her heart.
               Mr. Williams came home on the following day, anxious once more to retire for a time from the hard toils of laborious business abroad to the comparative rest of daily duties near his own lovely home, where children's smiles and a wife's sympathies relieved him of half the weary burdens of increasing business and increasing cares.
               But alas, a thunderbolt was suspended over that father's head! A wife cast down with sadness in spite of her joy at his return. An idolized daughter whom he left in the glorious bloom of full womanhood, wan and faded; and an obstinate gloom brooding over the whole household! What demon of woe had wrought his dire enchantment here?
               Let those fathers who have seen the harmony of a happy family changed to the discord of sorrow and distraction, and that discord and distraction caused by the remorseless havoc of human wolves and devils amid the lambs of his flock, imagine that fond, proud father's feelings as he unravelled and learned that the pride of his little flock had solemnly promised, in a few days, to link her destiny to one whom he knew to be the offspring of a human monster.
               Mr. Williams was not without some hope of restoring the lost harmony, and the faded rose—the idolized daughter, and one of the two gems of the hamlet. But his Puritan blood was roused. He had bent himself bravely against many an adverse blast before, and had triumphed. Now, however, the bare possibility that he might not be able to stem the torrent and prevent the proud, affectionate and high-souled Maria from throwing herself away for one fit only to be mated with a fury, drove him almost to desperation. And he now abhorred himself for having, in his early professional career, labored successfully to shield the young marauder's father, the elder Knight, from the rigorous judgment with which every good society scourges the seducer and the adulterer. He had been paid liberally in money for his services. But now he trembled lest the penalty should fall upon his own head, to be paid only with a daughter's happiness and a daughter's life. And what amount of gold could pay parental love for such a sacrifice? He had seen a whole family fall through tenacious sympathy for one who had first fallen. And might not such be the case with his family? Had he not hugged a viper in that moment of his young ambition? And Mr. Williams walked to and fro in his office and smote his breast, nay, groaned outright as he contemplated the possibility.
               Oh, what can compensate for the errors of a misguided ambition in such an hour as that? "Would to God," the hitherto dauntless father cried, "I had let the iron grip of the law fall upon the deserving victim! My lovely daughter—yes, my whole family—threatened with disgrace and ruin! Oh, God forbid! It cannot be!"
               But Mr. Williams was still a man of nerve as well as of pride; and before the rising of another sun his resolution was taken—firmly and unalterably taken.
               He chid not the loving but erring Maria. He reproved not the devoted and suffering wife and mother, who suffered the more as she saw the terrible effect the revelation of what Maria had done had upon him, and knew, as she knew all the workings of his grasping mind, that there must be some deep and dreadful cause for his wretchedness and fear, on account of Maria's rashness.
               Mr. Williams had learned all that a faithful wife could tell him, and had learned that Knight was to revisit his struggling, toiling and repentant victim, the beautiful Maria, in a day or two from that time. And summoning all his resolution he commanded—gently but firmly and imperiously—that young Knight should never again be permitted to cross the threshold of their door until he had not only raised himself above reproach—which Mr. Williams knew already rested upon him—but above suspicion also. Till that time came, the "engagement" should be treated with scorn.
               On the following day, accordingly, when young Knight came, he was denied admission to the house, or an interview with the object of his visit. He insisted, but was threatened with summary punishment if he continued his endeavor; and finally he was compelled to retire, with what grace he could command, mentally swearing triumph and vengeance in terms of profanity which, had they been heard, would have established his most extravagant claims to high proficiency in that polite accomplishment.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  
                     
                        "It is night,
                        Deep, brooding, awful night! The woman yet
                        Sits listening, 'tween the deep soughs of the sea,
                        And the mad wailings of the mournful blast,
                        For sounds of him she waiteth."
                     
                  
               
               LATE in the month of September, and late in the evening, four months after the events of the preceding chapter, a young and extravagantly-dressed gentleman sprang from a coach which stopped before a passable-looking dwelling in Bleecker street, west of Broadway, New-York, and assisted an elegantly-dressed young lady to alight.
               The lower part of the building was occupied as a shop; so, ringing the bell at the side-door, the two were ushered in, and, ascending the stairs, found several young people waiting to receive them. There, soon after, according to arrangements already made, the marriage ceremony was duly performed between the young couple who had just arrived; and Maria Williams took the dark name of Knight.
               The villainous, handsome and "elegant" bridegroom, had kept his oath of triumph and revenge. In vain had Mr. Williams striven to check the strong will and tame the terrible power of attachment which he well knew Maria had inherited from him, her father, and which the foul mesmeric witchery of young Knight had augmented to a fearful extent.
               
               On the day succeeding that of his repulse at the house of Mr. Williams, young Knight addressed the most piteous and desperately affectionate missive to the still suffering and still loving Maria; which, as it was directed by a woman's hand, she received and read. This letter, like the former, received no answer. But, nevertheless, it preserved the spell of the dark enchanter which had already fastened itself upon her warm heart; and as her father had not thought best to tell her all the objections to her being bound by her promise to him she loved, it increased the flame within her aching breast; and before the lapse of another day, thoughts of concealed rebellion against parental authority, which for the first time seemed to her unjustly stern, began to rise in her mind, and those thoughts soon ripened into an unalterable determination.
               It was under this state of affairs, that, a few days after, having ascertained by the aid of a grovelling busybody in the village, that Maria's father and mother were to be absent for the afternoon, young Knight again called to see the loving, angelic Maria; and with a little lying and perseverance toward those whom he first encountered at the door, he succeeded. The meeting was short but ardently familiar. Young Knight had gained the complete mastery over the heart of Maria. This was her first love, and she could not believe her first lover false. She felt sure he was good and noble.
               "Where there is a will there is a way," with mutual lovers at least. And from that moment Knight and Maria met repeatedly. And finally, when the fears of the father were nearly quieted, and hope again lighted up his countenance, the lovely daughter, in order to force Mr. Williams to a reconciliation, consented to a clandestine marriage, which was consummated by her flight to the city on the evening already designated, there to become a "wife," in the manner described.
               
                  
                     MARIA WAITING FOR HER LOVER.—Page 14.
                  
                  
                     DEPARTURE OF COUNSELLOR WILLIAMS FOR THE WEST.—P.43.
                  
               
               
               There were anxious wanderings and fearful forebodings in Maria's native hamlet on the day of her departure. She was not to be found; and the melancholy fact soon spread from the parental roof to every fireside in the little community. The long-suffering father, once more so suddenly roused from the delusions of hope, saw in the present unexplained crisis the realization of his worst fears; and sobs and tears, and groaning agonies, were the only relief for the members of that stricken household through all the long, weary night.
               "Oh! where is Maria—dear, darling Maria?" was the wild asking of mother, and sisters, and brother.
               Alas! how vain and useless!
               Immediately after their marriage, Knight and his lovely bride were conveyed to a second-class hotel and retired for the night, it having been previously agreed that on the following day the won, wedded, and, alas! the ruined, lost, innocent Maria, should return to her father, confess all, and implore his pardon for both of them.
               But the next day, as Knight had really determined it should be, was spent in the soft dalliance of love and indulgence. And the second day was spent in nearly the same manner, Maria being almost unwilling to mar the abyss of joy and love which it had cost her so much agony to gain. But on the third day her loving husband agreed with her determination to leave her parents no longer in mournful anxiety, to delay no longer the attempt to gain the pardon and reconciliation of her father. Accordingly, they set out in the morning boat up the Hudson, and landed a few miles from the hamlet early in the afternoon. Here Knight employed a coachman to convey Maria to her father, bidding him to wait long enough to ascertain the result of Maria's endeavors.
               But how greatly had the hitherto idolized Maria mistaken the sternness of an outraged father!
               She found him at home, and, for the moment, alone, gloomy and haggard. Bursting into tears, she knelt at his feet, and clasping his hand, cried, "Father, forgive me! I am still your loving daughter!"
               As her father said nothing, she continued:
               "Father, do not frown upon me. I have done wrong, I know, I know. Forgive me—and him. I am married, but—"
               The father bounded to his feet as if stung by a death-pang, and, with the voice and visage of a madman, yelled—
               "But! Go! Tell me no more!"
               The vigorous but graceful form of the lovely Maria lay swooning upon the floor, while the proud and agonizing father paced heedlessly to and fro, as Mrs. Williams, who had heard the uncommon energy of her husband's voice, entered the room.
               "O Heaven! what means it?" she cried, bending over her prostrate and senseless daughter.
               Receiving no answer, Mrs. Williams as hastily rose, and, approaching her husband with loving and agonizing supplication, said—
               "Husband, will you not tell me?"
               He answered the wife's appeal, for he had not learned to withstand the pleadings of that voice yet; and pale with the terrific workings of his woe, he pointed to their prostrate daughter, and with an energy which died away to a whisper said—
               "She is married! damned!"
               The mother reeled as if about to fall for a moment, but with the first rebound of a mother's love, which never forsakes the true mother's heart, she set herself about resuscitating the pale and prostrate being before her—a task which was soon partially accomplished.
               There were sighs, and groans, and tears, and supplications, in that once happy house, during all that night.
               Maria revived sufficiently to be able to tell the story to her mother which her father refused to hear, making that mother's anguish tenfold greater than before, as she gazed upon Maria and thought of the villanies she had lately heard concerning Knight, and the iron will of her own half-puritan and conscientious husband. The sisters heard the story, and supplicated the father upon their knees in Maria's behalf; but they supplicated in vain. Those ears were deaf to appeals for the sanction of social outrage. They had touched a chord to which that father's proud will could not unbend.
               The coachman became tired, and returned to young Knight without any tidings other than what could be gleaned through closed windows.
               On the following day, as Maria was comparatively recovered from the shock of that sad night, a third attempt, in which the whole family united, was made to conquer the opposition of the father; but the sting could not be removed from his lacerated heart and conscience, and his determination rose in proportion to the assaults it had to encounter. To his wife he repeated the story of young Knight's father; how he committed the beastly crime of adultery, and the damnable crime of adulterous seduction, thus working the ruin and causing the death of a lovely being whom, as he had afterwards learned from Mrs. Williams' own lips, she had regarded as one of the fairest of God's creatures; adding the later reports concerning young Knight himself. And he continued:
               "You and I are near the down-hill of life. We owe a duty to God and our fellow-men above any consideration of self and self-interest. And even that paltry end we could not gain if we would, by nursing this young wolf, Knight, in our midst; for such a wolf—nay, worse, a polite, a 'fashionable' devil—I believe him to be. Till we are fully convinced of the contrary, shall we sanction this infernal outrage of wealthy licentiousness upon the innocent hearts and peaceful homes of a happy community? For myself, I say never, never, NEVER! Give me beggary, death, starvation, rather than this!"
               The wife and mother made no reply, and he continued again:
               "If the young fiend who has feasted his infernal nature upon the life, the happiness, ay, the very soul of our poor daughter, has at last repented—O God! can such baseness repent?—let her go with him; let her return to him to-day, and he will take care of her and protect her, and we shall know it all before the expiration of another month. If not—if he is base as he seems, still by some magic power he has bound her, and, in spite of all we can do, she is lost, lost, LOST!"
               And as he concluded, the writhings of that proud, brave, strong man, were fearful to look upon. But suddenly recovering himself, he added:
               "Let her go; he is waiting to see her at — landing. Let us bear the blow. I wish not to see her to-day—I cannot, will not see her!"
               The father was inexorable; and late in the day, a message having been received from Knight, the still trusting and hoping Maria, amid mutual sobs and tears, took leave of mother, brother, and sisters, and departed in the carriage which was waiting for her, alas! never, never to return to her childhood's home!
               That night Maria and her loved husband again put up at the same hotel they had left on the previous morning.
               Days—long, gloomy days in the home of the once supremely happy Williams family—had stretched themselves into weeks, till nearly two months had elapsed, when Sarah, who had not been beyond her usual garden walk since the departure of Maria, received the following brief, but urgent note, superscribed as if with Sarah's own hand:—
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              50 —— STREET, NEW-YORK, DECEMBER 1ST, 1850.
                              MY DARLING SISTER:
                           
                           Can you not come to me at once! Oh, do, if but for an hour! I am wretched beyond power to tell. A fearful destiny is mine. I am—almost—mad!
                           
                              MARIA.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The arrangement was made, with the consent of the father and mother, as an act of parental charity, and the twin sisters met on the following afternoon, at the house of Mrs. Sanborn, an aged female acquaintance and distant relative of the Williams family, living in New-Jersey, a few miles from New-York city, and not far from the line of the Hudson and Erie Railroad, which was the principal channel of communication between the hamlet and Mrs. Sanborn's place of residence. Sarah was accompanied by young Williams, her brother; but Maria, who came by the same railway, was compelled to come alone. The meeting of the two sisters was sad and tearful. The embrace was long and speechless. The story which revealed Maria's wretchedness was short and mournful. She confessed that she had been duped, betrayed, ruined, neglected and cursed.
               One night, about three weeks from the time of her return to New-York, she had watched with burning illness, and maddening anxiety—on account of fearful suspicions which had then already been aroused in her hitherto trusting heart—for the return of her husband; when, as the clock struck one, he entered, with horrid oaths, in a state of shameless intoxication, and accompanied by a young man about his own age, more beastly and brutal than himself.
               The doors were locked, the keys secreted from Maria, and in the same room the three spent the awful night. Her husband brought out wine, and forced her to drink again and again; and when she remonstrated, and at length appealed to him to remember his marriage vow, so lately taken, he drew the certificate from his pocket, and with drunken laugher and scorn held it in the blaze of the lamp and then cast into the fire. Subsequently she recognized in the stranger present the person who had officiated as clergyman at the cruel mockery of her marriage; and then the maddening conviction burst upon her that she—she who had thought herself a wife—who had been proclaimed such so lately—was no wife; that she was in danger of becoming, rather, what those same blasphemous lips that before uttered that sacred word, wife, now coarsely and fiendishly proclaimed her, a—prostitute!
               To drown the awful conviction, to smother the awful sense of degradation that tore her proud heart, she drained her cup to its dregs, and finally slumbered with her exquisite and beastly lover upon the floor. That night died Maria's hope of reconciliation with her father.
               Morning came; and with it came aching heads to Knight and his companion, and a bleeding, breaking heart to Maria. Knight kept up the debauch until fever and delirium relieved his beastly drunkenness, and he was carried away by some of his friends to the home of his "highly respectable" parents, where, for aught Maria knew, he was still sick.
               Thus Maria—the beautiful, idolized, graceful, lovely, angelic Maria—had fallen from the heavenly height of innocence, and purity, and happiness, and love, never more to rise, however hard she might strive. She, soul-stained and degraded, could not ask again to see her father, whom she had repeatedly wounded, and who, as she suspected, had learned the whole character of young Knight since the day she left her home, and who, she doubted not, had already given her up as lost and ruined forever.
               She drank wine again to blunt her agonies, till wine and money were gone, and the foundation for a career of social infamy was deeply laid. And at length necessity compelled her to receive aid and attention from one of Knight's particular friends.
               Day after day she contemplated suicide, to save her family from reproach; and yet her moral bravery delayed the act from day to day, till at length, in a calm and desperately resolute moment, she resolved to send the note which had brought them together to her sister—her twin sister by nature and education, in all respects like her—had she been otherwise, Maria could not have met her, even—that she might speak to her once more before her doom was sealed, and she had passed into the harlot's grave.
               The wailings of the twin beauties over this recital were loud and heart-rending; and the young brother, and the old lady, Mrs. Sanborn, in spite of the request and commands of Maria, were compelled by their uncontrollable emotions to enter into it, and exert all their power to arrest the black tide which was hurrying Maria into the tomb.
               But there was a wound in Maria's proud, though humane nature, whose bleeding could not be healed; she could not return home, and only consented to go back to the city from whence she came, there, martyr-like, to attempt to support herself honestly, and live for a loftier purpose than the gratification of the senses and the passions. And lest she might feed the tongue of scandal by the possession of money, she refused, with the still characteristic pride of her family, to receive anything from any one, that she might be compelled to keep her resolution, and at once set herself about some honorable means of support.
               Alas, poor Maria! how sadly did she over-estimate the pharisaic humanity of a great, hollow-hearted and grasping commercial city, where the breath of defamation sweeps through the length and breadth of every street, while the voice of charity is everywhere drowned in the din of the market-place.
               According to a promise made, Maria continued to write frequently but briefly to her sister for some months;—at first, encouragingly; then despondingly; then, reservedly; and then—not at all!
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        "A thousand years hence, when we both are dammed,
                        We'll sit like ghosts upon the wailing shore,
                        And read our lives by the red light of hell."
                     
                  
               
               MARIA had fallen to a still lower deep. On her return to New-York, filled with her high resolve to earn her living, she commenced to find employment and succeeded. She did not earn her living. But it was the old story—plenty of work and no pay—shirts at a shilling a pair—toil and fasting—weariness and starvation. There was only one way in which she could for a time keep out of the almshouse or Potter's Field. But the loving Sarah, to whom she was linked by soul, and flesh, and blood, would not give her up thus, without another effort, earnest as her earnest life's endeavor could make it. She had visited every ten days the house of Mrs. Sanborn, where she had last met Maria, and where all Maria's letters had been received and answered. And it was here that on her second visit, and presently at every visit, she met a young man whom we must call Gordon (though that was not his name) from Brooklyn, whom she had accidentally met at the same place a year before.
               And, as Madame de Stael says, "there is often in the heart some innate image of the beings we are to love, that lends to our first sight of them almost an air of recognition," so from the first, a mutual liking had sprung up between Sarah Williams and Gordon, and, as may be supposed, it was to nourish that fast ripening love-liking, that young Gordon always happened to call upon Warren, Mrs. Sanborn's grandson, about the time that the handsome, intelligent, and warm-hearted Sarah Williams called to hear from her sister.
               The two young men Gordon and Warren were not only strong friends, but they were nearly of the same age, neither of them being more than nineteen years. In mind, manners, stature, and general appearance, too, unfortunately they were very much alike; so that one was often mistaken for the other by those who had only an imperfect acquaintance with either of them.
               At first, at the request of Sarah, Warren only acted as bearer of dispatches to and from Maria. But finally, Gordon, who came from New-York about as often as Warren went there, became jointly interested with him, from motives of humanity and affection, in keeping up the correspondence between the twin sisters.
               And here the storm gathers again. The morning sun of love gleams in "bloody portent," and as the sequel will show, it soon beamed no more in "saffron hope;" and in its setting, darkness brooded over the soul of Sarah as impenetrably and fearfully as it had before done over the soul of the lovely Maria.
               During the time that Sarah had continued to receive regular messages from her sister, Gordon had twice visited her at her father's house; and as he was believed by all to be sincere in his attachment, no objection was at any time made to his continuing his visits, although Sarah's father had not forgotten the almost crushing loss he had so recently sustained in the person of the still lamented Maria. In fact, that was a blow from which the family never recovered, and which in its consequences wrought the misery of three families and the complete ruin of one of them.
               Such, to the last, was the devotion of the twin sisters to each other, that they could not and would not be entirely separated on the borders of time.
               And when at length Sarah failed to get any further tidings from her forlorn sister, by means of writing and the mediation of a simple-minded and honest old dame of the wash-tub who had hitherto always known the whereabouts of Maria, and acted as postmaster between her and the young men in behalf of Sarah, Gordon, by accident or otherwise, succeeded in once more finding the dwelling-place of Maria.
               Hope once more rose in Sarah's bosom, and with no thought but the glorious promptings of sister love and conscious rectitude, she prevailed upon Warren once more to oblige her by the attempt to see and speak to Maria himself.
               Warren succeeded, and the interview was long and earnest. Maria refused for some unexplained reason, to go into New-Jersey to see her sister, according to Sarah's desire; and at length he went away, carrying no message other than, "Tell Sarah Maria is well!"
               This singular intelligence, given at Maria's own command, so alarmed the hitherto hoping Sarah, that on the following morning, without thinking of any possible harm that might arise, she resolved, in company with Warren and Gordon, to go herself and learn from Maria's own lips what great change had so suddenly come over her, that she should thus rashly and completely resign herself to the life she was leading, without an effort to escape from it, and even declare herself to be happy in it.
               This resolution Sarah kept with a true woman's will; and on the following day she too rang at the door of a fashionably built house in Mercer street, and in another moment threw her arms around her still beautiful and still dear sister Maria, and wept like a child.
               And while the tears were yet falling hot and fast, and the young men looked on in painful silence, there, on her knees, Sarah, still clasping her "poor, poor sister," begged and implored Maria to go with her to the country, away from the seductive blandishments and foul arts of New-York's high road to infamy and ruin. But for that, again, she plead in vain. The heart-broken but still proud Maria yet shed no tears; but she spoke:
               "Sarah, I know the sincerity of your endeavors, the truth of your motives; and I have not fallen so low that I would not embrace the opportunity you picture to me for returning to happiness, and home, and heaven; but it is not possible ble. And why warn me of infamy and ruin? Am I not infamous and ruined already? Nay, am I not cast off by a noble and outraged father, and forgotten by a weeping mother, and all because I did not heed their warning? O God! speak no more of this, or I must fly where you will never see me again!"
               "No, darling Maria, my other life, my poor, dear, outraged sister, it is not as you say. Go with me to-day—now! and you shall yet be safe, respected. I forgive you. Our poor father, who never denied us anything, who still weeps day and night for his first-born, his darling Maria, will forgive and bless you! Our dear mother, who is dying with sorrow for you, will weep fresh tears for joy at your return, and will take us together to her bosom again, as before. Our noble brother, and our little sister too, so long sorrowing and sad, will be merry again if you will return. The aged people of our native village, and all our dear friends, will pity and bless you. The world will forgive you. The good God will bless you. Angels will smile upon you. We will run upon the hill-tops and by the streams again, always together, always good, always loved truly. The twin sisters, Maria and Sarah, shall live once more in all their former love, and joy, and happiness. Come! O say you will go with me! Come! come!"
               Sarah clasped both Maria's hands, and looked into her face, mingling smiles of love, and hope, and supplication, with tears of anguish.
               Maria could endure no more. She threw her arms around Sarah's neck and sobbed long and loud.
               At length, Sarah unloosed Maria's arms from her neck, and brushed back her lustrous raven tresses, and kissed her again and again, and once more said:
               "Dear, suffering, angel sister, now let us go! 'Tis late."
               Maria, gentle as a lamb, her frame trembling like an aspen leaf, and the tears still falling fast upon her rich robes, consented sented to go; and after some opposition on the part of the landlady—herself a marvellously beautiful, but fallen, and now remorseless woman—by the determined interposition on the part of the young men, the twin sisters, hand in hand, left that house of gaudy wretchedness, as they all trusted, forever, and, in company with Gordon and Warren, returned to Mrs. Sanborn's.
               Alas! how little did they dream that another blow was to fall upon them, and yet another, and that all would be crushed by its fall.
               On the following morning, Sarah, whose success had made her more full of glee than her own former self even, in the hope of reclaiming her long lost sister, made arrangements to return to the hamlet with Maria, who had on the previous night promised to accompany her, and for whom she was to risk every endeavor to gain the pardon of the father and mother for their erring child.
               But in the morning Maria, whose heart-breaking penitence had again given place to pride, the fear of her father's displeasure, and the determination not to disgrace the family by keeping her promise and returning to their midst, refused to return; and Sarah was compelled to go alone, after exacting from Maria the promise that she would remain where she was until they should meet again, which was to be at the expiration of a week, at farthest.
               After the departure of Sarah, Warren was the only young person remaining to keep companionship with Maria, while the feeble old lady, Mrs. Sanborn, was attending to her daily household affairs.
               For two days all went well; but on the third Warren was called away in the morning, and Maria's returning pride and conscious loneliness and degradation overcame all her better resolutions, and, in spite of the old lady's remonstrances and entreaties, she returned to New-York in the afternoon.
               
               Warren returned on the same evening, and was not less sad than Mrs. Sanborn that their endeavors had failed, and that Maria had fallen from her resolution. Accordingly, on the following day he again sought Maria—in whom, in spite of himself, he already felt an undefinable interest—in the great city, and there he once more found her; and, never dreaming that he, too, was then standing on the brink of a black abyss, his stay was prolonged for some hours, and finally he took a walk in the street, and to a fashionable resort in Broadway, with the now half-reckless Maria.
               Those who are acquainted with the workings of the human heart, know how easy it is to pass from one wrong to another. That lesson Warren—sanguine, sincere and magnanimous Warren—was now beginning to learn.
               Those who understand the workings of the human heart, know, too, how much easier it is to stifle the pleadings of love and humanity the second or third time than the first. That lesson Maria, alas! had already too dearly learned; and when she recovered from the deep emotions produced by her sister's pleadings a few days before, she, with hopeless and desperate determination, resolved never to be so moved again. Hence she had forfeited a sister's promise, in the idle attempt to blot from her heart a sister's love. And Maria, half in revenge against the polite and fashionable rottenness of society, which had ruined her, and half on account of Warren's noble disposition, had now turned speculator in men's hearts, as the image of a man had speculated in hers. So, when Warren was about to leave her, at the door of her splendid boarding-house, she imprinted a seductive kiss upon his brow, and requested him to call again.
               The hitherto guileless Warren slept that night only to conjure up strange and fanciful dreams of love, romance, and indulgence; and on the following day, according to the fascinating Maria's request, went again, bearing with him some valuable gifts, to spend long hours in the music of her
                     MARIA CURSED BY HER FATHER, AFTER HER MOCK MARRIAGE WITH KNIGHT. Page 19.
                  
                   melodious voice and in the sunlight of her bewitching smiles. Warren was henceforth under the spell of the enchantress, hugging the sweet delusion of an ardent, but misplaced first love.
               Sarah, meantime, had learned the faithlessness of her sister; and this, with the still firm denial of her father—who, quite unknown to her, and with the death-cling of a father's affection for a worshipped child, had learned of the career of Maria—so wrought upon her over-strained nature, that a short but severe illness delayed her visit to Mrs. Sanborn's for some days. And on the day she was about to set out for her regular visit, the crushing intelligence came to her father, from one who said he had seen with his own eyes, mistaking Warren for Gordon, that her loved Gordon, too, was a foul deceiver, who kept company daily and almost nightly with her ruined sister Maria, thus plotting the deeper woe of all.
               Goaded to madness with his long-borne suspense and final rayless agony, yet fearful of crushing Sarah by the seeming severity of unqualified restraint upon her actions, Mr. Williams firmly though sadly forbade her ever again to allow Gordon to come into his presence, and left all else to her; trusting that if anything went wrong during Sarah's frequent visits to Mrs. Sanborn's, that excellent old friend and relative would not fail to make it known—for at every visit Sarah brought to him and the rest of the family some friendly message from the good old dame.
               But in the strong and earnest nature of Sarah, as in that of Maria, there was a tenacity of affection which no change of fortune could eradicate, and a love for her poor sister which no accumulation of wrongs could destroy. And Sarah could not and would not believe that Maria, her lately so penitent and darling sister, would be instrumental in working her ruin, or that Gordon was so base and treacherous as to join in the undertaking; and on the following morning she resolved to hasten to Mrs. Sanborn's and learn from Warren the truth or falsehood of the dreadful report. At noon of the same day, Sarah left the cars and proceeded directly to Mrs. Sanborn's.
               Sarah had seen her mother go to rest in tears on the previous evening, as on many a recent evening before, and now it was her turn to weep again; for Warren, who met her with a slightly saddened smile, had no tidings for her, of either Maria or Gordon, since their departure from the humble home of his grandmother. And now, too, she in turn was forced to embrace the awful suspicion that she was duped, and that Maria's fall, as her father had months before suggested, menaced the whole family with inextricable ruin.
               On the following morning Sarah flew to the city, determined to search out the hidden mystery. By mere accident, late in the forenoon, she encountered Maria in an obscure street, and rushing up to her frantic with excitement, she held her firmly by the arm, unable to speak, her eyes glaring wildly.
               "Sarah!" exclaimed the terrified Maria.
               "Maria!" yelled she in return, gasping for breath, "would you ruin all of us? father, mother, brother, sister, me! all! ALL!" And she flung Maria's arm from her, hissing, "Vile wretch!"
               "Sarah!" again screamed the frightened sister, "what have I done?" And as Maria was again advancing, Sarah exclaimed with the withering emphasis of desperate scorn, "Stop, poor thing!" But presently she added, earnestly, "Where is Gordon? Tell me, as you value your own poor soul!"
               "Sarah!" again continued Maria, "let God witness, I have not seen him since I saw you! But come with me; we are in danger. Tell me the meaning of this madness!"
               "Danger! What—but—yes, I will go," continued Sarah. And turning two corners, the sisters entered number one hundred and — Duane street, and immediately retired to a private room, where Sarah repeated the story which had gone to her father.
               "Upon my soul I have not seen him," was Maria's answer, to whose mind the origin of the report was immediately clear; but she said not a word of having been in the street with Warren, as she was sure Warren would say nothing of having seen her.
               Long did the sisters talk together; but there was now a cold-hearted something in Maria's manner which the suffering Sarah could not fathom, and being compelled to leave her sister as she found her, Sarah returned once more to Mrs. Sanborn's, more in agony than before, fearing, trembling, and throbbing with pain, to make another attempt, by the assistance of Warren, to break through the thickening darkness.
               On the following day Warren was despatched to Brooklyn to inquire after Gordon, having first taken the precaution to write a note for him, in case he should not be found at home.
               Upon arriving at Brooklyn Warren learned three important facts: first, that young Gordon was sick; second, that he was making preparations to go west; and third, that it had been reported of late that he had often been seen in company with a disreputable female entering a disreputable house in Duane street, on the other side of East River—in New-York.
               Being denied an interview by the servant who came to the door, Warren left his note for young Gordon, and returned to Jersey to report progress to Sarah, having made a friendly call upon Maria on the way, who appeared more than ever glad to see him, and by a little extra attention plunged him still deeper in love and obedience to her desires.
               Sarah's worst convictions seemed thus to be sufficiently fortified; and her love for Maria fell, as the love of Warren for the same beautiful but erring creature rose. And on the following morning, having addressed a note to Gordon, which, to secure its delivery, she charged Warren to superscribe and deliver in person, the dejected and sorrowful Sarah returned home to await the result of her last appeal to her beloved and really faithful Gordon.
               At the expiration of a week, young Gordon being sufficiently recovered to travel so far, made his appearance in the little hamlet up the Hudson, and presenting himself at Counsellor Williams' mansion, inquired for Sarah. According to orders, however, the faithful old dame who supervised the more laborious affairs of the household, refused him admission; but the quick ear of anxious love had detected Gordon's voice, and before he left the steps Sarah sent word that she would send him a message in a few moments at the little domicil of the hamlet, which, for want of a more ostentatious building of the kind, was dignified with the name of hotel. Thither Gordon repaired, and the note soon followed: it was brief and to the point, as follows:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              GORDON:
                           
                           If you are really innocent of the charges against you, call at once at my father's office, and attempt, at least, to convince him of the fact.
                           
                              SARAH.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Gordon, who had learned all from Sarah's former note, and had seen the charges against him, came prepared. He went immediately, according to Sarah's directions, and with only a mannerly salutation, which the counsellor did not return, at once thrust before the eyes of Sarah's father the certificate of his physician that he had not been able to leave the house for sixteen day previous on account of severe illness.
               Counsellor Williams read the paper hastily, and, now alive to danger and suspicious to the last, believing it a base imposition, handed it back to Gordon, and, without uttering a word, pointed significantly to the door.
               Gordon returned to the hotel, and writing the result of his interview with the father, and a loving word for the anxious and suffering Sarah, inclosed it with the physician's certificate; and sent a boy to deliver it.
               
               Gordon and the physician's statement were both believed; and in twenty minutes Sarah answered that she would see him to-morrow at the house of his friend Warren.
               Gordon took the next boat to New-York, and on the following day, with a lover's promptitude, presented himself at Mrs. Sanborn's door, and inquired for Sarah.
               Sarah had not yet arrived, and young Gordon and Warren busied themselves in talking of the former's plans for his future in the West, whither he was to set out in a few days.
               Sarah soon arrived, however; and satisfactory explanations being speedily made, she, now also defiant from a feeling of outrage by some foul calumniator, determined to favor his attentions hereafter without her father's consent, since she could no longer do so with it.
               Sad indeed was the spectacle which the Williams family presented from that hour. At home the mother was daily in tears; the father had grown cold, gloomy and silent, and no smile ever chased away the furrows which time, business, and above all, mental agony were daily chiselling deeper and deeper in his manly features. The son, George, although then almost a man, and possessed of his father's pride, bravery and ambition, was unhappy and melancholy as a child who had lost his only toy and his last playmate. And the "little sister," as Sarah and Maria called her, although then in her seventeenth year, and beautiful as the morning, no more gave vent to her natural gaiety or sported by the little lake, near at hand, with the old Newfoundland dog, who had been young with her, and the toy of her infancy. Maria was lost; and Sarah, who still maintained her own innocence, was now gone much of the time, as had in fact before been arranged, to keep company with poor old Mrs. Sanborn. All was changed—oh, how sadly! Alas, how hopelessly! And yet a few months more, and how much more fearful was to be the change!
               As Gordon was so soon to leave, he and Sarah were together ther almost daily for the next two weeks, talking long and anxiously of each other—long and anxiously of Maria too, and from a mistaken magnanimity, sometimes going together to see her. And by this means it became more and more certain to those who were watching the course of events that, as had before been reported, Gordon was really keeping company with the "woman of the pave," Maria, whom the general observer could never distinguish from Sarah, till finally the horrid scandal was asserted that Sarah, too, had fallen! And the detailed evidence upon which this assertion rested was such that only a possibility of mistake prevented the father from sending her, too, out from the paternal shelter, never to return. She had been seen in a disreputable street, entering a notoriously disreputable house in that street. At one time she was seen alone; at another with Gordon; then in company with two men; then with other women of known bad character! That it was difficult to distinguish Sarah from Maria, the father had never forgotten. But that there was another mutual acquaintance of his twin daughters who was often mistaken for Gordon, neither Mr. Williams nor Gordon's parents seem ever to have known, or if they had known, they did not now remember. And how could Mr. Williams doubt? Yet he did doubt; and Sarah went as before, often to Mrs. Sanborn's, though less frequently to call upon Maria.
               But as it was, the burden was too heavy to bear; and Mr. Williams already began to look westward for an escape from the daily remembrance of the lasting and fatal blight which had fallen upon his hitherto spotless and peerless family. There, amid the new scenes and new cares of pioneer life, he hoped much of the wreck of his lovely household might be saved and their sorrows forgotten.
               Three weeks flew by, and Gordon had taken a long, sad, tearful and devout farewell of Sarah—such a farewell as only passes between lovers—and was flying over railroads and rivers to Indiana, in the great West.
               Sarah was, for a time, more sad than ever. But hope triumphed, and having returned almost permanently to her father's, she soon regained as much of her former cheerfulness as it was possible for a sympathizing nature to do in the midst of the saddened hearts of those rendered dear by every tie from earliest infancy.
               Her affection for her sister was still strong, against all mysteries and all wrongs. Yet it was necessary for their happiness that Sarah should conceal from her parents her continued intercourse either with Gordon or Maria; and cherishing a gleam of hope, such as only such a sister could cherish, that Maria might yet, by some instrumentality, rise from her degradation, before Gordon's departure they had made arrangements to keep up a mutual interchange of love through the agency of Maria, in which, for further security, and in compliment to the object of his love as well as to gratify his own caprice, Gordon, preserving one of his own initials and assuming the name of his favorite, was to be rechristened Henry Williams. In accordance with this plan, Gordon was to direct his letters to number one hundred and thirty Duane street, New-York, and Maria promised to put new envelopes upon them and forward them in different ways, at different times, to her sister in the country. Thus Sarah would not only quite certainly hear from her beloved Gordon, but also, without offending her parents by a direct correspondence with either him or poor Maria, would from time to time know that her sister lived, and that there was still hope. And what humane and guileless heart shall say that this was not a laudable arrangement? Was it not the noble spirit of a heroine and a martyr which led Sarah to say to Gordon, as this plan was consummated;
               "We will yet triumph, through our very sincerity, over all obstacles. Your friends shall confess their shame at having defamed you. And the foul and dastard tongue that said I had fallen with my deceived and outraged sister, shall cleave to the roof of its owner's mouth; and oh, God willing, that darling sister, with you, my love, to assist me, shall yet rise sinless and pure; and we all shall be happy together; and our now suffering parents shall bless us with their latest breath! Shall it not be so? I know what you would say," she continued, as Gordon clasped the brave and lovely Sarah to his bosom in speechless emotion.
               But Gordon is gone. Let him go, while we look once more after his elder friend, Mrs. Sanborn, and his companion Warren, and the poor Maria.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  
                     
                        "And her thin finger, like a moonlight wand,
                        Pointed the waves where brightening things swam slow
                        
                        "I am a mother—spirits do not shake
                        Thus much of earth from them—and I must pine
                        Till I can feel his little hands and take
                        His weary head upon this heart of mine."
                     
                  
               
               WARREN has become irregular in his habits, and gloom is clustering under the silver locks of his tottering and sorrowing guardian. Her suspicions were awakened soon after the visit of Maria; and at length she too is wretched. Day by day is Warren more inattentive to her wants. Day by day is he, surrendering to the enchantment which the half-loving, infatuated and fallen Maria is throwing around him. And finally she learned the truth! In vain did she plead and remonstrate. On headlong to ruin went Warren. She bowed her aged head and wept and prayed, waiting only, tearfully and patiently, for that unerring messenger who calls all suffering mortals, sooner or later, but comes always too slowly for the broken-hearted, to ransom her from her last and greatest affliction. And a few months after, pitying friends laid the no more sorrowing Mrs. Sanborn down to rest beside the long silent friends of other days.
               Mr. Williams and his family mourned another loss, the loss of one who had been their whole life's friend, their second mother. And Sarah planted flowers and evergreens, and watered them with her weeping, over all that remained of one who had bestowed so much kindness and sympathy upon her; and one—oh! the harrowing thought—who had drooped to the grave on account of the fatal danger to which she had innocently exposed Warren. And thus another tie which bound the Williams family was broken. One act in this tragedy of treachery, in which young Knight was the first actor, was finished. One family had fallen in the attempt to save Maria.
               From the time of Mrs. Sanborn's death, Warren gave himself up to Maria, and to indolence, though he still preserved a fair exterior and dressed at the top of the fashion. He was a "man of the town," a "lady's man," in the worst sense of that term. To Maria, however, on whom his existence now depended, he was the most obliging of lovers; and her commands saved him from excessive intemperance and the blight and horrors of the debauchee which he would otherwise doubtless have experienced. Hers was the stronger will, the ruling mind.
               The courtesan, Maria, maintained a high position among those of her kind. And as her physician subsequently testified, she in her fall was still "a prostitute of a superior grade"—"a very honorable and sincere woman;" a woman, like a thousand others in the same sphere in New-York, whose native sense of propriety never forsook her in the midst of all improprieties; a woman respectable in her infamy. Thus with her vigorous constitution, her pride, and her control over Warren, the two descended the howling and hideous declivity to the doom before them, slowly, almost imperceptibly— enjoying a comparative happiness—Warren living in fatal and voluptuous ease.
               In a few months unmistakable signs of the fruits of sexual affinity began to manifest themselves. This was a new trial to the still reflecting Maria and to Warren, who at length saw an interruption to his course of lecherous felicity, and in consequence sometimes thought long and seriously of the past; of his grandmother, long since dead of a broken heart; of Gordon, his old friend, now far away, and he doubted not virtuous, prosperous and happy; of his mother, who nursed him far back as his memory could go; of his father, now gone, he knew not whither.
               Maria, too, had more numerous and grievous thoughts. And sometimes both together thought and talked of a complete and radical reform, of being married, and going far away into the country, there to commence a new life among strangers and beyond danger.
               But Warren had already, unawares, begun to fail in physical strength. And more than all, he knew little of getting a living anywhere, and nothing of systematic labor in the country. He had worked a while at various occupations; but without any one to look after him when away from Mrs. Sanborn, one by one he had left them all.
               Maria, about the time when he first saw her, had obtained a considerable amount of hush money from young Knight, upon her threatening to reveal to the proper authorities the secrets of a darker crime than that he had practised upon her. These secrets she learned from Knight's friend whose attentions she had received after Knight left her, as before stated. Conviction of that crime would at least send her destroyer to the penitentiary, whither she intended the still young monster should yet go. But she had learned that he had been for months absent from the city in order to escape the tough meshes of the law, or possibly, the tougher fabric of the halter. And thus her intentions were delayed.
               
               And now, as the time approached when she, the outcast and courtesan, was to become a mother, and her means of obtaining money by her trade and profession were gone for the present, she summoned all her prudence and discretion, and advised Warren to go into Pennsylvania, where he had yet an uncle living, there to remain till he should hear from her. And giving him twenty dollars, she added:—
               "This is the last. Go, but do not forget me or yourself."
               There was no other way for Warren, if he hoped to retain her favor, and again to share the profits of her vital toil, but to submit; and on the following day he bade her adieu, and with a downcast eye and pallid lip, departed for Philadelphia, and from thence proceeded to Pittsburgh.
               A few days after Warren's departure, Maria, with no one present but an aged hag and her physician, was delivered of a son, over which she wept with alternate joy and grief, as a proud mother's love was chased away by the remembrance that her babe was an outlaw, under the ban of the society that had made him such, and exposed in a tenfold degree to the jeers, mockeries and deceptions of a jeering, mocking, uncharitable and treacherous world.
               But God was merciful to that little human waif; and at the age of one year he went up beyond the reach of inhumanity and danger, to remain for ever sinless and happy. And, as at his birth, so at his death, Maria, the unfortunate mother, wept with mingled joy and grief; joy that he was safe—grief that he was no more.
               Maria's illness and misfortune had not prevented her from the faithful discharge of her duty in forwarding young Gordon's letters to Sarah, who heard frequently of his welfare.
               That he had preserved his moral integrity was beyond question. He was located in Muscatine, Indiana; and soon after his arrival, had become a consistent member of the Baptist Church, and a member of the Black Hawk Lodge of Free Masons. At first he was successful in his trade, which
                     MARIA DISCOVERING THE DECEPTION OF HER MARRIAGE WITH KNIGHT. Page 21.
                  
                   was that of a hatter. But after a few months he became involved by some imprudent investment, and a considerable amount of liabilities in New-York were in danger of rendering him bankrupt. And in a desponding moment he communicated this new source of unhappiness, which already preyed upon his naturally weak constitution, to the only being on earth from whom he kept no secret—the true-hearted and affectionate Sarah.
               And here the wonderful strength of Sarah's noble nature made itself effectually manifest. A wealthy relative who had lately died had bequeathed to her $3,000. At the first impulse, and without consulting any one, she sought her lover's creditors, paid off some of his debts with her own hands, and made arrangements to have them all cancelled out of her own money.
               After Mr. Williams had nearly completed his arrangements for going West, his long-suffering wife was taken so seriously ill that their departure was delayed from week to week, till some months had elapsed. But at last, by the constant care of Sarah and her younger sister, Mrs. Williams was once more thought by her physician to be well enough to undertake the journey, and soon after they all set out together, anxious to escape from the immediate presence of those who had witnessed the fall of their pride and all their heart-crushing misfortunes.
               Journeying on by slow stages, and the easiest route, the once proud and popular—the still proud—lawyer Williams at length completed his journey, with all his family as well as when they left their once happy eastern home.
               By a singular circumstance of fate, Mr. Williams had, without knowing it, selected a dwelling-place not far from the abode of one whom he never wished to see again—one who had already added to his misery—one who he fancied was left far away. He was within a few miles of Muscatine, in the young giant State of Indiana.
               Here the rejuvenated husband and father soon established himself in a prosperous business. Here was his final home.
               Three or four months went by. Mrs. Williams, who had received too severe a shock by her past trials to recover her lost energies, continued little better, but apparently no worse than on her first arrival. Having business at Muscatine, Mr. Williams asked Sarah, herself now being habitually sad, to accompany him, as she had not been abroad since their arrival at their new home. And as her younger sister was already sufficiently old and prudent to manage all ordinary affairs within doors, and George was sufficiently mature to look after his father's local affairs for a night and a day, Mr. Williams and Sarah set out, one fine September morning in 1854, in their own carriage, and in a few hours arrived safely in Muscatine.
               Nothing occurred during the afternoon of their arrival to mar the happiness of Mr. Williams; and although Sarah appeared somewhat more troubled and anxious than usual, he attributed it to a slight illness of which she complained early in the morning, and seemed more hopeful and cheerful than for long months previous. But as evening came, what was his consternation and surprise to meet Gordon, the to him worthless Gordon, at the supper table! The old sufferings, the old forebodings, the old withering memories of the past, the old agonies of wounded pride and blasted hopes, returned upon him with overwhelming force.
               Gordon dared not recognise either of them; he made no sign or word with her for whom love, by the aid of lurking disease, was now daily consuming him. And as for Sarah, who dreamed not of seeing here him for whom she was willing to make every sacrifice but that of a father's happiness, and who saw her father writhing with vital pain and again yielding to the despair of the three past years—for her the shock was scarcely less severe than for the others. With all three the consternation and emotion was so great as to arrest the attention of the strangers present.
               Instinctively, Gordon rose and left the table, and Mr. Williams and Sarah followed as soon as propriety would permit. That was a night of mourning, sleepless anxiety, for Mr. Williams, Sarah, and Gordon.
               Gordon, who was in feeble health, with true lover's curiosity, was perplexed with a thousand conflicting thoughts. He knew that Mr. Williams had contemplated removal to the West; but from the departure of Sarah, Maria had neglected to perform her duty, and had retained all the letters which came from either way, all of which were to have been returned to the West, until at last Gordon wrote no more; and he had heard nothing directly from Sarah for four months. And on the other hand, as Sarah's brother was at once employed in their post-office, she dared not direct a letter to him so near, lest new suspicions should disturb the family, and all her few inquiries concerning him had failed; so that she had only heard of Gordon by occasionally seeing his name in the advertising columns of a newspaper. And all night long Gordon was waiting for some message from Sarah, and wondering the object of their visit, and longing for the return of day. And all night long Sarah was mourning for her father in his new and terrible unhappiness, and playing for a speedy and happy deliverance from her long suspense, and for the time to come when she might take Gordon by the hand in her father's presence, and say to that father, "Here are thy wronged, calumniated, and suffering, but innocent children; give us a father's blessing." And all night long she was wondering, with trembling, agonizing fear, if that time was ever to come.
               But a night darker than the going down of the sun and the veiling of the pale moon and the bright stars could make—a rayless, cheerless and unbroken night—the night of hope, and ambition, and joy, was settling upon Mr. Williams.
               He had borne up against the gloom of the previous evening sufficiently to finish the remainder of his business, and before the morning sun arose to mock his misery, Mr. Williams and Sarah were on their way homeward.
               He had ridden for a long distance, speaking only in monosyllables, the pitying, and suffering, and loving Sarah often in tears, when at length, resolved to know all at once, the proud, pale, and wretched father spoke, calmly and solemnly, as follows:
               "My daughter, can you tell me all?—you, for whom I lived and toiled for years—you, whom I almost worshipped morning and evening—you, for whose welfare I suffer all that is now upon me—can you tell a father to-day, as you used to tell him years ago, all that he would know, all that he ought to know, all that he must know soon, in order to save himself from ruin? There have been mysteries about your conduct which I could not unravel, because I would not so far doubt you as to think you would do anything to add to the misery of our long-suffering family. But now, when hope is again failing, when I meet with you one who, on your account, I hoped never to meet again, I can endure no longer in silence. Did you know, when we left home yesterday, that the base young man whom we saw at the table last evening was in the West?"
               "Base! base!" cried Sarah, with frightful earnestness; "he is not base! But father, forgive me. I, the daughter of whom and to whom you have been speaking, can tell you all! I knew that the good, the pure, the noble young man, Gordon, whom we saw at the table last evening, came to the West many months ago; that he lived in Muscatine; that he engaged in business and became a consistent member of a church there. I knew that the stories which had been told against him were false; that he was always truthful and honorable when at home; and that he continued to love me as well when far away through the whole long year as when near me daily; and I continued to love him in return, and still love him. And for this, dear father, do not blame me. But I had not heard from him since we came West."
               The conversation was continued with earnestness till Sarah had told her father all that he was most anxious to know, even all the history of her acquaintance and correspondence with Gordon, through the agency of the lost Maria, Could she have concealed this, he might have soon recovered hope, joy, life again. But they had now reached home—the father's doubts, fears, and gloom still resting heavily upon him, and Sarah still sad and trembling for the future.
               Now, however, a new and more painful subject demanded their immediate attention. The shattered constitution of Mrs. Williams had surrendered at last, beyond restoration, to her long, wasting and consuming grief. A new complication of diseases had already placed her beyond the control of the physician's power; but after lingering and suffering the severest pain of mind and body for three weeks, she revived for an hour, with unearthly vigor, to take each one by the hand and kiss and bless them; and then, with her last pulsation, exclaiming, "My poor, poor, lost, lost, lost Maria!" without a groan or struggle, she clasped her hands, and slept in dreamless, painless, wakeless slumber. Her ills had been immedicable, but they were cured. And they laid her to rest in the cold, wintry shadows of the primeval forest, beside the far-reaching waste of the now bleak and verdureless prairie.
               And yet another month went by—with no allusion to the past other than in the dumb but solemn eloquence of tears—another long, weary and dreary month of mourning and weeping, and disease was again visiting that little suffering, sorrowing flock; and before the howling, hungry blasts of February had fled to their northern home, Clara, the youngest-born, gentle, loving, beautiful as angels are, smiled sweetly, and slept beside her mother.
               Oh! what an hour of agony warring with agony, of woe feasting upon woe, of grief sporting with grief, was that! How that thrice wretched father strove with his overwhelming anguish as he thought of the fiendish outrage and of the fashionable monster who had opened the floodgates of destruction upon him and his lovely family, changing his little domestic heaven into a domestic hell, where only the innocent were to suffer, while the infamously guilty went unscourged.
               And how that father prayed in fervent misery that at least the remaining lambs of his little flock might be spared! But, alas, he prayed and agonized in vain! another was to go soon. The grasp of the destroyer was laid upon the hitherto robust and brave-hearted son and brother; and as March followed February, George followed his mother and Clara down into their still, cold resting-place. And three were gone, and with them hope, and fear, and happiness; but not yet, was fortune. The second act in the domestic tragedy was ended, and the curtain fell, only too soon to rise again.
               As fear subsided with the lessening of those in danger, Mr. Williams now returned to his long neglected business; but the long and grievous affliction in his family had overcome all minor considerations, and before a fear of pecuniary want had entered the mind of the sagacious business man, want itself appeared. Mr. Williams had invested a large portion of his considerable fortune in various ways, where he was obliged to depend more or less upon the ability and integrity of others; and while engaged in the soul-absorbing cares which crowded into a long period of disease and death at home, the financial disasters which were at that time destroying many larger fortunes than his all over the country, fell upon him also; and upon examination it was evident that when the law had done its work only a remnant of the fruits of a life of faithful industry would be spared. Thus did night settle darker and darker upon the existence of one whose early life had been cheerful and glad with vernal prosperity.
               Fortune, friends, and family, in comparison with which the rest were nothing, were now gone. There was no more hope for him here; and accordingly, in a few days, Mr. Williams, accompanied by his only child, his only companion and comforter, his only remaining treasure—Sarah, started for New-Orleans, where he had a relative whom he had not seen for years, but with whom a constant and friendly correspondence had been kept up.
               Sarah and her father arrived at St. Louis, where Mr. Williams decided to remain two days in order to learn the result of the only investment from which he had a hope of obtaining any return. This information he gained on the second day, only to learn that another misfortune was added to his already full measure. This one, however, he treated with comparative indifference, his only remaining anxiety being for Sarah, whose constant suffering and anxiety for him were steadily blanching out the rose upon her cheek and wasting her strength.
               But that hitherto brave and proud man, that still suffering and affectionate father, had here finished his journey. New-Orleans was still far distant, and far distant to him it was to remain; for on the day upon which they were to continue their journey, the morning sun lit up features almost rigid with physical suffering; Mr. Williams was fearfully ill. Physicians differed in opinion as to his malady, and whatever they did for him was unavailing. Once during the day, in a moment of comparative ease, he conversed of the past, and all the members of his now ruined family, save one. He even spoke of Gordon, and again, gazing into her face with joyous earnestness, he said:
               "My journey is completed here. I have not much longer to live, and I shall be ready to go at any moment, if I can go with the belief that you may yet find one to be true to you as a father. Do you yet know where Gordon is!"
               "Dear, dear, suffering father, do not speak of that now," cried Sarah, who had been all this time kneeling close by his bedside.
               "Sarah, dear," continued Mr. Williams, "you have hoped and suffered already too long; I must speak of him now, and believe me, you will yet be glad I have spoken. Say only whether you know where he is, and if he is still in the West."
               "I do know; he is still in the West, and has been so from the time he first came to Muscatine," replied Sarah.
               "It is enough," said Mr. Williams, his countenance lighting up as if a great burden had been lifted from his heart; and directing her to a letter which had been received during the illness of Mrs. Williams from a confidential friend in New-York, and had lain neglected and almost unread till the night previous, he continued, "There is a passage marked in it which I wish you particularly to read."
               Sarah opened the letter and read as follows:—
               
                  "A long time ago you asked me if I might not be mistaken concerning the report against young Gordon. I replied that I could not be mistaken; but I have recently had reason, to change my conviction, and knowing that you, and your daughter Sarah, and all your family have suffered severely on account of Sarah's connection with the former report, I now risk allusion to the past to say that I might have been mistaken as to young Gordon, and that I think I was mistaken. Another looked so much like him that he was often mistaken for him."
               
               "Another!" exclaimed Sarah; "yes, Warren, Warren! and Gordon is not base! Oh, father, dear, suffering father, I thank you! Pray God you may soon be well again."
               Mr. Williams was again in extreme pain, but controlling himself once more, he said:
               "It will not be; but do not weep. One crowning joy mantles my cup of sorrow—you will live to be happy after all this is over. When I am gone, go to Gordon and say a father commits you to his care with his dying blessing."
               Mr. Williams was silent, while the poor, suffering Sarah smoothed his brow, and wept as she saw him struggling under the contortions of pain, which were now becoming more and more unyielding. A skilful physician came into the room often, only to find his skill defied.
               The day passed, and the night wore on. Once, in an instant of delirious slumber, Mr. Williams called "Maria," with a clear and distinct utterance, and then groaning heavily, he awoke. The sleepless Sarah was standing over him—the clock had just struck one. He smiled faintly, and faintly said, "Sarah!" and spoke no more.
               The stricken eagle had fallen!
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               
                  
                     
                        "Sure she was nigher to heaven's spheres,
                        Listening the lordly music flowing from
                        The illimitable years!"
                     
                  
               
               SARAH, the saddened survivor of so much domestic happiness and love, and of so much sullen grief and despair, was now very ill herself. But with careful attention from pitying friends who had learned the hard tale of her recent afflictions, and inspired by the magic power of an unchained love, she soon recovered, and in ten days from her father's death she set out with a family who were going East as far as Buffalo, on her return to New-York.
               So great was her anxiety to hear from Gordon, while her other sufferings threatened her with the fate which overtook the rest of the family, that she wrote to him soon after her mother's death, and gave him directions in what way to address her without the knowledge of her father, whose feelings she was now more than ever anxious to spare.
               By this means she had learned that he was to depart soon to visit his parents, and would probably remain with them for several weeks; and she doubted not she should find him there on her arrival.
               Sarah was also now very anxious to know what had he come of the long silent and fallen Maria. Nor did she forget Warren. So that she lost no time in getting back to the great reeking city—the miniature world of New-York, where she arrived on the 15th of May, in this present year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-five; and carrying with her the strongest recommendations to friendship and sympathy from the gentleman and lady who had accompanied her from St. Louis to Buffalo, she soon after made her home with a very respectable acquaintance of theirs in Fourth street.
               Here she soon saw Gordon; and the interview was worthy of lovers who had undergone a long separation and the hardest trials, supported only by the undying affection which had again brought them together.
               Both had changed. On both of those young brows were traced marks of suffering, which had no place there two years before. But still, they must once more separate—only once more. Gordon was preparing to go West in order to settle up his unprosperous business, and then return to live while he lived, and die when he died, with Sarah, who had made so many sacrifices of time and fortune for him. In making preparation for that, and still seeing some old friends, he was to be for several days away from her, while she was also to spend a part of the time in the country.
               Sarah's next inquiry was for her sister and for Warren. She directed a note to Maria requesting to see her. To that note, and to a second and third, she received no answer. She next thought of her old friend, Mrs. Sanborn, and went once more to water the budding flowers upon her grave with the sacred waters of the affections. She went to the cottage and to a neighboring house, and inquired for Warren. But nobody knew anything of him.
               
               Sarah also went once more to the hamlet to see another old and tried friend of the Williams family. Here, where all the hideous past was revived, her emotions, added to the still lingering effects of her wasting vigils with her dying father and the fatigues of her journey, brought on another illness. But after remaining some days she returned to New-York, where her sufferings at length effectually overcame her; not, however, until she had met the now wasted and haggard Warren in the street, and learned from him that Maria was still living in the same place as formerly, and was anxious to see her, having been in another city at the time Sarah's notes were written, only one of which had been received. She also learned from Warren that he had seen Gordon since his return from the West, and that Gordon was still in financial troubles which he chose not to tell his father. This was a new source of trouble to the devoted being who had striven so hard for him. She had before ascertained that the money she left behind, on going West, was nearly exhausted. But still strong in love and hoping in sorrow, Sarah was soon comparatively well again; and as soon as she was able, she wrote as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              NEW-YORK, June 12, 1855.
                           
                           DEAR HENRY—I have been very sick or should have written you immediately upon my arrival in New-York. I was taken down so suddenly, and have been so unwell since, that I was not able to do so till now. I should have come out to see you to-day, but feel too weak; so I must wait with patience till your return, when I shall be so very happy to see you that I shall be quite well. Hoping you are as well and happy as I can wish you, I am yours, as ever,
                           
                              SARAH.
                           
                        
                        
                           I have inclosed a $3 bill on the Mechanics' Bank of Newark, New-Jersey.
                        
                     
                  
               
               On the same day Sarah once more addressed a note to Maria, requesting the latter to call upon her, that they might see each other once more at least, and only adding as a further inducement that the family were entirely broken up. And a few hours after the sisters were once more together.
               This meeting of the once beautiful and happy twins was more painful than any former one. Two years had written a fearful tale upon the lineaments of both of them.
               It was a long time before either spoke, otherwise than to call the other by name. Sarah still bore up bravely. But Maria—poor, loving, deluded, outcast, lost Maria—manifested evidences of sorrow and of sincere mental anguish, such as she had never before exhibited since the day of her fatal mock marriage.
               But at length drying her tears, and with all the past resting upon her with crushing weight, Maria spoke:
               "Where is my father?"
               Sarah could make no reply other than in tears; and Maria, with fearful eagerness, continued mournfully, and almost speechless from grief and apprehension:
               "Where is my mother?"
               A suppressed utterance, a wringing of the hands and a new fountain of tears, was still Sarah's only answer, as she was driven nearer and nearer to the terrible revelation, and gazed upon the picture of waiting misery before her; and Maria continued with wild earnestness:
               "Where is my brother? My sister? O God! tell me! tell me! Where are they? When did you see them?" And the poor Maria, convulsed with suppressed tortures, smote her hands upon her pale brow and dropped her head as if to hush the penetration of reason into a fearful mystery.
               Sarah could control her feelings no longer, and clasping Maria to her bosom as if with a death grasp, she burst into loud lamentations, and cried, "Gone! gone! gone!"
               "Gone! gone? All gone? What! dead? dead! And I killed them! Oh, Heaven!" And Maria raised her hands, and clenching them toward heaven, closed her eyes and fell senseless upon the floor.
               Her sister's fall brought Sarah back to resolution and action. She had suffered too long and too severely to be borne down by any single blow. She bent over Maria; but there was no consciousness, no breathing, nothing but deathly paleness there. And yielding for a moment to despair, she said with startling emphasis, "And Maria is gone, too! Merciful God! I am alone! But no—it cannot, cannot—cannot be!" And in another instant she had raised Maria up, and was bathing her brow and applying restoratives to bring her back from the dreary borders of the tomb, that she, the long-suffering Sarah, might not be left alone.
               In a few moments Maria revived, and at length sat up, and presently said, "It is over now. I can bear all. Tell me. I know they are all gone—all dead; but tell me how—where—when?"
               And then Sarah did tell her all: how their poor mother was never well after they went West, and at length, when they hoped she would be restored again, she failed suddenly, and faster and faster, till she was beyond pain, and went to her long slumber with "poor, poor, lost Maria!" upon her lips; and how in another month their little sister Clara was laid down beside her, and in another month their brother, the brave and generous George, went to be with his mother and Clara.
               "Stop! stop! It is dark!" cried Maria, putting her hand to her head, as if to lift the load from her brain.
               Sarah sprang to her feet; but immediately Maria added, "No; I see again. And my father—what of him?"
               Sarah continued until the sad tale was completed, and added, "I have come once more to see my poor, dear sister."
               Maria remained for some time silent, motionless, tearless; and then added, calmly, "Where is Gordon?"
               Upon being told that Gordon had returned from the West, and was expected in town that day, and might call there, she said, "I hope he is well, and more happy and prosperous than formerly, or your sorrow is not at an end yet. As for me, mine will soon be over. I only wait now to see you happy, or to know that you must be miserable, with him or without him, to leave you forever."
               "Oh! Maria! Maria!" exclaimed the startled and horror-stricken Sarah, reading in the desperate calmness of Maria's countenance the truth of what she had said.
               "You might have added 'infamous Maria,'" said her sister. "What have I done, or, what have I not done? A family enjoying little less than heavenly happiness, in disgrace, wretchedness, and death, and all for me! Why should I live where every thing recalls the frightful, accursed wrong, and yet a wrong which I could not help? I had hoped to punish the fiend that brought me down to this living hell; but he is away, and revenge will not pay me for waiting till his return. And he is not worse than a thousand others whom I cannot deliver into the loving embrace of the law."
               Sarah was waiting to encourage and pity; but Maria added, firmly but kindly, "I live now only for you. Do not plead or remonstrate; that, at least, will not again change my determination. Let us speak of something else; perhaps we may not have a better opportunity."
               "Where is Warren to-day?" asked Sarah, a new hope presenting itself of influencing Maria through him.
               "Warren is in the city. He went away some time after you left; but he returned in a few months. He also assumed the name of Henry Williams when that of Sarah became fixed on me by my receiving your letters; and it was in consequence of that, and of his growing recklessness and belief that he should never see you again, that those letters were sometimes opened, and at length detained here. And it was from one of Gordon's letters to you that I learned something of his ill success in business. I shall see Warren in a day or two, for the last time. Already I have kept him so much at a distance, on account of his dishonesty, that he has formed an attachment for another and a baser woman; an attachment which will last, perhaps, till death or the penitentiary shall demand him, which must be soon. Poor fellow! I cannot save him."
               It was now late in the afternoon, and Maria, not wishing to see Gordon, left Sarah, promising to call again on the following morning.
               A few moments after Maria's departure, Gordon came. He was unusually sad and gloomy; and far into the night the two suffering lovers talked of the present, and first trembled, and then resolved, for the future.
               On two or three occasions of Gordon's first meeting with Sarah, after their return from the West, they had been seen together in the street; and the report of this had gone to Gordon's friends, reviving the old stories of his associating with a woman of the town with all their force and bitterness. Sarah was confounded with Maria to the last, and all Gordon's attempts to remove the delusion and prejudice from the minds of his relatives had been unavailing. They could not be mistaken, and would not yield.
               And there, in the deep midnight, Gordon, the now feeble and desponding, and Sarah, the long-suffering and unchangeable, the now desperate, formed a plan for uniting their destinies which neither calumny, nor human weakness, nor death itself could shake. And in the still dark and silent morning they parted, cheered by their final, desperate, and unfailing hope.
               Gordon repaired to a hotel, and Sarah to her chamber; and for the first time in long months, both slept soundly and dreamed sweetly. Yet another day, and their happiness would be complete.
               Late in the following forenoon Sarah and Maria met again, both singularly calm, both in nearly the same dress, and apparently profoundly happy.
               Two hours passed by, and Sarah received the following brief note from Gordon:— 
                     "It must be so. All is ready. I have a balm which will heal us both. I shall he with you to-night, never to part. Forever your own GORDON."
                  
               
               Sarah smiled, and handed the note to Maria, who read it. It needed no explanation to her. She concealed it in her bosom, and said:
               "I will keep this to cheer me as I go. And the twin sisters, still looking as much alike as in the far back happy past, shall soon be happy again. I shall start for the north, for the borders of another country, to-night; and before another night shall break I shall have passed into still another country—a bright, glorious, sinless country. But I must go. Already the sun is going down. Yet another sunset, and there shall be no more darkness for you and me. Sarah, adieu! Our next shall be a glorious meeting."
               "Yes, a glorious meeting, sister. Adieu!"
               A long embrace, a kiss, a smile—no tear—and the twin sisters parted; Maria to start upon her journey—her last journey—and Sarah to wait for Gordon.
               When Maria had gone, Sarah discovered that she had left behind her, by accident, doubtless, a small parcel, which she had insecurely placed in her bosom after depositing Gordon's note there. Its fastenings were broken; and while Sarah was waiting for him to whom she was soon to be forever united, she opened the parcel and read the superscriptions of various letters, some of which were addressed to her, by Gordon, and some to her sister in her name, from various other individuals; and rolled up in a strip of the finest paper, and labelled "Exquisite," was a gold stud, with the initials "S. G. K." These initials were also written upon the paper, and under them the following: "Dropped in a drunken brawl, together with a diamond ring, by Samuel Gustavus Knight, Society's seducer—a 'gentleman,' and genuine Knightly knave."
               It was now evening. The door-bell rang, and Sarah thrust these things aside as Gordon entered. He was pale, but not sad, as on the previous evening. The meeting was one of love and joy—it was the meeting of the bride and bride groom. And after an hour spent in cheerful conversation, they went forth, with none to witness but the silent stars, to the consummation of their vows.
               On their way Sarah employed a workwoman whom she knew to go and inquire for Maria at No. 180 Duane street. But Maria had already gone. Sarah knew whither, and addressing Gordon, said:
               "We shall soon meet Maria again."
               He asked not where. Let the reader conjecture, and then recall a recent event.
               Early on the next morning, the people in the neighborhood of the residence of a very worthy family in the city of Brooklyn, were alarmed by the piercing shriek of a woman.
               Upon rushing to the place from whence the frightful alarm proceeded, they discovered an aged lady prostrate and fainting upon the floor of a back piazza; and near by, a spectacle few men live to look upon!
               There, resting his head upon the cold white bosom of a young lady of no ordinary personal attractions, clasped in the loving embrace of her beautiful arms, and rapt in the sweet oblivion of a peaceful and devoted death, was a young man apparently about twenty-two years of age, for whom that now inanimate beauty had, in long years past, suffered worse than ten thousand deaths. But her sufferings were over; and her marble smile rested upon him in loving sweetness. Near by lay an empty phial, which had contained that sudden and unerring antidote for human ills—Prussic acid. No amateur had prescribed for them. They had studied their own long wasting sleeplessness, and had found the remedy. There might be running to and fro, shrieks of women, the babble of a curious multitude, and the everlasting din of business; but they slumbered on.
               The startling enormity and mystery of what those sleepers had done spread from street to street and from city to city; and for days the Double Suicide was the universal theme
                     SARAH WILLIAMS AND GORDON ON THE NIGHT OF THE SUICIDE.
                  
                   Newsmongers speculated on its cause, and recited all the parallel cases in the annals of the past.
               The young man was the son of the old lady who fainted beside him on making the fearful discovery. But who was the beautiful young woman that pillowed his head upon her snowy breast?
               The people, old and young, wanted more light upon the matter; and the law wanted more light. And more light came—chiefly from regions of darkness—to supply the demand. Men and women talked and testified, some one thing and some another; some truth and some falsehood. The coroner came, and six wise men and a physician, to unravel the mystery. Scandal said the lovely deceased was a woman of doubtful virtue; yet scandal could prove nothing. So they examined her person without and within. Without, they found elegant apparel, cards and letters, and so forth; within they found evidences of the sweet draught which had soothed all her pain; but nothing to sustain the foul slander against her spotless purity. And great, swelling, humane, manly hearts, listening to the unerring teachings of humanity, went and took that lovely form out of the "dead-house," whither it had been sent like the carcass of a vagrant, and brought it to the temple of her lover's God, and her God, and their God. And a minister of God's gospel prayed and spoke with tender pity, to three thousand eager listeners, of the present and the future of the prostrate angel. And then, clothed in the garments of the grave, all spotless as her own pure soul, they placed over her great silent heart, which had pulsated long and loud with love and truth, a glittering tablet which mirrored the beauty of the heavens from whence her soul looked down. That tablet bore upon it the chaste and simple inscription:— 
                     TO THE UNKNOWN, AGED ——, DIED JUNE 27, 1855.
                   And then they bore her away, attended by a numerous cortege, and laid her down to rest in the "Cemetery of the Evergreens."
               On the same day, too, the lover of this beautiful heroine slumbered in the shades of "Greenwood."
               The Suicides had found an honorable grave.
               But who were they who had thus fallen to sleep so sweetly, so profoundly, so mysteriously?—who was she that held her dead lover's head as if listening to the love-music of her heart?
               Let us go back a moment, where those wise men 
                     
                        "From her bosom drew
                        Old letters breathing of her worth."
                     
                  
               
               Here they are. Look on this, and this, and this. You know the name. And look;—here is a diamond ring; and here is another jewel bearing the three initials. The little strip of paper which contained the history of those initials, with the names and characters they represented, is not here. But you remember their meaning.
               The Unknown is revealed. The fourth act of this love tragedy is ended.
               Gordon and Sarah have kept their stern resolve; and the curtain of life has again fallen.
               Far into the dark and dreary night of Maria's departing, hand in hand and heart in heart, Sarah and Gordon walked the dim and ghostly streets, talking of love and the unchanging future, while the bright spheres above beckoned them up to heaven. The night was waning; and like weary children, he led her to his father's house to rest—to rest for ever. There they took the healing balm. There, in the presence of the hosts of heaven, they took the marriage vow; death sealed the promise, and angel hands recorded it in lines of immortal love. Who shall say that that was not a glorious consummation of their hearts' devotion?
               The twin sisters are gone. Sarah Williams and her lover are happy again. And suicides though they were, who can doubt that those long-suffering and loving victims of outrage, treachery and calumny, went up before the throne of the Eternal, pure and spotless as angels are?
               Love has triumphed, and they are there, after all the sufferings which thus drove them to madness and self-destruction, 
                     
                        "In the Court of Glory, reaping now
                        The meed they merited."
                     
                  
               
               Thus at last, the noble, suffering, loving and beautiful Sarah, has become glorious as the woman of the prophet's vision, "clothed in the sun, with the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars!"
            
            
               POETRY DEDICATED TO THE DECEASED MARIA WILLIAMS.
               
                  I shall soon in death be sleeping,
                  Far away, where strangers dwell,
                  Far from all those haunts of pleasure
                  That in youth I loved so well.
                  Flowers shall not be o'er me planted,
                  Nor shall willows o'er me wave;
                  Marble columns, decked with grandeur,
                  Ne'er shall deck my humble grave.
               
               
                  Friends will shed no tear of sadness
                  When my dream of life is o'er,
                  For around me all are strangers—
                  I am on a distant shore.
                  Hear me then, O friends of childhood,
                  Hear an exile's dying prayer:
                  When I soar to climes elysian,
                  Let me meet my loved ones there.
                  My heart now droops in loneliness,
                  My misery 's perfect now,
                  For dark Despair his seal has stamped
                  Upon my throbbing brow.
                  No voices in affection's tones
                  Upon my ears now fall,
                  Alone I tread the path of life,
                  I am the last of all.
               
               
                  I would not have proud marble piled
                  Above my grassy bed;
                  One simple stone to mark the spot,
                  And one to weep me dead.
               
            
            
               THE SUICIDE.
               
                  Assembled in grave conclave
                  Are six men of portly mien:
                  A woman has found a suicide's grave,
                  And her pallid corpse is seen.
                  Near the rough, unpainted bier,
                  Stand these six good men and true,
                  And a gaping crowd is near,
                  All scrambling for a view.
               
               
                  'Tis hurried quickly through,
                  The verdict 's easily made—
                  "There, gentlemen—that will do,"
                  The burly coroner said.
                  He takes a huge pinch of snuff,
                  Then looks benignly round;
                  The jury have heard enough,
                  They render the verdict—poisoned.
               
               
                  "Now let there cheaply be
                  A coffin quickly made;"
                  
                  And he pocketed his fee,
                  As the heartless words he said.
                  In a suicide's hated grave,
                  The unwept was speedily laid;
                  The compassionate, soothing wave,
                  Knew alone the grief of the maid.
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
