
    ----CITATION----
        Holgate, Jerome B.. Noachidae, or, Noah and His Descendants .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6760
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Noachidae, or, Noah and his descendants
             
                  NOACHID  OR, NOAH, AND HS DESCENDANTS. BY JEROME B. HOLGATE.   BUFFALO: BREED, BUTLER & CO., PUBLISHERS. 1860.     Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, BY JEROME B. HOLGATE, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Northern District . of New York. C. E. FELTON, STEREOTYER. J. M. JOUNSON .. ..PRINTER AND BINDER. 6(0AI   PREFACE. THE author has been engaged, for a number of years, upon a series of historical charts, the design of which is to present the world's history, in a shape to be surveyed by the eye at a glance. It is an arrangement of histor- ical, chronological, genealogical, and biographical mate- rials, according to their natural order and succession in time, furnishing the student a foundation and system for the study of history, without which he can not prosecute it successfully. In pursuing his investigations for this work, he collected a vast amount of material bearing upon the early history of nations, and the rise of ancient in- stitutions, which, in a fragmentary and isolated condi- tion, possess no real value, but which, nevertheless, furnish materials for the rearing of a solid structure of primeval history. He wished to present these materials in some shape that would be both interesting arid in. structive. A dry narrative form would only be read by the few: he wished to reach the mass. It occurred to     vi          PREFACE. him whether the imagination might not be employed to advantage for this purpose, adopting the same method that an artist does, who imagines a scene and paints it, the only difference being, that in the one case the pen- cil, in the other the pen, is employed,-efforts of this kind often being'made in the pulpit, in the forum, and by public speakers generally, designed to assist the in- tellect, through the imagination. By this process, the young might become interested, as well as the more advanced in years, in what otherwise would be very intricate and abstruse points of history, the early ancestors of nations thus becoming familiar house- hold words. Besides, a work conducted upon such a plan must necessarily be suggestive, awakening thought and reflection, on the grandest and most instructive themes that can engage the human mind. Commencing, as it does, with Noah's leaving the ark, and keeping in view the origin and migration of races-the rise of an- cient idolames as well as civil institutions, and founding of great cities--the centers of kingdoms and empires. It will be seen that we have no sympathy with those who hold that our modern civilization is a development from cannibalism, and that many of the statements of the sacred writers are not to be credited, than which no records are more genuine or authentic.   I... .          PREFACE.  ,  Of course, it would be needless to intimate, that this book, or series, should it be followed by others, is the flowering of many years of patient investigation and study, all of which it saves the reader. It is possible that he may think some of the scenes, or characters, pre- sented in this volume, deficient in their development or coloring; but he must recollect that the field occupied is very extensive, and the characters introduced very nume- rous, and that many of these can only be merely alluded to in this volume, which will be more fully developed in subsequent ones, should thek be continued. It will be seen that our object is to lift the\veil, and let the reader into the thoughts and feelings of the times, and to develop the motives which prompted men to action in those days, placing ourselves in the same situation, and sup- posing them  to act as we would, under similar circum- stances. We want, -if possible, to revive the moving drama of past history,-to lift the curtain, and show the ancient world! '  We commenced writing this volume in January, 1857, by way of experimenting with our materials; but other engagements prevented our completing it. Having the opportunity, however, during the last year, of visiting Europe, and examining the wonderful remains of ancient Assyria and Egypt preserved in the British Museum,     ViW         PREFACE. and Louvre, we were encouraged to prosecute our plan, (this volume being the fruit,) and we shall make use of these materials thus obtained, in subsequent ones; and need we offer any apology to a certain class of thinkers, for making the Bible our standard authority in all mat- ters pertaining to the early history of the race, or any other subject upon which it may happen to furnish in- formation, since G. R. Gliddon, the great apostle of in- fidelity in this country, admits the marvelous confirma- tion of its statements by the Egyptian and Assyrian monuments. Our other authorities are Josephus, the Greek and Roman writers, the traditions of nations, their religious ceremonies, mythology, etc. In this volume we bring the reader down to the dispersion at Babel; in the second we shall take up that branch of the dispersion which settled Canaan and Egypt, and unfold the rise of exceedingly interesting kingdoms in those countries.    NOACtID^fE, NOAH AND HIS FAMLY GO OUT OF THE ARK. THE ark   rested.* Forty three days after that, the tops of the mountains appeared. *SCHUCKFORD, in his connections of sacred and profane history, volume, first, page sixty, quotes the authority of Portius Cato, a hea- then Roman author, for the ark's lodging in the region between the Caspian Sea and Imaus. Cato's words are: "Two hundred and fifty years before Ninus, the earth was over. flowed with waters, and mankind began again in Saga Scythia." But Schuckford is evidently mistaken, in relation to the locality of Saga Scythia. Saga Scythia is Armenia, as appears from the follow. ing extract from Viterbius' Commentaries upon Berosus' Antiquities, book two, folio twelve: "Omnes historici grseci, Latini et Barbari qui de priscis ante Ni- num antiquitatibus conscripserant, unanimi consensu affirmant in prisca Armenia Araxea coepisse genus humanumr quacunqne via coeperit. Eadem regio prius Aramea Scythia Saga dicta fuit." It is here declared, that it is the unanimous testimony of all an. cient writers, - Greek, Latin, and Barbarian, - who have trea. ed of - 18 '*     10         NOACHDA E In a few days, when the water had sufficiently subsided, a door was torn forcibly open, and a young man, with a rope, made of goat's hair, tied around his waist, was let down to the ground. Three pieces or parts of a pair of stairs were then let down in a similar manner. Being fastened together, by him who was on the ground, with iron rods, forming one piece, the rope with which he had been lowered to the ground was then attached to one end of it, and that lifted up and secured to the doorway, by two heavy iron bolts.    Eight hdividuals, four males and, four females, then came down this stairway.  They appeared very much excited. The ground was rocky and rough, and in places smoking in the sunbeams; and. through an times anterior to Ninus, that the human race began again in Ancient Armenia, called Araxea, and that, before that, it was called Aramea Saga Scythia; and yet Schuckford, as well as Sir Walter Raleigh, before him, and Smith, in his History of the Human Species, and many, too many, other modern writers, are for placing the resting of the ark in Central Asia. Samuel Schuckford was rector of Shelton, in the county of Norfolk, England; and the second edition of his work was published at Oxford, in 1810.   \X        N-OACHDAE.       " opening vista, could be seen a boundless ocean heaving against the horizon. They hur- ried along the shore, looking at the ocean as they went, some of them occasionally stopping and dashing the moss with their feet from the slippery rocks; while the waters themselves made a slight, surging noise against these green, moss-clad rocks, and along the ragged shores. There was a sort of muffled or mumbling roar, however, which seemed to fill the heav- ens; the sky was clear, and the sun shone bright upon the scene. They went about a quarter of a mile; the waters, all the way, shaking, trem- bling, and giving forth a hollow sound. As they returned, they saw their father, standing near the ark.  "We can see nothing but water," said one, to him; "we are all surrounded by it." At that moment, four females came round the end of the ark. "Oh," exclaimed one of them, in a rapture, "how delightful it is to get on the earth again!     12       NOACHtIDAE.  What is this, father? Where are we?  Are  we near Sipphara?"*       . And they all sat down on some rocks that were there.  - "I am glad to see you recovering your spir- its, Asia,"t observed one of the young men. "Why, Japhet, you ought to have seen her," said another of the women, "she is quite be- side herself; she was going over that ravine, there-a ragged, dangerous place! We stopped her. What if she had fallen in, and been drowned! What would you have done? You would not have been able to get another wife, Japhet "7 "How grand and how terrible those waters," observed Asia, who had been regarding the ocean in a thoughtful mood, while the others were speaking; "and will they ever go away? And none living, beside us! It is dreadful!" and she started up, with a sad look. *SIPPHARA, Ptolemy; Sipparis, Euseblus. t THE Greeks have preserved the name of Japhet, and they say his wife's name was Asia.   NOACHDA.       13 "We must remove the covering, and give the animals some fresh air," observed Noah, walking toward the ark, and disappearing within it. Japhet went up to it, and put his hand on it. "What do you suppose rubbed that pitch off, Shem?" he inquired, looking over his shoulder. "That must have been done when we settled down," replied the other, "we rubbed against something, you recollect?" '  Japhet looked up and around him. "And there is what we rubbed against," he exclaimed, nodding his head toward. a big crag, that jutted out from a ledge of rocks. At that moment, Asia and the other females came round them.  "Why, how that is scratched!" observed the former, and then turning round with an ecs- tatic gesture, she continued: "O, I am so anx- ious to see the flowers again,--the green fields, the trees, the running brooks! -hear the birds sing-my robins, brown thrashers, and Cana- 4      "        NOACHDAE.               ; ries,* Japhet, have not sung a single note since they have been shut up in that dreary place,- they act as though they were sick. I am going to bring them out, and give them   some of this beautiful fresh air.  I am sure it will revive them." So she ran, and climbing up the steps, she  soon appeared, with a robin in her hand. "Asia, it will escape from  you," exclaimed the elder of the females; do n't bring it out." "What if it should!   Would there be any harm in it, mother; are they not all to be let out?" "Yes; but not now. You know, your father has forbidden it." "Well, do let it stay out a little while. See, it begins to revive already. Dear thing; it opens its eyes.  I am  sure there could be no harm in bringing out the others, and giving TTHE name "Canary" has been applied to the bird since; but they had some name by which that bird was designated, answering to Canary, and we are supposed to translate that into modern lan- guage; and so in every such instance.   NOACHDA.        15  them a little fresh air, and then taking them in again. It is just like a prison to them. See! it flutters its wings!" "It will escape from you!" exclaimed an- other of the women, a demure, gentle-looking creature, coming up, and spreading a portion of her dress over it, as if to prevent it flying away. The bird fluttered about as though it was crazy, and finally succeeded in insinuating itself through an opening in her dress; and, the next. moment, it was seen fluttering above their heads, and then, flying hesitatingly toward the ark, it lit upon its edge. It clung there, stretching out its little neck, and looking as if frightened or bewildered by what it saw. Asia and the others approached it carefully, endeavoring to coax it down, but finding their efforts unavailing, the former hastened to find Japhet, to get him to assist in the matter. She found him, together with Shem, a little distance off, on the other side of the ark, looking at a     'I6      NOACHDAE.           X tree that had begun to put forth leaves, growing from among a mass of rocks.          : "Japhet, the robin has got away from me;  come and help get it down; it is on top of the ark." She had scarcely uttered these words, when,  hearing one of the other women exclaim "There it goes " she hurried -back, in great fear, and  saw them hastening toward a clump of stunted trees, growing over against one of the ledges of rocks, and followed. "Where is it, Myrrha?" she called out. "It is over the ravine, there," said the other, looking over toward a cluster of trees. "I fear we have lost it." At that moment Japhetcame up. "Where is it?" he inquired. "It is in those trees, Myrrha says. I am so sorry!" "Psha! Asia, it will come back." "Why, I really believe it was frightened out of its wits, at seeing the world again. I am sure   NOACHDA.    e r it was not to blame," she added, looking earn- estly at the trees. "Which one, was it Asia?" inquired Japhet. "It was the one with the feathers off its head; the one the other birds picked so." Shem and Japhet, with some difficulty, made their way across the gully. They climbed up near the clump of trees; and, after searching about for some time among them, without suc- cess, they returned, concluding to wait and see if it would not come back of its own accord. Asia persevered in her search for the lost bird, wandering around the ravine, and looking about on all the trees and among the bushes. One day, venturing to cross the ravine, she made her way up among the trees, where she supposed the bird had gone, and after looking about there some time without seeing it, she climbed to a large rock projecting out over the. ocean, in such a way as to afford a most magni-. ficent view of the expanse of waters that had overwhelmed the world  and drowned the     1 8      NOACHDAC. whole human race. There she sat down, and seemed to be taken up entirely with/he scene. When the time came for dinner, a general in- quiry was made for her. Several started off in [ search. Japhet went in the direction of the ra- i vine, where it was known she was accustomed i to wander, in quest of the lost bird, while   Myrrha and Elisheba went more directly west.  They had not gone far, however, before, ob-  j taining a view of the peak beyond the outer ridge of rocks on the other side of the ravine, they both exclaimed "Here she i!" and point- ing, in an excited manner, up in the air, they called out "Asia!" Japhet hastened toward them, and there he saw her sitting on a crag about forty feet above the waters. The women returned to the ark, while Japhet went to bring her down. After some little difficulty, he suc- ceeded in getting up to her. She seemed to be lost in thought. Her eyes were wet with tears, and directed toward the ocean, her chin   NOACHDA.       19 rested on her left hand, while her right lay in her lap. "Asia," said Japhet, on getting up to her, "what is the matter?" Asia started, as from -a deep reverie, and looked round heavily. "Why, what troubles you?" continued Ja- phet, taking hold of her arm and raising her up.  "Come, the dinner awaits us." "My poor mother!" sobbed Asia, falling in- to Japhet's arms, "Fie! Asia, it is useless. You know it can not be helped. I thought you were over this, Come; how did you contrive to get up here, without breaking your neck? You alarmed us by your absence." "Japhet, my poor father and mother! Ican not see why they could not have been taken into the ark as well as ourselves. There was room for them." "Asia, what more could we do than was done to persuade him to come in. We got his     20      NOACHDJD .          I laughter, and that was all. Your parents had  no faith, Asia. Come! come!'  L Nor had Ham any faith," continued Asia,  complainingly, "and why not save them as  well as he? I can not see, Japhet." "Ham had a father, whose commands he was I bound to obey; but your parents were their own masters. We had no authority over them. i Asia, you must not let it trouble you. Beside,  your father was a bad man. On the very day that we entered the ark, he went off on that  wicked expedition of the Egregori. You prob- abry did not know him as well as I did, in this particular. How did you 'manage to get up here?" he continued, as coming to a steep place he took Asia in his arms and let himself down by holding on to a tree. At the same moment, Asia uttered a faint exclamation of surprise, and when they had got to the bot- tom, she pointed up among some small trees that covered the sides of the acclivity, near where they had descended, and Japhet, follow-   NOACHDAE.       21 ing the direction of her hand, saw the body of a man lying entangled among the bushes. He clutched in his hand a heavy spear, and around his waist was a leather or skin belt, for the ma- terial had not been subjected to the process of tanning. He had evidently ascended the moun- tain to escape the flood, and on the top being submerged, he either had sunk, and some parts of his dress caught among the bushes, or else they did so when the waters were retiring; and, he was thus prevented from drifting off into the great ocean subsiding around the mountain. Asia hung her head and said nothing, while Japhet quietly worked his way down the de- clivity. When they reached the ark, the oth- er members of the family had finished their meal, but they found some fresh milk, in a large wooden bowl, with fresh bread and eggs, wait- , ing for them, on a clean cloth, made of goats' hair, spread on the ground. While they were thus engaged, they were startled by an unusual /     22       NOACHDIE.  sound from  the ocean. Japhet, listening,  : raised his head, Asia looked inquiringly at him, l and Shem, who was a little distance off, en- j gaged in drawing some characters upon a smooth tablet of wood, turned his head, as if F to catch the sound. Finally, laying down the ? instrument he was working with, he got upon  I his feet, and, after listening a moment, he, : together with Asia and Japhet, went toward the brow of the mountain, on the east, which was nearest the waters. In a few moments, Noah came out of the ark, proceeding in the same direction, and was almost immediately after followed by the remaining females. As they collected together on the-edge of the ac- clivity, against which the waters were heaving, they perceived that they were in rapid motion, ,and, at a distance, there was a great agitation, such as may be seen in a river where there is a violent current. The entire party looked as though confound. ed by the majesty of the scene. A,   NOACHDA.       .23 "The waters are retiring rapidly," observed Noah, and, as he spoke, there was a hollow rumbling sound, and the ground on which they stood trembled and shook, as though by a mighty earthquake. All, with the exception of Ham, gathered round Noah, with   anxious countenances. Ham's had a dark, as well as. anxious, look something like a scowl; Asia clung to Japhet, and they all looked at Noah anxiously. The latter, however, appeared so mild and c om- posed, that Asia, drawing a long breath, fell on Japhet's breast, exclaiming, '0, I was so frightened!" and the countenances of all brightened up. Ham gathered himself up and walked away, muttering to himself. "What is it that disturbs you?" asked Noah, with a smile, looking about him as though taking a general survey of the waters. "Why,"remarked Asia, anxiously, "these are r just such sounds as we had at the beginning of atf  to                       ,      24      NOACHDA2. the flood; and may they not indicate a return of the rain?" "We have our ark just at hand," answered the other with a smile; "if such should be the case. No,"-he added, after a moment's pause, "I hardly think we can expect a return of the flood at the present time, whatever may happen to us hereafter. But these waters are evidently receding." "Indeed, father," said Asia. "They may rise up again," said Ham, stop- ping as the party advanced, and looking round with a quizzical, but at the same time dark, eX- pression of countenance. " Why, Ham," said Myrrha, coming up to him, "how strange you act!" "Ham can't conquer his chagrin, because the flood has happened," s'aJaphet, laughing. "IHam," cried Asia, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself, at being so unbelieving. You didn't believe the flood would happen  : and you do n't believe any thing."   NOACHDIE.       25 "I do not see," said Ham, in a gruff, apolo- getic tone of voice, "why the world may not again be destroyed, by the samie Wtier that is now upon it; indeed, it seems to me more than likely. Not knowing where all the water was to come from that was to do the business, how could I believe it? Aind what is to become of it all, now it is here? It covers the earth like a mantle; who is to carry it off? Aha!" he added, with a dark look, "we shall be starved here, at last; for our provisions won't hold out six moons longer; not much wheat  would grow among these rocks." "Ham believes what he knows; and know- ing very little, has very little faith," rkmarked Japhet, laughing. "Well, the flood has happened, and now you believe it," said Asia; "and now, after the Almighty has saved us out of it, you think he has brought us here to starve us." "What is ,to become of all these waters?"  repeated Ham, quickly. 2  a      26       NOACHDE:. "A place will, probably, be found for them," remarked Shem, "that you can have no idea of, where they may be made to remain." "The Almighty is sufficient," observed Noah, gravely, turning to the speakers. "Japhet, we will loosen that central beam, and get it down this afternoon."        I "And if the rain returns, the ark will do us a great deal of good with the roof off," muttered Ham, as he walked along with a gloomy look. Noah made no reply, but en- tered the ark.                I "I don't like Ham at all," said Asia, to one of the females, "he is so jealous and overbear- ing, and acts as though he wanted to rule us i all; he won't though," she added with spirit, ! "I'll not be ruled by him." At that moment, the ground again trembled, and Asia immediately after screamed out: "O my robin--help me catch it, Elishe.,"  and she sprang forward. The bird, as if seeking protection from the /   1         NOACHDAE.        27 m Iysterious concussions of nature, was flutter- I ing in the air almost over their heads. It was  I a little in front of them, and Asia sprang up- ward with both hands, when the bird, as if influenced by a sudden magnetism, partly fell or lit upon her shoulder, and she caught it in her hands. The next morning, Ham came up from the shore, stating that a large black rock had ap- peared above the waters, a little distance from it. All went down to look at it. On reaching the shore, they found  the waters had so sensi- bly diminished that they could go down  the side of the mountain mugc further than they could the day previous. A  new rock, or cliff, had also appeared, adjoining the shore and upon this they all collected; whence they could see the black one, alluded to by Ham, protruding above the waters. It was without  vegetation, ahd had an ugly look, in the midst of the sea? While they were observing it,     I they saw an immense fish, rolling, his brown s     28      NOACIIDAE. 4, oily back out of the water, and, dividing it  with his shining fins, emit a column of water from his head, which made a noise like the rushing of a tempest of rain. They all looked at this monster with curi- osity and astonishment depicted in their  countenances, following it with their eyes until it passed out of their sight behind one of the points to the south-east, taking the direction of the current. About forty days after the tops of the moun- tain appeared, the family had collected on its eastern edge, and were endeavoring to satisfy themselves that something they saw on the distant horizon was land. "Father," said Asia, "send out one of the birds and see whether it comes back." Noah went to the ark, and in a short time appeared at the window with a raven in his hand. He held it out; it began to enliven up, and, looking this way and that for a moment, it took wing and flew toward the edge of the   NOAOHDES.       29 mountain, where it at first seemed to hesitate as to what course to take; but the next moment, suddenly dashing away through the misty at- mosphere, it was not long in disappearing entirely from view. A few hours after, as Asia stood looking down the mountain, she saw it approaching the summit; she screamed, and pointed to- ward it. Soon, however, it veered off, rose in the air, wheeled, and again disappeared. The next morning they sent out a dove. In a few hours, however, it returned. In one week from that time the dove was again sent forth. Asia ran to the brow of the mountain to see it, but it was gone out of sight. While they were at their evening meal, she sprang up, I pointing with both hands; they saw the dove appear above the edge of the mountain, and. flying toward the ark, with something in its mouth. Asia and Elisheba hurried up the stairs, when Noah, who, a few minutes pre- viously, had entered the ark, came to the     8o       NOACHDE.  window. The bird, after performing one or  two evolutions in the air, fluttered toward it, and was caught by him and taken into the ark. He had just removed the leaf, which proved to be that of an olive, from the bird's mouth, when Asia, followed by Elisheba in breathless haste, rushed up to him. "What is it, father?" she asked, taking the leaf in her hand. "An olive leaf" he replied; " the low country is free-that is evidence of it." "Good, good!" exclaimed Asia, joyfully. "Now we can leave the mountain; can't we,  father?" "We will be patient," replied the patriarch; "the earth must be very damp yet, and hardly fit to pitch our tents upon. Besides, particular spots may be liable to sudden temporary inun- dations, from collections of water breaking loose from the mountains." While he was speaking, Shem and Japhet came toward them, just as he added,   I '      QNOACIIIDAE.     31  "We will not leave the mountain yet." At the end of another seven days. the same dove was again sent forth. They looked anx- iously for it, toward evening, but it did not make its appearance. The next morning, they got the covering off of the ark. Fifty-five days after the dove had been sent out for the last time, it was beautiful, calm, and serene. The moon shone with a brilliant luster, that gave to the entire scene the appearance of enchantment. Noah was seen approaching from a dark copse, a little distance off, with a mild and dignified demeanor. Japhet, Asia, and Shem, who were out viewing the heavens and the mistiness of the void space now sur- rounding the mountain, seeing the patriarch  approach, with one accord hastened up to him. As they advanced, they saw a form disap- pear from the copse. Noah Knew what they wanted. "We release the animals to-morrow," he               .           :     NOACHDiE. said, as they came up, "and shall proceed down the mountain." Asia uttered an exclamation of delight, and a new life seemed to take possession of the whole company. Asia ran to the ark, to com- municate the joyful intelligence. REMOVAL OF THE ANIMALS FROM THE ARK. The next morning by daylight the family was stirring. With the aid of ladders which they had stowed away in the ark, they com- menced taking down the planking which en- closed the lower story. All day they worked. Toward evening, they had made an opening of sufficient size to get out the animals. The first they got out were the elephants. They were lying as if stupefied. The moment the light, however, shone in upon them, raising their trunks, and working their nostrils, as if sensi- ble of a delightful change, the male elephant, raising himself up, extending his trunk all the   while, as though inhaling the air, and then, gathering himself up and giving a snort, made a sudden effort, and stood upon his feet. Ham got in behind him, and was going to ex- cite him with a goad with which he had hasti- ly furnished himself, when the animal, raising his trunk, made a sudden dash into the open air, nearly overturning Japhet, who stood by the o ening. Ham laughed, and Japhet could scarce- lyrefrain from laughing. The female elephant followed immediately after. On getting into the open air, they stood for some minutes snuff- ing it, as if collecting their faculties, when, giving several terrific snorts, they dashed about as if mad, catching sticks, stones, and pieces of timber in their flexible probosces, and hurling them into the air. Thewomen ran in- to the ark, while the three brothers, and Noah himself, who stood near, superintending the operations, also got under cover, to avoid the fying missiles.  Finally, -he male elephant wound his trunk around a small tree, and,    34       NOACHDE. wrenching it from its roots, ran with it toward the edge of the mountain, where, suddenly stop- ping and dropping the tree, he braced himself with his fore-feet, and stretching out his trunk over the void space, worked the end of it. The female elephant followed, and seemed to be equally excited by the height to which they were raised. Following these, were two mon- strous animals, which we will not attempt to  describe, moving their huge bulks through the opening. Then came the rhinoceroses, the bi- sons, the uruses, and buffaloes, and several oth- er very curious, cumbrous looking animals. One of them had long hair over its haunches, streaked with white, and a shrubby mass of  hair over its shoulders. It had horns and hoofs, and looked very much like an ox, with the exception of the length of its hair. After that, the lions, moving with hesitating steps, with their eyes fixed upon the light, slowly emerged from the dark aperture. The male lion, getting out, sat down on his hind legs, 'A   NOACHDLE.       35  working his nostrils, and half closing his eyes,  as though bewildered. 'One of them, standing a moment, as if slowly becoming conscious of its situation, and gratified by the sun's rays, twisted its head downward, rubbing it upon the ground, and then, lying down upon its side, stretched itself out and rolled over on its back. The male lion, after walking round a little, performed a similar operation-rolling over, rubbing his back and head on the ground. He then got up; opening wide his mouth, and uttering a deep, guttural noise, he threw up his tail and started off 6n a trot, toward the ravine, followed by his mate. Then came the other animals-leopards, ti- gers, pards, ounces, panthers, catamounts, jackals, wolves, hyenas, bears, goats, ante-  lopes, elks, finets, stoats, gnues, or kokoons, hemiones, camel-leopards, all exhibiting similar listlessness at first, and gradually becoming ani- mated, as the light and air began to produce     56       NOAOHUIDA.           their natural effects upon their brains and V lungs. The next day, they removed the covering from the end of a part of the second story, and, constructing a platform in the shape of an in- clined plane, they got down all the animals in that part of the vessel. The upper story had been used for their own residence, to contain provisions, the birds, some smaller animals-  the marmot, musk, armadillo, etc,--insects, and numerous antediluvian implements; but a con- siderable part of the food having been con- sumed, a large portion of this part of the vessel was empty. The women had got down most of the birds. Asia was very busy. She brought out. the doves, pigeons, partridges, pheasants, peacocks, grouse, quails, geese, turkeys, ducks, hens, rob ins, bluebirds, wrens, bobolinks ground- birds, swallows, whippowils, nightingales, yellowhirds, etc. The others brought down the parrots, parrakeets, black cockatoos, little   flcons drongAes, shries, te gas u falcons, drongoes, shrikes, the guans, eu-irAs- sowes, pelicans, swans, storks, cranes, ibises, plovers, bitterns, bustards, owls, kiwies, etc. While Japhet was tying a horse to a tree, he heard Asia's voice from the window:  "Japhet, come up here, and help me get down these hawks. I dare not go near them." "Ham," said Japhet, "will you help the women?  I have my hands full just now. I nmust secure these horses, or they may stray down the mountain, before we get ready to  leave it." Ham, who had just got a donkey out of the ark and given him his freedom, turned round, saying, "Buzzy can take his chance," and went toward the ark. "Buzzy looks poorly," remarked Japhet. "They are all mere skeletons,"' answered Ham, ascending the steps. "No wonder," added Shem, who was en- deavoring to drive some hogs out of the way, "they have eaten but little, had no exercise     NOACHDA. and no fresh air,-strange they should have lived through it. These hogs act as though they had lost the use of their limbs," he added vexedly, giving one a tremendous kick. The animal squealed, gave one jump, and then stopped. Japhet laughed. Ham, proceeding to the upper story, saw Asia standing at the door of a room, as if afraid to enter. "What is the difficulty?" he said, coming up, "you afraid of a bird?" "Why, I wouldn't touch the ugly-looking creatures," she replied, "they look wicked enough to eat a person up. Such claws I never saw in all my life."  "Are they not stupid?" inquired Ham, coming to the door and taking hold of it with his hand and looking in. "All the creatures on this story have had more animation since the covering was re moved, owing to the air; I suppose." While she was speaking, the light, shining in,   NOACHID.A.   39   disclosed to him the hideous birds, sitting on poles running horizontally across the room. Their immense beaks, claws, and frouzy feath- ers, and sharp glassy eyes, made them look hideous enough; and no wonder Asia had no taste for their company.  Ham, however, went boldly forward, and seizing both birds in his brawny arms, after some little struggling, he secured them and walked with them to the door of the ark. Asia, running forward and getting down before him, called the attention of those below to the spectacle of these birds taking wing. Ham came to the top of the stairs, and working one of the birds up so as to get a firmer hold, gave it a toss into the open air.  It, however, disappointed  the whole company, for it fell nearly half way to the ground before spreading its wings, and then merely doing so mechanically, which only prevented it from dashing its brains out against the ground. It sailed downward, striking the earth awkwardly, and almost     40       NOACHDAE. pitching on its head. They all laughed. He then put the other one down on the steps, al- lowing it to take its own course about leaving. "Bring out the eagles, Ham," exclaimed Asia, "let them all go together." Ham turned back, and going to another compartment, opened the door, and this time, instead of troubling himself about bringing out these monstrous birds, he merely flung it open, leaving them to manage for themselves. He then went round doing the same thing to all the rooms containing the larger birds. The ostriches, however, after some little diffi- culty, he got down the stairway leading to the second floor, and then drove them to the ini- clined plain, down which they went of their own accord, looking very much astonished at what they saw. While thus engaged, the havk that had been left at the top of the stairs, after various oscil- latory movements of the head and neck, as if uncertain what course to take, finally corn.   tj NOACHI)j.            41 I  menced, by the aid of its legs and an occasional awkward use of its wings, to work its way down the stairs. On getting, however, nearl half way down, it seemed suddenly to wake up suf- I ficient courage to trust to its wings altogether, { and actually launched itself into the open air, plunging downward, and striking one of the ostriches, that had just got off of the inclined  plane, in the ribs with such force that the im r  mense bird was nearly upset. The hawk, a good i deal stunned by the blow, fell upon the ground; J where, rising upon its feet, it stood staring about, I working ita head and neck for some time,  when, making another awkward attempt to fly, i it succeeded in getting upon a rock, about ten rods distant, where it remained reconnoitering the scene for some ten minutes, and then it seemed suddenly to gather up its energies again, spreading its wings, and flying upon a crag that jutted out from one of the peaks to the south. There it seemed paralyzed by the scene, for it remained more than an hour look.     42       NOACHDE N ing in various directions, as if unable to com- prehend the change, that had so suddenly come over its existence. The eagles, finding the door of their room open, after stretching their necks and looking about for some time, finally walked out and along the opening, till coming to an open space where there was a quantity of dried fish that had been stored in the ark for their use; when the male eagle, flew up at it, and seizing one of the shriveled masses in his beak, with the aid of his wings, which he used somewhat energetically, he tore away a portion of it, and, with kindling eye, flew up on the edge of the ark, where he commenced devouring it. He was immediately followed by the female bird, which, having likewise secured a portion of the fish, also gained a similar position on the edge of the ark, where both remained, indulg- ing unmolested their unusual repast. "There," cried Ham, on seeing the birds tearing their food with beak and talons, " there   4, goes the last of the eleven hundred fish that. we took into the ark: those eagles are helping themselves."  It happened, about this time, that Asia and Elisheba came up on the same floor. Asia was speaking, "I tried to get her down yesterday, but she keeps in her room, and won't come out." Upon this, going to the door of an apart- ment, the floor of which was covered with hay and straw, she pushed it open; entering, she, in - a moment, said, "Take hold of her ears and pull, Elishe." -  Elisheba, taking hold of the ears of a sheep,  commenced pulling, while Asia pushed from behind. "How soft its wool is," observed Elisheba, as forcing the animal out of the room toward the passage-way leading to the second story, and then added   "Why, how contrary it is!" "It was a lamb when I brought it in," said     "      zNOACHDA. Asia, "You recollect, I did so when you caught the kitten, and if I had not done so, I don't think we should have had more than six sheep in the ark; for Father Noah had given the en- tire flock to Tu-Bulcain, and he was driving them off just as I caught Nan. Why, you ugly thing!" she exclaimed, burying her fingers in its soft wool, for it seemed determined to push its way back up stairs. At that moment, Ham, coming along and wishing to go up, laid hold of the animal, and dragged it down the steps, and then passed up. "Mercy! look at those monstrous creatures,' said Elisheba, as, stepping one side to give Ham an opportunity to pass, she glanced up- ward and caught sight of the ferocious eagles devouring their food, which they held in their talons. As they pushed the sheep toward the open- ing, Ham passed them, on his return, with a big iron sledge in his hand. Just as Asia, with the assistance of her comrn   NOACHDAE.        45 panion, had succeeded in getting her pet down the platform, a large, long-haired dog, some- what similar to what is now known as the Newfoundland species, came bounding up to her, followed by others. "Go away Roh! " she exclaimed, raising her hand as if to strike him; and, turning round, she proceeded to the stairway, as easier of ascent, returning to the third story, followed, Ihowever, by the affectionate animal, scrambling up the stairs, much to her annoyance. Just as she reached the floor, Elisheba, who preceded I her, had opened the door of a room containing (a number of monkeys and baboons, which, com- ing forward, after looking about, and opening and shutting their eyes, for some time, as if af- fected by the light, began to run about and make a dreadful chattering noise. Asia, going to another compartment, released a number of rabbits and squirrels. As one of the former  hopped out and along the floor, the male ea. gle, having just finished his piscatory meal,     "      NOACHD2E. getting up, and working himself round, made a sudden pounce on the rabbit. Asia screamed and sprung forward. Roh jumped and, seem- ing to understand the difficulty, sprung upon the eagle, with the whole weight of his pow- erful body. The monkeys set up a worse noise than ever, and one of them, running up a small hand-ladder that stood near by, and making a spring sideways, landed square on the eagle's back, just as the bird, having let go the rabbit, spread its wings, and, escaping from the dog, with the loss of a large quantity of its feathers, which the animal carried away in its mouth, flew back upon the edge of the ark, where feeling that it had something on its back, it took wing and flew toward a rock, a little to the south, the monkey chattering, and still clinging to its back. It was followed by the other eagle immediately after. The screaming of the two women attracted the attention of the group below, and there was a general laugh and excitement, on seeing the monkey   NOACHDAE.        47 taking its ride through the air, on the eagle's back. The rabbit, on escaping from the eagle, returned to its room, taking refuge in a bur- row, which it had made for itself, in some soft earth, which had been placed there for that t purpose. So Asia and her companion had some difficulty in getting at these creatures. Asia, as usual, had recourse to Japhet, who, taking a shovel, went up to the room, and soon deprived these sheautiful little creatures of their hiding-places and diluvian home.  He threw the dirt out of the room; at the same J time removing  some trees, which had been placed there to accommodate the squirrels, and  which connected  by means of apertures with  an adjoining apartment, the squirrels having the privilege of both rooms.  In a room ad- joining were bags and piles of nuts of every description.  Beyond this, Japhet threw open  the door of an  apartment, where was an arrangement for the accommodation of all the amphibious animals--frogs, lizards, tur-     48       NOACHDA. ties, crabs, lobsters, beavers, otters, musk- rats, minks, seals, etc.,--all accommodated by means of a   mimic lake, furnished with little mounds, or hillocks, of earth and stones. "Asia," he said, "I wish you would go down and tell Ham, if he has got through with the hippopotami, to come up here, with his sledge. In the meantime, I will release the insects." While speaking, he cast his eyes up to the upper edge of the vessel, and, during Asla's absence, having provided himself with the small hand-ladder which we have   before described, and planting it against the ceiling of the vessel, and ascending it, stretched out his arm, taking hold of something, and giving it a vigorous push, shifting the position of the ladder several times, he performed a similar operation, and as he made the last effort he ex- claimed, "There they go!" and coming dowfin, he removed the ladder. Soon after, Ham came along the opening, saying, as he did so,   Ig      NOACHDAE.        49 "We shall have to .hitch an elephant to the old fellow; he won't budge an inch." "Ham, what did you do with the large skins? we shall want them to take some of these crea- tures down in. How slimy this water is," he added, as he stepped into the artificial lake, "I think we might have changed it once more; there is enough left in the reservoir. Give me the sledge, and you get the skins," he added, taking the instrument from the other's hands, and wading through the water, up to his knees, applied it to some arrangement near the side of the vessel, and giving it a few wrenches, a gurgling sound was heard, like that of running water. When it had all run off, through the side of the vessel, they put the frogs, lizards, etc., in the skins, and carried them down that way;. the larger amphibious creatures they took down, some in their arms, and some by rolling them in blankets. While they were doing this, a  tremendous buzzing overhead announced the restored animation of the bees,     60       NOACHDA. and their freedom,- once more, of the glorious world! After this, they went on to the next floor, and, being joined by Shem, they went to work getting down some singular looking -boxes, perforated with holes, which were crossed by a great number of fine metallic wires, placed so close together as to prevent ingress and egress to the creatures within, but which admitted light and air, when it could be had. The boxes were fixed with small wheels on the bottom, of not more than an inch in diameter. "PFine idea--preserving these monsters," muttered Ham, as he pulled at a rope, made of bull's hide, which was attached to one of the boxes. "We had a good chance to get rid of them, and now we must take all. this trouble to preserve them. Better pitch them into the sea, and'leave) them there; that's my opinion." "They are preserved for a particular pur. pose, so father says," replied Shem.   gNOACHDJA.       61: "Is it not as necessary to preserve as to, create them?" asked Japhet, giving a pull :on a large box, while Shem pushed. "They were not created," said Shem, "you forget Japhet."  "No," exclaimed Ham, "they are a nui- sance." "They are accursed of the Almighty," con- tinued Shem, with a' Shudder; "they are monuments of his awful curse, and the Al- mighty don't destroy immediately, all that he has cursed. Father says:hi-y will be in the. world, so long as the curse is uipon it." Ham looked dark in the face, and giving his box a vigorous twitch, and getting it to the head of the stairs, holding on to the rope, he let it slide down of itself. Shem and Japhet, following with their boxes, arrived at the in- clined plain, and getting them upon it, sufferedl them to do likewise. They then returned, and removed all the boxes of this description. They then got down   a vast number of bago-     62       NOACHDA3. containing grain and seeds of various kinds, and brought out of the lower story several tons of hay-the remains of what had originally been taken into the ark, as fodder for, the cattle. ,Several days after commencing operations, they had got everything out of the ark. The sun was just setting, and its glories illumined the summit of the mountain, while all below was darkness. The women, taking observa- tions from the eastern edge of the mountain, expressed their admiration of the scene. They saw- the mists that, since the disap- pearance of the waters, had constantly over- spread the country below, mixing with and whitening the darkness with which the inter- mediate space was filled. While they were thus engaged, Noah and his sons were occupied in quite a different man- ner. They were erecting an altar out of flat stones, placed one upon the other, upon which, when they had finished it, they placed some   g lNOACHDA.              53 pieces of wood. A heifer, sheep, goat, pig- eon, and turtle dove were then brought, and the family, having washed themselves, were assembled, waiting, with placid demeanor, the ceremony that was about to be eformed. The creatures were then sla'i their blood falling upon the ground, where it/was covered up. After this, portions of them were laid up- on the wood which was piled upon the altar. Fire was then applied to it; and, as the burn- ing mass sent its fragrance up to heaven, the entire family kneeled, and, with their faces bu- ried in their hands, so remained till the mass was consumed. Noah then arose from   his knees, followed by the family, and all partook of parts of the animals that were not laid on the altar. It was curious to note the difference in the expression and deportment of the different per- sons forming this family group. Shem and Elisheba were the most devotional; Asia ap- peared more so than Japhet, yet his air and     54       NOACHDAE. manner was that of profound reverence and respect, yet there was a certain wandering of the eye and vacant expression of the counte- nance that indicated not quite so much devotion as was exhibited by his younger brother; still, this might have been the result of temperament and an active imagination. But Ham's demeanor was different. He was restless and uneasy in his manner, and the expression of his counte- nance indicated a distaste for the whole cere- mony. He was the first to rise, after his father; Shem and Elisheba the last. While this ceremony was progressing, Roh came, and sitting down by the side of Asia, looked on with as much gravity as a human being. After this, the women brought out their harps,* and the family sung and played till near nine o'clock, when the moon rose and shed its splendor over the mountain. The air, which a few days after the declension of the waters, *The harp and the org . were ant iuvia inventions; Gen.. 4-; 21.   NOACHDE.        65 had become sensibly cooler, so much so as to be noticed by the family, this evening had an unusual softness, and the stars a mild luster. The melody of their voices, surrounded as they were by the exquisite repose and stillness of nature, and overcanopied by the serene heavens, a full of brilliant stars, like the eyes of the Almighty looking down upon them, had in it something soothing to the spirits. It affected even the animals. The dogs came around, lying down with composed, good-natured, domestic looks. The horses, sheep, and many other animals with spiral and straight horns, edging their way up, occasionally comfortablyr frisking their tails, regarding the group with looks that indicated a disposition to unite in the ceremonies, had they possessed the organs of speech, by which to make their wishes known. The melody ceased, and there were a few moments of pro- found stillnessi when suddenly the party be- came conscious of the presence of a ninth  individual, and a voice, agreeable and pleasing     56       NOACHDXE. as that of a kind friend, filled the surrounding aih. The words uttered were, substantially, as follows: "Blessed be Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japhet! The earth is depopulated; possess, multiply, and replenish it. The *beasts of the field, the fowls of the air, the fishes of the sea, and all that moveth upon the face of the earth shalt thou possess; they shall fear and tremble be- fore you, which shall be an acknowledgement of your dominion. They, as well as the green herbs, shall be meat for you; but flesh, with the blood in it, must not be eaten; for that is the life thereof, and the life thereof you must not eat; and the blood is the life. But this dominion does not extend to the taking of human life. Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. At the hand of every beast, at the hand of man, at the hand of every man's brother, will I require your lives, which is your blood, if you shed the blood of your fellow man; for in the image of God was man made,   NOAOIIIDA.        7 and no man is permitted to destroy this image; it is reserved to God to destroy it. But, in- stead of destroying one another, increase and multiply, and refill the earth with inhabitants, "And behold, I give you my promise; you and your descendants, and every living crea- ture, beasts, or fowls, that have come out of the ark, that the earth shall no more again be destroyed by a flood. And as a sign of this, my covenant, with you, I will set my bow in the clouds, and whenever it rains, and the bow appears, I will remember the covenant that is between myself and every living creature, and you shall be assured by this that the rain shall cease, and shall not again cover the earth; and this my covenant with you, shall be everlast- ing!" Nearly half an hour after the voice had ceased, Asia moved slightly her head in Japhet's lap, lisping faintly, "I heard, I heard a voice," Japhet said nothiiag; his shoulders leaning     58      NN OACHDAIE. against a rock, his eyes half closed, resting -upon the smoking brands on the altar. Ham lay extended on his back on his blanket, as if asleep; Myrrha reclined against him, her arms folded on her breast and half turned over, and her shoulders shrunk up as if a little timid. Shem lay, leaning against a roll of blankets, with his eyes half closed, and fixed in the di- rection whence the sound. proceeded. Elishe- ba at first put one end of her,harp under her arm, resting upon it, but soon after she drooped against her husband's side, her face shining with an inexpressible luster. Noah sat nearly upright, with his eyes directed toward the spot whence the voice proceeded, and when it ceased, he moved not; the entire group looking like beautiful living statuary, in -the flickering light of the altar fire. - Near two hours after, Noah, slowly rising, put his hand on the different members of his '(family, when- the women, with himself, retired to the ark, while Shem, Ham, and Japhet   NOACHDA.    :   59 remained where they were, watching the stars; their minds, Shem's and Japhet's in particular, filled with a bewildering consciousness .of peace. Roh followed Asia into the ark, but most of the dogs came and extended them- selves on the sides of the three brothers; one of them, however, had such a fancy for the sheep that it kept constantly near them, and another by the cattle. For some reason or other, however, the dog near the cattle kept continually growling and barking. He was near the boxes which we have already de- scribed, and he very much disturbed the sleepers. It got to be near one o'clock, when Ham, losing all patience, got up and went and drove the cattle round on the east side, and left them there., The dog- followed, jumping upon Ham, and seeming much pleased. , After that he was quiet.: Ham had composed him- self, and was just sinking into a state of uncon- sciousness, wheni he was aroused by something sitting on his legis, just above his feet. Feel.    60       NOACHDE. ing something move there, he opened his eyes and saw, by the light of the moon, a human form, in miniature, sitting on his legs, and looking right at him. Waked suddenly out of sleep, and of course, a little bewildered and confused, he was at first uncertain whether it was a dream or reality. The first vague ima pression that crossed his mind was, that the great enemy of his race had appeared to him, and he felt uncomfortable; when the form, stretching itself out by his legs, like one dis- posed to take a little sleep, after the fashion of human beings, he saw that it was the mon- key, returned from his aerial journey, and see- ing the higher grade of his species-as he probably imagined-sleeping on the ground, he seemed disposed to imitate their example. The three brothers the next morning, just at dawn, were awakened by the crowing of the cock. They arose, seeing already horses, cattle, and sheep, making for the hay that lay piled outside of the ark. The other animals   NOACHIDJ.       ,  61 were also gathering round for their regular food. Noah and the women soon appeared and occupied themselves some little time in feeding them. The elephants,partook of the hay. Nuts and corn were given to the fowls, birds, squirrels, swine, and monkeys, and seed to the smaller birds. The larger animals, leopards, pards, tigers, panthers, lions, etc., were given hay* and vegetables, for their-appe- tite for flesh has been engendered since the flood. Ham, then going to a box, took out a quantity of material that looked like dust, and opening a little slide in the boxes already re- ferred to, thrust it in, and closed up the aperture. After the animals were all fed, they got some food for themselves. They then commenced lashing various things  on to the horses.  All their domestic furniture--not much, to  be sure--and implements of husbandry, all that *IN Isaiah lxv, 28, we are told that, in the restoration, the lion shall eat straw like the bullock. The inference is, that, if in e, rse- toration the lion shall do this, that this must have been its original nature.     62      NOACHDAE. remained of the food for the animals and them- selves, that could be done, was put in bags, and tied to the horses' backs. The hay was put up in bundles. There not being horses enough for this purpose, the elephants, camels, oxen, and even the bisons, were brought into requisition. Two antediluvian plows, much better constructed than we of the nineteenth century after Christ imagine, were tied to one of ,the elephant's back, and on the top of these several bundles of hay were lashed. "Distribute the weights more equally," said Noah, "we shall have a hard time, I fear, be- fore we get down the mountain, and it is pos- sible the poor beasts will have as much as they can do to shift for themselves." "Wouldn't it be better to construct some drays, to put the heavy things. on?" said Ja- phet, "they could be drawn by the oxen, and the friction would prevent their sliding with too much force in steep, hard places; and then they might be very convenient for the women,   NOACHIDA..       68 as they would probably be unwilling to trust themselves on the backs of the horses." "We prefer not to ride," said Asia, "it is very-steep, and I do not see how the poor ani- mals are going to get down. For my own , part, I should much prefer walking: wouldn't you, Elishe.?" "Yes," answered Elisheba, "I should." After some little deliberation, it was conclud- ed to construct two drays. They spent sev- eral hours on them, building them out of pieces of the ark, spiking them together with cross-pieces, and putting heavy runners under- neath on the sides, so as to prevent too much friction. They piled on these a great quantity of material, of one sort or another, and hitched oxen to them, they drawing by meansof wooden bows, and with chains. To the hinder parts of these conveyances were attached chains, which were suffered to drag on the ground, to he used in case of emergency, to prevent, the mass pro. ceeding with too much force in steep, hard     "      NOACIID2. places. It was about two o'clock. in the after- noon when these were completed. When they were all ready to start, the brothers took pieces of the ark, piling them up, and, bringing a vast quantity of rubbish, straw, and litter from it, they made a pile reaching for a long distance along the edge of the mountain the furthest from the point they proposed starting from. They then drew the boxes we have already al- luded to through an opening in this rubbish, placing them on the other side of it, near the  edge of the mountain. They then set fire to the mass, which soon  burned very briskly, and then running to the boxes they hastily thrust aside the slides in them, and springing away through the burning mass, they hastened for the cavalcade. Just as they passed the ridge of fire, Japhet looking over his shoulder, uttered an expression of horror and disgust, as an anaconda put its  head out of one of the boxes!    NOACIIDE, .  THE DESCENT. While they were thus engaged, Asia, bring- ing an olive leaf, put it in a safe place, and  almost at the same instant the cavalcade start- ed. Asia looked back at the ark with a mo- mentary expression of sadness on her features, and even Noah remarked, that they were leaving an old friend. As soon as the oxen started with their load, the horses whinnied, as if inspired with new life, and began to descend  the mountain, planting their fore-feet, and bracing themselves, and thus preparing for a second effort. They took, at first, a diagonal direction. The oxen with their loads ahead, followed by the horses with theirs, and as soon  as they had well cleared the brow of the moun-. tain, the elephants started, and these strange animals, manceuvred their way down the mountain with astonishing sagacity. Al- though encumbered with vast weights, which, had they not been lashed, would certainly     I66      NOACHDA. have tumbled over their heads; they planted their feet with great caution, and seemed to understand, as if by instinct, where their foot- ing would be most secure; oftentimes, by a dexterous and powerful- effort, changing the position of their bodies, and struggling along, making an angular movement, with their heads down and trunks advanced, as if examining the way with the greatest care. When they had got some eight or ten rods down the de- clivity, the camels followed, and after these, one by one, the cattle, bellowing as if afraid of being left behind. By this time, the three brothers appeared, Ham, coming along, took up a huge bow and some arrows, which he had placed by the ark, and fastening them to his shoulder, according to the custom of the antediluvian world, he followed on. They drove all the animals and fowls that remained on the edge of the moun. tain after the cavalcade. When they had got down a quarter of a mile, the whole side of the   NOrACHDE. mountain between them and the sunmmit was covered with fowls and animals of one kind or another, following after in close succession After a while, the smaller birds came flying through the air, and lighting upon the shrub- bery and rocks around them, and some upon the loaded dray, and some even upon the load- ed beasts. Even the larger and more fero- cious animals came tearing along down the sides of the mountain, making strange oises. Asia clung to a stunted shrub, to keep from slidingat a particular spot, and at the same mo- ment noticed the eagles making for a moun. tain on the south-east that Was not so high as the one they were on, yet was very. high The country below was completely obscured by mist and clouds, driven along before a power- ful wind. At one place, it was so steep the animals actually j:- on their hind legs sev- eral rods n of one of the drays, sud. denly crowded from behind, by the loaded vehicle, had his hind feet knocked fronm under     68       NOAC1IIDDE. him, and being thrown down, dragged its companion, floundering and bellowing, through the flying dirt. Ham sprung, and catching the chain behind, endeavored to check its progress; but his footing giving way, he rolled down against the dray itself and altogether were carried down the descent. They brought up against a ridge of rocks and dirt deposited by the waters; the oxen struggling and com- ing against this deposit, one of them was in danger of being severely bruised by the mass from behind, when Ham, scrambling up, and throwing himself forward, jumped over near the neck of one of the prostrate oxen, and plant- ing his feet against the rocks and his shoulders against the mass he stopped its course so far as to prevent any injury. The next moment, Shem and Japhet were on the spot; and while Ham was holding back theoad, they got the prostrate beasts upon their feet, some scratched. but nothing more. In coming down this place, nearly half of the large animals lost their   NOACHDAL.  balance, and fell. As strange as it may appear, the elephants did not fall. On approaching the declivity, they stopped, extending their trunks over the ground, and thrashing with their tails, they stood a moment, contracting their bodies, bringing their fore and hinder feet closer together, they threw the whole weight of their vast bodies upon their hind feet, and bracing with their fore ones, the dirt giving way from under them, down they came through the loose alluvion, flourishing their trunks in the air, as if to keep away intruders, or seize hold of any object which might re- tard their progress. The poor cattle had the worst of it. Many of them were seen strug. gling on their sides, carrying along great masses of earth. The hippopotami slid down on their bellies. The smaller animals got along very well. All the women, with the excep. tion of Asia, were picking their way -along from behind. The latter, in her enthusiasm, had got ahead some distance, followed by Nan.       70      NOACIIDAE. Roh, a spaniel, and grayhound, and several oth- er smaller dogs--some white, woolly ones- all jumping, capering, tickled with their liber- ty and the excitement of the scene. Hearing the commotion behind her, she stopped, and looking back saw the general melee, and cornm menced returning, and Roh, looking up, gave an explosive bark, and began to clamber up the declivity, followed by te other dogs, and by Nan, the little ones struggling upward with determined energy. In answer to her inquiry if any of the animals were injured, receiving a negative, she sat down on a flat stone to recov- er her breath. It was curious to note the mon- keys, some of which had taken a passage on the loaded dray. Their actions and chattering during the confusion were laughable. As soon as they got their little disarange. ments put in order, they again started. There now passed a district much more rough, with here and there ridges of sand and mud, and on th lonft riden gullies. In one place, a great   NOACHDAE.       71 number of uprooted trees had been thrown to- gether, and a huge rock, washed from its base by. the retiring waters, had rolled down and lodged among this mass of trees and rubbish, against which and upon which the drifting sand had accumulated in such quantities as to form quite an elevation. They were obliged to make a circuit with the drays, in order to avoid these obstacles, but the animals clambered over them. The drays were a good deal shak- en, in this part of the journey. Asia, as was her custom, soon got ahead with her usual ret- inue of dogs, Nan, etc., this time, however, followed by Elisheba. She crossed the sandy elevation, and thus gained on the main body some distance by the time it had compassed it. The next quarter of a mile was less trouble some, the cavalcade spreading out more. The mountain to the south-east seemed to be above rather than below them; the air was softer and more agreeable; thin clouds were still floating below them", the country seeming more     72      NOACHDXE. distinct, and having altogether a more con- ceivable idea of the height to which they were elevated than while on the summit, where the view below was so vague and indistinct. "Do you notice a change in the atmos- phere?" said Asia, addressing Elisheba, "there certainly is. What a delightful view we have here! Oh! I am so impatient to get down among the fields." After passing along, diagonally, a few rods, she exclaimed, "See those beasts!"The lions and, soon after, the other animals of the ferine kind were seen crossing their tracks some quar- ter of a mile below, and apparently making for the valley, at the base of the mountain, to the south-east of them. After passing the sandy elevation alluded to, the fowls came flying through the air, and lighting around them. This was their mode of proceedure; finding themselves unable to keep up, they had re- course to their wings, the hens cackling, the geese clamoring, the turkeys holding up their   NOACHD&.        73 wings to aid them in their movements, but scarcely leaving the ground, they came, some of them, the geese and hens in particular, pitch- ing on the ground with the force of their fight. When they had proceeded about three- quarters of a mile furrer, Asia noticed the sheep and goats, which, by their superior agil- ity, had got some distance ahead, all at once running in a particular direction. They could not, at first, understand its meaning. They soon perceived, however, that a piece of grass, thin, to be sure, had attracted the attention of these animals. They acted as though beside themselves; the horses and cattle coming down, immediately started for it, and the do- mestic fowls rushed, with all kinds of noises, Upon it, nibbling and biting, as if distracted. As the oxen with the drays approached, they started out of their regular course, and fell up- on the dainty patch, dashing down their heads, and tearing along, and thrashing with their tails. 4           , 4     74      NOACHDIE. While the animals were enjoying this luxu- ry, the men took a- survey of their position. They still seemed at a great elevation, and on- ly realized the distance they had come by look- ing up and observing the summit almost con- cealed from view by the mists gathering around it. Below, could be seen hills, valleys, and a misty horizon. As soon as the animals had finished this patch of grass, they pushed on in search of more, but instead of finding it immediately, they came upon a piece of sand and mud more troublesome than any thing they had yet met with. Several acres, of what seem- ed originally to be bushes were almost en- tirely covered with these materials, in some places completely burying them, and in others allowing their tops to portrude above the shrface. The oxen had to pull some, to get through this stuff, it being so loose that they sank in it considerably. The trouble was, there was'no security for their footing; gen-    X- i-         NOACHDAi       75 erally, however, theyImanag d to get along with some care. On dne occasion, the drays sunk in the sand so far that Ham was obliged to apply a rod to the animals' backs. At this, the orang-outang, walking along, with a stick in its hand, with a considerable assumption of humanity, running up, commenced belaboring the poor beasts, in imitation of Ham; which occasioned a general laugh. Another half mile brought them to a part (of the mountain altogether differenhTrom any thing they had yet met with. They came. upon an elevation that seemed to furnish a common bases for the mountain they were on and the one adjoining. The same currents that had deposited such masses of sand in the  parts they had passed over had here plowed up and in places completely divested the rocks of all sand, either leaving them bare, or heap- ing it up in ridges. ;They found here a per- pendicular descent of some seven or eight feet, produced by the waters scooping away the    76       NOACHDA. alluvion. After some little trouble in examin- ing the sides of the mountain, they found a spot where they might descend with safety. They were now approaching the base of the mountain. A quarter of a mile further, brought them to some more grass, sprouting from soil that did not appear to have been much dis- turbed by the diluvian waters, and near a clump of trees. The animals, of course, fell upon this with their usual avidity. After this, they. wound along nearly a mile further, over ground slightly descending; here and there deposits of sand, uprooted trees, mixed with the car- casses of animals that had escaped being car- ried away by the receding waters.  They continued their progress, until they came to a grove of trees, on a ridge of green hills   X:31' i     NJOACHDEa. 7'  THE FIRST SETTLEMENT. THEY were now fairly down the mountain. It was about three o'clock in the afternoon, and they stopped to take refreshments. "The air is much softer here," remarked Japhet, as he unloosed the oxen, which im- mediately dashed upon the grass with eager appetites. In the course of half an hour or so, the vari- ous animals, some of which had lingered be- hind, had an opportunity to come up. Taking some water from a skin on the back of one of the camels, and filling a cask with it, which was carried on one of the drays, they allowed the animals to drink. In the meantime, Noah ascended the ridge, and seemed to be taking a survey of the sur- rounding country. He soon returned, with his eyes cast upon the ground.      "It appears not very inviting, just about here," he said to Naamah, as he came up, "The waters have done some havoc." "Had we not better encamp here," said Japhet, coming forward, "until we can ex- amine the country, and find a good place for settlement?" "You had better mount one of the horses, Japhet, and ride along this ridge a few miles, and see how the country looks in that direc- tion. We want water and pasturage for the animals, remember; and tell Ham to take an- other horse, and examine the country to the south, Shem and I will take care of the ani- mals, in the meantime." The young men, delighted with this, quickly disburthened two of the horses, and mounting them without saddles, but with bridles curious- ly formed, galloped up the ridge. "Father, unload Buzzy, and let me go with them," said Asia, getting excited at the exhi- bition.   "Be patient, Asia," said Shem, "you will have enough of that when we get settled." "Can you see him?" she exclaimed, turning round, and trying to get a view of Japhet. "Yes, I see him," said Elisheba, "here." Asia, running up a slight declivity, just caught a glimpse of him, as his horse dashed over a hill. Ham returned in little over an hour, report-. ing that the country to the south was moun- tainous, and that a good deal of water still re- mained in the glens and ravines.' "We will unload the beasts," said Noah, "and wait here till morning.   I have more hopes of the valley eastward; it is completely drained, and has been. longer exposed to the wind and sun's rays; so, there must be plenty of pasture-grounds in that direction. We will wait the return of Japhet." It was near sunset before he returned. He rode up and dismounted from his horse, but was not noticed, for the whole family, just at   *-   ^     80      NOACHDAiE. that moment, were looking at the top of Ara- rat. The sun, as it set, left a glow on its sum- mit, and on the spot where they stood. Asia had declared that she could see the, ark, and this had brought them together for the purpose of viewing it. They were not all satisfied that Jothey could see it, but she seemed to be confi- dent. While they were thus occupied, Japhet approached, appearing somewhat animated. Asia, turning round, ran up to him. "Why, Japhet, where have you been? how long you have been gone! did you find Sippa- ra, or Enoch?" "I have had a fine ride, Asia." "Why did you not let me go with you? I could have taken Buzzy. See how good-na- turedly he looks at me. He knows it as well as I do," she added, going up to him and smoothing his ears, as, hearing the word Buzzy pronounced, he raised his head. "You are a good Buzzy, if you have ot long ears." Nan gave a bleat and, running up to her, was fol-   NOACHDAIE.       81- lowed by the sheep, goats, and deer, and, finally, by the dogs. Roh, looking very grave deliberately took Nan by the side of the neck, with his large mouth, and walked off with her. "Look at Roh; he is jealous!" exclaimed Asia, with laughter, and springing away from the animals, she hastened to the group of per. sons who were now conversing with Japhet. It seems' he had discovered what he considered a most eligible spot for settlement. It was about twelve miles distant, and lying upon the banks of a river. It had an abundance of grass and water.  Asia clapped her hands with delight. "Japhet, come here; can you not see the ark? I am certain I can; but the others say they can't see it. Father thinks what I see is the peak on the other side. Oh?" she added, looking up, "the light is so dim, now, you can't see it." n "Ah, Asia," said Japhet, seriously, "if it can be seen, you will find it out." 4*      82       NOAOHDAE. "TWell" said Asia, "Elisheba thought she saw it, too; but Myrrha couldn't see it." The next morning, as soon as it was light, they were all. moving. Thinking they would require more force on the drays, they thought, at first, of hitching two buffaloes in front of the oxen. They finally concluded to employ ele- phants in their stead. The hay was taken from their backs and pitched one side, as of no fur- ther use, as Japhet assured them they would find plenty of grass where they were going. Their water, after allowing the ani- mals to drink, was also turned upon the ground. By thus getting rid of some of their burthens, and the shifting of others, they were enabled to get their horses at liberty; and this was de- sirable, since a journey of twelve miles, over an uneven country, would make it difficult for the women. In this way, Asia was enabled to mount Buzzy; and Elisheba, the other donkey. The other women were prepared places on the drays, though they sometimes walked. The   8! rNOACILIDA.            83 men tot charge of these vehicles, driving their now few domestic animals along over the country. They had not proceeded far before finding the oxen could not keep pace with their more powerful companions they removed them, trusting to the elephants altogether. They I passed along over an uneven country, often making circuits to avoid obstacles, in the shape of fallen trees, piled upon each other, or sharp ravines. As they advanced, however, the country improved in appearance,. about noon, wearing so pleasing an aspect that Asia was beside herself with ecstacy. It was smooth, with here and there a gentle declivity covered with a thick carpet of ver- dure that made the animals as crazy as their lords. There was no restraining them; they spread over it in perfect abandonment. The elephants darted forward with such vehemence as almost to overturn the drays, while the fowls and other domestic animals, neighing, bellow-     84       NOACHDDE. ing, and bleating, tore crazily along, their very hides trembling with eagerness to enjoy the luxuries spread out in such bountiful profusion before them. Soon, the fowls, from a distance perceiving the action of the other animals, came flying through the air, or running with wings outspread, scattered themselves over it, making confused sounds, in the excess of their enjoyment. Asia, after trying in vain to hold Buzzy, gave her the reins, and, getting off of her back, she threw herself on the grass, rolling over with delight. The flush on her cheeks certainly made her look very interest- ing. They all dismounted here, crowding round Japhet. "Is this the spot?" they eagerly inquired. "No," he replied, "it is yonder;" pointing to a clump of trees, on an eminence, about two miles distant, "it is on the banks of a stream." "That is all that we want now," said Noah, who had just come up, as Japhet made the   NOACHDSE.       85 remark. "We must try to force the animals along till we reach the spot." "It is of no use," said Japhet; "we might as well let them feed awhile. There is no con- trolling them." They concluded to wait a short time, to al- low the animals time to feed. Asia was too impatient. After trying in vain for some little time to induce Buzzy to go forward, she got off and, giving her a box on the ear, said: "Well, stay, then! I know it is nice, and you are almost starved to death, shut up so long, without any thing but old, dry grass to eat; but, if you will just come along a little further, you may eat just as much as you please, and as long as you please. Will you come.? Well, I am going to leave you." So she started forward. She had not gone more than ten rods, however, before Buzzy, raising his head, and keeping his mouth going, looked steadily after her.  Then, abruptly throwing up his head, he started after her,     86    NOACHD'E. upon a gallop. The other ass followed. Nan, giving a bleat, started too, and drew after her the other sheep. Soon the horses started, occasionally putting down their head, taking a mouthful, and then shaking them, and trotting forward. They were followed by the cattle--in fine, all the animals soon again got in motion, straggling along one after another. They had not gone far, however, in this way before the camels and dromedaries exhibited unusual excitement. They dashed furiously and eagerly forward, tossing their heads, turning a little to the left, passing Asia in their rapid progress. The hip- popotami also bristling up, dashed across the green knolls, out of the direct line of march. Elisheba, hurrying forward, overtook Asia; the country growing more beautiful as they advanced. Intermingled with the soft, rich verdure were the most elegant flowers. They found trees, covered with the richest foliage and blossoms just bursting forth 'They soon   NOACHDAE.        7 reached a green level plot with slight inclina- tion. On one side, on a small hill, was a grove of trees, and looking down into a valley, they saw a stream of water tumbling along over the rocks. Ham went in pursuitofthecamelsand dromedaries; he found them standing by the stream, not drinking, but stretching their necks and snuffing, as though enjoying the smell of the water. While securing' these animals, he saw the hippopotami rolling and pawing about in the stream, as though extremely gratified with the operation. He drove the camels back toward the settlement. In the meantime, Noah and his two other sons were busy unloading the drays. After that, they pitched their tents, which were brought with them from the ark; Japhet's on the right of his father, Shem's on the left, and Ham's in the rear. As soon as Ham arrived with the camels, they commenced disposing of their various effects. The elephants, and other beasts of ,      '88      NOACHDME. burthen, on being relieved from their loads, were suffered to run upon the grass. Most of the domestic fowls, which had lingered behind, were brought in by Asia and Elisheba. Many smaller birds were thus attracted along in the neighborhood of the settlement. As soon as they got fairly settled, and a division of property was effected, they looked about for a piece of ground, suitable for agricultural pur- poses. They found, a little below, a level tract, or interval, which they plowed, and stocked with wheat. They planted, in different places, all the seed they had. On the side of the hill nearest by, and near the grove which we have before described as occupying the top of it, Noah himself planted a vineyard,-pear, peach, plum, apple-trees and current bushes were also planted;-and thus the first settlement was fairly established after the flood.   NOACHDAE.       89 THE FIRST RAINBOW. After getting fairly settled and their seed in the ground, having a little leisure, Ham and Saphet started off on an exploring tour to the eastward. They were anxious to ascertain where the stream went, upon which they were encamped. They followed it down.  Ham took his bow along. They explored the river some fifty miles, but getting short of provisions, and as there was no game, they concluded to return. In doing so, however, they went out of their di- rect course some half a mile, when Ham drew his brother's attention to a sad spectacle. Just before them, on a hill, the highest within a distance of several miles, suspended to a tree, were four skeletons,-two small and two large ones,--with their garments still hanging about their limbs. They were evidently the parents and two .children, who, thinking the waters could not possibly rise upon the hill, had taken     w       NNOACHDAE. refuge upon it, and on its doing so, and cut- ting off their communication with the sur- rounding country, having recourse to the tree, lashing themselves to the highest limbs, and there perishing! They turned away from the horrible spec- tacle, Japhet remarking as they did so, "It was an awful judgment!" "And may it not again occur?" half mut- tered Ham. "You seem to be very anxious about that;  replied Japhet, "We have the promise-why should you doubt?" "We have not had the bow," returned Ham, in a low tone of voice; and then raising it he continued, "But Japhet, what has become of all the waters? that's a puzzle." "And yet they are not here," observed Japhet coolly, as they ascended an eminence overlooking the river. 'You are very inquisi- tive, Ham," he continued, as he gazed across the valley through which the stream flowed.   NOACHDA.       91 "It is about as difficult to convince you now that there will not be another flood as it was that there would be one, before it- occurred." "But the bow in-the clouds," added Ham, looking up,%as though he then expected to see something of the kind depicted in the firma- ment; "I don't understand that." "What a pity it is, Ham, that you are not possessed of all knowledge;" returned Japhet. "If we had the tree of knowledge of good and evil here now, would you not pluck of its fruit and eat, Ham, as our poor, foolish, first parents, Adam and Eve, did? The bow is promised. Do you question whether we shall have it or not?" "I want to see it," replied Ham, in a leer tone of voice; " why does it not appear? Iow would it be possible to make this bow stay, up in the clouds?" holding up, at the same time, the bow which he carried in his hand. "I can not tell," replied Japhet; "but I am     92       NOACHDA. t pretty certain we shall see it, for it is promised to us." Ham went along with a lurid smile upon his face, without, at the moment, saying any thing further. Soon after, Japhet heard him mut- tering to himself, half audibly, "Well, when I see it." "Look here," said the other; "here is the tallest tree we have seen yet, and, with the exception of the limb wrenched off there, it seems to have stood the waters pretty well. Throw an arrow over it, Ham." Ham bent his bow, and the arrow, flying far above the top of the tree, disappeared for the instant, apparently, in the clouds; soon, how- ever, they perceived it, glancing downward, and following it with their eyes, they saw the body of an elephant wedged in the crotch of a tree, with its back downward. They could not refrain from laughing at the singular pre- dicament in which the unfortunate animal was caught, and after going down and getting a   !      e   rviNOACHDAE.     93 I  (nearer view of it, they continued their jour- ney. That night, as they extended themselves for the purpose of sleep upon the green-sward, Japhet remarked, "Have you noticed the stars, Ham?  It seems to me they have all changed their places. What is the direction of this stream? This must be the North Star up here." "Pho!" exclaimed Ham, "How came it u2 there? impossible!" "Well, where is it then?" continued Japhet; "point it out to ime." "I don't know," replied the other, rolling over with apparent vexation; "they are all jumbled together some way. I suppose the waters have washed them out of their places." "It is very strange, observed Japhet. About ten days after they had returned, the seed they had planted had appeared above ground. It was about an hour after sunrise, and a black cloud appeared in the south, and a low rumbling sound was heard, like that of     "      NOACHDE. distant thunder. The birds flew about in great apparent trepidation; the cattle bellow. ing and running toward the tents; the dogs uttering low ejaculatory barks, put their tails between their legs, crouching at the feet of Noah and the female part of the family, who stood near by. The women were preparing their morning meal, and all, leaving their occu- pations, except Myrrha, suddenly rushed to- ward Noah's tents. Ham, it seems, had been watching the cloud for some time previous to the thunder .peal, with some anxiety expressed in his counte- nance; and the moment he heard that, he rushed for a horse that was feeding a few rods distant, caught it, and bringing it up, put a bridle on it, and catching Myrrha in his arms, and placing her upon its back, sprung on be- hind her, and galloped away toward the west, in the direction of Mt. Ararat.  Asia, springing up with an expression of alarm on her lips, hastened toward Noah, who, e   I         NOACHDA&. 9-  as the thunder pealed forth, had stepped from the tent into the open air, where the whole animal as well as human creation seemed to be gathering. Elisheba came toward him with an earnest but placid expression of countenance. Japhet was proceeding leisurely toward some bushes, about a dozen rods distant, when hear- ing the thunder and seeing the conster- nation, rushing back, he caught Asia in his arms, endeavoring to soothe her. Shem also hurried forward, and giving his father an earn- est glance, he turned round and faced the cloud, observing it, and occasionally glancing at his fatier. Elisheba stood with both hands hold of Noah's left arm, while Naamah clung to his right. "Father," exclaimed Asia, drawing Japhet toward Noah, "let us return to the ark -we have not had the bow yet; --e are certainly going to have another flood.--we are evi- dently too soon out of the ark! Japhet, get thehorses-quick. Ham is gone. Oh,"she     96       NOACHD3E. aspirated, as a faint flash of lightning illu- minated the bosom of the cloud, and another clap of thunder rolled away in the distance. She tremblingly clung to Japhet, while Roh crouched and whined at her feet. "We have not had the bow," said Shem, addressing his father anxiously, and with a look, which seemed to say, "is not Asia cor- rect in her conclusions?" "Oh," repeated Asia, half breathlessly, "we are wasting time! Japhet, haste! --get up the horses," and she pulled him by the arm, as if she would quicken his movements. Noah all this while stood regarding the cloud with a composed and, at the same time, thoughtful, countenance; but on Shem's alluding to the fact that the bow had not appeared, which was to be to them a sign that rain should not again fall in sufficient quanties to drown the world, a shade of doubt, anxiety, and hesitancy even overspread his countenance. The others, watching him closely, no sooner   NOACHDA.       97 perceived this, than it seemed to deprive them -particularly the women - of what little courage they had left. Asia, burying her head in Japhet's bosom, articulated, "You will not come; we must stay and perish." "Asia," said Japhet, "it can not be; -it is not possible that the Almighty has brought us here, through such a terrible flood,to destroy us at last. It can not be,-be quiet Asia. Besides, we have got time enough. It took days and days, you recollect, before the waters rose high enough to drown the inhabitants that were on the earth." "We shall have to put the ark in a suitable condition," murmured Asia. "At that moment, Noah seemed suddenly to arouse himself His countenance assumed a look of great energy and self-possession, which somewhat reassured his anxious children. Firmly unclasping the hands of the two wo- men who had hold of him, he walked com- 5     98       NOACHDzE. posedly to the grove, in the rear of his tent. At the 'same moment, some heavy drops fell from the clouds. Asia now seemed quite be- side herself. She commended pulling Japhet along in the direction of Ararat, and he to re- lieve her, more than any thing else, partially.  yielded. They had not gone more than a dozen rods, however, before the rain came down smartly. Shem and Elisheba, half uncer- tain what to do, followed them. They, how- ever, had not gone more than a quarter of a mile before the rain stopping, the sun broke resplendently through the crimson-colored clouds. Stopping, and glancing back, they saw Noah approaching, and Naamah standing by the tent, looking after them, screaming and pointing toward the sky. Asia, almost at the same instant, as she turned round, caught sight of a beautiful rainbow, shining with all kinds of colors, spanning the heavens in the west, forming a complete arch over Ararat, while the sun burst through the broken clouds, with,    NOACHDA.        99 mellow splendor, as they rolled away accom- panied with muttering thunder. Asia, uttering a low, muffled cry, with a gush of emotion, and a gasp, as it were for breath, raising her hands, shrunk backward and downward upon her knees, keeping her eyes on the glorious vision, while Elisheba, clasping her hands, half bending, with her eyes also fixed upon the beautiful sign. Ja- phet stood upright, with manly confidence, but with a look of bewildering wonder, while Shem's countenance shone with a serene smile. Noah rushed up, and with a severe look, seizing hold of Asia, brought her suddenly to her feet. "Asia," he exclaimed in a voice that startled her, "What do you worship?" "I was thinking of the Almighty," she answered, bending and clinging to his arm, "I was overpowered. I was not worshiping. My eyes were on that thing-it is so beautiful. What is it?"     100      NOACHDA1. "That is right," said Noah, relaxing the severity of his countenance. At that moment the cock crowed, and Roh came gamboling round the party. They, however, could not remove their eyes from the magnificent sign, and they stood watching it as it faded, first in the center, and then at either extremities, until it disappeared entirely from view. They were, however, so overcome that they said nothing, until sometime after, returning to their tents. As they were taking breakfast, Asia remarked to Japhet, "What a beautiful thing it was;--how splendid its colors, and how terrible the thun- der!" Soon after, Ham made his appearance, and springing from his horse, before reaching the encampment, he gave it in charge of Myrrha, and walking hastily around to his tent, he took his fishing-tackle and proceeded to the river, where he remained most of the forenloon. He finally appeared with some half-dozen fine fish--   Io          NOACHDAE.       101 s  bass and pickerel. The shower had imparted an unusual brilliancy to the grass, and the leaves on the trees, and the flowers that were now adorning the landscape on every side. THE FIRST CHLDREN BORN AFTER THE FLOOD. Four years now elapsed, ,and it was autumn. The vineyard, the previous season, had pro- duced a few grapes, but no more than what were readily consumed; but, this season, it bore most abundantly.. They were large, luscious, and of a soft-blue color. While the men were engaged in picking them, and placing them on large skins prepared for the purpose, three small boys, each about three years of age, were greedily devouring  the delicious fruit. One had bright-blue eyes, soft, flaxen hair, inclining to red, and a fair complex- ion; another had more of an olive complexion, with dark hair; and the third had dark fea- tures, with black hair. The latter was a mus- cular little fellow, and willful. He seemed to     102      NOACHD^E. be rather rough, with all, in his manners. The red-haired boy, taking a bunch of grapes, was transferring them to his mouth, when he seized them. This the other resented, by slapping him in the face; upon this, catching up a bunch of the fruit, he daubed the other's face all over with juice and broken grapes. The former commenced crying. "home.!" cried Asia. "Cush!" screamed Myrrha, "what are you doing?" and coming down from her place, she caught up the last offender, and carried him off, kicking with his little legs and screaming with intense earnestness. She fastened him in her tent, and then returned. While doing this; Asia, getting)down and taking the corner of the cloth tied round her own boy, was wiping the juicy ingredients from his face, as he stood before her and submitted quietly to the opera- tion, but seeming very much grieved. "There," said she, kissing him, "never mind. Cush is a bad boy, and his mother will punish   I      1NOACHDA.          103 !I  him;" and taking some grapes from the pile, she placed them in his hand. "There, that will do; you and 'Phaxe go and play with the dogs." Roh, having just come up, stood wagging his tail as she spoke, while several other large dogs, and four little ones, were jumping, tum- bling, rolling over, and gamboling about, and playing with each other, in all kinds of ways. Gome., or Gomer, breaking out into a laugh, ran a little distance, tumbling over one of, the puppies, while the other dogs, taking the whole as a matter of sport, sprung upon him; upon which he began to cry again, and, scrambling on his legs, he gave one of the animals a kick with his little foot; and seeming to be satisfied with this exhibition of his indignation, his countenance again brightened up, and, making a spring, he bestrode one of the dogs that was smelling of the bunch of grapes that he let drop from  his hand, so far as to get one arm over his neck, and one leg over his back,     104      NOACHDtE. whe the dog, running sidewise, upset another little fellow that was crawling about on the grass, who immediately, in consequence, setup a dismal cry. Asia came, and picking him up, set him upright again on the ground. Myrrha had not been back from her tent more than a minute, when another voice, evi- dently that of a infant, was heard within it. She returned to the tent: The birds flew down, eating the grapes that Gomer let fall from his hands. The next day these grapes, with the excep- tion of some which were laid aside in an earth- en jar for use, were put in skins and tied up. They were then placed on the ground, and Ham and Japhet, getting on these sacks, broke up the grapes within, with their feet. They then emptied the juicy contents into a large, square box, which Ham had prepared out of hewn slabs from a tree, having grooves cut in the bottom, which protruded beyond the side,- pieces, which had little apertures cut, also, in   NOACHDAE.       105 their lower edges, so as to allow the juice to escape. A cover, movable up and down, was then introduced, earthen jars being arranged along immediately under thegrooves,and then a heavy stoni placed upon the cover. The moment the m ngled grapes began to feel the pressure, the dark, blood-like liquor, filtering through the crevices, ran down the grooves, falling into the jars that stood ready to receive it. While this was going on, the three little boys, who stood near watching the proceed- ings with a good deal of interest, so much so as sometimes th embarass the workers, began to scream out, pointing with their little hands to the fluid as it gushed from the apertures and streamed into the jars, and then to thrust their fingers in it. "Gome.!" exclaimed Japhet, "don't do that."' "Cush! come away," cried Ham, giving his boy a vigorous pull. Gush burst out crying, and, going off a little distance, laid down on ',     106      NOACHDE. the grass, screaming most beautifully. The exclamations and gesticulations of the children caused the dogs to gather around them, so there had to be a general removal of these, as well as the children. In an hour, or so, it was thought best to increase the pressure in the box. Japhet went back into the fields a short distance, and, cutting down a small tree, trimming off the branches, and, cutting off the smaller end, a heavy pole was thus obtained, one end of which was thrust into the bank, and the pole laid across the press. Ham first, and then Japhet, getting on to the other end of it, pressed it down, upon which, a fresh torrent of liquor, bursting out of the crevices, flowed into the jars. After this, a large rock, that appeared as though it had been deposited against the bank by the waters of the deluge, was brought by Ham, and held up, while Japhet, fixing around it one end of a chain, fastened the oth- er to the end of the pole. This weight, sup- plying a steady pressure to the vat, caused the   NOACHDAE.       107 juice to flow in a constant- stream into the ves- sels. They thus left it to take care of itself. In about an hour, when the jars were nearly full, they were removed, and their places sup- plied with others. This wine, together with  their newly gathered fruits, was placed in a   separate tent, erected for the purpose. One day, as Cushwas eating some grapes, a robin flew down upon his shoulder, picking one of the grapes from the bunch. He struck the bird on the head. It flew, lighting upon the shoulder of Gomer, fluttering with its wings, and making a strange noise. The latter ran to inform his father of the violence inflicted upon the bird. The robin fluttering, in the :I^  meanwhile, to the ground, worked its head side- wise, the other birds flying around it, making a troubled noise. Gomer found his father, to- gether with Ham and Shem, at work on the river flat, pounding out the wheat from the heads, with long poles, on a floor made of hewn slabs. This floor was elevated nearly breast     108      NOACHDAE. high, skins being spread on the ground under- nea-th to catch the stray kernels of wheat that might find their way through the crevices, in the process of thrashing. The party, leaving their work, followed Gomer, to the tents, where they found the offender standing, sulkily, like a condemned criminal, awaiting his fate. As he commenced crying, Ham, taking him by the hand, walked off with him. "Where is the robin?" asked Japhet; "is it much hurt?" "It is hurt a good deal," answered Arphax- ad; "It has just flown up in that tree, and it keeps shaking its head, and acts as though it did not know what to do." Japhet went round to look for it. In the meantime, the women, noticing something un- usual going on among the men, came forward,  and, on learning the particulars, Asia expressed herself, indignantly, while Elisheba inquired for the robin. "It's up in the tree, there," said Arphaxad,   NOACHIE.       109 Soon, a fluttering was heard among the branches, and the bird, flying down, took refilge in Asia's bosom, making a tremulous noise. "It acts very queer," said Asia. "Poor thing!" ' The other robins flew round, seeming very much disturbed. "He should be punished," continued Asia, with spirit; "let us ask father what shall be done with him."  The case was submitted to him, and he de- cided that the culprit should be tied to a tree, and remain there till sunset. So, they all pro- ceeded to Ham's tent, announced the sentence, and led the boy away. "Go along!" said his mother, as he hung sul- kily back, "and learn never to do so wicked a thing again." X)n the hill, about thirty rods distant, was a large tree, standing alone, separate from the grove that covered the top of it. They tied     "O      NOACHDX. him to this tree, with bark, under the arms. It was about three o'clock in the afternoon. They all left him, except Gomer and Arphax- ad, who, lying down upon- the grass, near by, regarded him half compassionately, occasion- ally commenting on his disagreeable situation. "If he hadn't hurt the robin, he wouldn't have been tied up, would he, Phaxe.?" re- marked Gomer, throwing up his little bare feet behind. "No," answered Arphaxad, putting his head down in the grass, and turning it over side- wise. "It's wicked to hurt little birds. I won't hurt them, will you, Chome?" While they were thus speaking, a gray squir- rel, with its tail erect, ran over their backs. Stopping on Gomer's, it erected itself on its jhind-feet, and commenced wiping its mouth with its fore-paws, with the quick motions pe- culiar to that animal. Arphaxad put out his hand to catch it; but, darting up the tree by the Side of Cush, it ran out on a lower limb,   i e     NOACHD^.       1" and, cocking itself up and throwing its tail ! along its back, it made various clucking rloises with its mouth, that sounded very much like being saucy. In about half an hour, Cush, getting tired of his situation, made various efforts to release himself, butwithout success, and finally twisting - himself round, and getting down, where he could do so, he commenced gnawing the bark with his teeth. After some little time, he suc- ceeded in this way, and by straining upon it with the whole weight of his body, in parting it, which he no sooner accomplished, than he started down the hill, in a direction opposite to that of the encampment, as fast as his little legs could carry him. Gomer and Arphaxad scrambled up, and hurrying to the encampment, informed their parents, that Cush had escaped. "Go down and tell his father," said Asia; ' "hurry Gome."  Gomer ran down the bank, and informed /     "2      NOACHDAl. Ham that Cush had run away. Ham imme- diately started off in pursuit. On reaching the tree, he looked about for a few minutes, but not seeing him, he went down the hill on the other side, followed by some of the dogs. He then went on about half a mile further, calling out his name, until he came to a hill, on which were a camel, leopard, and giraffe. He searched about in various directions, but did not succeed in finding him. Pretty soon he heard Myrrha's voice, and looking back, he saw her running down the hill, followed by a whole flock of sheep. "Can't you find him?" she anxiously in- quired, coming up. "No," answered Ham; "he has probably hid in the bushes here, somewhere. The best way will be to leave him; he will be coming back fast enough when he gets tired of hiding. You might as well hunt for a woodchuck." "Cush," cried Myrrha, "where are you? I do n't think it was right to tie him up, Ham."   NOACHD^E.        3 I   "It was wrong to hurt the bird," replied Ham, "but little use to tie him up, I think, myself." "I don't think there was, Ham. Cush, where are you?" '"Let him be," said Ham; "I will go back and finish my work. I have eight bundles more to thrash, before sunset." Ham accordingly gave up the search and re- turned, and Myrrha, after calling out to him a few times, and receiving no answer, did like- wise. After the evening meal, the little runaway not making his appearance, a general rally was made to go in search. The woods, bushes, and country, for three or four miles, in the direc- tion he was seen to go, were explored, but no trace of him could be found. Then Myrrha, for the first time, began to be troubled. "Do you think any accident has happened to him, father?" she anxiously inquired of     "4      NOACOHDE. Noah, as they stood on a hill about two miles from the encampment. "That is hardly possible," replied the other; "there are no precipices for him to fall over; none of the animals would hurt him. O, no, he is safe enough." Then he added something, as if musing to himself, and which was in- audible to those around him. Myrrha turned complainingly round and seemed to be listening to Ham's voice, who was shouting to the dogs in the distance. The sun's disk just touched the horizon, and shone like a furnace of fire. Noah walked slowly back toward the encampment. Myrrha lin- gered, looking anxiously about her. About a quarter of a mile nearer the tents, and to their left, were Asia and Elisheba, as if keeping a look-out. Roh was running about in different directions. As Noah came up, Asia inquired if they saw any thing of him. Noah replied in the negative. "Why, what a strange boy he is," said Asia.   WI NOACHDA^.           " I  "Do you think any thing has happened to him?" "It is not possible." All that night, Myrrha was complaining and I  unhappy. "He 'll starve in the woods," she murmured;  "we shall never see him again," and she burst into tears. "Pho!" said Ham, "he can live on any thing." "He can't either," said Myrrha; "he can't jive on roots." "Well, let him come home then." "He may have wandered off so far that he can't find the way home," said Myrrha. "Well, learn him to run away another time." "Why, Ham, you wouldn't see your owin boy starve in the woods," continued Myrrha, earnestly. "He can live on berries," said Ham.     "6      NOACHDE. This seemed to pacify her a little, and she fell into a troubled sleep. In about an hour she awoke, declaring she had had a dream, and saw Cush stand- ing by a tree, and orang-outang handing him something to eat; that while she looked at him, he seemed suddenly to increase in dimensions, till his gigantic form rose above the tops of the trees; that then stretching out his arms to their fullest extent he uttered a loud cry, that sounded like words of com- mand, and- as terrible as thunder! When she awoke, Ham was snoring. "I can go right to the spot," she said, rising, and going to the door of the tent and looking out. "Where now?" said Ham, mutteringly. "Come," she continued, "I can take you to the very spot." Ham raised himself on his elbow, regarding her with an inquisitive look. Myrrha started from the door of the tent.   NOACHDEi .      117 The sky was quite free from clouds, and a 'pleasant wind blew softly against her forehead. The stars shone brilliantly, but under a white, fleecy cloud was one blazing ball, that had a long train. "Ham, what is this? Come out here," she said. Ham, muttering something, got up, and going out, saw the fiery phenomenon. "It is a smoky star," he muttered stupidly. I  "Come, Ham, come along with me." i  "Whither?" exclaimed Ham, now getting thoroughly awake; "come back into the tent." One of the dogs came up quietly, putting its nose round her feet, and wagging its tail. "I wan't to go to him," she replied, starting across the field toward the hill. Ham followed, and .taking hold of her, brought her back. "Go to bed," he said, "and we will go in the morning. Foodge!" he uttered, as much through his nose as his mouth; "what are you i     "8      NOACHDE. considering! You couldn't find him. Go to bed." "I could too," said Myrrha, lying down un- willingly. "I really believe you would as lieve he would die as not." "Die! He can't die," muttered the other, rolling over. "How can he die? He is sleeping somewhere, as comfortably as our- selves. Very likely more so, for he's got no wife to torment him." "He is under a tree," exclaimed Myrrha, starting up, "I saw him." "Your father invented big knives," said Ham, with a muffled laugh; "did he invent for you a pair of eyes, possessing such uncom- mon properties? don't believe it.' I know," returned Myrrha, complainingly, while she seemed to compose herself, "you think more of Cna"--Canaan- "than you do of him; but I love all the children alike." She said no more, and Ham soon showed, by his heavy breathing, that he had again fallen asleep.   NOACHD2E.       119 As soon as it was light, Ham, accompanied Myrrha in an attempt to find the spot, where she supposed she had seen Cush. She went on very briskly for a while, but at length she showed evident embarrassment and doubt. "No use," said Ham. "It was off here' somewhere," said Myrrha, in a low tone of voice, and pushing on with her head down, "Foodge! Useless! What kind of a tree was it?" "A big tree," she replied, "a tall tree, and he was standing right under it, and the orang- outang was handing him something like mul- berries. I saw them, just as distinctly as I see yoit Ham; there he is," shescreamed frantically, rushing forward, her hair flying out from her head, "Cush!" A large orang-outang, a heavy-breasted fel low, larger than any ever seen in modern times, was walking stately along through the woods, with Cush upon his back  I He no b , /     120      NOACHDAJ. sooner saw them approaching, however, than, with a malicious grimace, he started upon a full run, carrying Cush with him. Ham took after him. He was swift, and long-winded on foot, but the gigantic caricature of humanity seemed to be equal to him, even with the extra weight upon his shoulders. They made two circuits, with a radius of some three miles round the encampment. On the third, Myrrha rushed into the encampment with terrible screams, which drew out the whole strength of Noah's family, dogs and all. They could hear Ham's shouts ringing through the woods in the distance, approaching toward the river on the west, and they started up the stream just in time to head off the rascal from plunging into it, for he had swam it twice, Ham following, plunging into the stream and swimming over. They called out to Cush to jump off his back, but he did not comply; either he was afraid of firther punishment for   NOACHD3E.       121 his misbehavior, or else he liked the ex- citement. Finding himself cornered, the hairy rascal sprung for the limb of a tree, and with amazing agility swung himself up, catch- ing hold of an upper limb with his hind legs, if they may be so termed, and raising himself, Cush clinging to his back, sometimes under- neath, and sometimes with his head downward. "Hold on, Cush!" cried all, assembling un- der the tree. Finally, the creature, getting on to an upper limb, sat down, making laughable grimaces. "Why, it's Gruff," said Asia; "he won't hurt him." "Not at all," said Noah. "Ham, you gain nothing by pursuing him. Come to the tents; he'll bring the boy in." "I thought I'd see if I could n't catch him," said Ham, half laughing. "The rascal has got more run in him than I thought he had."  , In accordance with the recommendation of Noah, they all returned to the encampment. 6     122      NOACIIDAE. In about an hour, they noticed Gruff stealthily poking about some brands where there had been a fire; but as the young people had been commanded to appear not to notice him, they did so, although Cush was not with him. In another hour, Gruff appeared, sitting on the edge of one of the tents, Cush by his side, with his face all blacked up, and looking as much like himself as could be. On seeing this, they all shouted out with laughter, while Gruf look- ed at them with a ludicrous grimace. We must now suppose some fifteen years to elapse. It was autumn, and the vintage was over. The sun was setting with a golden glow; some heavy clouds reposed on the hori- zon, shining with silver and gold. The air was soft and invigorating. Asia, Myrrha, and Elisheba were sitting on the grass, twisting a rope out of goat's hair. Naamah was spinning wool, the operation being performed by means of a wooden spindle and rude wheel, not much unlike the spinning-wheel of modern times, the   NOACHDA:.       123 wheel being turned by a little girl, while the yarn was managed by herself. Shem was in- structing a young man in what appeared to be some characters upon wooden tablets. Strut- ting about, at a short distance, was a little girl some four years of age, with her hair stuck full of peacock's feathers. Ham, together with three other young men, were shooting with the bow at a pumpkin placed some fifteen rods distant. The former transfixed the vegetable three successive times with his arrows; one of the young men-the oldest--grazed it; the others flew wide of the mark. They had made some twenty efforts, not one touching it, ex- cept the two mentioned. "Gush is older than we are," said one of the party, ia little vexed at his want of skill. "The mark is too far off; put it nearer." "Get :another pumpkin," said Cush, "and put it where you like." One of :them did so, and the younger boys continued their sport by themselves. Standing     124      NOACHDAI. near, was a girl, about sixteen years of age, with full, round, rosy cheeks, very large of her age, and seeming much pleased with the suc- cess of Cush. Loud and youthful voices were also heard in the direction of the river. Two little girls and a boy were chasing one another round Noah's tent, screaming and laughing. Two other girls, a little older, seated on the grass, were looking at the clouds, and imagining they saw various animals and other combinations among their burnished masses. "I see a horse," said one; "it looks just like Buzzy." "Buzzy aint a horse," said the other. He is, too," replied the former. "Oh! I see a dog," she continued; you can't tell where it is." "There it is," answered the other, pointing with her finger; "it's changing into a cat." Af- ter a few moment's thoughtfulness, she added,   NOACHDAE.       125 "'I wonder what clouds are made of, Bul; aint they handsome!" "Why, they are smoke, aint they? they look just like it." "Smoke hasn't got such colors." Just at that moment, another loud outhurst of voices was heard in the direction of the riv- er. Jumping up and running down the bank, they saw several young men engaged in catch- ing fish. They had constructed a dam, in such a way as to inclose part of the stream with an inlet and outlet. At the outlet was arranged a skin, perforated with holes, which admitted the water through, but no fish of any size. By closing up the inlet, and allowing the water to escape through these holes, they were enabled to secure any unlucky fish that might happen to venture into the inclosed premises. Just as the two children came running up, they had let off the water, and were in the act of cap- turing some ten large, fine fish in the manner mentioned. The young: men, half up to their f      126      NOACHDE. knees in the water, were throwing out upon the stones the living creatures. Sometimes, squirming out of their hands, they would make the water plash in their faces, in their renewed efforts to escape. During the afternoon, they had taken some thirty-two handsome fish; and when they returned they all had some in their hands, the two girls who had gone down to witness the sport each bringing a large, shining, slip- pery salmon, holding them out, running, and calling attention to their beautiful prizes. There being just ten fish to each family, and two odd ones, in making a distribution, a difficulty arose between the juveniles. There was only one of Ham's boys connected with the fishing party, so the others contended that the odd fh should belong to them. This, Ham's son would have assented to; had not Cush appeared upon the scene. He urged them to cast lots. "No!" cried Goner, "let us give them to 4F   NOACHDAb.       127  grandfather. Gush, go away; you have got nothing to do with the fish." Upon this, Cush taking them up, walked off  with them. Magog interposed, and being as-  sisted by Gomer, a scuffle ensued between them  and Cush. The latter being the eldest and the most powerful of the two, got Magog upon the ground, when Gomer, shouting to Arphaxad and Asshur to come to his assistance, clenched in with Cush; but Arphaxad ran off to make complaint to his father, while Asshur, seizing the fish, was in the act of going off with them, but Canaan, Cush's brother, interposed, and a squabble ensued between these two; and  soon after, Phut, another brother of Cush, came running up, and grappled with Gomer. "See those boys," said Asia, rising, and look- ing around her. Noah and Ham soon made their appearance. As the former approached, letting go one an- other, they all, except Cush, began to vindicate  '           128   iOACHIDE. themselves; he stood with a sullen look, --his hair over his face, and his eyes flashing fire. "He is always meddling," said Gomer." "He thinks we must do just as he says," ex- claimed Magog, "Cna was satisfied with the division, and he was carrying away the fish." Noah regarded Cush with a meditative look, when Ham walked round, and taking him by the shoulder, pushed him along in the direc- tion of his tent. Upon that, Phut and Canaan taking up their portion of the fish, attempted to go off with them. Reader, imagine several beautiful fish, fresh out of the water, securely, to all appearance, compressed in your vigorous arms, and the next moment, the same beauti- fil fish, in spite, of your efforts to the contrary, gliding out of your arms, and, to your astonish- ment, lying shining on the gravel! Such was the ludicrous experience that happened to Phut and Canaan! once, twice, three times did this marvelous incident occur to these two young men, and finally procuring a sheep-skin,   NOACHDE.        129     j they secured their slimy prizes, and walked off with them. They were cooked on coals of fire, and eaten, we presume,. very much as fish are eaten now-atdays, though we venture to surmise, their taste was as much above those cooked at our hotels, as sparkling gems were above sawdust. The tents of the different families had been removed further from  each other. Ham's nearly a mile, down the river. Shem's half a mile, and Japhet's the same distance in the opposite direction FIRST VISIT TO MT. ARARAT. An expedition had been for some time in contemplation to Mt. Ararat, and as the oc- casion seemed favorable, it was now deter- mined to carry it into execution. As Noah  and his families, with some few individual ex- ceptions, had not visited the mountain since the  j deluge, preparations were made by which all  ^                *    . i     130      NOACHDAE. could be accommodated. Ham  and Japhet had taken some trouble, within the last two years, to train some elephants. All the young men had an elephant apiece thus trained, which they manceuvered round the fields, oftentimes with considerable amusement and gratification to themselves. Some of these animals were very much attached to their little masters.  Taking them with their trunks, they would put them upon their backs, and start off with them  on a pell-mell run, as though as much pleased to give them  a ride as they were to take it. The grand-children of Noah, now become somewhat numerous, filled the air with their shouts and  laughter. In these amusements the girls participated--some of them  having elephants of their own. There was one little girl, about nine years of age- a  daughter of Japhet-who  must be par- ticularly mentioned as a  most delightful little creature. Having a soft animated coun- tenance -being lively, sensible, teachable, and *   NOACHDA:.       131      fond of fun; at the same time having an air of delicacy, refinement, and intelligence about  E her, that made her very agreeable as a com-  * panion, while admiration was blended with respect. Her manners were simple and un- affected; her countenance full of humor, andA her sharp and soft laugh went right to the heart. She had an elephant of her own -a small one, with round, plump body, very ener-  getic and very nimble. She used to enjoy herself prodigously in riding him about, and making him do all sorts of service. She was very fond of flowers, and would take him out to gather them. At first, when shdewanted a flower, she would get off and get it, and then, by means of little ropes, made of goats' hair,  I dangling from the palankeen, or house, on his back, down his sides, she would climb up again, and by speaking to him, make him start for    i some new spot. By and by, this curious little   j elephant got some strange ideas in his great  i' brown, noddle. Whenever she got off to pluck    ; browill ,ode 'hee',r'     132   NOACHD E.  a flower, he would extend his trunk just where  she put out her hand, keeping it on the flower, and when she plucked it, he would follow it with the end of his trunk. Whether he imagined it was something good to eat, or whether he wanted to find out what it was she was so much interested in, we have no means of knowing; however, it was not long before he became very amusing. Finally he got so that he would pick the flowers himself, before she could do so; sometimes waiting, he w6uld fol- low her hand with his trunk till she was just ready to pick it, when, to her surprise, it would instantly disappear, and she would perceive that he had it in the end of his trunk, and after  holding it up for a moment, as if to torment her, he would then hand it to her. Sometimes springing and catching hold of his trunk,  struggling and scolding, she would make him- give it to her; sometimes before doing this, he would raise her from the ground, but she no wise troubled: holding on screaming, and   NOACHDAE.       i3 .3 scolding him into submission. Finally he got so that he would not even wait for his little mistress to dismount; but, on coming to  a flower, darting forward before she could do  so, he would pick it himself, and handUt to her over his huge, brown, leathery shoulder. This so amused Zillah-this being the name of this  interesting little girl-that she filled the fields  with her screams and laughter; and, by way of showing her gratitude, she would on her re- turn make him a present of some of the finest  apples she could find. This so refined the   taste of this remarkable little elephant, that he  disdained to have any thing to do with poor  apples. Whoever presumed to offer him one,  would be certain to have manifested toward  him his elephantine indignation, sometimes in  a way to show his most lofty *cntempt for  him. On one occasion, when Cush was young-  er, from sheer mischief, he handed him an ap-  pie, having on it something offensive. The  animal caught him in his trunk, and, carrying  -i,     134      NOACHDE. him to the river; threw him in, amidst the shouts and cries of his brethren, where, if he had not been an excellent swimmer, he- must inevitably have perished. He got to the shore, and crawilng upon the rocks, brushed his hair back out of his eyes, and then laughed himself at the ridiculousness of the adventure. Starting early in the morning for the moun- tain, they reached the foot of it about six o'clock, A. M., and dismounting from their ele- phants, they partook of some refreshments, be- fore ascending it. The principal difficulty in this business was the younger children. They could not be expected to be able to climb the mountain, and yet it would not have done to have left them behind, for the want of suitable guardians, all the older members of Noah's family having accompanied the expedition. At first, it was proposed to leave them in their little houses on the backs of the elephants; but the mothers would not consent to this. The difficulty was finally got along with by the men.   NGACHDI.,       1,85 taking the youngest on their backs. Of these  there were two of Japhet's children, one three  and the other five years of age. Japhet took charge of one of these, and Shem the other, as none of Shem's children were less than six years, and Ham's eight. The elephants were left fastened to trees by means of strips of bull's hide. Not wishing to intimate, however, that we suppose these animals could not easily have got free from these fastenings if they had wished, but they were so. docile that the gen- tlest intimations were sufficient to keep them quiet. Some grass, shaved from the green- sward near by with knives, was placed before them, Zillah giving Dodo two large, nice, mel- low apples, and patting him on the forehead as she did so. The elephant, twisting his trunk about her little waist, lifted her up on his back; but, catching hold of the cords dan- gling down his sides, she climbed down again, telling him she did not wish to ride then-- that she proposed going up the mountain, and     136      NOACHDAJ. would ride when she came back. While she was thus talking to the elephant, Arphaxad, coming along, commenced conversation with her. "Zil., do you think you can get up the mountain without assistance?" "I can get up if the rest can," replied the girl. "Do you think you can get up'Phaxe?" she added, archly. Arphaxad laughed pleasantly. "Well its very high and steep, but I think I can get up," continued Zillah seriously, casting her eyes up the mountain; "there are so many clouds over it that I can't see the top. Can you?" "Father says they stopped at this place on coming down the mountain, after leaving the ark," added Arphaxad. "What, this grove here?" continued Zillah, looking round her; and then running up to her mother, who was dispensing some provisions to her numerous children, she continued, "Mother,   N OACHDPA.      137 mother, 'Phaxe says this is the place where you stopped tfter coming down the mountain, when you left the ark."     : "Yes my daughter, this is the very spot," re- plied Asia, looking about her, "only there are more bushes. There is the very place where we pitched our tents for the night, and there is the tree where I tied Buzzy. You know all about it, do n't you?" she added, addressing Roh, who was sitting upright, looking up at her, wagging and thumping his tail on the ground.   i Whether it was that he understood what she said, or that he expected a share in the com- ing lunch, we are not able to inform the reader. "Mother, shall we see the ark up there?" continued the girl with some interest. "I suppose we shall," replied Asia. "What is the ark, mother?" continued the inquisitive girl. "O, you will see my daughter," answered Asia.     138      NOACIIJDAE. At that moment, hearing a clamor of voices, they looked round, and saw Ham's sons pushing  with great eagerness and loud talking along the base of the iountain. They all, however, soon commenced climbing it. No great change had transpired in its general appearance since the flood, except that of bushes, which had overspread all the lower part of it, and grass which had completely covered what at that time was gravel and alluvion. The upper part of it had become rougher and more jagged, probably from the circumstance of the rains having washed out from the interstices the sand and marl which had accumulated in them  during the deluge, and this made the ascent more difficult at this time than it would have been just subsequent to that event. They all managed, however, to get along very well, with the exception of Shem's little daughter, six years of age, who, after getting up about two-thirds of the way, found she was unable to keep up. Ham took her upon his back,   NOACHDlX;       1SO although she stoutly persisted in the declaration  that she was able to reach the summit without assistance. Mounting some rough places, they heard the shouts of Ham's boys, and, looking up, saw them waving their little red caps on the ends of their bows, on the summit of the mountain. They all finally reached the sum-  mit, the girls somewhat flushe, but full of ani-  mation. There stood the ark, just as it was  when first abandoned by the patriarch. The  young men, having displayed the signals al- luded to, had rushed into it with exclamations of wonder and astonishment. One end seemed to  have been raised up and canted over, and. the  platform thrown down, supposed to have been the effect of an earthquake, occurring some three  years previous. In other respects, the huge: fabric remained just as it was whenleft by the  patriarch and his family. The young folks , soon managed to make their way into the won-  derful vessel, by means of the: lower story, and  the stairs connecting on the inside to the vari- * Jt     "O       NOACHDAE. ous floors, and spreading themselves through its dark recesses, the young men  uttering exclamations and the girls screams of wonder and astonishment.  Roh, together with great numbers of other dogs, followed, with their usual antics and barking. Ham's sons, on first entering, followed by some dogs, suddenly cried out, as though their attention was arrest- ed by-something.  Scores of rats, startled by  the unusual apparition of human beings, darted  to and fro, between their legs, over their feet, and, in some instances, clear over their heads, where they happened to be cornered.   As soon, however, as the pupils of their eyes were  adjusted to the imperfect light, and they could  see the creatures darting hither and thither, about the floor, they began to stamp, shout, and pursue, and poke them with their bows,  until they had all disappeared through aper-  tures gnawed for themselves in the various lin. ings and partitions of the vessel.* Some girls, *These rats were of the large, brown species, and being subsequently   NOACHDIE.           141  who had entered with the young     men, on see-  ing the rats, ran back and informed their par- ents; but Shem's and Japhet's sons soon entered in a body, and pushing forward, full of excite-  ment, followed   by great numbers of    dogs,  which, capering about, seemed to be as much excited  as themselves, they assisted in soon  clearing the rooms of these vermin. During   the melee, a fox, starting from  one  of the rooms, rushed out of the ark, followed  by Cush and his-brethren, with loud cries. It es- caped up one of the ledges of rocks. Soon,  Noah, and the remainder of the party who   were with him, entering, penetrated to the fur-  thest extremity of the vessel. They came into a large room, in which was a window, and in one corner a stony structure, hollowed out in the middle, and closely compacted   together  driven from the mountain by the increasing cold, spread into  Persia, finding their way, at a comparatively modern period, (six- teenth century,) in large numbers, to the vicinity of Paris. They appeared at Astrochan in 1729, in incredible numbers. They did not reach America till 1775.     "2      NOACHDAE. with a certain kind of cement. Of course, the young people must have their curiosity grat- ified in relation to the objects and purposes of this singular structure. "That," said Asia, in reply to inquiries made of her, on the subject, "is where we kept a light burning." "Why, were you in the dark?" inquired several. "The window, as you see, was contrived with a transparency, so as to admit light; but, during the first part of the rain, the view out- side was so terrible that we covered it up, and then we needed a light of some kind; be- side, we were obliged to have one to feed and water the animals in different parts of the vessel." "Poor creatures! didn't they try to get out?" asked Zillah. "They were very quiet," replied Asia, "most of the time. Roh, here, and some of the other dogs, would occasionally howl, and   NOACHDiE.       143 the owls would hoot, and the rooster kept up a continual crowing, but all the rest were qui- et. But there was such a noise of the elements outside, that we should not have heard any- thing inside, if there had been the greatest disturbance imaginable. Oh, my children!. you have no idea of the noise there was-the roaring of the wind and rain, and the tumults of the waters bursting out of the earth!" "What!" exclaimed several voices at once, for by that time the entire company, crowding into the room, stood eagerly listening to the speaker; "did water burst up out of the earth? We thought it only rained." Asia here became excited. "Ham can tell you all about that," she re- plied; "he had all along contended that it could not rain enough to cover the earth, but when he saw the waters pouring from fissures in it, like great rivers, he became quite serious." Here she looked at Ham, who stood with his back against the side of the vessel, his arams     "4      NOACHDE. folded on his breast, and his eyes cast upon the floor, with an expression of mortified pride in his countenance. She continued: "And then there was a circle of strange black clouds hanging all around us on the horizon. They, had been so for more than a week, at first ap- pearing like a faint mist at an immense dis- tance, and then slowly approaching, growing darker and darker, emitting lightning and awful thunder. It kept closing in upon us, nearer and nearer, till we were all surrounded by it; and the air was full of insects and birds, and the fields full of wild animals, apparently flying before it. The insects and birds covered the ark, and they crawled into the apertures- you'll see them at the other end of the vessel, prepared to receive them. All this time there was a terrible commotion of the earth, and finally one day, as I was looking out of the window, I noticed a high hill near by. I had been up it often to gather berries, and see the sun st.  It was now covered with frightened   NIOACHDA.       145 people, and while I was looking at it, it sunk down into the ground with a frightful, roaring noise, and shaking of the earth generally, and a river, as it were, gushed up, flowing over the surroundiing country, and coming right toward us. I pulled the cloth over the window, al- most falling upon the floor for terror. "Oh!" she added, turning away, "it was dreadful, We were safe enough; but to see so many mis- erable people!" She approached Japhet, falling into his arms, with a look of anguish. Zillah and some other little children crowded around her, twitching her dress, and saying, "Mother, mother, don't cry." After the first gush of feeling was over, she dried up her tears, but looked sad. "I should like to have been on this ark, here, and seen it, exclaimed Cush; "wouldn't you, Mog?" "My children," said Noah, "this is the ves- sel in which your parents and grand-parents     "6      NOACHDAE. were saved from the flood that we have so of- ten told you about. We are indebted to the Almighty for this merciful interposition. It is now twenty years since we came out of it, and you, my grandchildren, have come into exist. ence. You will increase and overspread the earth, but it will never again be destroyed by another flood." "The people will not be so wicked, then," observed Arphaxad, thoughtfully. "Yes," continued Noah, gravely; "but the Almighty will forbear, but not relent. Enough for the day is the evil thereof. We have his bow in the clouds as a perpetual covenant be- tween us, that he will not again destroy the earth by water. Arphaxad," he added, after a moment's pause, and speaking in a subdued tone of voice, as if soliloquizing, "a branch shall spring out of your roots that shall save many from the storm of fire." Ham, starting, looked steadily at his father with a troubled and dark look.. Shem,   NOACHD-..       147 approaching his father, with an earnest, inquisi- tive, and, at the same time, pleased expression of countenance, and Japhet, looking at him, at first, earnestly, then, throwing a glance at Ar- phaxad, he cast his eyes upon tfie floor, while , faint, almost imperceptible, smile played over his countenance, like the crepusculous light of the morning, just breaking upon the eastern heavens. It was a blending of mortified vanity and submission in his countenance. The scene was interrupted by Cush abruptly asking where all the iron came from that they put in the vessel. His faier gruffly replied, "Tu-bulcain furnished it to us. Have I not often told you of Tu-bulcain? He made the chain we -use with the oxen;'" and, turning about, he walked with his sons through the ark. "Did he perish in the waters?" asked Phut. "Yes," said Ham, "he was as big an unbe- liever as I was. He was drowned.   tie was the greatest iron-worker of his age. We used     "8      NOACHD/E. to laugh about father's building the ark, and thought he was spending all his labor for noth- ing. He cared not, though, so long as he got his pay. We gave him all our flocks and--" "Grandfather knew more about it than he did, didn't he?" interrupted Mizra, "It seems so, replied Ham. "It must have taken a long time to build so big a vessel," remarked Cush. "We were an hundred and twenty years upon it," said Ham. "There is where we kept the horses," he abruptly remarked, stopping and pointing to a room. But we will not stop to imagine all the con- versation that might have occurred between the parties as they passed along the gloomy open- ing. There was a dreariness about the vessel that affected the parties, particularly the lower story, which was damp and gloomy. Emerging into the open air, the young Hamites imme- diately started off to climb the acclivities in the neighborhood, and after that to descend   I           NOACHDA3.      149 the mountain on the other side, some distance. After spending about four hours on the suim- mit, Ham's boys not returning, the com- pany concluded to return to the foot of the mountain without them. It was apparent to Noah and his three sons, that the mountain had been raised considerably higher than it was when they came out of the ark. They found the elephants standing quietly where they had been fastened. Having barely got into their seats, they heard, in the direction of the valley between the two mountains, a lion roaring, and looking up, they saw iam's sons hurrying down the mountain with all speed. Within the past year, some of the larger animals had exhibited symptoms of ferocity. They were mostly those which had grown up in remote parts of the country, without the ameliorating influences arising from the presence of man upon them: The larger animals that had come out of the ark, came regularly each day receiv- ing their supply of food. When they got young,     150      NOACHDA^. they at first carried their food to them, and on their getting old enough they regularly con- ducted them to the encampments, where they were fed accordingly. But as Cush and Magog one day were passing through the fields, they saw a young tiger spring suddenly out of a wood, and, seizing a sheep, drag it away into the forest. Astonished, for they had never witnessed any thing of the kind before, they hastened, to report what they had seen, to the encampment. The result was, that permission was now granted to make war upon all beasts which were found committing depredations upon the flocks. This commission added a new: element to the sources of enjoyment possessed by the grandsons of Noah. Arrows with iron points, and spears with the same, were provided by Ham, who rigged up a rude forge, such as he had seen in Tubal-cain's shop. It was not long before an opportunity was afforded of employing their new weapons. A few days after the incident just referred to, &   - NOACHJD.       161 some g rls, who had been watching early in the morning in the adjoining grove, brought intelligence that the same animal had made another requisition on the flocks. The next morning, the men placing  themselves in ambush, soon after, the women heard shouts, and hastening up the hill, saw them all running from different points toward a common center, and on looking in that direction, they saw a tiger, which had seized a sheep, after standing a moment, as if astonished or uncertain what to make of this sudden rush of human beings, suddenly drop its prey, and start toward a piece of woods, when a discharge of arrows at once arrested its attention. Some of these grazing its back; some sticking in its sides. This seemed to madden it. It stood for a mo- ment regarding its adversaries, who were still at some distance, its eyes looking wicked. "Hold!" cried Noah, who seemed to have a better understanding of matters than his iriex- perienced offspring, at the same time motioning      152      NOACHDAE. with his hands. A large number of dogs coming round, but not having as yet learned to attack animals, they merely rushed playfully around the beast, and did not seem disposed to meddle with it. But being exasperated, it gave one of them a cruel blow with its fore-paw, which made it yelp and take to its heels. Almost at the same moment, Ham and Japhet drawing their bows, each drove their glittering arrows, one into its flank, and the other into its shoulder, when the beast, giving a howl, darted between Cush and Magog, into the adjoining woods. He was pursued by the entire party, but was not found, and although close watch was kept for him for several days, he was never seen- afterward. All looked up as they heard the lion roar and saw Ham's sons rushing down the mountain. Immediately after, two young tigers sprang out of some bushes higher up. A lion, at the same time, was seen coming along the base of the mountain, shaking its mane and making a troubled noise. The young men   1Ad1   NOACHmIDl .         1&3 then, stopping, faced the beasts, and shot their arrows at them, while the men, springing from their seats, rushed up the sides of the mountain to save them from what appeared to -be immi- nent destruction. The women, girls, and child- ren remained in their places on the backs of the elephants, gazing earnestly at the scene. Cush's arrow struck one beast ;in the fore- shoulder; and remained there. Magog's grazed the head f another and perforated his ear, but the dogrunning up, more in play than oth erwise diverted their attention, and the pur- sued party were permitted to resume their flight. The party from below then stopped, and all hurried down the mountain. "What did you do to irritate the creature?" asked Noah of Cush, as they remounted their elephants. As the latter made no distinct re- ply, Mizra exclaimed, "He shot an arrow at it and hurt it, when it was only looking at us." The conversation was here interrupted by     154      NOACHDAE. the business of mounting. The young men were very desirous of stopping and having a fight with the animals; but not being encour- aged in this, they started back toward the en- campment. The elephants went on briskly over the green undulations, their hlage bodies moving apparently slowly, but yet passing over the ground with surprising rapidity, their heads and ears expressing intelligence. The sun was about two hours high as they entered the en- campment; and, relieving their animals of their burthens, they let them run over the green meadows. Some wine from the recent vintage being then brought out, was distri- buted in wooden cups. Myrrha, with her younger children, then went on to her tent, while Ham and his older sons remained back, some amusements, in the shape of feats of agil- ity, were introduced while the evening meal was preparing. After this, Ham started for his encampment, and passing his father's tent, stopped, looked in for a moment, and then, turn-   'S NOACHDIE.      1i ing back, went up to his brothers, saying some- thing, while a lurid smile played upon his vis- age. Shem and Japhet, with looks of in- dignation, turning round, went up to their father's tent, and taking down a woollen mantle, hanging there, spread it out behind them, going backwardandd disappeared, for a mo- ment, within the tent. Just at sunset, the time for the evening sac- rifice, they all assembled, as usual, but for some reason the ceremony was not performed, and a look of anxiety pervaded the whole company. "I never knew him to sleep so," said Na- amah, "I can not wake him." Shem and Japhet both went to his tent, en- deavoring to arouse him. They partially suc- ceeded, but being   commanded  to desist, in almost unintelligible words they withdrew, expressing their surprise that he should sleep so. All retired to their respective tents. On the following morning Noah arose, and taking a jar of wine, that stood in an adjoining tent,    153      N OACHDAE. and going with it into the open air, subjected it to a rigid examination, after which he said to Naamah, "It had a most extraordinary effect upon me; I think something unusual must have got in it." "What wine was it?" inquired Naamah. "You certainly slept strangely." "It is of the last year's vintage. I was very thirsty, and drank immoderately of it. it had a different flavour from anything I ever before tasted. What were the vessels fumigated with?" "Frankincense, as we always fumigate them." The children all gathered round the jars, looking in them. Noah brought out another jar, and remark- ing that it was of the same vintage, he poured its contents upon the ground, muttering, "The curse, the curse!" and proceeded to the morning sacrifice. In the grove, on the ad- joining hill, was an altar, consisting of eight   NOACHD^E.         1 7 flat stones, representing the number of indi- viduals saved in the ark.  In one side of the grove stood Noah;- opposite stood the three families,-Japhet on the right of the altar facing his father, his children clean and neatly dressed with garments of blue; Shem's came next, distinguished by yellow garments, and Ham's by scarlet, stuck full of little shells, picked up by the side of the brook. Japhet's family consisted of seven sons, as follows: Gomer, 18 years; Magog, 16; Madai, "; Javan, 12; Tubal, 10; Mosoch, or Mesech, 8; Thiras, 6. Of Shem's family there were: Arphaxad, 18 years;*  Elam,16; Asshur, 14; Lad, 12; Aram, 10. Ham's  children  were:  Cush, 18  years; * WR are told, Gene. xi, 10,-that Arphaxad was born two years after the flood; of course at this time he would be 18 years old, and we may suppose Ham's and Japhe's- eldest sons to be of the same age, and the others to vary accordingly.     158        NOACHDIE. Mizraim, 17; Phut, 15; Canaan,*    13;  and daughters. Noah, as he stood before his families, had a cloud upon his brow, and an expression of sad- ness and deep thought upon his countenance. After a few moments of silence he said, ad- dressing the group, "My children, thoughts trouble me! The Almighty has rescued us from destruction. He has washed, he has cleansed the world; he has ruined many nations! And why?"     Stopping, he observed the youthful audience, as if he expected an answer. "I have often told you why.  It was because they were disobedient toward the Almighty. They were very wicked. They were strong; they were giants; theylifted themselves up; they are now weak; they are w * OUR authority for these sons is Genesis x. The daughters are omitted. We may suppose there were probably-as many of these  as sons, whose names must be ascertained from other sources, or else have some given to them, until we can do so. tWE adopt here the Greek name, for reasons which will hereafter appear.   -aH:         NOACHDA.      . 159 humbled, they groan under the waters! Let us beware," he added with feeling. '"We have been preserved through the Almighty's goodness, and a world, full of beauty, has been given us. See, it is empty, and we are the only possessors of it. How can we be otherwise than humble and thankful? The Almighty has given us every thing to make us happy," he added, in a deeper toned voice; "and I repeat, should we not be thankful? My children, do you hear me?" The entire group apparently responded in the affirmative. "The Almighty that made us and preserved us from the rain hears you?" continued Noah, with feeling; "I think we can hardly be too thankful. Has he not been very good to u to preserve us from the terrible waters?,/" Most of the audience, as before, answered in the affirmative. "A good parent he has been to us to give us this beautiful world, full of good things," he continued, and then pausing.     160      NOACHDA. "Good, good," additionally replied several voices with emphasis. Noah seemed struggling with internal emo- tions. Gradually recovering himself, and rais. ing his head, he turned slowly and with dignity toward Ham. Contemplating him for a moment, then in a deep and solemn tone of voice, so deep and so solemn that an involun- tary awe took possession of the assembly, he said, "Ham, disrespect to parents is disrespect to the Almighty." Shem, Arphaxad, Elisheba, Asia, and some of the younger children, involuntarily and instinctively pressed forward toward the speaker. "The Almighty has given you also, in con- nection with your brethren, this beautiful earth. Should you not be thankful for it?" Ham, hung his head, giving some half-inau- dible reply.   NOACHDA.       161 "And yet you are not," continued Noah, thoughtfully. "We did not ask the Almighty to give it to us," muttered Canaan, coarsely. Shem's and Japhet's families gave an invol- untary shudder, and Mizraim uttered an expres- sion of some kind toward his brother. Noah paused a moment, till the slight excitement had subsided. He then continued: "What the Almighty has given, is of his own goodness, and none of us would willingly yield up what he possesses. We deserve noth- ing. We did not fashion ourselves. Some of you have not even condescended to ask him for anything you possess, and yet you would not willingly surrender up what you possess. Ungrateful children, how pan you complain if he is more liberal to those who do so, and who are thankful for favors received. Ham, you and your descendants will enjoy the poorest portion of the earth. I see it; I see trouble. You will seek to rule, but you will be slaves;     162      NOACHD2E. for the Almighty humbles the proud. Beware! ambition, covetousness will be the ruin of your race, and of every race," he added, solemnly, "that gives way to them. Remember, they have their laws and work certain results. But the Almighty punishes the parents; oftentimes, in the children, and in Canaan will your own passions and disobedience meet their speediest recompense. Foolish children," he added, dropping his eyes, as if soliloquizing, and throwing up his hands, as if he would repel- painful images, "to rebel against the Al- mighty -against your own father that has in his hands all goodness. Shem," he suddenly exclaimed, turning, toward that individual, "the Almighty will bless you. But these blessings will be more spiritual than physical, at first, and Canaan shall be your servant." "I will not!" exclaimed that youth, in alow abrupt tone of voice. "Shall I, father?" Ham, placing his heavy hand on his shoul- der, gave him ole shake. The boy stood a   NOACHDAE.       163 moment, and then, as if indignant, left the presence. Ham would not tolerate disrespect to himself, if he did to any one else, and, fol- lowing the youth, taking hold of him with a tremendous shake, that made every bone in his body snap, he brought him. back and placed him in his place. Noah continued, turning to- ward Japhet: "Japhet, in physical good you will be blest. The largest portion of the earth will be yours, and Shem shall administer to your spiritual comfort. Expanding, you shall expand, and Canaan shall be subordinate to you. My child- ren," he gravely concluded, "the Almighty rules;" and, turning round, he walked out of the grove. The worshipers then retired to their respective tents. On the following day, Ham intimated to his father that he thought he was partial in the distribution of his favors. "You have not done so, hitherto," he said. "When we first established ourselves here, you     164      NOACHDAE. made no such distinctions. You gave me, of the flocks and herds, the same in number and quality as you gave my brethren. It is very strange that my family should not have as good a portion as they. It is unjust." "Ham," said Noah, with sorrow in his coun- tenance, "although for the present the earth has been given me to occupy, the division of it, and distribution of it, among my children, is of the Almighty's appointment; I but utter his decrees. If you would merit well of him, you should seek his face. You care nothing for him; why should he care for you?" "The same sun that shines'on my brethren, shines on me," replied Ham, gloomily. "Very true," answered Noah, a faint smile relieving the overcast expression of his coun- tenance, "because it is no robbery of your brethren to do so; but, if there was to be an exclusive appropriation of it, what principle do you suppose would govern in the selection of its possessor? No, my son, the earth will   NOACOHJD.       105 be given to those most deserving of it. It will be meted out according to merit. The Al- mighty will respect you for my sake," he add- ed, after a moment's pause; "but your de- scendants will be rewarded according to their deserts." "What does the Almighty require of me?" asked Ham, abruptly. "Obedience," answered Noah. "He visits me not," muttered Ham, half-in- audibly, as ifrather speaking to himself than his father. At that moment, Naamah called to Noah, from his tent, and he went toward her, in obe- dience to the call. MGRATION OF HAM. A few weeks after this, Ham, with his fami- ly, moved some five miles further down the riv- er; and not long after, Cush, Magog, and     166      NOACHDiE. Canaan explored the country to the south. They returned in about six weeks, stating that they came to a lake, and, after traveling seve- ral days further, to the ocean--something new to them. But a serious change is coming over the fortunes of Ham. The time is approaching when he separates from his father's settlement, and seeks his fortune elsewhere. But first, about thirty-one years after leaving the ark, some marriages took place; for in- stance, that of Gomer to Ruth, Magog to Cly- mene, Gush to Mog, Mizra to Isah, Arphaxad to Zillah, Phut to Dinah. The union of Mag and Cush was opposed by Japhet's family, for Gush was not a favorite with them; but Noah giving his consent, and Mag being'a strong- willed, imperious girl, it was consummated. Canaan married Bulah, another of Japhet's daughters, which was also opposed by his fam- ily, but which was consummated. After these marriages, Ham announced his   tW I X        NUjNOACHDA.     167 determination to remove to some distant point. Noah replied that he should prefer to have him remain in the neighborhood; but, as he per- ceived that he had determined on removal, he should offer no objection to it, any further than to warn him against settling in any country that might be allotted to his brethren. "I should advise you to wait till there is a division," he concluded. Ham would probably have done so, but his family gave him no peace, and being himself secretlyrin favor of the removal, he could find no particular reason thy they should not be gratified. Before taking his departure, how- ever, some of his sons went to Mt. Ararat to obtain iron from the ark. By burning frag- ments of it, they procured a large quantity of this metal, which they brought with them. Ham, with his families, accompanied by Magog, journeyed down the valley for several days, by easy stages, driving their flocks and     168      NOACHDE. herds before them, and encamping at night near the stream, where there was plenty of pasturage, finally arriving at a range of hills, for they were not really mountains, where, leaving their families, Ham, Cush, and Magog, ascended them, and from their summits dis- cerned something in the distance that shone in the sun like water. The stream along which they had traveled, repelled by these highlands, here taking a northerly direction and, as they supposed, disemboguing into the ocean, which they saw in the distance. Then journeying south, they followed one of the tributaries of the stream, above referred to, which flowed along, the base of these highlands. We will merely state, that about three months after leaving Noah's encampment, they had, by easy journeyings, some of which were over a hilly country to the south-east, finally ar- rived on the western flank of a high range of hills with the ocean before them. For several   NOACHDA.       169 days having descended a winding and some- what rugged valley, about ten o'clock in the forenoon, having proceeded about five miles from where they decamped in the morning, they turned a point in the valley when, sud- denly, they beheld before them a glassy ocean, heaving magnificently and shimmering in the light of the sun. It was half a mile distant, but the valley along which they had journeyed for several days here suddenly widening, formed a sort of amphitheater, the hills to the south-east gradually receding for some two miles, terminating in a large, rocky promon- tory in the sea. On the right frowned a prom- ontory also covered with young trees, and occasionallypresenting dark precipices washed by the ocean. The space, or esplanade, formed by the topographical outlines here described, and which declined almost imperceptibly to- ward the shore till within twenty rods of it, where it broke away in acclivities and shelving     170      NOACHDAE. banks, was covered with bushes, and along the base of the hills and valleys they had journeyed down, with thick grass. As they emerged from the valley and got a view of the ocean, the entire party uttered exclamations of wonder. Ham did so, however, for reasons quite different from those which affected the younger mem- bers of his family. It at once became evident to his mind that the waters of the deluge had not yet all retired from the earth, and the latter, with the exception of three, had not before seen so large a body of water in all their lives. Ham, a good deal puzzled, regarded it for. some time with a vacant expression of coun- tenance, secretly wishing his father had been there to explain to him the wonderful phenom- enon. He was uneasy, half doubting whether so large a body of water might not again be used to drown the world, but remembering the rainbow, he banished these misgivings; his confidence in his father's declarations, in every   NOACH  .      171 thing relating to the deluge, having become considerably strengthened, since they had been so remarkably verified hitherto. There was something inviting in the scene before them, and being somewhat wearied  with their peregrinations, they concluded to pitch their tents on the esplanade already mentioned. The elephants, camels, and horses were un- loaded-the .. As -cleared away and tents pitched. The flocks and herds were per- mitted to- linger in the valley, nipping the herbage thatgrew on the banks of the brook that tinkled through it, along which they had traveled. ORION. About eighteen years after Ham's removal, he made a visit to his father's settlement, b bringing with him   several of his grand- children; among others Orion, a son of Cush, a gigantic youth, who was at least a head taller     172      NOACHDE. than his brethren of the same age. He was not only taller and larger, but proportionably stouter. He had the skin of a lion, which he had killed with his own hands, fastened around his loins, and his head was covered with eagle's feathers, and those of other birds, which he had killed. His bow was equal to his fathers in size and force. To the families of Shem and Japhet he was an object of considerable curi- osity, and at first was quite a hero among them, but his disposition was morose and over- bearing. He was hardly known to laugh, and if much pleased, or excited any way, would usually give vent to his emotions, by a guttural ejaculation much like a whoop, or ugh, forced up unwillingly, while his large dark eyes would blaze up and send out serpentine gleams of light. This last, however, was more observable in after years, though faint glimpses of it began to appear, even at the early age re- ferred to. He was fond of hunting, rambling for days among the woods and hills, crouching   NOACHDA.        173 among the rocks and shooting at the wild beasts as they passed. Within the last few  years, Shem's and Japhet's families had been in the practice of visiting annually Mt. Ararat, after harvest. The visit for this year happened to occur while Ham and his grandson were present. We will not enter into the particulars of this excursion, which was carried out with considerable pre- paration of elephants loaded with fruit and edibles, making quite a season of festivity of it; but there was one little incident that oc- curred during the visit that should' not be overlooked. Of course, Orion Ind his com- panions, who accompanied him in his pres- ent visit to their grandfather's settlement, it being their first excursion to the mountain, were a good deal excited. They marched into the wonderful fabric, lifting up their arms and uttering shouts of astonishment! Orion taking hold of the sides of the entrance-way, exerted his strength upon it, as if he would settle the     1i4      NOACHD2E. question, whether it was as strong as it ap-  peared to be. They then walked in, looking about them in perfect silence, and filled with a mysterious wonder, peering into the darkness that on first passing from the light obscured the innermost recesses of this amazing struct- ure. Gog, a cousin of Orion, and some of his companions, ventured in ahead, Orion lingering a little behind, delayed by his desire to examine more carfully the mechanical ar- rangements of the vessel, when, suddenly, those in front of him, uttering cries and ejacula- tions, rushed past him, knocking his bow out of his hand. Looking round for it, he saw it in the imperfect light, and stooped to pick it up, when, hearing a faint rustling noise, and looking up, he saw the fiery eyes of some creature glistening in the darkness, and moving straight toward him. He had an im- mediate conviction that it was a reptile of some kind, and a shudder passed through his frame. He could see its glistening crest, and   NOACHDA.       175 as he gazed at it, it grew on his imagination, flaming with all kinds of colors. The head in- sensibly advanced with a slight oscillatory mo- tion, till it was almost on a level with his own face, when slowly, nervously, and instinctively, extending both hands, with a sudden, convul- sive effort, and a muffled cry, that sounded nothing human, as quick as lightning, the youth clinched the reptile by the throat! He was thrown upon the floor in the violence of his struggles, the serpent coiling round his body. Soon voices were heard, and Ham, fol- lowed by a crowd, rushed in. They could see some one lying on the floor, struggling with  something. They saw, in the imperfect light. that he was holding on to the neck of the creature, that he had got it under him, and was pressing upon it with the whole weight of his body. They were unable to decide, at first, whether he was dead or alive. Ham and Gog, drawing their knives, inserted them under the coils of the serpent, and began cutting him up,     176      NOACHDJE. but it was unnecessary; they were slimpsy; the creature was dead. "Pull it off!" cried a voice, and laying hold of it, they began unwinding the coils that were around his body, while they cried out to Orion to let go and get up. Soon, some one came in with a burning torch. They raised Orion up, his face flushed, and eyes having a peculiar ex- pression of fierceness and iron will. He still held on to the creature, "Let go, Orion; it is dead!" shouted several youthful voices. He stooped down, and bringing the head upon the floor, began to grind it beneath his sandal. They all laughed; when he, as if re- covering from a dream, letting go, looked up. All expressed their astonishment at his audaci- ty. Saying nothing, he looked around for his bow. On drawing the reptile to the light, they found its neck completely crushed through by the terrible grip of Orion. They then, with the aid of torches, exploring the innermost   NOACHD  E.      1" recesses of the vessel, discovered another of these creatures coiled up in one of the further lower rooms, and they held up their torches, while the others pinned the monster to the floor with their arrows. THE JAPHETIC AND SHEMTIC' SETTLEMENTS. We will now suppose some one hundred and one years to elapse since the flood. The child- ren of Japhet and Shem having increased, we may suppose, to several hundred, were distrib- uted as follows: Gomer had removed some ten miles down the stream, upon which Noah had originally established himself; :Madai was some four miles distant, in his neighborhood; Javan had settled west of Ararat, on the west side of the upper banks of the Euphrates,-he found a fertile little valley there, in which he pitched his tents; Meshech* had ascended the stream they were on, some twelve miles above their originallocation; Tubal had found a pleas- *Mosoch, according to the orthography of Josephus. I    *   8            '      178        NOACH-IDE. ant locality north of Noah, and-south-east of the Black Sea;*   Thiras was about six miles up the stream, between   Meshech  and  No- ah; Asshur, Arphaxad, Elam, and Lud, Shem's sons, had removed to the banks of a large lake to the south; Aram had pitched his tents beyond Ararat, on the east side of the Euphrates, nearly opposite Javan; Shem and Japhet remained with Noah. THE REMOVAL OF THE OCEANS, IN THE DAYS OF PELEG. Ham's descendants, during the period we are now considering, had spread over the sur- rounding country several miles, not densely, to be sure, but with large intervals between each encampment: Magog had established himself about five miles from  Ham, in a beautiful val- *Josephus places Tubal in Iberia. The Ninevite remains recently brought to light placeTubalites on the other side of the Euphrates. We shall show, hereafter, that they spread in this direction as well as northward, and that colonists went out from this part of the Mediter- anean to Spain, and not from the Black Sea, as has hitherto been supposed.   NOACHDE.       .179 ley which looked out upon the sea; Cush was half way between them, on a range of grassy hills, more inland, the sea, however, being visible from a hill in the neighborhood; Miz- ra was a mile or so back in the valley, where his flocks and herds could roam at their pleas- ure; Canaan was on the opposite side of the valley, about the same distance, his tents deck- ing the sides of the promontory, and his flocks confined to a valley on the other side; Phut was between Mizra and Cush. Ham's and Ma- gog's descendants, together, might amount to a thousand. The boys, in bathing, had ob- served, for the last year or two, a remarkable phenomenon in the. sea. A rock, upon which they were accustomed to stand, with the water up to their middle, suddenly made its appear- ance above the surface, and some yellow chalk marks that had been made some five years pre- a!  vious on the face of a perpendicular cliff, while floating on logs in the water, had, apparently, risen up, the boys being able tostand on a dry     180      NOACHDIE. foundation, where, formerly, the water had been some two feet deep. This occasioned the great- est wonderment. But the mystery was sud- denly solved in a most extraordinary manner. A large party had assembled, for the pur- pose of having a pleasure excursion, and for taking fish. Three large floats had been pre- pared with hewn logs for the purpose. It was a pleasant day; there was no wind, and every thing seemed to promise a fine day's pastime. The rafts would hold a hundred persons apiece, and were managed with oars. There were also many smaller crafts, such as canoes--logs hol- lowed out-and some boats rudely construct- ed, parallelogram-shaped, more like our mod- ern scows. The sea was calm, and there were no indications of a wind. Three columns of snow-white vapor lay piled in beautiful repose, one above the other, along the horizon. While they were thus engaged, a little girl went up to hermother, and said,   NOACHDi.       !g "Mother, the shore is turning round." The woman noticed the singular appearance alluded to by the child, and called the atten- tion of others to it. They observed it with astonishment, and then commenced talking in- a confused manner, and pointing to the shore. They then suddenly became alarmed, and all was confusion. The men, springing to their oars, began to pull toward land. At the same. time, and it probably startled them more than any thing else, there was a heavy, rumbling, roaring sound, proceeding, apparently, some- times from  the center of the earth, and some- times from the atmosphere around them. Ham, looking troubled, gazed over the tranquil sky anxiously, while Myrrha, screaming, got hold of him, clinging to him with a terror-stricken look!  This, of course, made the others more terrified, particularly those on the same float. In spite of their efforts, the crafts were all whirled round and round, being carried partly out to sea, and partly toward the promontory     182      NOACHDA. projecting out on the north. As they came near this promontory, finding the current get- ting so powerful that they could not resist it, and being in danger of being carried past it, and so out into the open sea, Orion, who had the management of one of the floats, taking a little girl in his arm, who clung to his neck, jumped with her into the water, and began to pull for the shore. His example was instantly followed by the others on the same float; the men taking the little ones, and the older girls jumping in and taking care of themselves, for they were as much at home in the water as out of it. The sea seemed to be setting, or press ing, against the promontory in one immense swell, so they were all unexpectedly carried by it and deposited promiscuously among the trees and rocks, while the watersthemselves, in one place, rushing clear across it, filled the gullies, and tumbled in cascades and torrents into the ocean on the other side! The next moment there was a recession, the waters sink-   NOACHDAI.       183 ing away, dashing with a loud roar and com- motion along the shore, and around the prom- ontory. As most of the individuals involved in this singular disaster were borne upon land, they caught hold of something, and held on. Orion laid hold of a tree, and placing the child, which he carried in his arms, on a limb, telling her to hold on, while he looked round him, he heard, amid the roar of the waters, and the short, abrupt barking of dogs, shouts and cries in every direction. Near him were several persons, all holding on to some- thing; one little boy was climbing a tree; a small boat, filled with young men and girls, rushed impetuously among the trees, and up- setting, spilled its contents among the rocks, amid the tumbling waters! Cush, with a little girl in his arms, was seen staggering against some rocks, and falling over sideways, he let go the child, which was instantly swept by the torrent, screaming, into a ravine! A large, noble-looking dog, plunging in after her,     184      NOACHDIE. through the foaming waters, yelping and bark- ing, soon came up with her, and as he laid hold of her dress with his mouth, she caught him round the head and neck with her little arms, and held on, while he struggled with her, reaching the side of the ravine. She caught hold of a bush, growing from a crevice of the rocks, just as Cush, having recovered himself, hurried down and extricated her from her peril- ous situation. In a moment, however, the reced- ing waters left the promontory bare, with the exception of what iemained in the gullies and other cavities of the ocks and ground. Two of the floats lay bottom side upward. The other was thumping against the rocks, the re- tiring waters preventing it from firmly lodging on the shore. Canoes, and other small crafts, lay distributed along the sides of the promontory. There was one small boat, however, so far out to sea that it was not borne by the inun- dating wave upon the land and the reflux   NOAOHDA-E.      18i waters carried it rapidly toward the end 'of the promontory, threatening to carry it beyond, into the open sea! It had in it two young men and two young girls, who strove to propel the boats to the shore, before passing the dreaded point. Orion saw the critical situation they were in, and rush- ing down to a canoe, which lay bottom side upward on the shore, shouldered it, and seiz- ing a paddle, which lay near by, rushed with it to the water, threw it in, sprang into it, and with giant strength, forced it through the surging waters! "Quick! Orion, quick!" screamed one of the girls. As he was assisted by the current, while the other boat was battling partially against it, he was not long in overtaking it. As he did so, laying hold of its side, he pulled it up to him, and getting into it, he united his own effortsf with theirs, in endeavoring to reach the prom- ontory before passing it. The boat fairly     186      NOACHDAE. leaped in the water, under the vigorous strokes of his paddle. But as they neared the desired point, it began to whirl round and round, anxd then rushing from the land with the speed of a race horse, it shot out into the open sea! Rocking, running this way and that, whirling round and round, and then balancing on the waves! All this time, those in the boat, get- ting on their knees, or sitting down and taking hold of both sides of it with their hands, had as much as they could do to keep it steady and balanced in the water, and momentarily expecting it would upset. But finally it be- came steady, and rising, they went to work vigorously again with their paddles, the girls paddling with their hands! A little distance off, they saw the boat Orion had abandoned, floating gracefully along, turning round and round. They soon passed the promontory, which was covered with people, running, shout- ing, and screaming, accompanied with exhort- ations to "pull! pull! pull!"   NOACHDAE.       187 "Orion, what shall we do? There is noth- ing but water before us. Where are we going to?" asked one of the girls, seriously. Orion made no answer, but plied his paddle vigorously, while the perspiration rolled down his cheeks. He kept the bow of the boat di- rected toward the shore, at right-angles with the current, in hopes of reaching a second promontory, projecting out still further north. They were some three-quarters of a mile from the end of the first promontory, and they sup- posed the boat had stopped drifting; but one of the girls, who had been watching the distant shore, exclaimed, I   u"Orion, we are going very fast. Look; see how the land moves, Oh!" she exclaimed, "Where are we going to!" They soon became satisfied ofthisforby the time they had gained another mile toward the second promontory, the first one was at least three miles distant; and in the direction they i'     188      NOACHDAE. were going, there was nothing to be seen but an open, boundless sea. "Pull!" shouted Orion, in a voice of thun- der, "pull " while his frame dilated, and he seemed suddenly to possess all the fury of a lion. The girls, shrinking down in the boat, gazed at him with awe and fear. The young men did their utmost, their faces flushed, and the perspiration running down their cheeks. The boat trembled, jumping and struggling in the waters like a live thing. Suddenly Orion's paddle broke, and, raising it dripping from the water, he flung it far into the sea. "Oh!" ejaculated both the girls, turning pale, but saying nothing further. He seized another one from the hands of one of the young men, and continued his furious efforts, a pecu- liar light shining from his eyes. "What shall we do, Turc?" asked one of the girls. "Do well enough, Zul," replied the person   NOACHDAE.       189 addressed, wiping the perspiration from his face. "Why, we are going right away from the shore. Paddle with your hands, Turc;" and he recommenced paddling with her own with additional energy. The young man was quite exhausted. The other showed exhaustion, too; but Orion con- tinued his efforts with unabated vigor, as though his muscles had been made of iron. In a few minutes, however, that paddle, also, broke, and, seizing from the hands of the other young man the only remaining one, he contin- ued-his laborious efforts. But these paddles were made not for muscles like his, and, after a few more vigorous strokes, this one also gave way. "What shall we do?" asked one of the girls, in a low tone of voice, and starting up nerv- r'  ously. Orion raised himself, looking around him; Then, taking the rawhide which was attached I r'        X     190      NOACHDAE. to the bow of the boat, he tied it round his body, over one shoulder and under one arm, and sprang into the sea! He swam, struggling through the waters, dragging the boat after him. The other promontory was only about half a mile distant, and he had hopes of reach- ing it; but all at once the waters taking the shape of eddies and undulations again, he was whirled round, most provokingly, together with the boat, sometimes one way, and sometimes another, and then again was suddenly carried diagonally away from and past this second promontory. Orion gave a roar of desperation, struggling with all his might with the tantaliz- ing waters. "I wish we could do something," said one of the young women, rising up. The boat was carried at least half a mile further from the shore, when suddenly the girl who had just spoken, gazing earnestly ahead, exclaimed, "Orion! Orion! what's that?"   NOACHDE.       19t One of the young men instantly shouted out, "Orion, see there!" It was something protruding firom the sur- face of the sea. It was not more than ten rods distant, and they were drifting almost directly upon it. Orion seeing the object alluded to, made toward it, while those in the boat, afraid lest some insidious current should cheat them of the promised protection, assisted vigor- ously with their hands. The boat jumped agonizingly through the foaming waters, often carried one side of Orion; but he finally suc- ceeded in reaching the object he was striving for, grasping something just at the surface of the water, uttering a low ejaculation of satis- faction as he did so. The boat swung round with its bows to the current, the water rushing by in ripples, on both sides of it. Those in it, standing up half-bent, waited the issue, Orion raised himself, and getting astride of the limb, held on to the tree, which rose about two feet above the water, and untying the      192      NOACHD^. cord from his b6dy, fastened it round the limb. It was covered with slime and barnacles, which he commenced scraping off with his hand, while the young men, pulling the boat up to it, held it there. Orion, just at that moment, slipped off, and went down up to his shoulders into the water, but quickly recovering himself, he got back on to it. "Get into the boat," said some of them in the same breath; but he did not seem disposed to comply with their suggestion. But he pulled the boat up alongside of the limb, so they could assist him, and while the girls hold- ing on to it expressing their dislike to the slimy wood, the young men taking their knives from their girdles began to scrape and clear away the obnoxious ingredients from the upper side of it, which they soon effected. "It's oak, isn't it?" said one of the young men to the other. They then pulled the boat along by meam   NOACHDA,.       193 of the limb, until they got it up to the tree, when one of them putting his arms around it, held it there, while Orion, untying the bull's hide, fastened it to it. They then, after scrap- ing it some more with their knives, had leisure to look around them. The sky was clear, and a soft wind fluttered over the waters. The first promontory was visible some four miles distant, the other not more than a mile to the north-east of them; directly west was a bound- less sea, but in rapid motion. "How shall we ever get away from here?" inquired one of the females. "When these waters stop running," replied Turc, "we can then go ashore, Zul. Ori.," he continued, "how came this tree here? This g  is the first time I ever saw a tree growing un- der water." "Zul.," said the other girl, "I am hungry; aint you? I wonder what makes the water act so! Orion, can you tell?" The person addressed could give no explan- 5     194      NOACHDIE. ation of the mystery, and an hour passed away, and the waters were running with increased rapidity. By that time, the limb had risen above the water. "Why, the waters move faster than ever," said Zul; "when will they stop?" By the time the sun had got half down the western horizon, the limb was all of two feet out of the water which was rushing by, making little waves round the tree. They had drawn the boat so close to it, that the waters falling that much rendered it necessary to slacken the fastening, or slip it down the tree. Orion, af- ter remaining an hour or so in one position, until getting tired of it, getting into the boat, and reclining his head partly against the tree and partly against the bow, seemed to have fal- len into a partial doze. Turc, approaching him, touched him, making known, the fact that the boat was straining on the fastening, and needed loosening. He started up, and putting his arm round the tree, and pulling the boat   NOACHIE.       195 up to it, he worked the fastening down to a level with the water. While he was doing this, another tree made its appearance, but a few feet from them, above the surface of the water. By the time the sun had got within half an hour of the horizon, the scene was very much changed; indeed, it was becoming ter- rific. Another limb, which seemed to belong to the second tree referred to, had also ap- peared above the waters which were curling over its slimy bark, while several other dark objects began to reveal themselves in various places through the sea-green waters. The sur- face of the ocean itself was broken and bil- lowy, so much so that the boat leaped and struggled at its fastening like a live thing. While Orion held on to the tree, the young people, getting hold of the second limb, above mentioned, endeavored to keep the boat steady. But the former saw clearly that their situation was becoming dangerous; night was approach- *c ,-                   196      NOACHDU  . ing; the current was increasing in speed, the sea growing more rough every minute. "Turc," he said, "come here. Hold on here!" The person addressed hastened to obey. Orion then rose, with the expression of coun- tenance of one who had a settled purpose in view. He took the slack end of the bull's hide, of which there was some ten feet, and di- viding it in the middle, reckoning the part that was around the tree, and then, running. the piece thus separated through a ring in, the other end of the boat, he passed it twice round the limb which belonged to the second tree, which was now entirely above the water, and some ten feet in length and broken at the end, and twice through the ring, thereby doubling its strength. He then, while the young men fheld on to the limb to keep the boat in its place, unloosed the fastening from the tree. He did this hastily, and then, getting down in that part of the boat which was near the end of the limb,   NOACHD3E.       197 some two feet from the tree from which they had just released themselves, he told Turc to move the fastening along, at the other end of the boat; but this did not prove to be necessa- ry, for the moment the boat was released, the force of the current dragged the fastening along over the limb, scraping off the barnacles and slime, until it brought up suddenly against the trunk, where it jounced and rubbed ter- ribly. The young people all laying hold of the limb, to keep the boat steady, while Orion hastily secured the other end, as he had the previous one, doubling the fastening. "Orion?" inquired one of the girls, "what shall we do when the water goes down? We shall have to let go then, .and we shall perish!" "That's so, Ori. See, we could not live a moment in these waters, they grow worse every minute."  "Girls, you'll have to hold on to a tree," ex- claimed Turc., and beginning to scrape with     198      NOACHDLE . his knife the accummulations on the limb. "Can you do it?" "Yes," answered both, starting up. Then, as if recollecting herself, one of them added, "How can we do it?   the tree is slip- pery." The two young men went vigorously to work, as if to get the stick in a suitable condi- tion for use, by the time it should be wanted. While they were thus engaged, a short abrupt wave twitched the boat so violently that one of them came very near falling overboard. Orion sat down in one end of it, putting his arm round the limb to steady it, with a look of fierce satisfaction, and with his eyes directed westward, over the strange, mysteriously-act- ing waters. The water fairly spirted round the bows of the boat. "O, look at those things," exclaimed Zulah suddenly, pointing over the waters, "they look like rocks, -see Jeb, -look! Eldah! Ori., look there! I declare," she exclaimed, "have   NOACHDIE.       199 we got to stay here all night, without any thing ,to eat?" and moving along, she reposed her head in Eldah's lap. The boat, in the mean- time, was jerking and jumping at its fastenings, like a crazy thing! The sun just touched the horizon, and the boat had sunk nearly the whole length of its fastenings. "What shall we do? We shall have to untie these, and fasten them to the tree. Speak to him, Turc," said one of the girls, anxiously looking at the imperturbable Orion, who, with his right arm over the limb, lay rocking up and down, with his eyes half closed. "Ori," said the young man, and at that mo- ment a wave struck the boat, quartering, dash- i  ing all over that individual, while the boat jerked fiercely at the limb. It was fortunate. that the current was in a direct line with the boat; otherwise it must have, inevitably, been upset, or filled with water. Finally Turc made a movement, as if to unloose the fasten- ing at his end of the boat.     290      NOACHD3. "Let it be?" shouted Orion, without moving, while an expression of unusual intelligence lighted up his bronzed visage. The youth dropped the rope, while he regarded the other inquisitively and wonderingly. The sun sank behind the horizon, and a soft mellow light fell over the tumbling waters and the dark objects that now everywhere showed themselves among the white foaming billows! One of the girls glanced at Orion, and then, as if struck with a sudden thought, she whispered to the other, leaning forward, "Perhaps he means we shall hang here." "O, capital!" exclaimed Turc; "I declare, Orion, that's a good idea; I never thought of that. Fu!" he added, pointing upward. A gull passed near them, almost touching the water with its waving wings, and making for the shore. The shadows of a beautiful evening fell over them like a vail! The boat becoming more quiet, at times not touching the water, but swinging by the fastenings, and only when   NOACHIDAU.      201 a wave, or billow, of moreathan ordinary size, dashing along, surged and chucked against its bottom, would they be conscious that they were on the water. But the deep subterranean roar seemed to increase; the limb, to which they were suspended trembled like an aspen. As soon as the boat began to strain upon the fastenings, Orion got up, and going to the other end of it, seated himself on the limb next to the tree. The two young men followed his example, reclining with their bodies on the limb, and their feet in the boat, in such a way that the former took the most of their weight. The two young girls took their places in either end of the boat; Zulah leaning with her left side against the gunwale, her eyes directed to- ward the distant shore, now faintly visible, but observing more particularly the surface of the ocean, sparkling and foaming in the twilight. : 'Did you ever see any thing so beautiful, Eld.?" she said, sentimentally. Look at those 9*     202      NOACHDAE. waters, and at that sky; it is just like an orange." "I wish I had one," said Jebus; "or some- thing. I would rather have one of these fish broiled, though. Wouldn't you, Turc?" Turc took from his girth something very much like a reed, and began to play on it. Its tones were not as soft as the flute, nor as shrill as the fife, but something between the two, and, under other circumstances, would have been pleasing, but as it was, they were 'quite lost amid the roar and dash of waters, and distant, terrible sounds! "What will our mothers think?" said Zulah; "they'll imagine we are drowned!" and she started up, looking around her, "Why, what make the waters act so?" she lisped. Turc took the reed from his mouth. "Where are they all going to? that's what puzzles me," he said, with animation. "They seem to be going somewhere." "They act just as they did when the great   NOACHDjE.      203 flood went away; as I have heard Myrrha tell, it was just in this way they acted," said Eldah. "But the boat that they were saved in, it was bigger than this," observed Zulah; "at least as big as twenty like it. Wouldn't you like to see it, Eld.? I should." "As big as twenty such boats as this," shouted Jebus, scornfully; "why, Zul, it was bigger than a hundred such! wasn't it, Ori.?" The individual addressed, who had preserved a moody silence during this conversation, with his shoulders pressing the tree, moved slightly as he replied, "You could put a thousand such in it." At that moment, something struck the tree under the water, shaking it so that Turc, los- ihg his balance, would have fallen backward, had not a brawny arm been put behind-his back, preventing it. "What was that?" he exclaimed, recovering ',   himself. "Ori.," said Zulah, earnestly, "what, if this Fk,     204       NOACHDE  . tree should fall? It trembles as though it would." Orion made no response to either question. It was getting quite dusky, but it was evident the waters were going down rapidly. It was also evident from their noise, and glancing in the starlight, that their speed had'increased. About twelve o'clock, the rush of the waters was sharper, accompanied with continued dashing, plashing, and surging, particularly within a few feet of them; thrashing and roar- ing, as though there was a waterfall, while all about them were rude, misshapen objects, black and sombre, yet clearly distinguishable, contrasted with the soft, delicate, murky tints of the starlit sky. Zulah lay with her chin on the edge of the boat, gazing down at the glancing waters. By and by the moon rose, and its silver light revealed objects still more distinctly. To the west, a little on their right, close by, all was blackness, except the foam   NOACHD A.       205 occasionally oozing up, boiling round and round, in what appeared to be a black gulf!I "What's that?" exclaimed Turc., starting up, and gazing into the hole; "I saw a great black rock, or something, go down there!" "It went down in that dark place, where the waters boil and foam s.," said Zulah; t"I saw it myself." Suddenly there was the most terrific thrash- ing of ithe waters imaginable, volumes of the liquid element flung, as if by explosions of gunpowder, flew all over the party, full in their faces! There was a stir among them. "What is it?" exclaimed T rc, clambering off the limb and leaning upon it, holding on with his arms. -The girls rubbed their faces, sitting upright. Orion made no signs of dis- turbance, but kept his head in one position, looking into the gulf. He at one time uttered an ejaculation that showed some slight disturb- ance; but the commotion, the thrashing and flying of the waters, continued, accompanied W.!z. ? r          206      NOACHDA. with occasional blows, that sounded like the reports of a cannon. "Why, what is it?" said Zulah, excitedly, attempting to shake and brush the water from her person as another volume of the liquid flew across the boat. Orion now gave utterance more decidedly to one of his guttural ejaculations, and Turc and Jebus, getting excited, uttered shouts, as though there was some one in the gulf they were calling out to. In the meantime, they were quite unconscious of he terrible rum- bling sounds that seemed t come from the neighboring shore, and the shaking of the earth generally. Dawn finally appeared;-- rosy flush on the eastern sky. "O there is morning," screamed Zulah. G'ood, good!" cried Eldah. "Hurrah!" shouted Turc. "Come sun, come quick; let us see where we are, and what these things are that are about us."   NOACHDAI.       207 Jebus, jumping on to the limb, began to kick his legs in the air, from excitement. "Jeb., don't; you'll tumble down. Why, how far it is to the water," said Zulah. "Jeb., you'll turn this boat," said Eldah. Turc began to dance.      / "Ori, hold these young men," said Zulah. "O dear," she continued, how long that sun is appearing! I really believe my back is broke," and getting up she steadied herself by the limb. By and by, the edge of the sun appeared, like a rim of molten silver, just above the horizon. On their left, looking westward, about ten feet distant, was a ledge of rocks, some four feet below the level of their boat; the tree, to which they were fastened, was a broken trunk, and rose some thirty feet from the ground, its roots being planted in a lower  stratum of hard soil at the foot of 'this ledge of rocks, and in a chasm through which the waters were rushing with fearful velocity. I          *"   .      208      NOACHDA. Just before them was a waterfall of some fifty feet, nearly perpendicular, and the result of a deep gorge, through which the waters were careering and surging with sublime fury. But what most attracted the attention and astonished the individuals who were caught in this most extraordinary dilemma was the body of an immense whole entangled in the gorge, and prevented from moving by the short curv- atures in it, its great brown head pressing against the opposite side, and its tail reaching across the waterfall, half buried in the foam that was rushing by and tumbling over it Some spasmodic movements and convulsions of the body seemed to indicate that life still re- mained. Jebus and Turc shouted and cried out with astonishment, and the girls screamed with wonder, and Orion gave one of his loud- est gutturals, as they beheld this monster so singularly entrapped. While they were thus looking at it, sev- eral eagles came flying about, and one of   NOACHDAE.       29O them, lighting on the tree near to them, stared at them with its sharp, burning eyes. "Orion, I believe .that fellow is after your snake-skin!" exclaimed Turc; then, saying something about his bow, he commenced wrig- gling about with impatience; and all of them began to think about extricating themselves from their disagreeble resting-place. By means of half of the rawhide with which the boat had been secured and their belts, they were enabled to obtain a rope long enough, by getting down on the lower limb, to reach the ground; then, tying one end of this round Zulah's waist, Orion, getting on that limb, and taking her on it, lowered her to the ground. She was somewhat timid, but there was no other way of doing it. He then let Eldah down in a similar manner. "I'll catch you, if you fall!" exclaimed. Zu- lah, standing a little one side. "You better not try it," said Eldah. "Ori. hold me tight," she continued, anxiously, as     10      NOACHID. she began to descend. She gave a slight scream as the rope twitched; --she thought it was giving way-it was only tightening under her arms. "Pull me up! pull me up! the rope is loosen- ing!" but she continued to descend, and the next moment stood upon the sand, by the side of Zulah. In the meantime, Turc was climb- ing down the tree, while Jebus, crawling out on the limb, after throwing the fish on to the rocks, unloosed the further end of the boat, which immediately swung by the fastening next to the tree, when Orion, tying his cord- age in one end of it, let it down, till within a few feet of the ground, when he suffered it to fall into the mass of loose sand, at the foot of the tree. He then climbed down himself. A few rods above was a place where they could climb up on the ledge. On doing so, they found the eagles had carried off some of their fish. They soon discovered, on proceeding up the bank a short distance, that they were on an   NOACHDAE.       I 1 island, the sea beyond being in a great tumult, there evidently being quite a descent from the eastward, and the waters separated by the island were rushing in two tumultuous streams on either hand; on the left, plunging into the chasm over the dead body of the whale, and on the right, rushing round a pile of rocks, it swept away, in a smooth, swift, lightning-like stream, without much noise, but in the distance a roar and white spray announced innumerable cataracts! Finding there was no escape in that direoon, and anxious to know what was the extent of their confinement, they fol- lowed round the shore until reaching a point opposite to where they started, where they saw the waters breaking through chasms and over precipices, while rocks and the bodies of trees dotted the surface of the ocean in the distance, which was white with foam, present- ing, in the sunlight, a grand and beautiful ap- pearance! At they Were engaged in observ- ing thisi novel spectacle, Zulah, who was novel spectacle     212      NOACHDAE. following the horizon with her mild blue eyes, suddenly fixing them on it in the direction of the land, said, after a few moments thoughtful hesitation, "What makes that smoke, Ori., yonder?" and she pointed toward the land. Orion looked round, saw in the remote distance, rising against the calm blue sky, a cloud of white smoke, or dust, he could not tell which. Just at that moment their attention was arrested by Jebus, who, appearing on the other side of an acclivity, shouted out with great vehemence, "Come down and see what's here." The girls started upon a run; Orion followed more deliberately. They went down the de- clivity nearly a quarter of a mile; the rocks on their right rising abruptly, covered with knotty, soggy-looking trees; they saw Turc scraping the slime from an old wall. On coming up they saw the ruins of a building, through an opening, in which Turc had dis- appeared a moment before. It stood just in   NOACHDAE.       213 the edge of the waters, while the tops and walls of numberless ruins of a similar character were seen rising above the surface of the ocean, for a considerable distance, in various directions. Ture, Jebus, and the girls were highly excited, while Orion gazed thoughtfully, and with a flushed visage; at what were evi- dently the remains of an antediluvian city. A moment after he followed in through the opening. The floor was paved with smooth, flat stones, which the water had somewhat un- dermined and disturbed. They found nothing but some earthen pots, (which the young men brought out, and then, after various con- jectures as to what city it was, -some suppos- ing it was Enoch, and others Sippara, they climbed up the ledge of rocks near where the whale was confined, to see if they could not discover some place of escape, but not suc- ceeding, they sat down on a large brown rock, to rest themselves. They, indeed, were com- pelled to remain on this newly-formed island ,    @     214      NOACHDAE. all that day and the succeeding night. But by the next morning the scene had again very much changed. For miles westward, land was revealed; the submarine city spread along a valley and gen- tle declivities for more than a mile. Jebus and Turc rushed down among the ruins with excited shouts, climbing over a jumbled mass of them, coming to a large oblong structure with strong walls, having a flat roof covered with a hard, durable cement It had a single entrance-a stone door, with an upper and lower pivot set in sockets. This was open. Jebus was about entering, when he stopped, and, looking back, saw Turc clambering over some heaps of stones to get to him. "Turc! quick, look here! What are these?" Turc, coming to the door, saw the floor of the room covered with human skeletons, which surprised them; for they had never seen the remains of a human being before.  They looked round for Orion and the girls. The for- mer stood on a wall some thirty rods distant,   NOACHLDA.       216 surveying the ruins; but the girls were not in sight. Running up the declivity, they saw them nearly half a mile distant up the stream, hurrying along as fast as possible. Suddenly they stopped, and, looking before them, they then turned round, beckoning with their hands, and screaming at the top of their voices. Je- bus shouted to Orion and Turc to come on, that the girls wanted them, and immediately followed. The girls then continued their course. As the young men were running to overtake them, they noticed the air full of birds, and that a vast valley, through the mid- die of which the waters, now shrunk to a pu- ny stream, were flowing, had been disclosed to view during the past night. Deposits of wa- ter were also visible in various places, in which fish of a large size could be seen flapping; and plenty of dead ones also were scattered about on the dry ground. Some three miles distant,. flocks of sheep, herds of cattle, and horses could also be seenin rapid motion; and, beyond     216      NOACHDAE. them, dark masses of people moving to and fro, and shouting with all their might. "There they are!" cried Jebus. Turc, throwing up his arms, gave a halloo, while the girls, who were still far in the distance, hurrying forward as fast as possible, and screaming, seemed sud- denly to hesitate. A large bald-headed eagle had pounced on a fish in one of the pools, and was carrying it off. They saw the women and children, also, together with the herds and flocks, all runningtogether. As they advanced, two women, left the flocks, hurrying toward the girls, who redoubled their speed. "Mother!" screamed Zulah and Eldah, to- gether, each rushing forward and throwing herself into her mother's arms. "Why, what is the matter?" exclaimed the former, looking up, and brushing the hair out of her eyes, as the others began to pull her and her companion back; but no verbal ex- planation was needed; they saw at qnc that a   NOACHDAE.         217 terrible conflict was raging with wild animals; the earth was trembling constantly, and the hills now having the appearance of mountains,* sent forth a constant rumbling sound, while the raging of wild beasts could be heard on their sides and at their bases.  The growling and barking of dogs, the shouts and cries of men, and frightened appearance of the sheep, horses, and cattle, soon warned them of the perils by which they were surrounded.   Fpur elephants, their houses filled with small children, guided (  by boys, just at that moment came thundering by; and Turc and Jebus also at the same time Jcame rushing up and shouting, but their voices were unnoticed, owing to what immediately transpired. Nearly opposite to them was the projecting point of a mountain, covered with wood, and extending from it far into the valley WE think the reader will have no difficulty in understanding our * WE think the reader will have no difficulty in understanding our meaning. If the beds of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans were de- pressed, and Central Asia lifted up, it would occasion all the phenom- ena which we have here described. 10     218      NOACHDAE. was a ridge of confused rocks. As one of the elephants dashed by, the children on its back pointed with their hands toward the rocks, ges- ticulating and screaming with great terror. The mothers of the two girls, just restored to them, looking in thedirectionindicated by their confused motions, beheld a lion crouching on its belly, between two of these rocks, and pre- paring to spring. At the same instant, another elephant passing nearer to it, and seeing the beast, backed round, throwing back its ears and lifting its trunk with an angry expression about its head. The children!on its back screamed and fluttered terribly. Eldah and her mother ran behind this elephant for protection; Zulah's mother following attempted to pull her daughter along with her, but the latter being near a pile of rocks, and thinking she might soonest escape that way, darted up their slimy sides, the lion springing after her, when she slipped and fell; the animal's fore-paws pinned her apparel, and she was either dragged or fell of her own   NOACHDAX.      219 weight at the foot of the rocks. Jebus and Turc g'ave a cry, drawing their knives and springing toward the animal. This saved the life of Zulah, for the beast for the instant was diverted from the girl, and opening its jaws and twisting about its tail, it was in the act of springing upon Jebus, and he must inevitably have perished, had it not been for Orion, who at that moment appeared upon the scene. Seiz- ing a stone about the size of a boy's head, he rushed upon the lion, the latter springing upon him with distended jaws. With amazing dex- terity and strength, he forced the stone down the animal's throat, at the same time, thrusting his left hand into his mane, he threw him over on his :back, and bringing him down upon'the ground, seized himby the throat with his right hand, and strangled him there under :hs knees. Women, herds, and flocks rushed around him,   and the cry of "Orion, Orion!" passed from mouth to mouth, and'ras shouted back by the multitude in the rear. About the same time, x      220      NOACIIIDE. some twenty elephants, guided by boys who were goading them with all their strength, trampled by, followed by some dozen boys, bearing torches, upon horses on a full gal- lop, which was necessary to keep up with them. Some forty dromedaries and camels, carrying women, blankets, tents, and other do- mestic utensils, then hurried along. Orion, fol- lowed by Jebus and Turc, pushed forward to the front, approaching some boys who were supplying the crowd with weapons. "Where is my bow," inquired Orion. "I don't know," replied the boy, "perhaps it has been left; we had to leave some things." Providing themselves with weapons, they continued to advance; an universal shout filled the valley. The spectacle was a terrible one. The space between them and the hills was possessed by a horde of wild animals-tigers, leopards, wolves, etc.,-the javelins and arrows flying like rain among them. Some were fall- ing, others raging to and fro, exasperated by *   NOACHDAE.       221 the wounds they received. A dozen young men, on the backs of elephants, dashing to and fro in front, were casting fire-brands and clumps of wool saturated with pitch and other inflamable substances among them, which seemed to do more to keep them back than the deadly weapons which were em- ployed against them. Still further up to the right on the opposite bank, driving their herds and flocks before them, and making a great noise in the valley, was another party, also making use of fire-brands and other burning materials to deter the animals from crossing. It did not appear to be the object of the wild animals to unite together for the purpose of attacking the flocks, but they were evidently impelled by other feelings; they seemed to be bewildered, raging to and fro, making terrible noises, and occasionally biting each other. The women and boys who were in front of this multitude pushed straight across the stream, :   retreating toward the rocky elevation, where     222      NOACHDAE. Orion and the young people had been ship- wrecked for the last two days, and the horses clambering up were followed by the elephants, with the women and smaller children, and then by the elephants with the wood. Following these were the women, on foot, with some boys, the flocks and herds keeping close to them, The women and some of the larger girls drove them back on to the rocky elevation, while the boys, under the direction of an uncommonly large woman, stout and energetic, distributing the wood in heaps along its edges, particularly around the more accessible parts, they set fire to it. As soon as this was done, the men fell back across the stream; the wild beasts follow- ing, a terrible conflict ensued, to prevent their crossing and intercepting the flocks belonging to the party who were approaching from above. The flocks and herds thus threatened were driv- en away from the stream; but, in the melee j"   that ensued, one large, over-grown tiger, get. ting the start of them, made toward them with   NOACHDAI.,      223 tremendous bounds. Orion, throwing himself on his back, and fixing his bow to his feet, sent a shaft which transfixed the right flank of the beast, which, raging with pain, started in a di- rection for the rocky elevation, and, regardless of the fires burning on its edges, attempted to mount its ragged declivities, when the large woman who had charge there, threw a burning fire-brand directly into his eyes. He turned, with a deep growl, and, springing along its broken sides, went-over the precipice into the stream. Just as he did so, however, the wo- man threw another fire-brand, which, glancing against a tree near to him as he went over, flew off angularly into the chasm, lodging on the body of the whale which was there impris- , ^oned. "See Mag fight the tiger!" shouted an ur- chin, running across the open space, whooping and yelling like a little fiend.  After a warm conflict, the flocks and herds, approaching from above, were conducted ,     224      NOACHIDE. round in the rear of the prominence where the waters might still be seen tossing up their white smoke and roaring, some two or three miles distant. "Have you seen my son?" inquired the lead- er of the band which had effected a junction with the party below, addressing Cush. "He is about, somewhere," replied that indi- vidual. "We thought him lost for the last two or three days; but he has finally made his ap- pearance." At the same moment, Turc, dashing through the crowd, suddenly stumbled over something and fell. A feeble yelp was heard; he got up and looked back; a dog lay stretched upon the ground, panting with heat, with its flank badly lacerated. A sombre-looking individual with a spacious head of hair, carrying a large spear in his hand, seeing it, took it in his arms, and, carrying it up the acclivity beyond the fires, laid it down on some leaves under a rock.   NOACHDAE.       225 A little boy and girl, running up, "Oh!" ex- claimed the girl, "see that dog; how it's hurt!" "It isn't hurt as bad as Heth is," returned the boy; "is it, Path.?" "It is, too," continued the girl. "O Mu. ,Heth's leg is all torn to pieces!" added tthe boy, "you ought to see him; he slipped and fell, and a tiger jumped on him, and an elephant pulled him away with his trunk, and then the tiger bit the elephant, and Cush run a javelin through his neck, and then het fell to the ground, and, then the elephant gathered himself up all in an ugly little heap, whirled right round, just as quick as thought"- here shrugging up his shoulders, he whirled round, trying to imitate the elephant- "and struck the tiger over his back with his trunk, and made a great thumping. noise!" "Go and fetch this dog some water," inter- posed the sombre-looking individual, turning round to the children. The little girl started away to get some, while the other, taking up 1O'           *     226      NOACHTIDE. his spear, proceeded leisurely down the de- clivity to joip the party at the foot of it. Quite a number of young people had, by this time, gathered about the wounded animal. The Magogites passed round to the south, entering the outskirts of the ruined city, shout- ing as they did so, and finding the other bands already in possession of the eastern portion of it, they pushed along to the western extremity, taking possession of a ridge of rocky hills, kindling their fires, and pitching their tents, the horizon in the distance overhung with mist thrown up by the retreating foaming ocean. Just about this time a smoke and flame, pro- ceeding from the glen, attracted the attention of some of the young people who, running thither, discovered the whale on fire. This occasioned considerable excitement; a large crowd collecting on the edge of the ravine to witness this singular spectacle. In the mean- time, the other bands, taking possession of the southern portion of the ruins, drove their herds   NOACHD2E.        227 and flocks within their precincts, their principal danger being from the wild beasts, which were wandering mostly in that direction.   Fires were kindled all along the southern side of the ruins, for more than a mile, connecting with those of Magog on the distant eminences. The next day the question was warmly dis- icussed, whether they should  not abandon their present place of settlement, and seek a new home.  Some were in favor of returning to Nach-shivan,* as it was called.  Mizraim was of this number, but he was opposed by Cush.  Magog recommended migrating east- ward.  "Gomer," he said, "had -traveled in that direction some three months, and found it a fine country, free from mountains, and full of fruits." "It is folly," exclaimed Mizra; "have we not been unfortunate ever since we separated our- * THE learned Jacob Bryant, in his Analysis of Pagan Mythology, shows pretty conclusively that such a place once existed near Mt. Ararat, and that it signifies "Noah's place," or " settlement."     228      NOACHDME. selves from our great father? Our grapes have not prospered; we have had to watch our herds, beset by wild animals, and now what a catastrophe! Is not the Almighty angry with us?  "If we knew where the Garden of Eden was," said Orion with a flushed look, "we might proceed thither." "I have often told you," replied Ham, with an angry and disturbed look, "that we have no means of knowing where the garden was; there is more water on the earth now than before the flood. I can recognize only a few of the geographical S(tlines connected with it; but as this is Enoch, the garden must be west of us, and Sipparis too. But," he added, while a dark smile played upon his features, "what is our son thinking of? No man has entered the garden since our first parents left it. The Egregori tried it," he added, dropping his eyes, and speaking as if in soliloquy, "but the waters came!" and rubbing his hand vigorously   NOACHDIE.       229 over his head, he concluded, "we will re- main here for the present, and when the waters have retired sufficiently, we will proceed west- ward and look up Sipparia" Orion said nothing, but looked steadily upon the ground at an angle of about forty-five de- grees, but those standing near him might have noticed a slight kindling of the eye, as his father alluded to the probable whereabouts of the Garden of. Eden. Mizraim recommended their sending a deputation to Noah and asking his advice, but Canaan and Cush objected. "I dare say," remarked the latter, "the same calamity has befallen Noah and our brethren that has befallen us-perhaps worse;--per- haps they have all perished." A thoughtful mood spread over the assembly, but they came to a determination to remain where they were for the present. The same afternoon a party went up to the former settlement, and collected all their uten.     230      NOACHDE.. sils, and some domestic creatures that were left in the confusion of their flight. We must now imagine some eleven years to elapse. A tornado, the first they had ever known, swept down the mountains, tearing up trees, and rolling rocks along in its progress, roaring through the valleys, it tumbled sheep and cattle against the rocks. Occurring in the night when all were asleep, no lives were sacrificed, as the main column of the metereo- logical devastation passed their encampments a little to the eastward. A few days after that, the atmosphere became suddenly filled with a white substance, in small flakes, that very much astonished everybody. The children, catching it in their fingers, looked up in the sky, uttering exclamations of astonishment; some cried out that it was feathers, but- on taking it in their hands, finding it suddenly re- solve itself into a speck of water, they were filled with wonder. Ham looked at the phenomenon with a mystified air; his family collected round   NOACHDAi.       231 but he could give no explanation of it; he had never witnessed any thing of the kind before. Their quiet, however, having been again disturbed, they finally concluded to carry into effect their determination to migrate westward, in search of Sipparis. They spent nearly two years in these jour- neyings, stopping weeks in a place, and making short stages during the day. Having crossed one stream, they finally arrived, about sunset, on the banks of another, with a vast plain be- fore them. There was a mellowness and misti- ness in the atmosphere which reigned over the landscape. The animals pressed down to the stream to drink, the elephants thrashing with their tails and working their ears, comfortably excited. The lowing of cattle, bleating of sheep, and the whinneying of horses, suddenly broke the stillness which reigned over the scene. They encamped there during the night, and on the following morning managed to con- struct, out of trunks of trees, found lying on the     232      NOACHDE. banks, some rafts, with which they got over the river the women, children, tent-equipage, and grains; the elephants dromedaries, camels, horses, sheep, and cattle swimming across. This occupied most of the day. They en- camped the same night on the opposite bank. The cattle and flocks, chewing their cuds, ap- peared like little white rocks scattered over the plain. Some young men who went west- ward exploring the country returned about evening, bringing intelligence of another stream, and a region of great fertility and beauty spreading along its banks. The result was, that, in a few days, crossing the plain, they encamped upon the banks of this latter stream, where the luxuriance of veg- etation, combined with their long, wearisome peregrinations, induced them to fix themselves permanently.* Their encampments, composed of Cush's, Mizras, Phut's, Canaan's, and Ma- * Now Irak Arabi, or the Arabian Irak.    NOACHDAE.       233 gog's, extended about five miles along the riv- er, being about a mile apart.  We will merely allude to the circumstance that in a few days all of the males that were capable, and some of the femalesl mounted up- on horses, started off, to see if they could not find the garden of Eden, Ham having given it as his opinion that the last river they had crossed was the Hiddekil, and the one they were now on, the Euphrates-both rivers of Paradise. They were all anxious to see if they could not find it. They followed the river down, which rather inclined to the eastward, for some eight hours, when Ham seemed to be satisfied that they were in the neighborhood of the gar- den, and peremptorily ordered a return. Orion, Cush, Canaan, and most of the young men, were disinclined to this; but as he grew more obstinate, the more they urged: they sullenly submitted. This expedition took up most of the day. In the afternoon of the fol- lowing one, some young men wandering up the lc     234      NOACH)E. river in search of game, got about four miles above Gush's encampment, which was the one O furthest north, and it being near sunset they sat down on the green banks, which were there overshadowed with young palm-trees and dec- orated with red flowers. "I am glad we have found a country at. last to settle in," said one of the party; "I am tired of traveling."  ( "I like it," replied another; "we see so many mountains." "Yes, and have no grapes, nor wine, nor fruits of any kind, except wild ones, and then have nothing to eat but meat!" obsbrved the other, lying down on his back, and half closing his eyes, which were dazzled by the sun's ra- diance. "What beautiful flowers!" said the first speaker. "Wheu!" he ejaculated, starting up, " see that fish jump " "And there's a king-fisher after him," ex-. claimed another; "and that long-legged fellow   NOACHDaS.       235 with a long bill is after fish too, and I 'm after him," he added, jumping up and running down the bank. A bumble-bee came buzzing about his face. Brushing it aside, he exclaimed, "What is that?" and slipped, rolling down the bank. The others laughed, and jumping up hastened after him.. About a quarter of a mile above was a bend in the river, and near this bend was the bird they were after. As they hur- ried forward, however, an arrow struck the \ bird, and it fell in the water. "Who shot that arrow?" asked all at once, d stopping, and the foremost looking at those behind. "It was neither of us," replied the hindmost. They all became satisfied that the arrow had not proceeded from their party, and went for- ward with some curiosity. Soon they heard voices, and immediately after three young men appeared round the bend, with bows in their hands, hastening for the prize. At first ,     ).     236       NOACIIDE.- they supposed they were some of their own people, and giving a shout, they rushed for- ward, but noticing as they did so that they wore little peaked caps on. their heads, where- as Ham's children, until of a certain- age, wore nothing whatever, and after that mere fillets, woven of lamb's wool round their heads, they stopped, much astonished, and commenced talking to one another in rapid a manner. Soon, however, the others, after wading into the wa- ter, and securing their prize, and having ex- amined it, approached them. As they came up, their looks of familiarity and confidence changed to blank astonishment and hesitancy. "We see you are not of our family," said the young man who had the bird -a tall, straight, intelligent-looking lad. "Perhaps they belong to Lud's family," re- marked one of his companions. "Our father is Canaan; our great-father is Hain," replied one of the opposite party. "We   NOACHDIE.       237 were not aware there were any other people in our neighborhood."' - The three other youths at first looked blank, then .glanced at each other, then gazing stead- ily at the strangers for a few seconds, they all answered in the same breath, "We are children of Asshur. But we have heard that Ham was far to the east. You have made a long jour- ney to visit us;--will you come to our en- campment?" "O,we have not come" on a visit; we were out to kill some birds." "Why, we have been told that Ham lived many moons eastward;--you have come a long way to kill birds." "O we are all here," replied the latter; "we are encamped some, four miles below. Come down, and spend the night with us." "No, come with us-we are not so far off as that.  Come and stay with us, and in the morning we will go down with you." The former, full of curiosity, finally conclud- *       t      {     238       NOACHDE. ed to accompany them.   Proceeding about a mile, they noticed columns of smoke on the opposite side of the river. "How do we cross over?" inquired one of the young Canaanites. "We do not cross over," replied the prin- cipal speaker of the other party; "we are on this side. That is Arphaxad over there. Pel, you had better go over and tell your people that some of Ham's children are here," he con- tinued, addressing one of his own party- a youth about thirteen years of age. The person thus addressed, running up the bank about thirty rods, and jumping   into a boat, began to paddle across the stream. "What do you call his name?" inquired one of the Hamites. "His name is Peleg,"* replied the other; he *The Greek and Latin word Pelagus, the sea, is undoubtedly de-* rived from the Hebrew word, peteg, signifying division, from the circumetance that the oceans constitute the great dividing lines and boundaries of the continents.   NOAOi1IDxa.      2'+ was born the same year in which the waters retired from the plain here; and so they called his rame Peleg,*ibecause our greatatfaer Noah sent word that the countries were now ill free from water, and would have to be divided up  between the families." They noticed, as they went along, to the right of them, a flock of sheep, lying peacefully vpon the plain. "Then this country was also covered with water, was it?" inquired one of the Canaanites. "This country? certainly, the whole of it; it was all covered, and when it went off, you ought to have heard the mountains roar! ' "I did. Was n't it wonderfui? - remember it well; I never'shall forget it, I am sure. I was then a mere boy, and I came very near being drowned. I climbed a tree, to escape the waters which were tumbling all about me. And then, all the next day and night, the hills, a few miles back of where we were, rose up, and there came rolling down their si'des im-     240      NOACHDEA. mense rocks, raising clouds of dust, and mak- ing a noise just like thunder. Our father, Ham, said it was because we had neglected the sacrifices, and so he put up some stones, and killed a bullock; but it did not appear to make any difference." "Our great father, Noah," returned the oth- er, "says, that when we come to the Almighty because we are frightened, he takes no notice of us." They now saw lights and streams of smoke rising from behind some low hillocks; and, on ascending them, a multitude of figures passing to and fro before the lights, and the sound of harps and other- musicl instruments, seemed to indicate that they were having a dance. One of the party was now sent forward to announce the arrival of the strangers. They had no sooner reached the skirts of the encampment than a crowd gathered around them. In a few, moments, the boy who had been sent forward, returning, pressed his way   NOACHMDI       241 through the crowd, and, coming up to his com- panion, said something in a hurried manner. They pushed forward, accompanied by the strangers, while several of the young men who were near ran off and, scrambling on their horses, galloped away over the plain.  The party proceeded about half of a mile, coming to a large magnificent tent, nade of rams'-skins, fastened togetherwith considerable taste and skl. A tall, stately idividual, with  a robe, woven of lambs'-wo ol, fastened round the waist by a red girdle, came put, receiving them with a smile and a welcome. All round the tent, for some little distance, was a carpet of lamb-skins, fust by the corner of the tent lay a kitten curled, and on the edge of it sat a 4o9p, yith its neck drawn up so dlosely that qnly its little-head protruded from among its feathers. Three maidens stood modestly near the entrance with their arms entwined around one another's necks, and partially supporting each other, their graceful and beautiful forms "     242      NOACHDAE. half revealed from the shadows of the tent, by the flickering light, proceeding from a fire which was burning at a short distance from them, their lovely countenances beaming with curiosity. But the tent was almost immediate- ly surrounded by a crowd of young people, women, children, and dogs, pushing eagerly and excitedly among them. They were very quiet, however, their main object seeming to be merely the gratifying of their curiosity, their bright eyes peering curiously over one another's shoulders. "How much they resemble Ham," said a matronly looking woman, emerging from the tent, coming up to the young men, and smoothing back the soft hair from each one of their foreheads in succession. "That same humorous, quizzical, side-long glance of the eye," she added with a short laugh; "I should know them for Ham's children the world over." She then thoughtfully regarded one of them, and continued, turning her head toward the   NOACHDAE.       243 -  patriarch: 'All except this one;-he has more of Japhet's cast of features." "'Nin," said the tall individual we have al- ready mentioned, addressing a broad-should- ered young man, having an animated counte- inance and an eye that shone like an eagle's, who, having pressed up between the crowd and the tent, stood, with folded arms, regarding the young strangers. "Prepare the red tent; our young friends will stay with us to-night.' There was a movement in the crowd. "Do I understand," continued Asshur, "that Ham has come into the plain with all his families?" "He has; he is just below, on the bank of the river." At that moment a young woman went up to Asshur, saying something. He raised his head and, looking among the crowd, said, "Tell him to come hither;" the former disappearing in the crowd. The next moment a young man, his     244      NOACHDAE. cheeks moistened with tears, came forward. Asshur, taking him by the shoulder, said: "Be not grieved, my son, I was, not aware that you had invited these young friends of ours to stay with you. Come, you shall also be one of our guests," he added with a smile. This was sufficient, for nothing was so pleasing to the young people as to be the object of at- tentions from their great fathers. In a few moments the young strangers were conducted to an adjoining large tent, with the sides drawn up so as to be open to the view of outsiders, and were there entertained with a sumptuous repast. The bystanders, in the meantime, withdrawing, not wishing to impose upon their great parent the necessity of invit- ing them to the meal, knowing that it was one hastily prepared, designed merely for the ac- commodation of a few strangers, who had come unexpectedly among them without having par- taken pf their evening meal. This course, on the part of the bystanders, indicated the good.   NOACHD E;.      245 breeding of the times. A lamb, accompanied with figs, pomegranates, dates, peaches swim- ming in cream, and new made wine, formed t the bulk of the collation. While partaking of this good cheer the patri- arch seated himself in one side of the tent, with an easy familiarity and a gracious deportment that were very charming. Some three or four young maidens came, and, seating themselves behind the youths, familiarly taking from their heads their lamb's-wool fillets, curiously ex- amined 'them. One of the young men, feeling something fumbling at the back part of his neck, turning suddenly round, saw a large dog behind him, which immediately began to wag its tail. "You have not given me the name of your family?" inquired the patriarch, addressing the  largest of his guests. "I am descended of Canaan," answered the young man.     240      NOACHD4A "Ah! you are children of Canaan," observed the patriarch, thoughtfully. "All but this one," returned the other, point- ing to a companion on his left, when that youngster, taking up the explanation, an- nounced himself as a descendant of Magog. "He is much larger of his age than we are," remarked the first. "He is only twelve years old; I am eighteen, and yet he is within a finger's breadth of being as tall as I am." "Only twelve years of age!" repeated the patriarch, astonished, and the women expressed their surprise; but just at that moment some movement outside, and a murmuring of voices, arrested their attention, and Asshur making in- quiries, Nin told him that a large party of young people, from the other side of the river, coming over to see the strangers, on learning the particulars, had borrowed some elephants and camels, and gone down the river to Ham's encampments, and he added, "Most of our young men have gone down too."   NOACHDA^.      247 The next morning by day-break the popula- tions of the different encampments were swarm- ing on the plain, young folks and middle-aged; for there were no old folks, as yet. We may readily imagine that Ham was astonished and perplexed on ascertaining that he was in the neighborhood of his nephews'-Asshur's, Lud's, and Arphaxad's-settlements. Wie may imagine that Myrrha was surprised that he mumbled to himself so much during the night. At break of day, Cush, Canaan, Mizra, Phut, anid Magog assembled at his tent, desiring to know what he proposed doing. He:was uncommunicat- ive; so much so, that the others walked away, talking earnestly together. It being finally announced that Asshur and Arphaxad were approaching on elephants, Ham, mounting his' own, proceeded to meet them. As they came near each other, dis- mounting, they mutually embraced, Ham, at first, urging his nephew to return with him to his encampment; but, finally, consented to ac-     248      NOACtIIDAE. company him to his own tent. On reaching it, a morning meal was served up, during which, Ham, who was at first very thoughtful and re- served, at length said, "Is not my brother Shem with you?" "He is with our great father Noah," returned the other. "How long have you been in the plain, here?" "Some five years. We examined it soon after the retiring of the wateri but it was not suitable then to occupy." "Your brothers-Lud, Aram, and Elam, where are they?"  "Lud is four miles above us; Arphaxad is on the other side of the river; Elam on the other side of the Hiddekil; Aram is near the fountains of the Euphrates." "What!" exclaimed Ham, bluntly, "has my brother Shem taken possession of this country, with all his families?" "The countries were divided off by our   NOACHDME.       249 father, Noah, soon after the great removal of waters," returned Asshur, quietly. "And what provision has been made for me?" continued Ham, a light passing over his countenance. "Your allotment is further toward the even- ing," (setting sun,) answered Asshur, looking up, inquiringly; "are you not on your way to it?" "I have had no information on the subject," returned Ham, showing some slight irritation. "A party was sent to you from Gomer's family," continued Asshur, "but I believe they returned without being able to find you, the country had undergone such changes since the removal of the oceans. But still, I was not aware but that some communication had been made to you since. The country which has been given to you is very fine," he added, after a moment's pause. "Where is it?" asked Ham, abruptly. "West of us is a vast sea," continued the "*  /      250      NOACHDE.  other, "dividing two great continents. The northern one* is allotted to Japhet, the south- ernt to you. It is divided from our possessions by a narrow sea." "And between us and that sea?" "Belongs to Arphaxad," answered Asshur. "What is the distance to this country?" in- quired Ham, after a few moment's silence. "About sixteen day's travel. I think my brother Lud must have arrived," he added, hearing a bustle outside, and rising, he went out followed by Ham. We will not stop to detail the particulars of this interview between the latter and this other nephew of his, but merely state that he returned to his tent about twenty minutes after, summoning Canaan, Phut, and Mizraim to his presence. After walking about for some little time in his tent in an abstracted manner, although his sons stood waiting without with grave countenances, he finally said, abruptly, * Europe. t Africa.   NOACHDXA.       251. without looking up from his sullen perambula- tions, "Get ready your elephants, with two moons' provisions. I have had my allotment, and I want to know what sort of a country it is," he added, more to himself than his auditors. His sons conversed together for a few mo- ments, and then Canaan, addressing his father, said vehemently, "Father, has Asshur and Arphaxad -got this country?" "My brother Shem has got it," replied Ham, moodily. "I am opposed to traveling any further," continued Canaan, his face flushing. "We have lost and consumed for food, together, half of our flocks and herds, since we left the ruins of Enoch. And now, after having traveled, so far, having found a pleasant country, we are in favor of remaining in it." Ham increased his nervous perambulations about his tent, looking darker and darker il     252      NOACHD^E. the face. Finally turning round, doggedly, to his sons, he continued, "Go get yourselves ready, you will leave by daylight in the morning." The sons walking away, talked earnestly together, and then separated, Mizraim and Phut to make the necessary preparations for their journey, while Canaan sought out Cush, who stood partly concealed by the tents, evi- dently regarding the feats of strength and agility performed by his son Orion, and the in- terest excited by these among the young Shemites, with a good deal of vanity and secret satisfaction. Orion had just raised a horse on his left shoulder, walking round with him, tak- ing hold of his fore-legs with both hands to steady him, amid the shouts of the bystanders, when Canaan, approaching Cush, said excited- ly: "Cush, we can not remain here." "What now?"' inquired the other, quickly. "Why, this country is given to Shem, and ours is further toward the setting sun. Father   NOACHDZE.       253 has ordered some of us to go and find where it is.? "In some mountain, or thorny desert, very likely," replied Cush. "That has been our lot thus far. I see no need of leaving here," he added, walking excitedly to and fro. "I don't see why we should," rejoined Canaan; "let us see Mog, and tell our father that we wish to remain where we are." Cush assented, and Canaan soon assembled the brothers and Magog at his tent. In the meantime, Ham, making a second visit to As- shur's encampment, obtained the necessary in- formation concerning the route to be followed, in order to reach his new possessions. In the meantime, a crowd gathered round the older fathers, the young men collecting round Orion, who, on learning that Ham had been required to evacuate the country, immediately desisted from his gymnastic performances, and walking toward the group assembled at Cush's tents, was, joined by his brothers Seba, Raamah,     254      NOACHDAE. Havilah, Sabtah, and Sabtecha. As the crowd increased, the principal leaders withdrew int9 Cush's tent, where, after spending a short time in deliberations, they finally reappeared, pressing their way through the crowd, an- nouncing to their anxious families that their  consultations were unfavorable to a removal. A shout went up from the young men, on hearing this announcement, and they all gath- ered around Orion. "We will do as you say!" they exclaimed. The latter, straightening him- self up, looked round on the excited crowd, with an emotion visible in his countenance, and a smoky, smiling gleam of the eye. "Remove! I see no necessity for it," he said, in a grum voice, "the country here is big enough for all of us." "Yes, plenty! we will not go!" shouted the young men, tumultuously. On Ham's returning fron Asshur's encamp- ment, he was met by his sons, who gave him distinctly to understand that they objected to   NOACHDiE.      255 leaving the country they were in. Ham, with both hands thrust negligently in his girdle, stood regarding them for a moment with a be- wildered look. He then wheeled suddenly round, and, wrapping himself in a mantle, lay down in one side of his tent, soon giving vent to certain sounds which are considered unmistakable in- dications of slumber. The sons smiled as they left the tent. Phut and Mizraim on the following morning appeared before their father, desiring to know whether he still wished them to proceed on the intended expedition. "Certainly," was the reply; ".are you ready?" We are not; we thought you had changed your mind." "Thought! when have I revoked my orders? Get ready at once." They turned to go away, when he called them back. "Asshur will lend yon one of his boats," he /     256      NOACHDA3. continued; "you will need one made of skills. It is light, and can be carried on the back of an elephant." On the following morning they again made their appearance. "Father," said Mizraim, "suppose my son Pathros take the place of Canaan-he seemi to be so reluctant to go on this expedition. He understands the stars better than any of us." Ham had no objection to the proposed change. "You keep the sun before you," he said, giving them instructions, "in the fore- noon, and, in the afternoon, behind you; and, after sundown, if you travel any, follow a large, bright star, directly opposite the sun's setting. Do this till you come to a sea; then follow the shore of the sea to your left, till you see land on the opposite side; then cross over with your boat, and examine the country there; for that is the one that has been given to me." They swam their elephants across the Eu- phrates, passing over themselves in boats fur-   NOACHDAE.       257 nished by Asshur, and then took a westerly di- rection across the mighty desert. FOUNDING OF BABYON. A messenger, in the meantime, had been despatched to Elam, on the other side of the Hiddekil, about six hours' journey, to inform him that Ham, with all his families, had ar- rived in the plain of Shinar; and, meanwhile,  considerable indignation and astonishment pre- vailed among the Shemites, on learning that the Hamites had expressed a determination not to leave. Lud and Arphaxad, meeting Asshur at his tents, the following day, talked over the matter, and were in considerable perplexity as to what course to adopt, while the younger portion, getting together in knots, angrily and vehemently declared that they would not be crowded off their own grounds. The feeling was much increased by a counter-report, which , was circulated among the Hamites, that the " '        f- i(4r     258      NOACHDLE. Asshurites intended to employ force to eject them. The women taking up the matter, an excited conversation arose in the tents. In the latter part of the day, a vast assemblage, in which the women took part, together with the Magogites, appeared in the open space between Magog's and Cush's tents. Elam having ar- rived, he, together with Asshur and Arphax- ad, mounted their elephants, and rode hastily to Ham's tent. As they passed the crowd, the latter became quiet, though their looks were none of the pleasantest. On coming to Ham's tent, they found it closed up. Myrrha, who was at work on a rich mantle, arose as Asshur, dis- mounting, advanced toward her, and welcomed him with a dim smile. On his making known his wish to speak with Ham, she replied, "He went into his tent about half an hour since, desiring not to be disturbed; " and then, as if recollecting herself, she hastily added, "I will wake him." She entered the tent, and, after an unwonted   NOACHDE.       a9 long time, came out, saying, with a, smile, that she could not wake him. Asshur, looking at her in astonishment, answered, "He must sleep very soundly. Suppose I try;" and, lifting the outer curtain, entered the tent. Ham lay rolled up in his mantle, as though asleep. Taking hold of him, he, shook him, speaking to him in a loud voice. He rolled over, opening his eyes, and staring at him, muttering, "Ah, is that you, nephew?" "Ham," said Asshur, '"your presence is needed out here; our families are getting in- to a very excited condition. It seems, to me, there must be some misunderstanding; will you not come out and explain matters to them, and, if necessary, exert your authority over them?" "Explain matters!" repeated Ham, stupid- ly, as though only, as yet, half awake, and try-. ing to recover his thoughts, "Authority! go and do it yourself, nephew; you can do it bet-  '  V     260      NOACHDAE. ter than I can," and, rolling over, he sullenly readjusted himself to sleep. Asshur went out, and after a few moments' conversation with his brethren, mounted his elephant, and all three proceeded a short dis- tance, when they were immediately surrounded by the crowd, and at the same time a voice ex- claimed, "Are you going to drive us out?" Asshur, standing up on the back of his ele- phant, said: "Children of my uncle Ham, what means all this excitement? I was in hopes he would have appeared here, and as- sured you of our regard. Are we not all the children of our father Noah, and should we not obey his commands? He has given to Shem- and we are his children-all this country to- ward the setting sun, till we come to a big sea. Beyond that, on the left,"- and he faced round, so as to express it by his attitude--" is your father Ham's portion. It is a fertile, rich, and large country, extending toward the setting.   NOACHDBE.       261 sun, we know not how far. Should you not go and take. possession of it? How can you suppose that it could ever become necessary for one branch of our father Noah's family to employ force to compel another branch of it to obey his decrees?" "You want to make servants of us," ex- claimed some one, in return. Considerable ex- citement prevailed at this declaration. Asshur looked round with some surprise, to see who uttered it. A murmur ran through the crowd, as though the declaration was only the echo of a general thought. Asshur was about to re- ply;,.when Orion mounting an elephant, raised himself to his full height, looking round at As- shur and his brethren, -in a manner that seemed to partake slightly of the bravado; then looking down, he spoke in a low, grum tone of voice, "Our father Noah--we have heard a good deal of him,-most of us never saw him. I saw him once,--good-looking man,--should     262      NOACHDAE. like to see him again; should like to take some wine with him. Seen the ark he came out of, and our father Ham,--great affair that;- I should think we might build one as big, if we should try. But we have no material -- besides we do n't need it, unless another flood should come, and they say one will come, if we don't obey our father Noah. That is quite different from disobeying the Almighty. Can our father Noah say to the waters, "Come," and will they come? In that case we might sooner build a tower to get on to. Servants!-ay, divide! separate!-scatter!-then we will be servants easy. We must make ourselves strong by union, and who 'll make servants of us then?" he exclaimed, raising his voice to a loud pitch. "Beautiful country this,-more so than the one we left. There, plenty of rocks; here, plenty of grass. No tigers here though,t- that's objectionable. Our father Noah is not in favor of killing tigers; I am. There is no objection to this country--not the slightest." "\4   NOACHDAE.       263 He raised himself, looking around him, with a dull, heavy gaze, as though refreshing his vision with its various beauties. "Beautiful grapes. Wine excellent!"Here he gave cer- tain indications with his mouth, which proved incontestably that he had a strong relish for the juice of the grape. "This country given to Shem, eh? Well, saw. .Shemo  once! fine man---like to see him again,--like to take some wine with him! Who told our father Noah to give it to him? We should have been consulted,-we are an item! Ugh!" he vocif- erated, "let us build a city, and tower that will reach unto heaven, and keep together, and make .ourselves 'strong; thoen 'ho will make slaves of us?"a "Y  es! yes!:)' shouted the crowd, 'let us build a city like those they had before the flood, and keep together; then we won't be scattered, nor made slaves of. i "Does your father encourage you in such     264      NOACHDAE. purposes?" inquired Asshur, regarding Orioi with astonishment and a look of indignation. "I and my father are pretty well agreed on these subjects," replied the other. The Shemite fathers returned to their tents, satisfied that there was a deliberate purpose on the part of the Hamites to usurp their territo- ries. On becoming satisfied of this, they were thrown into the greatest excitement. Nin fu- riously urged his father to combine his families and resist. The latter objected to this, on the ground that it would only be adding one evil to another, and despatched a messenger in all haste to Araxea,* to inform Nobh of what was transpiring. In the meantime, however, Nin got up such a feeling with Elam's, Aram's, Ar- phaxad's, and Asshur's families, that they were only restrained from taking violent measures, by the heads of the families, who insisted upon waiting till they received instructions from Noah. In the meantime about a mile above Now Armenia; Araxea means the land pf M , ark. ,n   NOACHDA.       26n Cush's tents, on the bank of the river, was a grove of young palms, and there, in the open plain, the sons of Ham commenced building a tower and the first great city after the iflood: namely, Babylon. FOUNDING OF NINEVEH. About two months after this, as some young men of Asshur's family were driving home their flocks, which had strayed too near Cush's tents, it being near sunset, a gigantic Magogite, com- ing along, laid hold of one of the sheep, and carried it off. The boys followed him, telling him very innocently that the sheep belonged to Asshur. But this did not appear to induce him to change his purpose; for, carrying the animal near to one of the unfinished houses that were building, near which was a fire, they there saw him, after killing and dressing it, lay some pieces on the coals, preparatory to mak- ing a supper of it. They soon spread a knowl- edge of the transaction through the encamp- 12     266      NOACHDE. ment. Of course, on the following morning, compensation was demanded of Magog by As- shur, for the stolen animal, which not being complied with, Nin. collecting all the force of the different Shemitic families, assembled on the plain, near Magog's tents, for the purpose of taking a sheep from his flocks; but, antici- pating their object, his people had driven them back behind Mizraim's encampment, and the en- tire force of the Hamites was collected for the purpose of repelling any such attempt. Asshur, accompanied by his brethren, however, making his appearance, sought out Ham, urging him to exert his authority in enforcing restitution. The latter, pushing his way to the culprit, de- manded his reasons for not doing so, and re- ceived for answer that, Asshur's flocks having fed all the afternoon oh their grounds, they were entitled to a sheep. "They are not your grounds!" exclaimed the Asshurites, fiercely; "beside, your flocks have been feeding around our encampment ever since you have been   NOACHDIA.       267 here; and we have been obliged to watch them constantly, to prevent their mixing with ours, and we never thought of taking a sheep for it, either; beside, if we had, we would have asked for it--we would not have stolen it- we are not quite so wicked as that." This declaration of rights as to territory seemed to change at once the point in issue. An angry altercation ensued. Asshur and his brethren, riding to their respective bands, or- dered them to their tents, while Orion, with characteristic assurance, stepping forward, chal- - lenged some of the Asshurites to a trial of strength with him. Nin dashed his elephant toward him, with a threatening gesture, the former squaring himself around; a rush of Ma- gogites was made in the same direction, and a concentration of Asshurites toward the latter seemed to indicate that it had been previously arranged that there should be two of the for- mer against one of the latter.  A  collision seemed inevitable; when, suddenly, an unex-     268      NOACHIDA. pected agitation occurring in the crowd, a wo- man of a very interesting appearance, mounted on a vigorous little elephant, followed by a crowd of married women and young girls, rushing suddenly among the men, pressed in between the combatants, endeavoring to pre- vent, by their presence and protestations, so dreadful, a catastrophe. "For shame! Horrible! It must not be! you'll offend the Almighty! His wrath will be upon us! You'll all go with the Rephaim!" exclaimed the foremost of the beautiful crowd, springing to the ground, and catching three or four young men by the shoulders, and pulling them back in succession. Approaching Cush, who stood in the edge of the throng, she said, excitedly, "Cush, I am astonished! Will you stand here and permit this? Where's Ham? He must stop it." So saying, she took his bow out of his hand, and then passing along, she disarmed, as she did so, several of the Magog- ites, and then, going up to Orion, she took his   NOACHDA.       269 bow and javelin out of his hands, which the giant yielded with a frown and a smile. She turned to go off with these weapons, when a large, stout woman, advancing toward her, commanded her, with a severe look and gest- ure, to deliver them up to her. She dropped them as though they had been hot, and, utter- ing some low expression, expressive of disgust and astonishment, she turned round, when a snort from her elephant, which kept close to her, following her wherever she went, seemed to indicate that it was not altogether satisfied with the motions of the big woman. "Dodo," she said, the tears coming into her eyes, "be still." She turned to retreat among her own people, when Orion, taking a couple of stones, about as big as tea-cups, in his hands, advanced toward her. "See!" he ejaculated, with inimitable gravi- ty, "see how potent I am!" and with that, he ground the brown stones to powder in his .   '      270      NOACHDE. clenched hands, letting the particles of dust drop from his open palms in her presence. "I have heard of your strength," she said, with a faint smile, "and am only astonished that you do not use it in a better cause. Can you not find wild animals enough to wage war against, without coming here to perform such acts of violence as these?" "Let her go," exclaimed the large woman, who having gathered up the abandoned weap- ons, stood holding them in her arms, regarding the other for a moment, and then turning abruptly round with a toss of her head. "Mother," said Orion, wheeling partly to- ward her with irritation too evident in his countenance, "I want those weapons. You promised me my new cincture to-day. I do not think we need our mother's help! They are much better in their tents," And then turning toward the other, he continued: "Have you a husband?"   NOACHD E,       271 A voice in the crowd replied: "Why, Orion, that's Zillah, wife of Arphaxad." "Ugh!" ejaculated the giant. "She get the promised seed!" screamed the giantess with a malicious look; "she'll be dis- appointed."  Zillah attempted to regain her seat on the back of the elephant, when Orion sprung for- ward, for the purpose of showing her how nicely he could assist her in accomplishing her object, when the animal, evidently disliking so much familiarity, on the part of the stranger, toward his mistress, made some demonstrations that looked exceedingly hostile. "Dodo," exclaimed Zillah, quickly, "be still; you'll not get your apples when you reach home, if you do n't stop." "A smart little elephant," observed Orion, grurly. "Orion," continued Zillah, "why do you not go and take possession of your own country? why do you come here to interfere with ours?     272       NOACHDE. Are you not aware that you are offending the Almighty?" "Not at all., What difference should it make with him? There is room enough here for all of us. " I "That is not the question, Orion. Be still, Dodo. The Almighty knows best what is for our interest. Our father Noah says, his children must be distributed over the earth, so as to prevent their interfering with one another. It might answer very well for a little while, but in time, if they are not widely separated, it will bring trouble. There will be no end of it, he says, when they once begin; so you are set- ting yourself directly against his decrees, and he may drown you all with another flood, Orion, as he did the wicked Rephaim." "We have the rainbow," replied Orion; " he will not send another flood,--he has promised not to- will he break his word? And can our father Noah say to the waters, L' Come," uand will they come?"   NOACHDAE.       279 "Ah, but Orion, the rainbow is intended for the whole human family. He could send a flood here on the plain, and destroy all of you, while the rest of us would not be injured, and not break his word." "And you will be here; you will be involved in it; you will ask the Almighty not to do it, and he will not do it." "Ah, Orion, that can not be. If you remain here, we must leave; we can not have such troubles as these. Dodo, be quiet. Then you will have to take care of yourselves, Orion." "We will build a tower," replied the other, with a peculiar expression in his. eyes, "a big tower, that will be above the waters," and he flourished his arms about. Just at that mo- --   ment, Dodo, working himself round, showing uneasiness, made a sudden dash into the crowd, and the next moment Cush lay sprawled upon his back, and then, as if satisfied with having done thus much, giving a snort, he drew back, 12'              v                  '274      NOACHDAE. Zillah all the while scolding and whipping him over the forehead. "Go off with your mad beast," screamed the large woman; flourishing a javelin, and running up, she punctured the elephant slightly in the left fore-shoulder. Dodo, gathering himself up, with an expression of awful wrath, rushed on the woman, and in spite of her endeavors to defend herself by vigorously brandishing her weapon, catching her in his trunk, he tossed her several rods over the heads of the crowd. There were some outhursts of laughter near by, and cries in the distance, and a great excite- ment, and a rush from all sides. The Shemites, who were furthest off, supposing that an attack was being made on Zillah, uttered loud cries of indignation, and a general rush was made to protect her. Arphaxad pressed through to her side. The young men who had been induced to withdraw from the scene by the young women, in the commencement of the difficulty, now    hurried back toward the center of confusion. Of the females, some fled, screaming, from the place; others, rushing up, got hold of the young men, endeavoring to restrain them; add- ed to this, were the dismal screams of great numbers of little children, who happened to be present. It is impossible to tell what might have happened, had not the attention of the multi- tude been suddenly arrested by an unexpected apparition. A cry of "Noah! Noah!" sud- denly arose on the outside of the confused crowd; and, to the astonishment of everybody, ' there appeared a man on a large white ele- phant, accompanied by two other individuals, al- so on elephants, and in the distance, on the plain, a company of horsemen coming with all speed. The cry had hardly gone up, when the white elephant, rushing in among the astonished and bewildered multitude, suddenly stopped, giv- ing a snort, as though conscious of the superior worth and dignity of his rider. With a shout     276      NOACHDXiE. of joy and exultation, the Shemites, rushing around him, pulled him from his seat, al- most smothering him with their embraces; while the little Shemite children, of whom there were a few present, crying out, "Let me see my great parent!" scrambling through the crowd, came up to him, holding up their little hands to be taken by him-he had his arms full;-the Hamites gathering around, with looks of curiosity and respect, some of them even pressing in for the purpose of show- ing their affection for him. The horsemen, who were Gomerites, and about a hundred strong, soon came up. Noah had no opportunity for some time to ask any questions. He was heard to inquire of Asshur, as he approached, whether anybody was hurt; but he was so overwhelmed with attentions that nearly an hour elapsed before he could pro- ceed to business. Finally, after all had ten- dered their respects to him, he turned toward the gigantic Magogites and Hamites, who -tood   NOACHD E.       2" near, with curiosity and respect blended in their heavy visages, with a severe- look. Ham," he said, withdrawing his gaze from the multitude, and fastening it on that individ- ual, who stood near, " what is this that I hear of you? why do you not go and take posses- sion of your countries? these are not yours." "I have sent Mizra to examine them," re- plied Ham, moodily. 'Sent Mizra to examine them?" repeated Noah, in an interrogative tone, and as though pondering the words; "and has it come to this, that a son of mine examines before he obeys?" and fastening his intelligent eyei on Ham's face, he kept them there, until that individual, shrinking back, sought to exculpate himself. "I had no knowledge of the division," he if abruptly replied, with some little asperity of tone and manner. "We should have drawn lots," he added; " that would have been just." Noah, taking three sheep-skins, marked, with a piece of coal, on the inside of one, signs, de-     278      NOACHDAE. noting, "To the left hand of the great sea, to- ward the evening"-setting sun; and on that of another, i' To the right hand of the moun- tains, and the great sea, toward the evening;" and on the third, "On this side of the great sea, toward the morning"--rising sun; he spread them with their inscribed surfaces on the ground, by the side of each other, some ten rods from the crowd; and then, summoning the parties around him, commanded them to choose. Ham, stooping, reversed one of the skins: it was that inscribed, "To the left of the - great sea, toward the evening." Japhet turned over one: it was that, "To the right of the mountains and the great sea, toward the even- ing." Of course, the other was Shem's. "You see," said Noah, addressing Ham, "that your lot confirms the Almighty's decree." While he was speaking, a slight commotion was observable among the Hamites, when Orion, with a new dress on, a stuffed serpent's- skin twisted around his body, and his head-   I           NOACHD3E.       279 dress stuck full of eagles' and peacocks' plumes, and various animals' tails hanging down his back, walking through the crowd, and apt proaching Noah, stood and bowed himself with great loftiness of bearing. The latter evident- ly regarded this ancient specimen of humanity with considerable curiosity at first, and after- ward with a smile, as -he received his saluta- tions. "I am potent," said the grandson of Ham, stretching out his brawny arms, and expanding his chest to its utmost limits. Smiles appeared on the faces of some of the Shemites, particu- larly on those of the -women. "Yes," said Noah, approaching him, "po- tent; if you were as potent spiritually as you are physically, I should rejoice in such a son." "Spiritually!" muttered the other, "what's that?" "As potent in obedience," returned Noah. "Obedience!" reiterated  Orion, puzzled. "Command me! 'What shall I do for you-     280      NOACHDAtg. shall I crush stones? break an ox's leg with my fist? carry a horse on my shoulder? tear up trees by the roots? shall I strangle a lion or boa constrictor for you?"He stopped for a moment, and then abruptly ejaculated, "A lion comes along, I strangle him!" "And if he do n't come along?" asked Noah, amused; "what then?" '"I leave him to die where he is," replied the gigantic grandson of Ham, with a flourish of his plumed head. "You are very potent," replied Noah. Orion, much elated at what he considered a compliment, turned suddenly round, and caus- ing a man to dismount from his horse, although assured by the patriarch that any exhibition of his physical energies was unnecessary, persist- ing in his purpose, he lifted the animal upon his shoulder, and 'walked round with him, much to the amusement and astonishment of the Gomerites. "This is all very well," continued Noah; "1   NOACHDA3.       281 understand, however, you are endeavoring to do one thing which I think you will fail in. Albeit, you must try it. "My son," he con- tinued, addressing Nin, who stood close by, "come here. I must have peace. Swear," he continued, as that individual approached him, "swear, in my presence, and in the presence of the Almighty, that you will lay aside all differences during my lifetime. After that, I have no authority over you-passion must work." "But, father," said Nin, "the country is ours. "Yes; but not now. The Almighty is suffi- cient. If Ham's children do not remove, you must." "Yes, we will retire, responded Asshur. "Nin," exclaimed Noah, solemnly, "swear!" "I'll swear," answered Nin, submissively. "NIMROD!" exclaimed Noah, with pecu liar vehemence, which made the entire assem- blage start, for the word signifies REBEL, and     282      NOACHDAJ. could not have been applied to him previous to this time, "swear!" "There is room enough here for all of us," muttered Orion; " but I 'll swear." Noah gave some instructions to Asshur, who retired, taking Nin and Shem along with him. In the meantime, those standing near having made some communications to Noah, he turned to Ham. "How is this, Ham-why did you not see that restitution was- made for the stolen sheep?" "I purposed doing so," replied Ham. "Do it at once," returned the other. Ham went out, in company with Magog, and obtain- ing from the flock of him who committed the wrong a sheep, brought it to the conclave. "The act was an unrighteous one," continued Noah. "A single sheep makes good the one stolen; but something is due to dishonored right; bring three more sheep, as an atonement for the injury." Soon, Asshur and those with him returned,   NOACHDAE.       283 driving a bullock. The animal was killed, an d being divided in the middle, the parts were placed a short distance from each other. Orion and Nin then joining hands, walking between these pieces, they thus covenanted not to make war on one another during their great father's lifetime. As they did this, Noah stood before them, pronouncing the words: "As this bullock has beendivided in the midst, so you pray that you may be divided in the midst, in case you break this covenant. Amen:" After this, the meat thus. furnished was cooked, the Shemites and Hamites indiscrimi- nately partaking of it, as a sign of amity and good feeling. The following day, Asshur and Arphaxad pulled up their tents andretired from the plain, driving their flocks and herds with them. Their harvests had just been gathered in, but they left their newly-planted vineyards and their fruit trees. Asshur crossed the plain,     284        NOACHDAE. and proceeding northward, established himself on the other side of the Hiddekil, or Tigris, some distance north of his brother Elam, to- ward Armenia, and, as we shall soon see, laid the foundations of Nineveh, and the Asshurian, or Assyrian* nation.  Arphaxad remained on the west side of that river, and Lud retired some ten miles further north, on the Euphrates. Asshur had encamped in a grove on a hill, on the banks of the Tigris, while all around him spread rich pasture-grounds. He continued to occupy a tent, while his son Nin had con- structed for himself a beautiful palace, in a grove, on another hill to the south, the two hills being separated by a stream, which emp- tied into the Tigris. It was built of planks, hewn from trees grown on the banks of that river. Other dwellings had also been erected in the neighborhood; and this was the begin- * THz name Assyrian is derived from Asshur; viz., Asshurian. The learned Bochart, as he is generally termed by writers, Dr. Hyde, the Targum of Onkelos,Theophilus, Bishop of Antioch,Bishop Cumberland, in lis Originea Gentium, argue, though upon very superficial grounds,   NOACHIDAE.            286. ning of Nineveh, named from Nin,* Nin-ne-ue, the habitation of the son, originally applied to Nin's dwelling. The grove covered   several acres. To the limbs of the trees were sus- pended lion's, leopard's, and other  animals' skins, trophies of frequent hunts. It was usually full of beautiful little boys and  girls, climbing  the  trees, or riding   upon  the backs of large, long haired dogs. For the last three years, there had  been  a severe drought, so severe that a famine was threatened. This was particularly felt on the plain, and the Hamites were the greatest suf- ferers by it. Their crops had perished,' and we consider, that Nimrod founded Nineveh. We much prefer the authority of Josephus on this subject, who makes Nineveh founded by Asshur. Besides Micah, v, 6, expressly distinguishes between the land of Asshur and the land of Nimrod. In this view coincides the learned Dr. Jackson. See his elaborate treatise on Chronology. * JAccKsoN's Chronology, i, 231.. The Greeks adding their usual designative of proper names, "us," to Nin, gives us Ninus, so cele- brated in Assyrian history. The Ninus here referred to, however, is not Ninus the great conqueror, commemorated by Justin, but Ninus the first. The latter is Ninus the second, who lived long after this.     286      NOACIIIDA. they were compelled to have recourse to their flocks and the chase for food. This drought had puzzled themselves and the Asshurites a good deal. They had supposed that possibly there might be another flood; but it never oc- curred to them that rain might be withdrawn, altogether, and they might perish for the want of it. Some forty years had now elapsed since the Asshurites had encamped here, and Noah, with a party, had arrived from Armenia, to go down and see the big tower that Nimrod was building, as well as to convey some fruit, grain, and vegetables to the famishing Hamites. Many of the young men of Asshnr wished to go along; but some of their parents objected to it. So much time had now elapsed since the commencement of the tower, and no sec- ond deluge occurring to sweep off its builders, that the wickedness of the enterprise in which they were engaged began gradually to loosen its hold on the minds of both the Hamites and Shemites; so much so, that large numbers of   -I     -NOACHDIE.                28y the latter, principally from the families of Lud arand Arphaxad,* had joined Nimrod, contribut- ing very considerably to h's strength; for they were mostly young men struck with admira- tion of his prowess, and, consequently, forming = ja kind of armed force, that lived, not so much by agricultural pursuits as by a shepherd's life, ? and by hunting. A young man stood on the bank of the Ti- gris, in the edge of the grove, which we have described as surrounding Nin's mansion, and iby his side was a young maiden. Her hair had no combs in it, but hung in disheveled ringlets upon her shoulders; her sweet, amiable coun- tenance, and her large, soft, dreamy eyes were cast upon the long but dry blades of grass at her feet. She had a dove in her hand, which * We can not account, on any other principle, for the entire disap- pearance of the Arphaxadites, as a people, while almost all of the others have impressed their name on -some country or race, and are recognizable in history. We shall show, hereafter, in what form this people reappears in history, blended with and taking the name of Cshites .     288   1  N OACHD:E. she was fondling, and her eyes moving rested on a golden mullen which was swaying to and fro in the fanning wind at her feet. The young man had a scoop-net in his hand, which he seemed to have just pulled out of the water; for there was a fish in it, and drops of the shin- ing liquid were dripping down its sides. "What a beautiful fish!" said the young man, holding up the net; "see, Elf., look!" The girl raised her head. "Its scales are al- most as bright as your eyes, Elf." "Well, Reu., they won't be bright long, if you go down among those wicked Hamites," returned the girl, sadly. "Why, Elf., what troubles you so? I don't intend to remain there." "You better not be too certain of that," re- turned the maiden; "how many have gone down there just to see that big tower, and got so bewitched with that fellow, Nimrod, that they concluded to stay there and help him build it! He would never have got so far with   NOACHD^.       289 289 it as he has done if he had not been aided by so many of yours and Lud's people." "Some of your people have joined him, too, Elf"  "Not half a dozen, Reu., and they were wild, foolish, crazy boys. Nimrod came up here on a hunting excursion, and they secretly went off with him; and when the hunt was over, in- stead of returning to their homes, they went to Shinar. One of them, his father brought back; but the others remained there, and they have not been able to persuade them to return; so that only five from our people have gone there and remained, while more than half of your young men have joined them; that is what they say, Reu., and I am afraid if you go there, you will not come back; and that is the reason I do n't wish you to go." "Why, Elf, do you imagine that I would not come  back?" he said, earnestly, laying down his net, and coming close up to her, with a  serious look.     290      NOACIIIDA. "I don't know," replied Elf., dropping her eyes, and beginning to smooth the feathers on the dove's back. "You might fall in love with one of the beautiful seven, and that would be the last of you," she replied, archly, fixing her soft, large, glimmering eyes upon him. "Elf.!" exclaimed Reu., approaching her, with a reproachful glance. -n nnt c-o" she continued, "Well, you will not go, she contiued, looking up at the trees; for the dove, discon- certed, in her hands, had flown up on to a limb, and there, stretching out its little white neck, and looking down at them, sideways. At the same time she began warbling, in a low melo- dy, a song of some kind; and holding up her hand, without looking in the direction inwhich she held it, the dove flew down upon it. "Why not go down yourself?" continued the young man; "have you no curiosity to see the big tower?" ,I should like to see it." replied the girl,   NOACHDAE.      9O1 o    . hesitatingly; but I should not like to trust my. self there." "There's no danger," replied the young man. "All that I am afraid of is, that you won't come back. You know you have a great pas- sion for hunting, and there are so many who would sympathize with you in this respect, that you might be induced to remain there. That is the only reason why I oppose your go- ing," and she regarded him with great earn- estness. "Well, go yourself, and then you can see that I return. We '1 go together, and come back together. I'll take our little elephant, and we'll put on him the house with badgers' skins all round it." "And what if some of those giants should carry me off? I do n't wish to go!" she ex- claimed, decidedly, shaking her head. "They dare not!" replied Reu, suddenly. "Why,- our father Noah, Japhet, and a great iS *         *     292       NOACHDA. many women, will be there. Psha! you will be as safe as they!" "I don't know," replied Elf., dropping her eyes, and looking serious; " they are a wicked set down there." "And what is it that makes them so wick- ed?" inquired Reu. "Why, I am astonished to hear you put such a question. Is it no wickedness to build a city and tower, contrary to the Almighty's wish- es? He knows best, probably, what is for their interest, and the interest of us all, and he wish- es them to separate and take possession of dif- ferent countries, and devote themselves to agriculture, and not interfere with one another. Instead of that, they all come into the plain, drive out our people, take possession of the country, and go to building a city and tower, just for the purpose of keeping together, and making themselves strong, and having some- thing to run to in case there should be another flood. Poor fools! Was n't that a terrible   NOACHDiE.       293 judgment-the flood,--Reu?  Now, we have never seen the ark; I should much rather see that. They say that, for the last few years, snow remains on the mountain all the winter: that did not use to be so. Now, Reu, when Noah comes back from Shinar, suppose we go to Araxea with him, and see the ark." "Well, we will do so; and we can go down and see the tower, too. Why, it's a wonder- ful structure; it reaches up into the clouds." "And there are those terrible giant -long- haired Repha, shaggy-headed Alcyon, swag- gering Eurytas, ugly Typhoeus, noble-looking but sarcastic Ceus;-have you seen his daugh- ter, Asteria, Reu? queer creature!" Elfa, musing a moment, shook her head, and then continued, "But Nimrod is doing a worse thing than building the tower, Reu; do you !.   know what that is?" "I do not." ?  "He is offering sacrifices to the sun! That is a great deal worse than anything he has done 7'I, ; :gS'     294      NOACHIIDE. yet. That is what one of our people said who came up from there the other day." "I heard something about it," returned Reu, turning round; "but why does he do it? He can not imagine the sun to be the Al- mighty " "Father Noah explained it to-day: He said that all Titans were liable to be seduced into some such folly. Now, those foolish Hamites, rebelling against the Almighty in one case, do not receive his spirit, and, being open to the attacks of Satan, they are liable to be, seduced away into some act of disobedience, as our poor mother Eve was. And now, Reu, if you only would become a spiritual man, I would have no objection to your going to Shi- nar; for I know the Almighty would keep you from delusion there. Why don't you be- come one?" she continued, earnestly, "a son of the Almighty? I should be much happier if you would. All your fathers, from Arphaxad down, are spiritual men; why aint you one?"   i;,       iNOACHDE M     295 "I am not wicked, Elfa." "You have killed no one, Reu; you don't steal; you tell no falsehoods; you eat no blood; you do nothing that is bad, I know, except-"Elfa hung her head, 'you are Ti- tan-earth-born, carnal; -you have not the spirit of the Almighty, and so you must be wicked; so you are good, except-"Elfa, hesitating, hung her head. "Except what, Elfa?" "You love not the Almighty." "Is that what is meant by being earth- born, Elfa? I have heard father explain it several times, but'I always happened to be thinking of something else at the time, and never exactly understood why the Hamites were called Titans." "Father Noah explained it last evening. He said all the antediluvians were Titan,- that is, they continued children of men, and would not become children of the Almighty,- and so they ;t- .*           296      NOACHD^E. were all sent down to Tartarus, and it grieved his heart to see so many of his children follow- ing their wicked example so readily. Why, you know, Reu, that our first parent, Adam, was created out of the dust of the ground; you know that, I suppose. Well, he was earthy, was he not? Of course he was, if he was created out of the earth. Well we are all descended from him, so we are all earthy,- carnal,-and that makes them all depraved;  so we are depraved." "Then we are all Titans?" "Wait, Reu. You are thinking of some- thing else, I know; you are not looking at me; there now, look right at me, and I will explain it to you, just as father Noah explained it the other day;" and, dropping her eyes, and speaking in a half-comico, half-serious vein, she continued, "and I wasn't thinking of any thing else, Reu. Now, when the Almighty gives us his spirit, we become spiritual-minded; we be- come his sons and daughters; we are sons of   NOACHDAE.             297 heaven; whereas, the others are sons of earth - the one children of men, the others children of the Almighty.* The one is Titan-earth-born merely-mere earthy men,-the others heaven- born,-spiritual men. Now, the Hamites open- ly revolting against the Almighty, are conspicu- ously  Titan,f  or earth-born.    There, you   are IN our version, "children of God." t THS definition and application of these celebrated Grecian words furnishes an easy and beautiful solution to all that is said about this memorable people and their wars by Greek and Roman writers. This will also explain why ancient authors vary in their statements, some giving seven Titans, and some forty-five, which would be designed to specify some particular Titans, distinguished from the great mass. The Atlanti, a people of ancient Mauritania, relating that Uranus, or heaven, or he who was so designated, mean- ing Noah, a Son of Heaven, had forty-five sons, [or descendants,] by several wives, eighteen of which he had by Titea, or Gee, who had each a proper name; but the common name of them all was Titans. Jackson's Chtonology, iii, 22. The word Titan is derived from the Phoenician and Hebrew, "tit, which means  earth," and hence the Greeks derived it. "Titan" means "earth-born." Giant originally had the same signification, being compounded of "Ge," or "Gee," earth, and "antes," 0so9 of earth, and was a,word by which the ancients designated those who remained in a carnal 'state, and was particularly applicable to those who, surrendered themselves to their depraved natures, necessarily becoming violent and terrible men, and as many of the ancients, to whom this term was applied, were men of large stature, it has since come to denote those of that description, rather 'than those of great moral depravity.     298      NOACHDAE. listening to those dogs, and don't hear me. O hum! Reu, you make me sad." "They have started something," said the young man, turning his left ear toward the river. Elfa turned partly round, and a little dog came bounding up to her, wagging his tail. "So Lip, you hear them, too?"Lip stood with his eyes directed toward the river, for a moment; he then gave a short, ejaculatory bark, and starting down the bank, reached the water, and sitting down on his hind-legs, earn- estly regarded the river. In another minute, Reu gave a cry, and dropping his scoop-net, which he still retained in one hand, he made a hasty gesticulation with the other toward the river, the dog, at the same time, beginning to whine, showing uneasiness. Elfa looked, and beheld a fawn swimming across the river. Reu started as if to get something. "O, don't hurt it," implored Elfa, letting go V   NOACHDIE.       299 the dove, and moving toward him. "Let us catch it; poor thing. Lip, come here." The dog unwillingly obeying, got back on the bank, and turning round, whining, wagging its tail, and looking earnestly at the river.  "Sit down Elfa," said Reu, crouching on the grassy bank. Elfa complied, putting her arm round the dog, pulling it up to her, and hold- ing it tight. The next moment, some dogs plunged heavily into the stream, on the other side. The frightened fawn, only heedful of the danger in its rear, swimming swiftly across the stream, bounded up the gravelly bank, di- rectly by the side of Reu, who jumping up to catch it, it sprang sideways, and in so doing, rushed directly into the arms of Elfa, who gave a scream of joy as she clasped it to her bosom. "Go away,--pull Lip away, Reu," she ex- claimed, as the dog putting his nose excitedly against the animal, she rose quickly upon her feet, with the fawn in her arms. "How     300      NOACHDA. its heart beats! It is half frightened to death! Bring along the fish, Reu," she continued, running toward a dwelling, about a quarter of a mile distant, saying to the fawn, as the dogs were heard yelping in her rear, "They shan't have you-they shan't-they shan't!"   On the fourteenth day after this interview, in the morning, Elfa was not breakfast. Some notice was taken of it by the parents, but supposing she had gone out on a morning's ramble, as was her wont sometimes, and got belated, they thought nothing more of it; but her not ap- pearing at dinner created some alarm. Her mother then recollected that she noticed, the day previous, something strange in her manner She appeared to be absent-minded, and once she observed tears in her eyes, and a movement of her lips, as if she was talking to herself, and during the night she seemed to be restless, getting up and going to the door. The mother searched over all of what was then Nineveh, for her lost daughter; but no sooner was it   NOACHD2E.       301 generally known among the Ninevites that she had disappeared than the report at once spread that she had been abducted. The entire family of Asshur, male and female, collected round the father's dwelling, in a high state of excitement. Horses and elephants were col- lected to go in pursuit. Some young men re- ported that, just at daybreak, they had ob- served a boat moored on the other side of the stream, and as all the boats had been fastened on this side the night previous, it was at once conjectured that she had been taken over the river. On going to the river, they perceived the boat still lying on the other side, and find- ing, on examination, one of their own boats missing, and as none of the family had been over that morning, to be the occasion of its being left there, the conclusion was inevitable that the mooring of the boat, to the opposite bank, was some way connected with the dis- appearance of Elfa. As the horses and ele- phants dashed into the stream, a little brother     302      NOACHDAE. of Elfa observing Lip running about, very much excited, called out to him, "Lip, find Elfa, Lip." The dog whining, after running about for a few seconds, with his nose to the ground, suddenly darted through the crowd,; toward the river, and before the others could do so, he. sprang into it, struggling vigorously, once or twice, being nearly buried by the larger animals, who all seemed to be exerting themselves, to see who should get over first. As coon as he reached the opposite shore, after running about the boat for a moment, he then rushed down the bank, with his nose close to the ground, and every little while ut- tering a yelp. "The dog is on her tracks," shouted a hun- dred voices, and away they went, pell-mell, in pursuit. There were other dogs, which, not understanding the cause of Lip's .extravagant conduct, very much embarassed his movements by running against and throwing him down.   NOACHDAE.       303 Arius, the father of the lost girl, riding up, and administering a few blows with his javelin, they ran off yelping, in various directions, and were no more troublesome to Lip. It being late in the afternoon when they started, it soon came to be evening; but there was a bright moon, so they had no difficulty in continuing their course. A refreshing breeze also sprung up about the same time, which circulated down the valley. All night they trampled along the banks of the Tigris, keeping close behind Lip, who preserved the same speed, with his nose close to the ground. THE DISPERSION. In the meantime, Elfa, having that morning  long before daylight filled her pockets with cakes and figs, had, as was truly conjectured, crossed the river in the boat already referred to, and taken her course down the western At banks of the Tigris, impelled, as it seemed, by     304      NOACHD^E.  a mysterious impulse. All day, in the fierce heat, pursuing her way, seeking, whenever an opportunity offered, the shade of the umbrage- ous trees on the bank, occasionally muttering to herself, and sobbing, as though grieved about something. All night, strange to say, she did not seem disposed to slacken her pace, but held on her course by the light of a clear moon and the refreshing breeze that sprung up after sunset. It was strange, indeed, to see that young girl alone at midnight hurrying along, with her eyes slightly elevated toward : the sky, almost upon a run, as though driven 1 by a mysterious wind over the country of Mes- opotamia. On the following morning, she might be still seen hurrying forward with un- diminished speed. In the middle of the day, she rather inclined from the river, whether guided by tracks or some other cause we can not say. She came to some low, wet lands, where it seems the rains ordinarily collected in large ponds or lakelets, but which were now   NOACHDJE .      305 nearly dry, on account of the drought, and which would probably have been entirely so had they not been connected with the river by means of a channel, dug through its bank by the waters in former years, and which now permitted water from the river to be supplied to them only in small quantities. These ponds were now so much diminished that there were revealed to view all along their margins acres of parched and cracked earth, and Elfa, enticed by the cooling sensations of the fluid to her person, dashing, in some places up to her arms, straight through them, in others hovering along under the trees that lined or covered .the entire district. Passing these, inclining to the left, she regained the banks of the Tigris. It was very strange, but she continued on her jour- ney all the succeeding night and day and the one following that, and the next night, about one o'clock, she came to some objects which presented themselves to her imagination on the plain, in the pale light of the waning moon, in ,of'     306      NOACHDAE. a variety of confused shapes that at first some, what startled her. Slackening her pace and moving cautiously, she eyed the specter-like phantoms with a sudden determination; but coming nearer she saw they were the ruins of buildings, walls, and heaps of rubbish. Many of them, however, seemed to be almost entire. As she continued to advance, she saw some- thing within the shadow of one of the walls that looked very much like a wild animal, mov- ing slowly along, stopping, and crouching upon its belly, its eyes shining like two balls of fire. Seized with a sudden resolution, she pulled her neck-dress off, and holding it up by two of its corners, and rushing swiftly toward the creature, she fluttered it rapidly in front of her, the animal suddenly springing sideways, disappearing among the ruins. She heard two or three heavy bounds, and then all was still. But the shock seemed to alter her manner, and stopping, she looked about her like one awak- ing from a stupor or sleep, and then suddenly    NOACHIDAE.       07 running in a more natural manner, she climbed a pile of rubbish, and then, with great agility, the broken or jagged edges of a wall, along which she walked, till she came to the end of it, where she sat down, speaking to herself and looking about her to see if there was any crea- ture following her, and then pulling out some figs and cakes from her pockets, she began eat- ing them quite eagerly, and drinking out of an earthen flask which she carried by her side. The ruins finally assumed so many pokerish and fantastic shapes that, becoming nervous, she arose and passing from a jutting wall to, an ad- joining one, and from thence to the flat roof of a building, she stood for a moment looking about her; she saw a long row of roofless houses and broken walls extending in the di- rection she wished to go, fading away and mingling their outlines in the obscurity of the distance, and she felt a vague terror as she :isi thought they might be full of wild animals. Look-    ing back over the misty moonlit landscape and 7 }.?,*..     308       NqACHDaE. around her, she seemed to act as though she had better go round and not attempt to pass through the ruins, and then thinking she might be pursued by some wild animal on the open plain, she seemed resolved on remaining where she was till daylight. While she was thus con- sidering her situation, hearing a rustling, scratching noise, she looked behind her, and saw a lion crawling up a mass of ruins con- nected in some degree with the building she was on. She darted along the edge of a nar- row wall, till coming to the end of it, she leaped a chasm most dangerous, where, if she had fallen, she must inevitably have perished. She seemed to be more alarmed the more she considered her situation, for the perspiration started upon her brows, and she looked flushed with fear. She then rushed over a mingled mass of ruins, clambering up heaps of rubbish, running along walls where a single misstep might have proved fatal, she came at last against a perpendicular wall, stopping, and   NOACIIIDA.       309 looking timidly around her. There was a pile of brick lying against it, as though placed there for some purpose. Climbing this, and getting hold of the upper 'edge of the wall with her hands, she raised herself up, and get- ting her elbows on it, she clambered over, and found herself on the flat roof or floor of the upper story of a building. As she did this, putting her right-hand to her forehead, she slowly moved it there, looking shily around her. Just at that moment, she heard some low, muttering sounds. Stepping softly a little one side, she saw a man lying on the other side of - a pile of rubbish that was probably made by the crumbling down of the gable end of the building. He was a large man, with a full, round visage, the lower parts of which were covered with a voluminous beard and whisk- ers, and the hair on his head was piled over his forehead and around his ears. He had fast- ened over one shoulder and around his body what seemed a serpent's skin. He held an ia- ,      310      NOACHIflE. mense bow in his left hand, which lay across his breast, and there was a slight heaving of that part of his body, like one undergoing some mental agitation, and he seemed to-be mut- tering to himself, whether dreaming or awake she could not tell. She stepped cautiously and hastily across the open space, and looking over the wall on the other side, saw what must have been a street, when the city was in its prime, running straight through the ruins. She glanced toward the man, and as she did so she saw what was evidently a tiger. She could not distinguish it clearly, owing to the shadows of an adjoining building. It was evidently trying to balance itself on a mass of ruins, pre- paratory to making a spring over a chasm of some ten feet whiech intervened. She shrieked-; the man opened his eyes and stared at her. She pointed toward the beast; he turned his head. She, putting her hands on the wall, glided over on the outside, and letting herself down the length of her arms, dropped among   NOACHD^.       '3" the rubbish. She immediately sprung to her feet; darting along the open space, now par- tially, encumbered along the sides, with heaps of brick, she heard a sharp sound, like the twanging of a bow, and then was certain she heard an animal behind her, something like the clicking of its feet, and occasionally a jump, and without lookingJick, she rushed like a deer over the masses of ruins, where they lay in her way, without seeming to touch them. She had nearly reached the end of the street when, conscious that the animal was close to her, she rushed up a pile of rubbish, making a spring for the edge of a wall, but missing it she fell among the ruins, uttering a low, muf- fled scream as she did so, and a little dog craz- ily jumped upon her, almost smothering her with his caresses. Though slightly bruised by her fall,' Elfa, uttering a cry of joy, sprung to her feet, looking about her. "Why, Lip, is there anybody with you?" she asked, glancing back along the silent, half-     312      NOACHDIE. illuminated street, and seeing nothing but numberless ruins and weird shapes, and hear- ing confused sounds in the distance, but fear- ing to remain where she was, and observing that she was near the end of the street, going forward, she emerged from the ruins and stood upon the open plain. As she did so, she looked to the left with the double purpose of discov- ering whether there was any body in sight, and whether there were any other animals follow- ing her; but, just then, Lip growling, she turned quickly to the right, and saw, a little distance off, some tents, and a man advancing, hesitatingly, toward her. He was not more than seven or eight rods distant, and she in- stinctively turned and fled; then the thought occurring to her that his appearance might be connected with that of Lip, she stopped, look- ing back; the man, advancing a few paces, had also stopped, and seemed to be observing her, as though doubtful as to what it was that he was looking at.   NOACHDAE.       313 "Lip," she exclaimed, tortured with doubt, who is it? Go and see who it is?" at the same time pointing toward the man who was now again slowly approaching. The dog, growling, ran toward him, as though with hostile inten- tions, but almost immediately after changing his manner, went up to him, giving the usual manifestations of friendship. Instantly a feel- ing of security filled the heart of Elfa, and she remained standing; the man, as if impelled By a sudden conviction, rushing up to her; standing for a moment, he gazed on her as if doubtful of the correctness of his vision. Elfa returned' his gaze timidly at first, and then, with a sudden flash of light in her countenance, springing forward, she sunk in his arms. She did not faint, for young women did not do those things in those days, but it was intense {-  satisfaction at the thought of having a pro- i  tector that filled her bosom. "In the name of all that is celestial, how " re l 5                   !   '     314      NOACIIIDE. came you here, Elfa? or am I in some pleasing, perplexing dream?" "I think you are," replied Elfa; "O, I have had such a. dream myself, such a strange, pain- ful, distressing dream! I dreamed, Reu--I dreamed that you were never coming back, and that I run and I runL-O, I know not how long and how far!-it seems to me it was thousands of miles-years and years, -and I thought if I followed a certain star, I should surely find you-and it was so hot during the day. and so refreshing at night, and so night after night -it seems to me it was a million of nights-I followed that star!" she raised her head, looking toward the south, "there it is- that is it," she said, pointing gently toward the sky; then letting her head fall again on his breast she continued, "and I have found you. Why didn't you come back?" "The Almighty have mercy on us!" ejacu- lated the young-man aloud. "What means   NOACHDXE.      315 this? If this is you, Elfa, what makes you talk so?" "Why didn't you come home?" again mur- mured Elfa. "I was coming in a few days,-we came out here on a hunt with Orion. Why, Elfa!" look- ing about him as he spoke; "here, alone, at this hour-it can not be!" "Yes, and I am so tired. Let us go home." "Why, Elfa, if indeed my poor head is not changed into somebody else's head, - if it is really you," he said, studying her now placid countenance, as if to satisfy himself, that what he saw was really flesh and blood. "I won- der," he continued, as if soliloquizing, "if a man can dream and- have it real. I was stand- ing by the tent to guard'against the approach " of any wild animal. Is it possible that I fell asleep and am now dreaming? Elfa," he added earnestly, "if you are really Elfa, tell me so, and if it is really you, how came you here? Did any body come with you? Is that Lip--is XI   XI        316      NOACH1DSE. that a dog?" he added, poking that animal with his foot. Lip was putting his fore-paws upon her and wagging his tail. "I don't know whether it's me or not," murmured Elfa. "But if we are dreaming, is it not strange that you should dream just as I do? Now, Reu, if we are dreaming, either you dream just as I do, or else I dream that you dream just as I do. You dream that Lip is here, and I dream, that Lip is here. Is not that strange? Well," she added, with a low sigh, after a moment's pause, "if it-is a dream, it is as good as real. Come, are you not coming home with me?" "The Almighty help me!" ejaculated Reu; "why, we can't go home directly. Why, you have hurt your arm, Elfa?" "O," aspirated the other, "I was chased by such dreadful creatures?" Reu took hold of her, and holding her off, at arms' length, contemplated her, while his , .e   NOACHiDE.       317 countenance seemed internally agitated. Sud- denly Elfa started, "Come, Reu, come let us go! I can not stay here.5' "Why, Elfa," said the young man, partially recovering his composure, "as it seems to be you--but how strange!"  He bethought him- self a moment, and then shaking his head, and muttering to himself. "That won't do," he added aloud; "wait here,-I 'll come to you presently." "Don't leave me," exclaimed the other, im- ploringly, starting toward him. "I must, Elfa, for a short time. I will not be two minutes. I have a horse-Just by the tents; I will go and get it. I will be but a moment."  He started toward the tents. Elfa walked along slowly.  In a few moments she heard horses' hoofs, and stopping, turned softly round.  Reu sprang to the ground, and lifting her on the horse's back, he got on behind her, and away he  galloped over the moonlit plain, Lip running and trying to keep up.     318      NOACHDAE . ' I think there is another hunting party near by," he remarked; "I heard voices and horses' feet, as I left the tent." "I think they must be following us," said Elfa, suddenly; "I hear something." Reu, hearing a distant, heavy, trampling sound, turned himself about, but was not cer- tain that he saw any thing. "Lip can't keep up, Reu," said Elfa. Stopping, he sprung to the ground, and, waiting until the dog came up, which was not more than a few seconds, took him up and put him in Elfa's arms; stopping for a single mo- ment, he looked back, and thought he saw misty, shadowy forms, and heard a heavy thumping sound, and quickly mounting his horse, he started on again with all speed. "I should not like to be overtaken by them," said Elfa; "they may be some of the giants. Lip is all covered with stuff," she added, pull- ing off something from his hair, holding it out and letting it drop, and then she put her   NOACH[IDJ        819 '.   llhead down, examining him -closely; "he looks as though he had been in the water," she con- tinued carelessly. As they went on, Elfa remarke'd, "What a strange cloud! see, Reu!" she exclaimed, turn- ing her head, "here, right before us." "Why strange?" inquired Reu, carelessly. "Its edges are so regular," returned Elfa, "Looking as though they were cut with a knife, and then widening as they descend. I never saw a cloud shaped that way bpfore, and then not moving like the other clouds around it, but remaining as though fixed in the sky. Why how strange it is?" "Why, Elfa, that is the tower! exclaimed Reu, excitedly. "Is it?" said Elfa, earnestly; "is it so high as that?" and then, after a moment's pause, adding, "I thought we were going home. I don't wish to go there, Reu." "Do n't you wish to see the tower?"  "Yes, but I don't wan't to go there."     320      NOACHDAE. "Why, Noah is there, with a good many of your people. I shall take you to one of his tents, and to-morrow we will go up the tower. It will make your head turn round, and you can see ever so far!" This seemed to satisfy Elfa, and they went on, she commenting on the appearance of the tower with increasing interest. At first they saw only the upper part of it, rising like a sugar-loaf against the clear starlit sky, and as they advanced, the lower part of it gradually revealed itself through the gloom that obscured the horizon, disclosing mistily all its cumbrous heavy outlines. Elfa kept watching it with a vague wonder, till she saw the bottom of it resting upon the plain. "What a monstrous thng it is!" she observed. Reu turning his horses' head, after passing what was evidently a large field of barley, pre- senting even in the moonlight a withered, blasted appearance, and then a number of tents; he turned to the left, and galloping over   NOACHIDA.       3t" an open space, stopped before some twenty tents, where quite a number of horses and ele- phants were tethered. Among the latter was a large white one, which they immediately re- cognized as Noah's. There was a particular tent that Reu informed Elfa was occupied ex- clusively by young women. So dismounting and making her way to it, she lifted a side curtain, quietly disappearing within, while Reu, tying his horse to a palm-tree, which was standing near, stretched himself upon the ground, making a pillow of a large sheep-skin, which, fasfened to the horse's back, was used as a sort of saddle, and soon fell asleep. A little before daylight, being waked by loud and rapid talking, he looked up, and see- ing a cluster of men in front of Noah's tent, en- gaged in earnest conversation, he arose and went toward them.  They were telling him that a large party, headed by Nin and Arius, from Nineveh, had come in search of a girl, who, they alleged, had been carried away by     822      NOACHDIE. some one of their people, and there was danger of trouble. The whole town was in an uproar. No one seemed to know any thing about the girl, and the Asshurians were perfectly frantic. They were going to examine the tower, to see if she was not confined there. They had with them a hunting party of Nimrod, which they had found at Sippara, and which they charged with being connected with her disappearance, as they had followed her footsteps, by means of a little dog, to the ruins of Sippara, and there encountering Nimrod and his party, they had just got a glimpse, as they affirmed, of one of the Hamites riding off with a female, and one of the latter had even admitted that a young man belonging to their party had sud- denly gone off on horseback, but that he was not a Hamite or Magogite, but an Arphaxadite, belonging to those who were there on a visit; but they knew nothing of any girl. Nimrod, on being questioned, replied so strangely, that they took it as an evasion. He answered in his   NOACHDIE.       323 usual, heavy, gutural tone "that he had not seen a girl, but that he had seen something better,- he had seen an angel." They en- treated him to go and quiet them, and compel the Hamites to deliver up the girl, if they had her in their possession. "She is in that tent," exclaimed Reu, "and a very strange thing it is, how she ever got from Nineveh. I brought her from Sippara myself," and then running to his horse, which he hastily mounted, he galloped toward the city, followed by the others. As he approached he saw a large concourse of people gathered between the tower and the houses, and a number of horsemen and men on elephants pressing their way toward the tower, and men, women, and children running from a distance toward the focus of noise and confusion. Nin and Arius were in front of this crowd, brandishing their javelins, and very much excited. A large body of Magogites--giants, with their arms and chests bare Xith short dresses round '^t, f 1,     324      NOACHDE. their waists-- with sandals on their feet- with spears, in their hands and short hunting and harvesting knives in their girdles, were collect- ed together, and although saying nothing, they showed by their looks and actions that they were ready for anylemergency. One fellow- what could have beenlhis motive except that' of mischief?--called out aloud, "Yes, she's here, but you can't have her, though!"Arius dashed forward, and was just in the act of aiming a blow with his javelin at the man, when Reu came galloping up, crying out, "Elfa is safe - she is with Noah -what doest thou? ' "Let me see her," cried Arius, wheeling suddenly round; and just at that moment the rising sun shot his sultry and red beams full in their faces. Nimrod passed with a dead tiger on his back toward the tower, followed by a crowd of young people, with loud cries. "Young man," said Arius, looking at Reu with a change of manner and some little sterr.   NOACHMiE.       a2 "She is with Noah,---she is safe." The company instantly wheeled in the direc- tion of Noah's tent, meeting, almost immediate- ly after, the patriarch himself, approaching on his large white elephant. Arius, as he passed, saluted him by bowing . low upon, his saddle, while a large part of those who were with him, among whom was Nin, stopping, related to him the particulars of the errand upon which they had come. ASrius pushed straight toward Noah's encampment, and was soon surrounded by a bevy, of females. "Where's my daughter?" he asked. "There in the tent, all safe," replied several a of the women, with smiles. "Don't wake her, she seems so fatigued." Arius, relaxing  his excited manner, dis- mounted, and going to the tent referred to, he removed .aside the hanging, and" there lay Elfa, snug up in one side of it, sound asleep, her face flushed, burnt, yet placid as a child's, and Lip lying by her, with his four little lefa,     326      NOACHDAE. head, and neck stretched out horizontally; he seemed to be dreaming, for as the father pulled away the curtain, he gave a yelp, trembling all over, as though internally agitated. "Do n't wake her," said several women, pressing forward. Arius drew back with a grave look, saying, ' How came her here?" and turning round, his eyes falling on Reu, who had followed him to the spot, he kept them there, as though he half suspected he might furnish some clue to the mystery. "It's very strange," said that young man, slightly disconcerted; "all I know about it is that, being at Sippara with a hunting party, while standing on guard by the tents, for the ruins are full of wild animals, last night, during the second watch, I saw something come out of them that surprised me exceedingly. I could not tell whether it was a female or an ;  angel. I advanced toward it; it ran from me; I followed it a few steps, then stopped per- i    NOACHDA!E.       327 plexed beyond measure. I was half afraid it mighthe Satan in the guise of an angel.-" "Well, well, it was Elfa, was it?" exclaimed Arius, impatiently. "It seems so, or at -least some one that very much resembles her," replied the young man, with a distressed look. "It was she that is in the tent there, but her language is so strange." "How singular!" exclaimed several of-the females, looking grave and anxious. "And how came her in our tent?" they continued; "we found her there, when we waked this morn- ing."               - "I brought her from   Sippara,?' returned ' Reu. "Has any of your party been to Nineveh?" inquired Arius. "Not that I know of," answered Reu. "This -is very strange," excl amed Arius, turning round abruptly. "I must have an ex- planation of this mystery," and removing the. hanging, he put his hand upon Elfa's shoulder,     328      NOACHDA. shaking, and speaking to her. Lip continued his yelping and violent tremors. "Poor creature!" exclaimed several of the females, pressing forward; "she seems so fatigued. See how she's burnt." Elfa moved slightly. Arius shook her still harder. Drawing up her arms, she turned over, muttering to herself, then opening her eyes, they rested on her father. "O, father!" she said, her eyes growing clearer and clearer in their expression. Then raising herself on her elbow, she added, "such a dream!"  Then observing the many forms and anxious countenances of those crowding the opening of the tent, she rose up, looking quickly about her. She then looked down at Lip, contemplating him for a moment. "That is Lip; why father," she continued, looking up, "I thought I had found him, and it is only a dream!" and bursting into tears, she began to push her way through the opening "   NOACHDA.  -    329 Arius, taking hold of her, said, "Stop, daugh- ter, tell me who brought you-from Nineveh." "What!" exclaimed Elfa, in a tone: indicat- ing curiosity on her part, and a mixed emo- tion of joy and anxiety, and she struggled violently through the opening. The moment she got out, looking about her, her eyes rested on the tower. Her countenance suddenly lighted up; she glanced quickly around her and seeing Reu, a smile beamed on her beauti- ful countenance, and shrinking timidly back, she turned round, and uttering the monosylla- ble "Yes," with a low sigh, she fell into the arms of her father.  "My daughter," said Arius, earnestly, "ex- plain this perplexing riddle. How came you here? Who brought you away, unknown to your parents?" "No one," said Elfa, in a subdued tone of  voice, "I dreamed myself away, father;- I am so tired!" and withdrawing herself from his arms, she glided along, and dropping down     330      NOACHDA. between Lip and her tent, she closed her eyes, and the next moment was fast asleep. Arius turned slowly away in 'a thoughtful mood, the women making observations to one another, showing a good deal of mystification on their part. Noah approached, surrounded by a vast throng of Ninevites and Hamites. Of course, all that was known of the matter was communicated to him. He was seen and heard to remark, with a smile, that there was only one remedy for such dreaming. In the meantime, there was great excitement in the city. The entire population seemed to be gathering together A great crowd of women and men, with their weapons, were huddled in one place. Reu, with some other young men of his family, the moment the mystery of Elfa's disappearance received a so- lution, started toward the town. He heard the women say, "If you do it, father Noah will not pray for rain; and if we do not have rain pretty soon, we shall all perish."    NOACHDAE.      331 About twelve o'clock, Elfa arose, apparently much refreshed, and, partaking of some food which was prepared at that hour for the'entire company, which she seemed to enjoy very much, it was arranged 'that Reu and Elfa, to- gether with her father and the party who had accompanied him, should ascend the tower. Some of them had already done so, but they were not opposed to a second visit. They composed a party of nearly three hundred per- sons. It was about four o'clock in the after- noon when they started-after the sun had somewhat lost its power. They went up by the side of excavations, comprising several hundred acres, whence the clay was obtained for the manufacture of the brick used in the tower, some of these still lying there in the fer- vid sun. They came round on the side oppo- site the town, for the tower was square, and eight hundred feet on each side. On the side referred to there was a jog in the pile, and a passage-way leading up transversely to the top     382      NOACHID2E.  of the first story, which was about fifty feet I from the ground. The inclination was so grad- ual that horses, as well as elephants, had been used to carry up brick. The surface of the    passage-way was rendered smooth by means of  :! bitumen and gravel worked into the jogs.. On reaching the top of this story, they found them- selves on a parapet, or open, level space, some thirty-three and a half feet wide. Passing round the structure, on each side was an opening, admitting into an apartment in the interior of , the tower, having very much the appearance of a cavern or dungeon to those outside. Yet they were filled with young men--Nimrod's hunting parties,-who made these rooms their  1 resort, seeking protection there from the fervid t? heat of the sun, lying on their backs, sound asleep. They ascended some twenty stories, each  one diminishing slightly in height, and the es- K planades around each also diminishing several ? feet in width. The top was over a hundred      NOACHD2E .      333 feet square, in the center of which was an ele. vated quadrangular -structure, composed of brick, and two feet high, and the charred brands and rashes scattered over its surface showed that it had been used for a fire. The view from it was quite bewildering to the young people. "Away down, down, 'was the city, consisting of about a thousand houses, built mostly along the river, and numerous tents in the neighborhood,- appearing like flocks of geese, and' the groves and the clumps of trees diversifying the landscape, and affording a shade to the poor, half-exhausted herds and flocks, which, lay reposing under their     X shriveled branches,-looking like mites or rats, so diminished were they in. size; and the few persons that could be seen moving from house to - house- appearing like mere specks on the earth's surface. But away along,-like a ribbon of melted silver, bent, and twisted -over the illimitable plain, reaching from the north and -west and extending: to the south-east, the two     334      NOACHDYE. extremities disappearing in the indistinctness of the distance, was the beautiful river Eu- phrates. In the west, the sun was sinking slowly and magnificently toward the horizon, burning full in their faces, smoky-red, and a large bird, of some kind, but appearing no big- ger than an insect, was slowly ascending and descending over the shining river. No other birds were visible; but down near the houses, on one side, was a large, dark mass that rested on the surface of the plain like a patch of black cloth, and mighthave been taken for that, did it not occasionally alter its shape and out- line. The company enjoyed the scene very much, a low, murmuring sound occasionally being heard from some one making a remark. Elfa, pulling Reu along, pointed out to him Noah's tent, down on- the north side. The wo- men, looking flushed and animated with the exercise of mounting, after some little time, turned round, commenting on the structure in the center of the open space, and the purposes   NOACHDJA.    '   335 to which-it was applied. They then began slowly to descend. Elfa and Reu lingered. The sun was nearly down; the party had all left, and still they lifrgered. "How magnificent it is up here!" remarked Elfa. "Who could believe that such a mass as this could ever have been piled up by human ' hands. I feel as though it was almost wicked to be here; but it is so novel to be-up so high. If we had wings, how beautifully we could fly over all that plain toward the sunsetting; or back," she added, turning her face to the north, "to Nineveh. How very strange that I should have traveled alone and onr foot so far, over all that country," she continued, casting her eyes down, thoughtfully. She then start- ed, suddenly exclaiming, "Come, let us go!" and turning round, "Do you see that?" she asked, "Do you understand that, Reu?" what wickedness!" Just as they were on the point of leaving the top of the tower, a man's head appeared     336      NOACHDAE. on the passage-way, and, the next moment, Nimrod came into full view, leading a horse, followed by a large company, those behind pushing and aiding the animal in its passage to the summit, which it very much needed, for the way steepened as they ascended; others brought wood. Reu and Elfa were obliged to retreat, the latter whispering to her compan- ion, "He is coming up to do wickedness. Oh, let us get down as quickly as possible!" On reaching the summit, the crowd disposed themselves round the central structure. Elfa twitched Reu, urging him to leave; but he wanted to see the performance. "Come!" said Elfa, "let us not stay here." "Wait, Elfa; let us see them. They won't be long," he answered. "Why, Reu, they are going to sacrifice to the sun that horse, evidently, .though that is something new. Come, I ca Fot stayhere; I shall leave yo,u,!" ant she Started from him, and Reu reluctantly followed her.  They   NOACHDIA.        337 reached the story below, and the latter's curi- osity getting the better of his resolution, he. stopped. "Elfa, you go down; you'll overtake your people, and I'll come presently. I should like to witness this performance."          "He is going to offer, as a sacrifice to the sun, that horse," said Elfa, scornfully. "Now what do you want to stay and see that for?" "It is only curiosity, Elfa; I don't believe in it." "If your curiosity is so much greater than your respect for the Almighty, I am afraid it isn't worth much." "Psha! Elfa, this is only the first time-" "There, they are killing the animal. Come, come!'" and she pulled him by the arm. "You wait here, Elfa. I want to go up for a single moment;" and, half forcing himself from her, he went up the passage-way, pushing into the crowd. He remained till the ceremo- ny was over, and then returning, he, together I 5     338      NOACHDIE. with Elfa, passed down the tower; and he was soon followed by the entire crowd. The sun had sunk behind the western hori- zon. The smoke was still rising from the idol- atrous sacrifice. Nimrod lay extended at full length on the cemented brick floor on the top of the tower, with his arms akimbo under his head, and a large woman standing by his side. "Mother," he said, closing his eyes, "I saw something, last night." "What was it, my son?"  "An angel!" returned the other, his coun- tenance beaming with satisfaction. "Ah!" replied the woman, quickly, and, kneeling by his side and lifting her right fin- ger, she looked earnestly in his face, at the same time lowering her voice to an eager, fa- miliar tone, "and what did it say to you?" "Nothing, mother.  It came-it disap- peared. A tiger was going to leap on me in my sleep; it came and waked me, and then vanished. It saved my life, mother." And,   NOACHDAE.      339 rising slowly to his feet, and elevating his gi- gantic form to its utmost, he walked backwaird and forward, like one exalted in his own opin- ion. "Am I not great?-am I not something in the Almighty's balances?" "Son," said the woman, coming close up to him, seeming to partake of his egotism, and speaking in a low, earnest tone of voice, at the same time glancing around her, as though half afraid of being overheard, "do you know what I, your mother, have long thought, but have never breathed it to any living soul," and again she looked around her. Nimrod's heavy features lighted up, full of curiosity and inquis- itiveness. "Ugh!" he uttered, grumly. "That you are the promised seed! Hist!" she contin- ued, laying the fore-finger of her right-hand on his breast, as he reiterated his ejaculation, and his large eyes suddenly beamed with lurid light, which spread itself slowly over his heavy visage like moonlight over a nocturnal bog. Mag drew back; Nimrod turned slowly his I;     340      NOACHJ)E. head; Noah stood on the summit, his eyes rest- ing% on the smoking altar. The former turned away- his eyes, remaining silent. "What is this, my son?" inquired the patri- arch, as he gazed at the confused remains of Nimrod's sacrifice. "I offer honorary sacrifices to the sun," re- turned Nimrod, bluffly. "Honorary!" repeated Noah. "Father," continued Nimrod, boldly, is not the sun king of day; does he not rule the heavens?" "Yes, my son, he rules the day." "And is he not the Almighty's minister?" continued the other, with dogged resolution. "He is, and the Almighty's creature," re- plied Noah, gravely.         & "I reverence and do honor to the Almighty's minister and creature," returned Nimrod, ob- stinately, "that he may withdraw his heat from us, and that we perish not.*- *I draw this from Maimonides, the great Hebrew writer and scholl   NOACIDA.              341 "You render to the Creature the homage which belongs to the creator; it is idolatry, my son,"  returned Noah, sternly regarding Nim- rod. The latter stood apparently slightly abashed by the dignified gaze of the patriarch. The latter continued, "You honor your Al- mighty by asking him to feast -on horses. suppose you deny yourself the pleasure of joining with him in such a repast." "Our bullocks are disappearing; we shall perish for want of food," said Nimrod, in a low, grum tone of voice. "Stop! you forget. Can you not ask the sun ar, who flourished some seven hundred years ag---12th century. In his work on idolatry, he says: "In the days of Enos, the son of Seth, men fell into grievous errors, and even Enos himself partook of their infatuation. Their language was that, since God had placed on high the heavenly bodies, and used them as his ministers, it was 1 evidently his will that they should receive from men the same vene- ration as the servants of a great prince justly claim from the subject multitude." We suppose Nimrod to revive the superstition, with the same arguments. Sanchoniathon, a most ancient Phoenician historian, who flourished in the time of Gideon, also says: "Of Pro- togenus and Aeon were born two children, called Genus and Genea, who dwelt in Phoenicia, and, in time of a drought, prayed to the sun, and worshiped him as the only God and Lord of heaven." See Co- ry's Fragments: also, Jackson's CAro., iii, 13.     342      NOACHDE. for more, and will he not give them to you?" returned Noah, with a grave look of apparent astonishment. Then approaching Nimrod, he took him by the arm and led him to the edge of the tower. "Look around you, my son," he continued, keeping hold of him with his left hand, and moving his right slowly before him, with the palm outward. "All that you see is the work of the Almighty's hands,-the earth, the stars, the moon, the sun, worship not these, but him who made them." Nimrod raised slowly his head. "I worship the Almighty through these," he answered, slightly recovering himself. "Who revealed this to you?" asked the other, in a severe tone of voice; "Satan is making a speculation out of your conceit, my son." "I honor his works, and in that way honor him, replied Nimrod; "can he be displeased with that? I wish to please him." "Then come directly to him, my son, with a   I-     NOACHDM.       343 lowly heart and with your sacrifices; and; re- member, your honor is not needful to him. We worship not for the purpose merely of rendering him honor, but of securing immor- tality for ourselves. He can dispense with your respect; can you dispense with eternal life? You had better see to that. Besides, my son, honor coming from a carnal hature is of- fensive to him; knowest thou that my son?" "Ugh!" ejaculated Nimrod, raising his eyes slightly. "Do you understand, me my son? Why come you not directly to him with your sacri- fices with a lowly heart?" ' Nimrod's heavy features gradually darkened, and then working his shoulders, and struggling, apparently with internal emotions, he convul- sively muttered, "Something won't let me!" Noah felt a hand laid lightly on his arm, and turning round, his eyes rested on the mother of Nimrod, who, coming up softly behind him,     344      NOACHDA. had a most singular expression of countenance, her eyes cast down, but having in them a strange, murky light. She said, in a low voice, "Father, who is the promised seed?" Noah regarded her for a moment gravely and inquisitively. "Daughter, the Almighty will see to that," he then replied, sternly. "Father, my son is the promised seed," con- tinued the woman, keeping her eyes cast down, and speaking with a strange calmness. Noah, drawing slowly back, regarded the speaker with intense scrutiny; then turning away, he walked across the bituminous flooring, putting his hand  to his forehead; then wheeling round, and fixing on the woman a searching gaze for a few seconds, he walked toward the passage-way, keeping his eyes on her all the while. r'Woman!" he exclaimed, in a voice of thunder, and dashed down the inclined plane, like a man rushing from a pestilence. On the following day, in the afternoon, Noah sacrificed a bullock on the plain, near the   NOAOHDA. 34 tower, before the assembled -Hamites and others present. After the ceremony was over, he addressed them briefly: "My children, I leave you this afternoon. I go to visit Shem, toward the setting sun: It grieves me to see you suffering so for the want of rain.. You are very much afflicted;: but how can fa' expect to receive good things, from your heavenly father, when such wicked- ness is practiced in your midst? I fear some worse calamity will befall you. Ham!"'-he ex- claimed, raising his voice "all!-remember the covenant." Loud talking and confused sounds were heard among the multitude. Noah knelt, and fixing his eyes on the heavens, kept them there for some time, without uttering a sylla- ble; then he spoke, bowing  his head, as if struggling with the atmosphere around him. "Help! Father, help! give, if thou pleasest, -rin to these, my poor, misguided children." A clap of thunder resounded through the     S46      NOACHDXE. heavens. Noah rose to his feet, looking hasti- ly around him. "Haste! away! away!" he exclaimed, wav- ing his arms in the air, and rushing to his tents, his face having the appearance of grief, which astonished all. But his manner seemed to have a strange, magnetic influence upon those who accompanied him. Hurrying to their tents, in a strange, wild disorder, mounting their horses, Noah, accompanied by a select party, dashed down to the Euphrates, exclaiming to the oth- ers as he did. so, and motioning his hand to- ward them. "Away!- away!  Back to your homes! To Nineveh and Araxea with you!"He crossed the river and quickly disappeared on-he plain beyond. The women, seized with a vague terror, hustled forward their little arrange- ments, and, mounting their elephants, started off, each without waiting for her neighbor. Most of the elephants that had been used to   NOACHDiE.       347 bring provisions were taken back light-handed, so one of these was allotted to Reu and Elfa." "Reu, give me Lip," the latter exclaimed, as the'dog sat and looked up at her, all on the alert, as if he expected to be assisted. Reu tossed the dog up to her. "Wait," said he, " till I get my bow." "Quick, Reu, they are all going. Dear me! what a noise those people make! Why, what is going to happen!" she exclaimed, jumping up and fidgeting about in her place,.without knowing why herself. Her father, mounted on a large bay horse,- galloped off, motioning them away. Reu came running up. "Get up!--get up! perhaps \there is anoth- er flood coming!"exclaimed Elfa. "The sky is as black as night."            / Reu mounted his elephant, and, as he did so, saw men, .women, and children, near the city, rushing to and' fro, in wild confusion. They started, but had not gone more than half a mile before the clouds and sky in the north-east /*f, .     348       NOACHD AE. v  assumed such an extraordinary appearance that they all stopped to look at it. They were dis- tributed at various intervals, ranging for nearly half a mile on the plain; but they entirely lost sight of themselves in the sublimity of the ap- pearance that now presented itself in the heav- ens. The eastern sky was completely over- shadowed with clense, inky-black clouds, but they were strangely blended, and there was a mysterious white mist or vapor scintillating over its surface. As the blackness approached, however, the upper portions of it seemed flur- ried, slowly assuming the appearance of rolling in great mountain  billows, one above the other; but what most astonished them, was a column of phosphorescent light, the top curving out bell-shaped, and the lower tapering like an elephant's trunk, swinging in the heavens, and , approaching   the tower, accompanied with crackling noises and reports, like that of artil- lery and the rattle of musketry on the plains of Austerlitz; it swiftly enveloped the tower. '1     w   Ssaygs:        NOACHDA.       349 "Mercy!" exclaimed Elfa, as she and her com- panion stood looking at the structure, as it was buried in the clouds. "There are some persons on top of the tower; I saw them!" At the same time a heavy, crushing, rumbling roar was heard, as though ten thousand thun- ders had uttered their voices, and the upper portion of the mighty structure fell to the plain, shaking the earth for miles around, fol- lowed by terrific. lightning, peals of thunder, and a tempest of wind and rain, confounding all objects and reducing things, there in that place back apparently to original chaos. The horses, throwing back their ears, and the ele- phants having an ugly expression about their heads, spontaneously sprung forward, as the wind and rain crashed around them. In a few hours the storm passed over, and there was a glimmering rainbow  among the clouds, and they encamped for the night. In the morning, with eager curiosity, they gal- lopped back toward the city. They soon came    850      NOACHDAE. in sight of it, and stopped. Not a soul was to be seen. A deathke stillness reigned there. The entire upper part of the tower, all but eight stories, lay piled in one prom- iscuous ruin in the open space between those and the city, and scattered bricks flung in every direction at immense dis- tances. Dead horses, cattle, and elephants lay strewed about. They stopped, gazing in dead silence, at first hesitating whether to advance. Finally; it was whispered at first, then mur- mured from one to another, "Nimrod is kill- ed!"Elfa looked at Reu, with pallor in her cheeks. "Did you hear that, Reu? The Almighty has killed Nimrod." "How know they that?" "He retired to his room in the lower part of the tower, and went to sleep, and would not come out at the sacrifice, and must be buried up," continued Elfa.    They then went slowly toward the city. The walls of some of the houses were blown down; but not a soul was to be seen. Various arti- cles-household utensils, agricultural imple- ments, and even garments--lay scattered about. They explored the ruins as far as the river. A cow stood on the opposite  bank, looking at them  with  a good-natured expres- sion; but the boats were all on the other side. A vague terror and horror then seized the par- ty; and, hastily turning from the awful scene, they rode hurriedly toward Nineveh.* *The Babylonians preserved memorials of this overthrow of the tower, and the dispersion; and a daughter of Berosus, who was priest of Belus, at Babylon, two hundred and sixty-eig!ht years before Christ, turned this account into verses, which are known as the ' Sib- ylline verses." It is a curious and a most valuable record of this ex- traordinary event. We will, for the benefit of those who have not time to investigate the subject, inform them that Alexander Polyhis- tor, (Apud. Cyril. Alex. Cont. Jul., lib. 1, p. 9,) a historian, who flourished about ninety years before Christ, refers to these Sibylline leaves, andJosephus, after him, (see his Antiq, Jud., lib. 1, c. 4,) does the same,. and many writers since, such as Syncellus, p. 44. Abyde- nus, quoting the Babylonian records, says, "The Gods overthrew the tower where Babylon was, with a wind." Moses Chorenansi0, a cele- brated ancient Armenian geographer, quoting Maribus Catinensis, gives a like relation. (See his Hist. of Armenia, lib. 1, c. 8, p. 24.) The Sibyl is also cited by Theophilus, the ancient bishop of Antioch,   352          NOACHD^. Ham, Mizraim, with his daughter, Ceres, and seven sons-Lud, Anam; Lehab, Naphtuh, Casluh, Pathrus, Caphtor,--Casluh's son, Phil- ist, Canaan, with his eleven sons -     Sidon, Heth, Jebusi, Amori, Girgash, Hamath, Hivaeus, Ark, Sin, Arvad, Zemar,-Magog, with his fami- lies-Gog, Repha, Em, Zuz, Ceeus, mostly          in- termarried with Canaan's and Mizraim's daugh- ters,-all fled westward, toward the country (Ad Autolyc, lib. 2, p. 107.) She is mentioned by Pausanias, in Phoc., p. 828, and by Suidas. The verses have been preserved to us in Gallaen's edition of the Sibylline Oracles, pp. 336-844. That portion of them referring to the tower is as follows: "But when the judgments of the Almighty God Were ripe for execution; when the tower Rose to the skies, upon Assyria's plain, And all mankind one language only knew, A dread commission from on high was given To the fell whirlwinds, which, with dire alarm, Beat on the tower, and to its lowest base, Shook it, convulsed. And now, all intercourse, By some occult and overruling power, Ceased among men. By utterance they strove, Perplexed and anxious to disclose their mind; But their lip failed them; and, in lieu of words, Produced a painful, babbling sound; the place Was, hence, called Babel, by the apostate crew Named from the event. Then, severed, far away They sped, uncertain, into realms unknown: Thus kingdoms rose, and the glad world was filled."   NOACHDA.             353 explored by  Mizraim, on their, first  arrival at Shinar, and which they reported to be beautiful and fertile, -all except Turc, of this family: he fled eastward and northward, and afterward appears on the north side of the Paropamisus, and founds the Scythian or Turk- ish nation. Canaan settled the country to which he gave his name. Cush, with his families, Raamah, Seba, Sab- tah, and Sabtecah, fled southerly along the banks of the Euphrates- taking possession of the country adjoining on the north of the Per- sian gulf. One of his grand-children, Bhil,t or Bheel, * This is according to their own statements, declaring that they descend from Turc, a son of Japhet; but Sir William Jones, in his investigations into Oriental history, discovers that the Mongols, or Scythians, deduce their descent from Magog, son of Japhet. We can only reconcile this slight discrepancy by supposing that Turc was not a son but grandson of Japhet, and son of Magog, as his name is not found among the sons of Japhet recorded in the Scriptures, and Magog's is. 'We retain the Sanscrit aspirate to this name, although we con- fess to our occidental organs of pronunciation, it is a nusance.     354      NOACHDRM.  d with his family, fled far eastward, until he or his descendants reached the Indus, and, as we shall show hereafter, became the ancestor of the negro race. One of Lud's sons that was at Shinar, fled up the Euphrates, penetrating to the western extremity of what is now known as Asia Minor, laying the foundations of the Lydian race, subsequently so much celebrated in his- tory. That portion of A:rphaxad's family that was at Shinar fled to the countries in the neighbor- hood. These were some of the most important re- movals. We may hear of them again hereafter in subsequent volumes. On the third day, some hunters visiting Sip- para, came to look at the ruins at Shinar. As they were doing so, a man crawling out of a hole in them, and sitting down, brushed the hair back from his forehead, looking around him. It was Nimrod!   /I          BREED, BUTLER & CO.'S BREED, BUTLER & CO.'S CATALOGUE AND PRICE-LIST SCHOOL BOOKS Reading and Spelling, Having purchased of Messrs. SANBORN, CARTER, BAZIN & CO., their en- tire interest in the publication of TOWN's REVISED SERIES OF READERS SPELLERS, and ANALYSIS, we shall hereafter be the exclusive publishers of these Books, which have acquired a most extraordinary popularity, and of which fresh editions are now issued from newly stereotyped plates, and in a style of mechanical execution unsurpassed by any house in the country. The following are regarded as some of their excellencies and leading characteristics:  1. The mechanical execution is neat and attractive. The print is clear and open,; the paper of an excellent quality; and the binding strong and durable. 2. Their arrangement is natural and practical. The lessons are pro- gressive, and well adapted to the capacity of all grades of learners. 3. The elements of the language and the principles of reading, are fully and clear'y presented; but they are not so extended and complex as to become tedious and uninteresting to the learner. The selections are made with taste, alisrimination, and judgment, and are unexceptionable in respect to language, sentiment, and variety of styl, being happily adapted to improve both the heart and the intellect. We have a volume of the highest testimonials which will be forwarded with sample copies, to those who wish to examine the books with a view to their introduction.  Town's Revised Series. Retail. Town's First Reader, 3.............       . Town's Second Reader,     .  .        31 Town's Third Reader,. ..... ...      .50 Town's Grammar School Reader,. ---          63 Town's Fourth Reader,   ............ Town's Fifth-or Elocutionary Reader, . ....  00 Town  's Analysis, . ..........-  38 Town's An81ygigl                   38 Town's Speller and Definer,             13 Town's Speller and Definer, revised and enlarged,  15 (7)   M3wI :ZSCBZ-ME Ll aTEOUTTS Mustrated Biography. OR MEMOIRS OF THEE GREAT AND GOOD OF ALL NATIONS AND ALL TIMES. Comprising Sketches of Eminent Statesmen, Heroes, Philosophers, Artists, Reform- ,rs, Divines, Poets, Philanthropists, Mechanics, Navigators, Authors, Soldiers, &c., embossed Morocco. By Charles C. Savage, author of "(The World, Geographical, Historical and Statistical." Embellished with an Illuminated Frontispiece, and 250 engravings; one of the best Subscription Books ever presented to the American pub- lic. Price $2.50. The Life of Christ. Containing a full and accurate History, from his taking upon himself our nature, to his Crucifixion, Resurrection and Ascension, together with the Lives, Transactions and Sufferings of his Evangelists, Apostles, and other Primitive Martyrs. By Rev. John Fleetwood, D. D., 8vo., embossed Morocco. Price $2.50. The same, 8vo., lib. shp. $3.00. The same, 8vo., cloth, full gilt sides. $3.00. The same, 8vo., cloth, full gilt sides and edges. $4.00. Watson's Life of Wesley. 12mo., new edition, with Hymns. Life of Rev. John Wesley, A. M., founder of the Methodist Societies. By Richard Watson. With a Portrait; 328 pages, cloth, gilt., Price $1.25. The present Memoir is prepared with special reference to general readers, by the omission of details purely denominational. The same, cloth, full gilt. $2.00. Life of Joseph Brant, the Indian Warrior, Including the Border Wars of the American Revolution, and Sketches of the Indian Campaigns of Generals Harmer, St. Clair, and Wayne. By William L. Stone. lWith 8 portraits and other engravings, 2 vols., eighth ed., cloth, extra. $4.50 The same, lib., sheep. $5.00. "I A rich and productive mine of facts. This extensive and important work inclundee matters connected with the Indian relations of the United States and Great Britain, which are invaluable in their bearing upon our past and present relations with that nation. It is replete with entertainment and instruction, and entitled to a y lace fn every well stored library."-- . S. Magazine d! Democratic Review.   Young's First Lessons in Civil Government, NEW REVISED EDITION.-Including a Comprehensive View of the Government of the State of New York, and an Abstract of the Laws, showing the Rights, Duties and Responsibilities of Citizens, in the Civil and Domestic Relations, with an Outline of the Government of the United States. 75 cents. Hedge's Logic. Elements of Logic, or a Summary of the General Principles and Different Modes of Reasoning; by Levi Hedge, LL. D., late Prof. of Natural Religion, Moral Philosophy, and Civil Polity, in Harvard University. Prof. Hedge made his Logic after twenty years' experience in teaching the science, to form a system adapted to the improved state of intellectual philosophy. The present edition is from new stereotype plates. 12mo., 50 cents. Jane Taylor's Physiology, For Children; with Illustrations and Vocabulary. The besa Primary Physiology in use. 25 cents. Weld's New English Grammar, Illustrated by Exercises in Composition; Analyzing and Parsing; by A. H. Weld 12mo. 50 cents. Weld's Parsing      Book, 50th edition, half bound; containing Rules of Syntax, and Models for Analyzing and Transposing, together with selections in Prose and Poetry, from writers of stand- ard authority; by Allen H. Weld, A. M. i3 cents. Hale's United      States, A  Premium History of the United States, from their first settlement as Colonies, to the close of Tyler's administration in 1845. To which are added eight new maps, and Questions, adapted to the use of Schools; revised and corrected; 12mo., embossed back, 325 pages. 45 cents. Marvin's Intellectual Arithmetic, For American Youth;    on the Analytic Method. An  entirelynewwork;  18ma 25 cents . Phinney &      Co.'s Produce Tables, Showing the value of any number of bushels, and fractional parts of a bushel, in pounds, at a  varying price of one cent, from twenty-five cents to two dollars pia bushel, in decimal currency; to which is annexed a    new and complete Interest Tab. by Peregrine White, Civil Engineer. 12mo., cloth. Price $1.25. Pocket Interest    Tables, 6    and 7 per cent., 42mo. 6 cents.     T'he Irving Gift, Being Choice Gems from the writifigs of Washington Irving; with illuninatel frontispiece, title, and 6 illustrations, by Darley; 270 pages large 18mo., cloth. $1.25. The same, marbled edge, full gilt sides. $1.50. The same, gilt edges and sides. $1.75. An elegant Gift Book for any season. This entertaining volume contains the favors ite shorter pieces, entire, of this most distinguished author, a portion of which are not found in the other published works. The National Minstrel, A choice collection of National, Patriotic, Naval, Sentimental Love, Comic an Ethiopian Songs. Including selections from the best public singers. Nothing indel icate or profane being admitted, this book will be appropriate for all. 32mo., cloth 25 cents. The Casket of Juveniles, 16mo., blue and scarlet cloth, gilt; per set, $2.00. Comprising the following books: Leonard Barton, the Blind Boy, 2. Emily and Clara's Trip to Niagara Falls  The hMay Day Ramble.     4. The Burning Village.  h3 Book of Animals.       6. The Book of Biids. 1'he same. paper cover, per set, $1.00. The same, half bound, per set, $1.25. T'oy  Bibles, 24 cuts, embossed; 10 cents. The same, mor., gilt edges. 15 cents. A miniature Bible for children Testament, 48mo., 4 steel plates, tuck, gilt edges. 50 cents. The same, 32mo., cloth. 13 cents. 3ayings of the Little Ones, And Poems for their Mothers; by Mrs. L. H. Sigourney. Small 12mo., cloth, gilt 75 cents. he same, gilt sides and edges. $1.25. United States Primer. This contains the Westminster Catechismll and all the Old." New Eng luld P'riler Square; 6 cents. One Cent Toys, 12 kinds.   Botta's History of the American Revolution, Translated by George Alexander Otis, Esq., with steel portraits of the author, Washington, Jefferson and Franklin, autograph letters from Presidents Jefferson and Madison, and other, engravings; nearly 1,000 pages, 8vo., cloth, 2 vols. in one. $3.00. The same, lib. sheep. $3.25. Among the distinguished participants in the events narrated, the venerable John Adams recorded his testimony in favor of the work, as follows:. "It is the most class- ical and methodical, the most peculiar and circumstantial, the most entertaining and interesting narrative of the American War that I have seen." And Mr. Jefferson, af- ter commending the truth and superiority of the work, says: "When it is better known, it will be the common manual of our Revolutionary History." "It is a little singular," says the editor of the Eclectic Magazine, in 1852, that with all that has been written about our Revolution, its completest and most graphic delineations is still to be found in this History of the Italian Botta. * * $ No American history, Hildreth included, at all equals in breadth of handling, vigor of description, and philosophic candor, this work." Kossuth and His Generals, Or   With a Brief History of Hungary; Select Speeches of Kossith, &c. By H. W. De Puy. With Introduction by Hon. Henry J. Raymond, late Speaker of the New York Assembly, and now editor of the New York Daily Times. With six portraits of Kos- suth, his Family and his Generals, and a Map of Hungary. 1 vol., 12mo., cloth, over S400 pages. $1.25. Francis Pulasky, Kossuth's Secretary, after examining all the works on the subject, expressed his strong approval of this, as the most correctly prepared narrative which i% ^has yet appeared.  Ethan Allen and the Green Mountain Heroes of '76, With a Sketch of the Early History of Vermont; by H. W. De Puy, author of "Louis Napoleon and his Times," "Kossuth," &c4 12mo., 428 pages, with Kinney's Statue of Ethan Allen, on steel, a profile map, &c. In preparing this work, the au- thor visited the home of Col. Ethan Allen, and the scenes of his stirring lite, and had access to his own writings and history, and facts from his family. $1.60. "A terse, glowing and forcible biography of the old hero, which warms the heart and kindles the enthusiasm of every man who holds a drop of American blood in his veins. "--Express.  Arabian   Nights, 12mo., 24 cuts, cloth. The same, gilt back and sides. Embracing Aladdin, or the Wonderful Lamp; Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves; All Cogia, a Merchant of Bagdad; Envy Punished, or the Three Sisters, and Sinbad the Sailor.     QITTA:RRTO BIBISES           . The BEST and CHEAPEST list of Family Bibles published. No. 4 Quarto Bible. Apocrypha and eight new engravings, embossed, marbled edges. $3.76, No. 4 Quarto Bible, same as above, gilt edges. $5.00. No. 5 Quarto Bible, Apocrypha, Concordance, Psalms, 10 engravings, (two on steel,) embossed, marbled edges. $4.25 No. 5   Quarto   Bible, same as above, gilt sides and edges. $5.00. NEW STYES ON FINE PAPER. No. 10. Apocrypha, Concordance, Psalms, 10 engravings, (two on steel,) embossed, gis edges. $6.50. No. 10, extra. Apocrypha, Concordance, Psalms, 10 engravings, (two on steel,) embossed, gilt edge, extra gilt back and sides. $7.00. No. 12. Apocrypha, Concordance, Psalms, 10 engravings, (two on steel,) imitation Turkey, full gilt. $10.00. BG-aSTB:R. BIBL:ES. No. 14 Bagster Bible, 10 steel engravings, 4 illuminations and colored Record, super Turkey, full gilt. $10.00.        / No. 15 Bagster Bible, 20 steel engravings, 4 illuminations and colored Record, super Turkey, full gilt, clasp. $19.00. No. 16 Bagster Bible, 10 steel engravings, 4 illuminations and colored Record, Turkey Antique, paneled sides. $18.00 No. 20 Bagster Bible, 10 steel engravings, 4 illuminations and colored Record, Turkey Antique, paneled sides, clasp. $20.00       
         
      
   
