
    ----CITATION----
        Crofton, Francis Blake, (1841-1912). The Bewildered Querists and Other Nonsense .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6191 wright2-0661
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE BEWILDERED QUERISTS AND OTHER NONSENSE.
            
            BY FRANCIS BLAKE CROFTON.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS.
                  
                     FOURTH AVENUE AND TWENTY-THIRD STREET.
                  
               
            
            1875.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by G. P. PUTNAM'S
                  SONS, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
               JOHN F. TROW & SON, PRINTERS, 205-213 East 12th St., NEW
                  YORK.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               THE BEWILDERED QUERISTS. 5
                  
                     INTRODUCTORY. 5
                     
                     1. CREMATION. 12
                     
                     2. DRINKS. 19
                     
                     3. MOTTOES AND LAWS. 27
                     
                     4. DRAMATIC FRAGMENT. 32
                     
                     5. EXAMINATION PAPER. 35
                     
                     6. TO BEAT OR NOT TO BEAT. 41
                     
                     7. EXCUSES. 54
                     
                     8. JOURNALISTIC. 62
                     
                  
               
               WOMAN'S WORTH. 71
               
               CUTS AND GUARDS. 90
               
               THE LOGIC OF SLOTH. 98
               
               AUTOPHOTOGRAPHS. 104
               
               EMPHASIS AS A VEHICLE OF MALICE. 112
               
               EUPHEMISMS. 119
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The bewildered querists and other nonsense
            
               
               MINUTES OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE METROPOLITAN SOCIETY OF BEWILDERED
                  QUERISTS.
               
                  INTRODUCTORY.
                  THIS famous association was founded by a few enthusiastic dilettanti at a
                     preliminary meeting held by them at the residence of Alexander Ridley, Esq.,
                     who officiated as temporary chairman. Professor Erasmus A. Pundit thus briefly
                     explained the objects and ends of the proposed organization:—
                  
                     "LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
                     There are certain persons of extraordinary mental endowments who, without
                        laying claim to greatness in any
                        particular art or science, have yet distributed their genius throughout the
                        whole domain of human thought. Without confining their adoration invidiously
                        to any particular Muse, they worship impartially at the altars of the Nine.
                        For their aspiring souls the drudgery of detail has been so uncongenial that
                        they have relied largely upon happy inspirations, denied to the many, as
                        substitutes for the crude elements of erudition. With soaring intellects
                        they have sought to grasp the sublimest truths of every science, and,
                        scorning the beaten paths, to explore the forest of knowledge simultaneously
                        on every side. These diffusive enthusiasts are like noble trees that branch
                        out in all directions to catch the sunshine and the breeze, not sending out
                        their arms only to the north to span the stream, nor stretching only to the
                        south to shade the dusty path, not reaching only heavenwards to approach the
                        sun, nor only straining downwards to pierce the earth's crust. In such
                        devious explorations they have gathered many strictly priceless gems, but
                        the value of these, owing to the jealousy of specialists as well as to the
                        habitual modesty of us amateurs, has not yet been generally recognized. It
                        has therefore long been a desideratum that the unappreciated geniuses of
                        this metropolis should form a literary order, which should at the same time
                        be a medium of communication among themselves and afford a means of
                        conveying miscellaneous truths to the outside public.
                     Under these circumstances, Mr. Chairman, I move:
                     That the ladies and gentlemen here present do constitute and style
                        themselves a 'Society for the Promotion of General Knowledge.'
                     That the proceedings of the association be untrammeled by any parliamentary
                        rules or precedents.
                     That the sense of the Beautiful and the Seemly inherent in the members be
                        the sole arbiter as to the subjects and manner of discussion.
                     That the limitless scope of our Society be expressed by assuming the motto,
                        'Quidquid agunt homines.'
                     That weekly meetings be held at the houses of members in rotation."
                     A modest personage took exception to the proposed title and motto. Referring
                        to the fact that the merits of the gentlemen assembled had been hitherto
                        strangely unrecognized by the public, he begged to suggest Gray's lines
                        about the flower which "wastes its sweetness on the desert air," and
                        recommended as a fitter designation, "The Society of Hidden Genius."
                     Miss Taack, a lady distantly related to the late Mrs. Malaprop, preferred "Blatant Talent," as
                        shorter and equally appropriate.
                     Benjamin Franklin Muggs, Esq., differed from the last speakers, thinking it
                        extremely inadvisable to parade in the teeth of the public its shockingly
                        bad taste. He believed in push and self-assertion. Ordinary people were very
                        likely to take societies as well as individuals at their own advertised
                        estimates of themselves. It was absolutely necessary, in his opinion, to
                        lease apartments in Fifth Avenue, and he thought it would be desirable to
                        emblazon on the door some undecipherable Chaldee or Cuneiform motto,
                        surmounted by a crest. In regard to the latter he hesitated between a neat
                        variation on the ever-popular American Eagle and an original design of some
                        newly-invented antediluvian Saurian—care being taken, of course, that it
                        should be the biggest thing out in that peculiar line. The title, too,
                        should be bold and sonorous. Perhaps the Excelsior "Union of Universal
                        Commentators," or "Galaxy of Great Guns," would do.
                     The President objected that great guns were too often large bores, and was
                        supported by Miss Taack, who avowed herself wholly opposed to "heavy
                        ordinances." It also transpired that two-thirds of the persons present were
                        already enrolled in "Excelsior" clubs.
                     Mr. Muggs explained that his proposals were merely tentative. He was
                        perfectly willing that they should style themselves Tip-Toppers, Thus Fars,
                        or Ne Plus Ultras. In fact, he thought one of his suggestions quite as good
                        as another. Of the last appellation, however, Miss Taack would not even
                        hear. "I was aware," remonstrated she, "that the views of some
                        of us were considered rather radical and advanced; but I was
                           not aware that anybody, much less one of ourselves, could
                        look upon us as non-plussed ultras!"
                     Driven from his first positions, the irrepressible Mr. Muggs now counselled
                        adopting the phraseology of trade, in deference to the commercial sentiment
                        of the age. The association, he said, might be happily termed an exchange.
                        Its end being the propagation of miscellaneous knowledge, as well as the
                        solution of miscellaneous doubts, many ideas would naturally be borrowed,
                        notes of interrogation would be circulated, and doubtless a paper medium of
                        exchange would be occasionally resorted to. He accordingly thought a most
                        appropriate name would be "The Yankee Notion Exchange."
                     Professor Pundit hoped indeed that much that was capital and many sterling remarks would be
                        current at their meetings, but he nevertheless objected on principle to
                        creating any factitious public interest about the society. In his opinion it
                        should stand entirely upon its merits.
                     To this protest Miss Taack added hers, on the ground that "a mercantile
                        designation was belittling to a body actuated by high aims and perspirations
                        towards the infinite."
                     After many amendments had been successively negatived, the chairman
                        said:
                     "Ladies and Gentlemen:
                     With the exuberant suggestiveness which marks certain of our members, there
                        appears to be some danger lest the details of organization may consume an
                        undue proportion of our time. For these matters, though first in order, are
                        of very minor importance, when compared with the momentous and interesting
                        topics which may naturally be expected to occupy the attention of a
                        Historico-musico-physico-ethico-technico-catholico-mythico-archæological
                        association. It is clear that without mutual concessions we shall never
                        possess a constitution or a name, unless indeed it be the 'Order of
                        Perplexed Commentators,' or 'Bewildered Querists.'"
                     "Querists is a mighty neat term," observed Mr. O'Callahan, an Irish
                        gentleman, "highly applicable, short, and inexpressive; but common 'taturs
                        are like to stick in one's throat, owing to their great size, and the same
                        may be said of commentators. It's proud we should be to belong to a body
                        with a name big enough for the Long Parliament, and obliged we are to our
                        Chairman for the compliment; but if the proceedings are to be carried on in
                        Greek, I move that we subscribe for a Webster."
                     "The Metropolitan Society of Bewildered Querists" was the title eventually
                        agreed upon, and, a spirit of compromise having arisen, it was determined to
                        dispense altogether with a motto. With these exceptions the original
                        resolutions of Professor Pundit were passed. On the motion of a Querist, Mr.
                        Ridley was appointed permanent President, and the following substituted for
                        the fourth article of the constitution:
                     "4. That the debating be strictly extemporaneous; and that only one paper be
                        admissible at each meeting, the subject of such paper to be secretly
                        communicated by its author to the presiding officer, and announced by the
                        latter to the Querists at the opening of the session."
                  
               
               
                  
                  SESSION I.
                  THE President, in introducing Miss Taack as the essayist of the evening,
                     ventured to anticipate that, though "Cremation" was from its nature a dry
                     topic, her admirable style would invest it with factitious charms.
                  After modestly disclaiming "the capabilities so flatteringly imputed to her as
                     a writer of fiction," the lady spoke as follows:
                  "My Fellow Querists:
                  I am not one of those vehement preservatives who, because a thing is new,
                     proceed to apply opprobrious epitaphs to its authors, or, as some do, to
                     denounce its partisans with fearful implications. But with the individuals who
                     want to blot out of existence our lovely suburban symmetries, and by means of
                     fire to 'sweep the lines where beauty lingers' and rudely destroy the
                     statuesque cemetery of the lifeless features—with these I have no patience
                     whatever. Such a 'reform' I consider nothing less than a burning shame! To
                     object, indeed, to costly coffins and ostentatious sepulchres, and to favor a
                     cheaper method of disposing ing of our dead, may be pardoned as a venal fault;
                     but to make chimney ornaments of our fathers' ashes, and incongruously to
                     wreathe with flowers their charred remnants, I regard as a fragrant offence
                     against decency and taste. They argue that it is unfair to condemn an untried
                     system. But, Mr. President, I have had an extensive experience in cremation
                     upon various Fourths of July. I have seen fifteen boys' fingers, three boys'
                     eyes, several female garments, and one complete old lady cremated upon two of
                     those glorious anniversaries. On the latter of these occasions, as I returned
                     home half cracked by crackers, torpid with torpedoes, and bruised by
                     caterpillars in the hands of youthful desperadoes, I registered a vow against
                     incinderation.
                  One might think, from the way people talk, that it was something original; and
                     yet thousands of years before Brown and Thompson, the devil had adopted
                     cremation in theory and practice. This heathenish custom, it is true, is more
                     immediately borrowed from pagan Greece and Rome, and from Hindostan, where they
                     burn upon the funeral pyres of married men the shrieking relics of the
                     dead!"
                  The Professor craved permission to observe that the pagan process of burning
                     bodies was very inferior to that which modern science rendered practicable. The former never thoroughly consumed
                     the bones; whence the ancient proverb, De mortuis nil
                        nisi bonum.
                  
                  "I suppose," resumed the fair Querist, "they'll be wanting us to change our
                     language as well as our habits. Our years will have to be dated A. C., in the
                     year of cremation; and 'from creation to cremation' will serve instead of 'from
                     the cradle to the grave.' We may also expect some lovely elegies in the
                     future—something in the following style, perhaps, for of course, when
                     grave-diggers are succeeded by pyre-lighters, the grave laments of yore will be
                     replaced by lighter melodies: 
                        
                           'Above yon mantel, in the new screen's shade,
                           Where smokes the coal in one dull smouldering heap,
                           Each in his patent urn forever laid,
                           The baked residua of our fathers sleep.
                        
                        
                           'The wheezy call of muffins in the morn,
                           The milkman tittering from his rusty sled,
                           The help's shrill clarion, or the fishman's horn,
                           No more shall rouse them from their lofty bed.
                        
                        
                           'For them no more the blazing fire-grate burns,
                           Or busy housewife fries her savory soles,
                           Though children run to clasp their sires' red urns,
                           And roll them in a family game of bowls.
                        
                        
                           'Perhaps in this deserted pot is laid
                           Some heart once pregnant with terrestrial fire,
                           Hands that the rod paternal may have swayed,
                           And waked to*
                               ecstasy the living liar.'
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *"Ecstasy—overwhelming excitement."—Webster.
                  
                  I do declare that sometimes, when I think of these men and their silly notions,
                     my lips involuntarily curl in a contemptible smile. I cannot help suspecting
                     that some business interest prompts their opposition to the Christian system of
                     inhumanity. The charges for burial plots and monuments are indeed exorbitant. A
                     friend of mine paid two or three thousand dollars to erect a single lot."
                  The Professor presumed that the fair speaker meant a statue or a monument, as
                     one could hardly talk of "erecting" the soil.
                  Miss Taack—"Perhaps I may have misunderstood the term, for I always supposed
                     the white statues in graveyards were the 'lots,' being
                     emblematical of Lot's wife, who was turned into a pillar of salt. This design
                     appeared to me singularly poetical in consequence of the inclination of dying
                     persons to 'cast one longing, lingering look behind.' But whatever they are
                     made of, high-priced lots are certainly grounds for reasonable complaint. This, however, is not enough to recommend
                     the odious alternative which has been proposed; and which, I repeat my belief,
                     has been suggested by an interested antagonism to the undertaking and mourning
                     establishments, to the 'decent hearse' and 'custom-made suits of solemn black,'
                     to quote the expressive words of Shakspeare. This suspicion, Mr. President,
                     rouses my virtuous indignation and suffuses my cheeks with 'the blushes of
                     ingenious shame,' as the poet so aptly expresses it. Especially when I reflect
                     that the miserable incendiaries, while they chatter about sanitary reform and
                     ascetics, are in reality undermining the doctrines of the resurrection and the
                     immorality of the soul!" (Applause.)
                  Mr. Muggs cordially indorsed the sentiments of the eloquent lady: for his part
                     he was always opposed to "robbing the poor man of his bier."
                  The President observed that it was merely a matter of taste. Personally, he
                     preferred smoking to the bier. Perhaps it might soothe the lady's indignation
                     to reflect that in questions of change mercenary considerations were
                     inevitable.
                  O'Callahan averred that he had no ambition to sleep with his forefathers before
                     his time, as he would have to when cremation became the fashion, unless his
                     landlady would like to have their urns in the parlor. The innovation would be
                     destructive of affection for the dead. How could a widow talk of the "dear
                     departed," when his incineration only cost five dollars and a half?
                  The President deprecated giving a sentimental turn to the discussion.
                     "Nevertheless," said he, "I cannot refrain from observing that I should like,
                     when I have passed away, like a withered rose, to 'lie scentless
                     and dead.' Besides, 
                        
                           'E'en from the grave the voice of Nature cries,
                           E'en in our ashes live their wonted fires;'
                        
                      and, as my disposition is not an ungrateful one, it is natural that I
                     should desire a grate-full end."
                  Muggs remarked that the sacred urn might become a very handy receptacle for
                     "stolen waters," in a teetotal family. The "fence" of the future likewise would
                     probably be surrounded by a numerous ancestry. However, in the variety of
                     opinions existing among the Querists, he moved that the meeting be dissolved,
                     "as the question could not fail to be settled after dissolution."
                  As the Society was breaking up, a member played the Dead March in
                        Saul on the piano, which occasioned sioned the Professor to suggest that, as Saul
                     was also called Paul, this funeral melody might more appropriately have been
                     termed the Dead March in Pall.
               
               
                  SESSION II.
                  THE meeting, being duly called to order, received with some emotion the
                     announcement of its worthy President that the warm debate upon cremation would
                     on the present occasion be succeeded by the more humid theme of "Drinks." Many
                     of the members had become quite excited over the subject, among whom was the
                     orator himself, B. F. Muggs, Esq.
                  Raising to his lips a liquid bearing a delusive resemblance to water, Mr. Muggs
                     commenced with a confidence engendered by a familiar acquaintance with the
                     matter in hand:
                  
                     "MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
                     The moral effect of generous drinks in developing the virtue of candor has
                        been recorded in the well-known proverb, 'In vino veritas.' On the other
                        hand the use of undiluted water tends notoriously to encourage lying and
                        deceit, for it is a melancholy fact that even 'Truth lies in a
                        well!' Wine likewise creates ideas and fluency of speech, and stimulates lates the imagination. As Horace
                        has pointed out, all great poets have been tipplers. Indeed in their
                        sublimest flights they largely use the figure of speech entitled hyperbole,
                        which is derived—if my memory serves me right—from two Greek words, hyper, over, and bole, a bowl. On this point, however, I am open to correction
                        by our learned associate, Professor Pundit."
                     (The Professor, who spoke with seeming hesitation, was
                        understood to say that he coincided, on this etymological question, with the
                        lucid exposition of Dionysius of Halicarnassus, to recapitulate which, of
                        course, would only be to insult the intelligence of a learned body.)
                     "The material influence of alcoholic drinks," resumed Mr. Muggs, "is still
                        more beneficial. If there is one thing more necessary than another to
                        preserve the prosperity of New York and our other great commercial centres,
                        that thing, the papers assure us, is the increase of grain elevators. Now
                        what grain elevators, I should like to hear, are more speedy in
                        their operation or more efficacious than malt and rye whiskies? They may
                        brag of the longevity induced by water-drinking. But give me a hale and
                        stout old age that goes down with undiminished spirits to the bier. Alcohol
                        is the best known remedy for various afflictions, including hydrophobia and
                        the bites of snakes—not that I go so far as the 'Jolly Postboys,' who
                        claimed it to be an antidote against the Old Serpent himself: 
                           
                              'Whisky is the surest
                              Curer of evil,
                              And at the end of life
                              Will save us from the devil.'
                           
                        
                     
                     It certainly is a sovereign counteractive to that particular
                        variety of bad spirits commonly denominated 'the blue devils.' No one, I
                        fancy, will venture to deny that still waters are the best
                        preventive of sea-sickness.
                     Taken in excess, stimulants are doubtless injurious; but so are candies, tea
                        and ice. In fact the baneful abuse of the last commodity, especially when
                        used soon after hot viands or drinks, merits the interference of the Society
                        for the Suppression of Vice. Tea destroys the nerves and indirectly
                        multiplies scandals; while tobacco, with all deference to our genial
                        President, is the cause that so many of our youths go to weeds. Yet no one
                        therefore wishes to stop a moderate indulgence in these luxuries.
                     I want to observe that I am wholly unprejudiced against water. I find it
                        extremely convenient to wash in,
                        and I own that it is very useful in manufactures, e.g., brewing
                        and distilling. For aught that I know to the contrary, it may even be
                        palatable as a drink. It is true that I disapprove of mixing it with
                        liquors, knowing how grave a responsibility is involved in the dilution; for
                        it is manifest that when spirits have lost their body they become
                        disembodied spirits! Why, then, while I concede the merits of their
                        beverage, do prohibitionists remain blind to the virtues of mine? When I
                        grant them the unlimited enjoyment of their favorite water and
                        milk, why do they refuse me a limited indulgence in my favorite
                        gin and bitters? Deny it as they may, they are actuated by an unchristian
                        spirit of bitter persecution.
                     I am unable to discover any sweeping scriptural prohibition of wine; and
                        whiskey, rum and brandy are not even alluded to by the inspired writers,
                        many of whom—it is important to recollect—were prophets. On the other hand,
                        some commentators trace the fall of the first man to the demoralizing
                        influence of total abstinence. In support of this position they urge the
                        fact that water was Adam's ale; while Noah, the introducer of the vine, was
                        singled out for preservation from the Deluge. The publicans of the Christian
                        cra, too, are favorably contrasted with the Pharisees, who correspond to the
                        temperance fanatics of to-day."
                     (Cries of "Order! order!" amid which a Querist begged to
                        remind the speaker that the publicans of that age were a totally different
                        class from modern public-house keepers.)
                     "The member's correction was unneeded," Muggs continued with severity:
                        "ignorant as I may be, I was not unaware of that distinction. The spread of
                        civilization, I know, has made the American bar very unlike its Judæan
                        prototype. Slings, smashes, eye-openers, and all iccd innovations, were of
                        course wanting in the latter. Indeed there is reason to believe that mixed
                        concoctions were wholly unknown to ancient Hebrew gentlemen, with the single
                        exception that they were commonly addicted to julips, as may be inferred
                        from bas-reliefs of the period. The points of resemblance, which I had in
                        view when I was interrupted, between Pharisees and teetotalers are their
                        self-complacency and public prayers. A war of words between tipplers and
                        praying bands reminds me of that historical combat, the eve of which the
                        English spent in supplication and the French in revelry. 'Treaters and
                        entreaters,' or 'The Battle of A-Gin-Court,' would make a lovely title for a
                        tract, wherein to sound the praises of Good Templars and errant
                        damosels."
                     The President failed to discern the moral and material advantages claimed for ardent
                        liquors. If the gentleman's reproach were true, that tobacco
                        sent young men gradually to weeds, it could be said with equal truth that
                        drunkenness made its votaries go rapidly to pot. To the
                        frequent occurrence of delirium tremens he
                        attributed the d-t-rioration of the human race. It was noteworthy that rabid
                        dogs abandoned water and took to wine; and he viewed the first sips of this
                        alluring liquid as signs of incipient insanity in men. At the same time he
                        admitted that the uncompromising disposition of teetotalers was injurious to
                        their cause, although it was not unnatural that their antipathy to cordials
                        should be a cordial detestation. Intemperance, he felt sure, would be more
                        effectually checked by social ostracism than by legislative prohibition or
                        praying bands. Those loose characters who were habitually tight should be
                        excluded from every respectable circle.
                     Miss Taack also wished to make a few remarks on what she called "the fluid
                        but pernicious speech of Mr. Muggs." In her opinion one of the greatest
                        nuisances connected with taverns was the crowds of leering loafers who
                        infested their doors. It often required a bold woman to run the gauntlet of
                        gamblers, politicians and vulgar spendthrifts, with their wonted retinue of
                        purseless parricides, tittering at their jokes. Spirits she considered were
                        injurious at the best; but those which were permitted to be sold were simply
                        murderous. What was commonly retailed as brandy was, as she was creditably
                        informed, nothing more than colored alcohol and water, deluded with vitriol
                        to increase its strength. No fraud was more execrable than "the palming off
                        of these impure mixtures and adulterous compounds."
                     Here O'Callahan, noticing what he stigmatized as "impolite exhibitions of
                        suppressed mirth," whispered to a neighbor that the offence undeniably
                           was committed in the spirit!
                     The Querist addressed answered ungallantly that ladies who wielded too heavy
                        weapons were always liable to wound themselves.
                     At this imputation, which unfortunately reached her ears, Miss Taack fired
                        up. She protested that she had no preference for lengthy words, if that was
                        what the gentleman meant. Errors she might make; but at least she
                           "tried to use the plainest and most idiotic English."
                     Mr. Muggs moved an adjournment, remarking that it was growing unconscionably
                        late. Considering the hour, he thought a treatment of the Querists
                        preferable to any further treatment of the subject.
                     
                     This resolution being unanimously carried, Muggs led a majority of the
                        members on the broad path which conducted to a contiguous sample-room, where
                        be alarmed his victims with the following conundrum:
                     "Why is a rabid clown like a glass of bottled beer?"
                     
                        Answer of audience, suffering from hope deferred:
                     "Give it up."
                     
                        Answer to conundrum:
                     "Because he's a foaming tumbler!"
                     
                        Effect upon the crowd—Big drinks.
                     
                        Moral for publicans: Discourage riddles before
                        drinks.
                  
               
               
                  SESSION III.
                  MOTTOES AND SAWS.
                  THIS short session was mainly occupied by anccdotes narrated by Miss Taack,
                     which are here reported verbatim:
                  
                     "FELLOW QUERISTS:
                     Certain circumstances have lately come under my notice which have
                        revolutionized my feelings on the subject of mottoes, and made me regard
                        them as a dilution and a snare. I am acquainted with a woman who keeps one
                        of those human exchanges which some one with bitter irony has named
                        intelligence offices. This lady informed me of her design to embellish her
                        shop-front with a motto. I ventured to suggest 'Excelsior' as peculiarly
                        appropriate, having learned from the Professor that the word meant 'hire.'
                        Shortly after she had adopted my suggestion I had occasion to visit the
                        office again, and was told by the proprietress that the business had fallen
                        off in some incomprehensive manner,
                        it having got abroad that she had raised her fees or was encouraging help to
                        ask for higher terms.
                     The other day I assisted at the birth of an Early Rising Association. The
                        question of a motto was the very first that came up. Some one proposed 'The
                        early bird catches the worm.' But one of the members sensibly observed that
                        unfeathered bipeds could unfortunately catch the worms without early rising.
                        'Let us then be up,' recommended an admirer of Longfellow.
                     'And doing,' added a fraudulent looking member.
                     'With a heart for any fète,' said a gay votary of fashion.
                     'With a hart for any fète,' echoed a lover of venison.
                     'Still achieving,' said a gentleman interested in the
                        manufacture of stills.
                     'Still pursuing,' put in a revenue policeman.
                     'Learn to labor and to wait,' said an honest footman.
                     'And to wait,' chimed in an indolent member.
                     By this time I became convinced that, what with the cunning of their
                        adopters, and the double intenders of their authors, mottoes were capable of
                        changing their hues like camelopards. And I have come to almost the same
                        conclusion about quotations of every sort.
                     There was my great-grandfather who suffered twice from his veneration for
                        Shakespeare. He once refused a baronetcy, so penetrated was he by the King's
                        despair in Hamlet, when he remorsefully exclaims, 'Oh, my
                        offence is rank!' I suppose you are aware that my ancestor was
                        a believer in the emigration of souls. He held that our spirit successively
                        went through the whole scale of quadrupeds. During a warm discussion on the
                        subject he wagered a hundred pounds that W. Shakespeare shared his belief.
                        This he endeavored to prove by pointing out that the poet makes Hamlet
                        observe that the dreamy state following death 'must give us
                           paws,' and that in alluding to deceased persons the
                        dramatist more than once uses the remarkable expression, 'and thereby hangs
                        a tail.' But on reference it was found that the author in his ignorance had
                        misspelt the words; and my great-grandfather lost the stakes because Bacon
                        had not written Shakespeare. But what can we expect from a fellow who could
                        not spell his own name! Other members of our family have been similarly
                        misled by grave authorities. My uncle, a missionary on the west coast of
                        Africa, died of a text. While flying from a zebra, which happened to be
                           at the same time flying from
                        him, he fearlessly advanced to within a few yards of a family of leopards,
                        having full faith in the scriptural assurance that the leopards could not
                        change their spots. But they did; and what was more unpleasant, they
                        'knocked spots' out of him."
                     Mr. Muggs felicitated the lady on her great-grandfather's declension of the
                        baronetcy. For his own part he thought the title of a gentleman fully
                        equivalent to a peerage. As for the importance which the benighted British
                        attached to the petty style of baronet, it was simply sirprizing.
                     Miss Taack said she was herself opposed to obsolete monarchy and indeed to
                        the enjoyment of special amenities by any class; but she owned a weakness
                        for the sound of "Lady Taack."
                     A member remarked that a baronetage in the family would hardly make her a
                        titled lady.
                     Muggs perceived the Querist was unaware that all invidious distinctions
                        between aristocrats had been abolished by the American weekly romancists,
                        who ought to be the best authorities on the subject, judging from their
                        apparent familiarity with people of rank. According to these popular
                        writers, the daughter of a baronet had as good a right to be Lady Honoria or
                        Lady Esmeralda as the daughter of a duke.
                     Mr. O'Callahan boldly avowed himself an aristocrat, as became one of the
                        numerous descendants of Brian Boru. He liked to see the old Milesian titles
                        kept up—The O'Donohue, The O'Grady, The O'Callahan, and The Devil. He
                        himself used always to assert his right to the ancestral prefix, which he
                        had printed on his cards; but soon after his arrival in this country he was
                        constrained by a second-hand insult to abandon the style. A low-lived Irish
                        Yankee, named Pat O'Callahan, had left a card upon him bearing the
                        inscription, "The other O'Callahan!" Such radicals, he was glad to say, were
                        generally no-toryous characters.
                     Miss Taack expressed her pleasure at discovering that The. Tilton was a
                        nobleman; and thus ended the Third Session.
                  
               
               
                  
                  SESSION IV.
                  THE President said that no Querist had expressed an intention of addressing the
                     meeting, and he would therefore take this opportunity to bring before the
                     Society an important MS., discovered by him, during a recent Italian tour, at
                     the town of Assisi. In deciphering its blurred and illegible characters he was
                     greatly indebted to the kind assistance of their learned confrère, Prof.
                     Pundit. The lucubration, he was sorry to say, was incomplete, being only a
                  
                     FRAGMENT OF A MEDIÆVAL MIRACLE PLAY
                     Ascribed to St. Francis d' Assisi.
                     DRAMATIS PERSONÆ.—BALAAM AND HIS ASS.
                     Enter Balaam on ass-back. Tents of Ascalon in the background.
                     
                        BALAAM (beating his donkey.)
                        "Will you go on?"
                     
                     
                        ASS. (kicking).
                        "Will you go off?"
                     
                     
                        BAL.
                        "By the holy Moses, no!"
                     
                     
                        ASS. (looking askance).
                        "Let your nay be nay."
                     
                     
                        BAL. (astounded at his assurance).
                        "Let your bray be bray. Speak to your associates."
                     
                     
                        ASS.
                        "Cease to assimilate yourself to us."
                     
                     
                        Here Balaam on the SPUR of the moment commits an
                        assault.
                     
                        ASS
                        "Ha! assults and damages! Recollect the assizes and Old Bailey."
                     
                     
                        BAL. (pulling the curb).
                        "How do you like that?"
                     
                     
                        ASS.
                        "Not a bit."
                     
                     
                        BAL. (plying his spurs).
                        "No longer shall I be a standing joke."
                     
                     
                        ASS. (satirically).
                        "Why not rather try the power of moving speeches?"
                     
                     
                        BAL. (spurring assiduously).
                        "Ha! you mock me!"
                     
                     
                        ASS. (with asperity).
                        "Ungodly man, pause ere you become an assassin."
                     
                     
                        BAL. (with unbridled wrath).
                        "Nay, if you be a spirit, I'll try a better means of communicating with
                           you. (Beats him.) How's that for spirit-rapping?"
                     
                     
                        ASS (throwing his rider).
                        "How's that for table-turning?"
                     
                     
                     The donkey gains a complete ascendency. Exit Balaam in a headf asthma. *
                        * * * * * * *
                     
                     The MS. here concludes with asterisks.
                     
                     The Professor opined that the donkey showed such a marked superiority in his
                        asides that the prophet must have felt quite ashamed.
                     Muggs always considered the ass a mean and fractious creature which would
                        never assent to reason. When you say 'go!' he goes not, and when you say
                        'wo!' he won't. He believed in treating them homœopathically—when they
                        stick, apply the stick. A friend of his realized a thousand dollars by
                        backing an obstinate donkey against another equally cantankerous. He turned
                        the beast's hind-quarters to the goal and flogged steadily. He made the mile
                        in fifty minutes, distancing his competitor.
                     The Professor suggested that this obstinacy might often be due to the
                        cruelty of riders. He had known donkeys quite "bowed down with weight of
                        wo!"
                     In reply to an inquiry the President explained that the original was written
                        in Leonine verse; and after some further discussion the meeting
                        adjourned.
                  
               
               
                  SESSION V.
                  "LADIES AND GENTLEMEN," observed the President in opening the proceedings, "Mr.
                     Pundit had purposed introducing an important and vexed question at our present
                     meeting. But perceiving an exceptionally large muster of classical members, he
                     has acted upon my advice, and, deferring to a future occasion his remarks upon
                     the subject alluded to, will take this favorable opportunity of submitting to
                     your criticism an academical paper which marks a new and progressive era in
                     Collegiate education."
                  Whereupon, the President having duly rapped for silence, Professor Pundit
                     proceeded to read, amid the rapt attention of the Querists, the following
                     examination paper:
                  
                     ABNORMAL COLLEGE.
                     CLASSICAL EXAMINATION OF FRESHMEN,*
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        *Some of these questions were published in the Round
                           Table, as "a melancholy evidence of the effects of
                           prolonged classical training upon a vigorous and creative
                           intellect!"
                     
                     
                        April 1st, 1874.
                     
                     I. Did the myth of Jupiter's descent in a shower of gold, originate in the fact of his being a
                        reigning sovereign?
                     II. (a) Did Achilles after his immersion in the Styx originate
                        the phrase "no heel-taps?" (b) Explode the paradox that his
                        wound "on the heal" could not be cured.
                     III. Refute the theory that the smoke of Mount Ætna proceeded from the
                        briar-root of Briareds confined there.
                     IV. (a) May a lady's trunk be compared with the Vocative
                        because it is the case of a dress? (b) Prove the identity of a
                        Christmas box with the Dative Case.
                     V. Does Virgil's phrase, "ficto pectore fatur," establish the fact that the
                        ancients had anticipated one of the modern fashions? In this connection also
                        examine the expression addressed to the Queen of Beauty, "Quid natum falsis
                        ludis imaginibus"—Why do you mock your son with false forms?
                     
                     VI. If Julius Agricola in his invasion of Caledonia penetrated to Forfar,
                        did he go twice two far?
                     
                     VII. Construe the words of the Æneid, "Heu, miserande erande puer!" and show
                        that the rendering, "A lass, unhappy lad!" is no less obectionable than
                        "Hugh, you wretched boy!"
                     VIII. Can the legend of the birth of Castor and Pollox from an egg be
                        correctly termed a Lay of Ancient Greece?
                     IX. May the unprofitableness of literature among the Romans be inferred from
                        the statement of Sallust and other writers, that they did not possess the
                        price of admission to the Opera (non operæ pretium est)? Or is the phrase
                        only a delicate mode of "putting in" for "dead-head" tickets?
                     X. Are we to suppose that vegetable as well as animal life was suspended in
                        the realms of Pluto? Is the supposition warranted by Virgil's allusion to
                        "lucos Stygis," groves of sticks?
                     XI. Does the fervent exclamation of Anna, "O luce magis dilecta sorori," show that she loved Dido more than
                        her other sister Lucy?
                     XII. Who was the tall general referred to by the poet in the following
                        lines— 
                           
                              "The kites know well the long stern Swell
                              That bids the Romans close"?
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     XIII. Is the existence of a financial crisis in Olympus to be presumed from
                        Juno's going to Æolus to "raise the wind?" Would the advances made by the
                        King of the Winds naturally take the shape of inflated currency or some
                        other circulating medium?
                     XIV. Show by etymological deduction that the tale of the founding of Rome
                        was merely a sailor's yarn, giving its due importance to the fact that Remus
                        meant an oar, coupled with the manifest derivation of
                           Row-mulus.
                     Does this satisfactorily account for the celebrated row between the
                        brothers?
                  
                  
                     Miss Taack complimented the Professor upon his searching and suggestive
                        paper. "What an inestimable benefit," she went on to say, "the
                        undergraduates of the Abnormal College must enjoy, whose labors are
                        persecuted under such capable direction! For me entomology has always had a
                        peculiar fascination. What wondrous moral truths we gather from the study of
                        words! By it we corroborate our belief that the wicked will be
                        lighted at the last, and that cineration is the natural process
                        for disposing of the remains of sinners. Physical and historical facts also
                        are often strangely proved by derivations. In my school days I was taught
                        the interesting coincidence that the Greek verb ao, to breathe, was compounded of a and o, embodying the fact that breath is the alpha and omega of
                        human existence. With what honest pride did I discover that the intellectual
                        supermacy of my native city was verified by the meaning of its name—Boston,
                        the boss-town! On the other hand the degrading descent of the Aryan race,
                        now the noblest family of mankind, is too plainly proved by its humiliating
                        derivation, hairy 'un!"
                     The fair Querist paused with visible emotion.
                     "And with what edification," she presently resumed, "I listened to a
                        self-educated Cockney divine exposing the entomological baseness of Satan!
                        'Not only,' said the learned preacher, 'do his Greek names signify
                           Slanderer and Destroyer, but his common English
                        appellation is the vilest word in our language. Complete, it is the
                           devil; diminished by a letter, it becomes evil;
                        by two, it appears as vil(e); by three, it leaves us il(l); by four, and it is 'ell!' And the
                        imaginative minister, perhaps mistaking his pulpit for the whole word and
                        having faith in the text which counsels resistance, concluded his display of
                        superlative philology with an edifying exhibition of muscular
                        Christianity."
                     Muggs agreed with the lady and Archbishop Trench that some very important truths were
                        contained in words. Luscious, for example, as he begged to
                        inform teetotalers, was derived from "lush." He could vouch for the
                        correctness of this etymology, for he was very familiar with the root. And
                        this suggestive derivation reminded him that the session had been protracted
                        to a degree that would have distressed a certain estimable Governor of North
                        Carolina, justly famed for a short and pithy speech.
                     The member hereupon moving to adjourn, the Society unanimously carried out
                        the motion.
                  
               
               
                  SESSION VI.
                  "'TO beat or not to beat, that is the question' of the evening," announced the
                     President, assuming the insignia of office. "The quotation is not exact to a
                        t, but I flatter myself that it is more striking than the
                     original. I shall now leave my friend the Professor, to continue the soliloquy.
                     The learned Querist had hoped to present an illustrated lecture, but was
                     singularly unsuccessful in securing a corpus
                        vile, or recipient, for his illustrations."
                  With the alacrity of one entering upon a congenial subject, the Professor took
                     the floor and said:
                  
                     "MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
                     My subject may be conveniently divided into four heads: (1) the persons to
                        flog, (2) the persons to be flogged, (3) the instruments with which to flog,
                        (4) and lastly the advisability of flogging. In this arrangement it will be
                        observed that I have followed the example of that impulsive judge who was
                        wont to hang first and try afterwards. In the correction of youth I have
                        found this a most effective mode of procedure cedure. Investigate the offence
                           before the flogging, and the culprit will think of a hundred
                        perplexing fallacies; 'necessity is the mother of invention.' Investigate
                        the offence after the flogging, and the delinquent, having
                        nothing now to fear, will usually make an open confession, always provided
                        that he has anything to confess. If it should happen to be otherwise my
                        usual course is to credit the youth with one caning in advance, and dismiss
                        him with full forgiveness for all the mental agitation he has caused me—for,
                        so far as the bodily exertion goes, it is a healthy and exhilarating
                        exercise.
                     And this leads me to the first division of my subject. The wielder of the
                        rod should be endowed with peculiar moral and physical gifts. The slightest
                        indication of hilarity on his part will destroy the moral effect, which on
                        the contrary is often enhanced by earnest protestations of 'the sorrow with
                        which he executes his painful duty.' He should remember also to make the
                        concluding strokes the most severe. In fact the philosophic flagellant
                        should imitate the principle of an oratorical climax, which should grow
                        stronger and more impressive at each stage, for what may be in itself
                        capable of thrilling the intellect or the nerves loses its efficacy when
                        succeeding a more powerful shock. A good knowledge of human anatomy and an
                        accurate ear for sound are valuable qualifications in applying the argumentum a posteriori, for some boys have
                        extensive wardrobes and a fair idea of fortification. Nor is a cross-eye
                        without its uses to the castigator; for it is often highly indiscreet to
                        look directly at your objective point, and an unguarded glance at the
                        thumb-joint or the nails of the floggee is almost invariably followed by a
                        flinch. To all these natural advantages a good wind is a desirable adjunct,
                        particularly during perverse exhibitions of youthful agility. At the same
                        time it is important that the pursuit be always conducted in good order; nor
                        can I approve the spectacle of a learned preceptor wading streams or
                        climbing trees in a probably ineffectual chase. Finally, the rod should not
                        be permitted to the young, the weak, or the ungoverned: not to the young,
                        for it is symbolic of parental authority; not to the weak, lest they learn
                        by experience that to bear is not synonymous with to carry; not to the
                        ungoverned, lest they use it capriciously, or yield to a passion for
                        variety—like Squeers in the story, who could not resist the charm of
                        thrashing a boy in a cab."
                     The President begged leave to suggest the desirability of delegating the
                        painful task to salaried experts. A corps of corpulent corporals, after a
                           proper course of correction,
                        might inflict corporal pun-ishment in every sense of the term.
                     A Querist thought it would be a refinement of barbarity thus to would the
                        sensibilities simultaneously with the senses. The sons of Mars should only
                        wield their weapons in the wars.
                     Another member: "Punic wars?"
                     This act of hardihood having been duly rebuked by groans, Prof. Pundit
                        explained that he could never countenance the withdrawal of the ferule from
                        the hands of responsible preceptors. Some of them doubtless were badly
                        qualified for its exercise. Indeed one pedagogue had owned to him an
                        overmastering desire to "pandy" with his walking-stick the outstretched
                        palms of a certain blind beggar, which the latter was wont to present to
                        passers by in a most convenient and alluring manner. But the instincts of
                        amateurs, he believed, were still more frequently cruel. One of his own
                        earliest recollections was being spanked under false pretences by a sister
                        only slightly his senior. Before he was four years old, she had approached
                        him with a countenance more in sorrow than in anger, and sophistically
                        persuaded him, first, that he had just committed a mortal sin in eating too
                        much dinner, and, secondly, that it was her painful duty to give, and his
                        painful duty to receive a whipping—which whipping was gravely inflicted
                        behind a curtain in a most impressive and humiliating mode. A favorite
                        pastime of a beautiful living member of the English aristocracy was to tic a
                        spoon-bait to the leg of a duck and let it loose in a lake swarming with
                        pike, and, when one of these had hooked itself, to watch the struggle of the
                        fish to drown the bird and of the bird to land the fish. The narration of
                        this last fact might perhaps seem out of place; but it was not really so,
                        for a cruel substitute for the flogging-rod was quite as much to be expected
                        from amateurs as a cruel substitute for the fishing-rod. A mythical tyrant
                        has been credited with a very ingenious experiment in flagellation, which
                        was, like the nightingale, "most musical and melancholy."One morning after
                        breakfast, while regaling himself as usual by witnessing the administration
                        of the bastinado, he was forcibly struck by the variety of tone developed in
                        the groans of different victims. An idea flashed upon him to select eight
                        criminals whose invariable custom it was to moan promptly on the receipt of
                        each lash, and whose moans should be found to form a complete octave. On
                        this human harp he purposed to practise simple airs. He expected, he said,
                        by skilful whaling to elicit wailing melodies, and to play sole-stirring
                        tunes upon the malefactors' feet.
                        The prolongation of the note could possibly be regulated by the violence of
                        the blow, and he hoped eventually to succeed in striking quavers, crotchets,
                        minims and semibreves at will. Accordingly various arrangements of the
                        convicts were tried, but none produced a faultless scale; whereupon some of
                        the spectators having been seized and pressed into the service, a perfect
                        gamut was at length obtained. A few bars were played with gratifying
                        success, and the despot was facetiously congratulating himself upon his
                        "musical feet," when it was found that the vocal instrument was extremely
                        liable to being knocked out of tune, a note, when struck the third or fourth
                        time, often responding in an unexpected key. Thus the inventive tyrant,
                        failing to detect the principle which underlay this mutability of tone, was
                        forced to abandon his musical experiment, and content himself with the bare
                        discovery of foot-notes. Were his system ever to be perfected and introduced
                        into our schools, the instructor could convert eight liars into a compound
                        whole, and, in one sense more than Gray's Bard,
                        
                           
                              "With a master's hand and prophet's fire
                              Strike the deep sorrows of his lyre!"
                           
                        
                     
                     "In entering upon my second division, the persons to be flogged," continued
                        the Professor, returning ing from his digression, "I would exclude from that
                        category all persons amenable to moral influences. To chastise his
                        thoughtless errors with the rattan demoralizes a high-spirited youth, and
                        tends to remove the stigma which corporal punishment should carry with it. I
                        am thus led to propound a seeming paradox—that both slight offenders and
                        stout offenders should be exempted from the rod. And the latter exemption,
                        it is to be observed, should be made in no unworthy or pusillanimous spirit,
                        but simply because superior physical endowments, no less than superior
                        mental endowments, are the gifts of Providence and should be respected
                        accordingly by the pious preceptor. What precise limit of size, positive or
                        relative, should confer an immunity from the lash, it would be rash to
                        specify; but I cannot hesitate to say for myself that I view a youth six
                        feet high and broad in proportion as decidedly exceeding that limit.
                     Whipping is the fittest and most efficacious chastisement for impure,
                        deceitful and dishonest juveniles; and it is all nonsense to say that it
                        degrades characters of this description. A box on the ear is a handy and
                        instantaneous mode of suppressing an insubordinate or cheeky boy."
                     The President feared that too hard a cuff might have the opposite effect of
                        increasing the lad's cheek; and the
                        unblushing Muggs exclaimed that in his opinion it would be an unworthy act
                        to lick a saucer!
                     "This odious idea," retorted the Professor, "may have naturally suggested
                        itself to the irrepressible Querist over his cups; and considering his
                        besetting propensity, I am willing to pardon the atrocity. On the whole I am
                        opposed to the flogging of adults, excepting criminals guilty of
                        extraordinary brutality. I am especially pleased that the old statute has
                        been repealed which permitted a man to beat his wife with a rod no thicker
                        than his little finger. It would spoil a good or a middling woman, and be
                        too thin for a bad one. The corporal punishment of enlisted men I deem
                        injudicious as well as tyrannical, for I believe, with Horace, that warriors
                        accustomed to be whipped in time of peace are the more likely to let
                        themselves be whipped in time of war.
                     Thirdly, in deciding upon the instrument to be employed, it will be
                        necessary first to consider the nature of the offence. For we must not,
                        Draco-like, chastise all faults with equal severity, nor, as the Roman poet
                        puts it, 
                           
                              'Nec scutica dignum horribili sectere flagello.'
                              'Nor visit with the cruel scourge a boy that wants the strap.'
                           
                         Next we should have regard to the sound and the sensation produced by
                        the corrective implement, and the circumstances under which it is to be
                        used. When, for the purpose of intimidating the depraved, the execution
                        takes place coram populo, that is before
                        the school, a resounding rod or cat-of-nine-tails should be called into
                        requisition, and applied with a view to the acoustic effect, mainly to the
                        back, with, of course, occasional visits to the legs, where the feelings are
                        more acute. During the presence of visitors, however, the deterrent benefit
                        of publicity must be waived, and recourse had to the private study and the
                        whip, to be addressed exclusively to the tenderer points. On such occasions
                        it is well to divest the culprit of his shoes, or to revive the antiquated
                        but convenient system of 'horsing,' in order to preclude noisy and
                        inopportune stampings on the floor. I have even found it expedient, during
                        the session of a meddling board of trustees, to replace the whip by a bunch
                        of nettles, wielded, I need hardly observe, with gloved hands. Having on
                        that occasion, with prudent forethought, ordered the delinquent to his bed,
                        I both found the process less laborious, and the few cries which penetrated
                        from the dormitory to the board-room were happily mistaken for the whinings
                        of an invalid. A supple rod is generally more durable than a stiff one, but
                        must be warily used. In the hands of a too enthusiastic thusiastic flogger it is liable to miss the
                        legs of a nimble malefactor and come in contact with the striker's
                        person—making the misunderstanding a most unpleasant one.
                     I had intended to touch lightly upon those portions of the human anatomy
                        which are the most sensitive to pain, but, being unhappily without an
                        assistant, I must needs omit this interesting department of my subject,
                        unless, indeed, some Querist will kindly volunteer to be the medium of
                        illustration.
                     'The advisability of flogging,' which forms my fourth heading, is
                        sufficiently established by the marked deterioration of the young, incident
                        upon the general disuse of this mode of discipline in our public and private
                        schools. Boys of from seven to seventeen enjoy almost a monopoly of certain
                        streets in the metropolis and other cities for the practice of baseball and
                        pyrotechnics, single combats and evil communications; and rash citizens who
                        venture to question their proprietary rights are treated to a volley of
                        slang, stones, or saliva, according to their size, age, and sex. In the more
                        plebeian neighborhoods bands of pubescent bravos, well known to the police,
                        infest the thoroughfares and emulate their examplars, Dick Turpin and
                        Sixteen-String Jack, with a boldness induced duced by past immunity from the
                        lash and (too probably) future immunity from the gallows."
                     Miss Taack observed that she could vouch for the alarming spread of youthful
                        degeneracy. It was impossible to say where it would end; but she noticed
                        with consternation that we already had thousands of abandoned infants!
                     "In the public schools," the Professor proceeded to say, "half of the
                        teacher's time is occupied in watching and temporizing with tricksters, who
                        smile at accumulated punishments which they know must be partly, if not
                        entirely, condoned, because otherwise their preceptors would be
                           exclusively occupied in recording and examining impositions.
                        Thus the poor instructors are becoming a byword and scorn to the scholars
                        and their parents, for while the improvement of well-meaning pupils is their
                        most important and expected task, they are diverted from its due performance
                        by the tricks of the ill-disposed."
                     The speaker was here again interrupted by Miss Taack, who exclaimed that a
                        teacher's notions of "diversion" must be somewhat different to hers! She had
                        imagined that the fun was all on the side of the scholars; for in her own
                        school-days she had often seen the French mistress deplorably agitated, and
                        the unfeeling pupils dilated at her distress.
                     
                     "But perhaps," continued the learned orator, "all this will never be
                        remedied until school trustees and commissioners are obliged to qualify for
                        their responsible offices by undertaking for one month the management of a
                        large school-room and class, simultaneously, by the sole means of 'moral
                        suasion,' or an 'approved system of grading.' I shrewdly suspect that the
                        humanitarians would learn from such a practical ordeal that the most
                        reliable method of 'awakening a sense of honor in the young' frequently is
                        to appeal directly to the seat of that virtue."
                     The President was opposed to this stern mode of administering correction;
                        and, like Tom Hood, he had often in his boyhood consigned a switching
                        pedagogue to the bottomless pit.
                     "Or invoked upon him the curse of Cane!" ejaculated the irrepressible
                        Querist.
                     "It was with admirable judgment," said the Professor, not noticing the
                        interruption, "that the older Greek grammarians selected 'to strike' as
                        their first example of a verb. By the aid of a similar selection, with just
                        a few practical illustrations of its active and passive voices, I have
                        generally managed to convey a distinct idea of a transitive verb, and to
                        lead my pupils speedily and successfully through a somewhat crucial stage in
                        the study of language. Nor is it in grammar alone that the instrument of
                        correction possesses the faculty of quickening the intellectual powers. A
                        cane bent into a hoop, two canes whose adjacent extremities are equidistant,
                        and three canes enclosing a space, I have found to produce clear and lasting
                        conceptions of the respective natures of a circle, parallel lines and a
                        triangle. And in the rare cases where these conceptions have become
                        obliterated. I have ascertained that mathematical figures described by a
                        stick upon the back of the tyro will remain indelibly graven on his memory.
                        In short, whatever may be the subject that is being taught, an efficient
                        application of the rod can never fail to produce upon the student a very
                        marked impression."
                     At the conclusion of the Professor's remarks Miss Taack prevented all
                        further debate by reminding the President that the switching hour of night
                        was past.
                  
               
               
                  
                  SESSION VII.
                  THE countenance of the Chairman, as he appeared upon the scene on this
                     occasion, was unwontedly downcast and severe. He complained that the Society
                     had disappointed him. Instead of a generous rivalry as to priority in
                     presenting papers, there appeared to be a general desire to shirk the
                     responsiblities of authorship and to pick holes in the contributions of the few
                     productive Querists. One silent member, with whom he had remonstrated about his
                     apathy, had expressed a readiness to take his turn upon the rostrum, and when
                     the day of meeting came he was ready—with his "Excuses," which his
                     modesty forsooth forbade him to deliver in person. He (the chairman) was
                     therefore to be victimized into reading this apology for a paper!
                  
                     EXCUSES.
                     "The most effective excuses generally rest upon some illustrious precedent
                        or authority; and the reference should be calculated either to convince the
                        reason or to excite laughter. The Devil, who is as great an adept in
                        excusing as in accusing— 
                           
                              'The Devil can quote Scripture for his purpose.
                              An evil soul producing holy witness
                              Is like a villain with a smiling cheek,
                              A goodly apple rotten at the core.'
                           
                        
                     
                     In spite of this strong language of the poet the example of His Satanic
                        Majesty seems to be very catching. 'Sir,' said somebody—possibly Dr.
                        Johnson—when his pastor remonstrated with him for ogling pretty girls in
                        church, 'the text which forbids me to behold the mote that is in my
                        brother's eye does not prohibit me from regarding the beam that
                        is in a sister's eye.' A certain, or rather an uncertain, convict, sentenced
                        to be flogged for a breach of jail discipline, was being divested of his
                        prisoner's uniform prior to undergoing flagellation. He begged hard not to
                        be stript, but was refused on the ground that he was an old offender, and
                        perfectly aware of the gravity of his offence. 'The more reason,' cried the
                        sinner, 'that I should be allowed my coat, for it is written, "He that
                        knoweth his master's will and doeth it not shall be beaten with
                           many
                        
                        stripes."' Hard bargainers have more than once sent their
                        censors home smiling by adducing, with an unusual stress, the precept, 'Go
                        thou and do likewise.'
                     A jolly Irish rector of the old school, who belonged to the diocese of Tuam,
                        kept a pack of harriers. This circumstance was long unknown to his diocesan,
                        thanks to the general aversion of the Irish peasantry to 'peaching'—an
                        aversion which is seldom overcome, except in political conspiracies. But a
                        sudden visit of the prelate took the sporting parson by surprise, and he had
                        only just time to remove the dogs to a distant outhouse. As luck would have
                        it, the bishop expressed a desire to see the grounds, and, as he neared the
                        place of its confinement, the whole pack gave tongue. 'My lord,' cried the
                        rector, hoping that a ready compliment to his superior's own youthful fame
                        in the gentle art of venery might provoke that dignitary into smiling, 'it
                        is clear that they have smelt an old sportsman.' A shadow of a smile crossed
                        the episcopal features, and they relapsed into austerity. 'Don't you think,
                        my lord,' asked the clergyman, pursuing his advantage, 'that the New
                        Testament sanctions this healthy recreation?'
                     'I should like to know where!' said the bishop.
                     '"It is the hare; come let us kill him,"' answered the unabashed parson.
                     The Right Reverend gentleman remonstrated that a quotation should always be
                        correct.
                     'But surely,' rejoined the rector, 'you can't expect me to be particular to
                        a hair?'
                     This unexpected atrocity completed the prelate's demoralization. He smiled,
                        and the daring incumbent kept his living, at the expense, it is true, of the
                        harriers."
                     "Of course," said Miss Taack dubiously, "that may be one mode of
                        interpreting the text."
                     
                        Mr. Muggs.—"It is the only interpretation of
                           course."
                     
                        The President.—"The Querist is too much given to
                           running commentaries."
                     
                        Mr. Muggs.—"Our President is given to a baser vice—he seems
                        inclined to 'ave a rise!"
                     (A cry of Oh! and with staring eyes and perpendicular hair, a
                        sensitive member sank to earth.)
                     "'Tis always so," said the unfeeling Muggs, hounded on by the reproaches of
                        the bystanders, "the timid hair starts from the inanimate form
                        when it hears the 'cry.'"
                     Shade of Hahnemann! the last enormity neutralized the first, and the
                        prostrate member rose.
                     
                     "A feint!" observed the President, as he proceeded to resume his
                        reading.
                     "Useful and ingenious pleas in arrest of judgment may of course be devised
                        without dragging in any quotation whatever. In the school where I learned
                        that ignorance is not always bliss, all new rules and regulations were duly
                        read out by a drill sergeant, whose duty was to execute the sentences of the
                        masters, and assume control of the boys during play-hours. On one occasion a
                        fresh arrival, nicknamed Foxy, was detected in a lie, into which his
                        penchant for excuses had betrayed him. Our head-master had invited him into
                        his study and was commencing the dissertation upon the heinousness of the
                        offence, etc., which commonly preceded correction, when Foxy abruptly
                        informed him that he was not aware of its being against the rules to tell a
                        lie.
                     'Didn't know it was against rule to tell a lie?' roared the astounded
                        pedagogue.
                     'No, sir,' explained the urchin; 'for I never heard the sergeant giving out
                        any rule against it.'
                     Foxy used to tell us that once before, when he was eight years old, he
                        evaded a whipping by tearfully confessing to his governess an offence (which
                        he feared to be convicted of), and attributing it, in language prudently
                        recollected from a previous lecture of hers, to a 'Satanic delusion.' In his
                        'Quatre-vingt Treize,' Victor Hugo mentions that Pitou, a royalist
                        ballad-writer, being arrested during the Reign of Terror for slapping his
                        coat-tails at the word civism, only escaped the guillotine by
                        aptly observing that 'it was the very opposite of his head which deserved
                        punishment.' Under the régime of 'moral influences' there remain few sharp
                        incentives to apologetic wit, and this pleasing accomplishment threatens to
                        be numbered among the lost arts.
                     In a story which somebody tells, a very ingenious pretext is credited to a
                        Scotch parson under the stimulus of an irrepressible craving for a pinch of
                        snuff. Unfortunately when the longing came upon him he was in the middle of
                        an impressive sermon against tobacco. Happening, just as the desire was
                        becoming irresistible, to notice his ancient clerk snuffing away right under
                        the pulpit, an inspiration seized him. He stretched his hand down, and
                        commanded the delinquent to pass up that snuff-box. 'My brethren,' he
                        resumed, as he clutched the box, 'while I am striving to awaken your minds
                        to the evils of tobacco, here is my own clerk, Sandy McSandy, destroying the
                        effect of my words. He goes on this way dipping in first one hand and then
                        the other and lifting ing them to
                        his nose (here his reverence suited the action to the word),
                        and snuffing up the abomination! You know you did, Sandy!' added he, as if
                        that discomfited sinner were about to deny the imputation.
                     When it is necessary to excuse ourselves by proxy, we should be very careful
                        in choosing our spokesmen. Servants, especially Irish ones, are seldom to be
                        trusted. An acquaintance of mine once directed her footman to inform
                        visitors that she was not at home. One incredulous caller asked him if he
                        was sure his mistress was out.
                     'Yes, ma'am,' said he, 'for she tould me so this minnit.'"
                     At the conclusion of the reading, Miss Taack remarked that she could not
                        answer for flunkies, as she never kept one; but she agreed with Mr.
                        O'Callahan that servant girls 'were imminently unsuited to be spokesmen.'
                        She had known their statements to be so mixed up that it was quite
                        impossible to execrate them from their confusion.
                     Muggs thought that in one respect they were reliable
                        mouthpieces—they didn't object to repeating a lie a dozen times in an
                        afternoon. Talking of servants reminded him of a conundrum printed by a
                        certain Querist, whom modesty forbade his naming:
                     "Why is the German Emperor's coachman like his master? Ans.
                        Because he carries out his sovereign, Will!"
                     
                        Total and disordered rout of members.
                  
               
               
                  
                  SESSION VIII.
                  WHEN it appeared that a quorum had taken their seats, the President rose to say
                     that his remonstrances about their indolence seemed to have been wasted on the
                     desert air. Perhaps, this being their last meeting for the present season,
                     Querists had antedated or anticipated their vacation: at all events no one had
                     as yet come forward with a contribution. Any literary remarks would therefore
                     be in order.
                  A mercenary member explained that his leisure time had been wholly occupied in
                     elaborating the scheme of a great newspaper, "The Winding Sheet," to be devoted
                     to the interests of cremation, inhumation and suspension. It was expected to
                     triple the circulation of the Daily Noose, which owed its
                     popularity to the unaided charms of the last topic, and an appropriate
                     mispronunciation. To secure a perennial supply of casualties, the "Sheet" would
                     denounce, as despotic and inimical to enterprise, the testing or condemnation
                     of boilers, the liability of railway companies for the lives of their
                     passengers, the interference with the right of carrying concealed weapons, and
                     the compulsory examination of dispensing chemists. With the same view it would
                     advocate the free sale of poisons, the license to adulterate food and drink,
                     the nobility of revenge, the duty of acquitting the fair chastisers of
                     masculine turpitude, the spread of fire insurance, the fiery celebration of
                     national anniversaries, the petting of inebriates, the exclusively medical
                     treatment of kleptomaniacs and emotional criminals, and the manumission of
                     converted felons. He respectfully solicited the co-operation of the
                     society.
                  O'Callahan hoped he would shortly be able to offer the gentleman the MS. of a
                     serial eminently suited to the proposed journal. It was entitled "The Martyrs
                     at the Steak," or "Mrs. Boggs's Boarders," and contained some startling
                     revelations.
                  Muggs said that the enterprising publisher had omitted one grand incentive to
                     homicide. He should establish a column of 'fashionable intelligence,' interview
                     milliners and footmen for items, and in playful and familiar phrases parade the
                     names of modest and unblemished ladies side by side with the females who pay
                     for notoriety. At first sight the proprietor might apprehend unpleasant
                     consequences for number one, if he should add this to the other attractions of
                     his journal; but with a little judicious management the mortality might be confined to reporters and managing
                     editors. And it ought to be considered that nothing increases the circulation
                     of a paper like thrilling accidents or scandals among its staff, for the public
                     eagerly buy the sheet which is sure to contain the freshest and fullest
                     particulars. He would further suggest that the paper should be printed in
                     crimson, which, besides being typical of the contents, would insure its being
                     always red from beginning to end.
                  The mercenary member flattered himself it would be read with an a.
                  "There certainly is a difference between the words," Mr. Muggs
                     admitted.
                  A modest member trusted that the "Sheet" would not seek its sensations in
                     personals and personalities, or delude the simple by puffing patent
                     panaceas.
                  "Malicious libels," said Miss Taack, "will never cease until writers are
                     compelled to sign their contributions and become directly responsible therefor.
                     Under the present system the purest characters are not secure from synonymous
                     insinuations. With the several improvements indicated, I daresay the
                     contemplative daily will be a commercial success, for it is painful to see the
                     avidity with which people devour the details of hairbreath scrapes and
                     melancholic accidents cidents. The editor of the 'Sheet,' however, should avoid
                     the many conventual absurdities which are now current in newspaper market
                     reports. How 'hops' can be 'steady,' how there can exist 'a firm feeling in
                     coffee,' or how opium can be 'no longer a drug on the market,' is more than I
                     can comprehend. It may be news to some people to be told by a
                     reporter that at an Agricultural Fair 'cattle are going at fair prices,' while
                     'swine are dull,' or that in a commercial mart 'offerings are
                     limited' in leather! I once saw in a Southern paper that 'Barbadoes 'lasses
                     were selling at 45 c. per gal!' but I suppose this must have been before the
                     abolition of slavery. It is strange but true that all these ridiculous market
                     'quotations' are published by their illiterate writers without a single pair of
                     converted commas! Now, as hints which our enterprising fellow-Querist is
                     welcome to adopt, I shall just give a few specimens (chiefly from the poets) of
                     what I call genuine
                  
                     TRADE QUOTATIONS.
                     Patronize a good tailor and butcher 'for it is fit and meat so to do.'
                     Motto for a baker: 'Tell me where is fancy bread?' (Inquire within.)
                     
                     Maxim for a confiding florist: 'Charge for the golden lilies
                           now.'
                     Mode of addressing a musician of the name of James: 'Bright Jem instinct
                        with music, vocal spark!'
                     Song for would be borrower, when money is reported 'close:' 'Thou art so
                        near and yet so far.'"
                     The mercenary member passed a flattering eulogium upon the lady's
                        originality and discernment. With a little practice on the press, she would
                        doubtless become a literary star. He would be happy to afford her ample
                        opportunity to cultivate her powers of composition, and was willing to
                        engage her for a year to furnish a daily column of similar citations—two
                        copies of the paper to be taken in payment, with an extra one if she should
                        organize a club of ten. At the close of their contract, if she had grown
                        famous, he would make a handsome proportional increase to her stipend, or
                        even—if she should ungratefully desire to forsake him—he would
                        waive his equitable claims to her services.
                     O'Callahan protested that the rendezvous of the Querists was not quite the
                        place for getting up bargains or sells—of this description. It was foreign
                        to his conception of a polite society that members should derive profit from
                        their membership. He did not, however, want to influence the lady adversely
                        to the gentleman's proposition; but he strongly advised her to ask for an
                        indefinite time to decide, and at its expiration to request an
                        extension.
                     At this point the mercenary member angrily started, to his feet, and the
                        harmonious decorum of the Metropolitan Society might have been rudely
                        interrupted for the first time, had not Muggs created an opportune diversion
                        by abruptiy proposing what he fancifully styled a conundrum:
                     "Why is a Bewildered Querist like the yolk of an egg?" Answer.—"Because he is an egg-centric fellow!"
                     Completely riddled by this unexpected discharge, the irate Querists promptly
                        shared in the general collapse. On returning to his senses, the Professor
                        gasped that such an atrocity was unworthy of one who professed to be a
                        "scientific gent".
                     "The learned Querist," cried Muggs, with more than usual emphasis, "is
                        utterly mistaken: I neither claim nor desire to be a 'gent.' The
                           Querists' Webster, if I live to introduce that valuable
                        compilation to the public, will contain the following definition: 'GENT.—A
                        vulgar fraction of a gentleman.'"
                     The Professor hastened to explain that he sympathized with Mr. Muggs'
                        aversion to the abbreviation, which
                        he had used only as part of a quotation. In his own opinion this contraction
                        conveyed a very contracted idea of a gentleman.
                     Symptoms of thirst and restlessness having now displayed themselves, the
                        President said:
                     "Ladies and Gentlemen:
                     I have now to announce the termination of the first season of the
                        Metropolitan Society of Bewildered Querists. Not being a tailor, I have no
                        wish to cut up members about the close, and then to draw tears, by a
                        touching valedictory. I therefore, without further adieu, dismiss you with
                        my benediction, congratulating you upon the curious results already attained
                        by the Society, and trusting that during your recess you will strenuously
                        continue the pursuit of heterogeneous knowledge under difficulties."
                  
               
            
            
               WOMAN'S WORTH.
               
               WOMAN'S WORTH.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Republished, with large additions and changes, from the New York "World." In
                     this speech a few borrowed jokes appear, in connections which it is hoped
                     may excuse their resurrection.
               
               
                  On the 31st of September, 1872, the following characteristic address was
                     delivered before the Anti-Man Association of the United States, assembled in
                     secret session, by Mrs. ——, a tall and spiritualistic aspirant for the
                     Presidential chair:
               
               
                  MY FELLOW-COUNTRYWOMEN:
               
               Even within the restricted sphere in which she has been forced to move, the
                  achievements of woman have been wondrous. Indeed, it has been sensibly remarked
                  that all eminent personages of ancient and modern times have been either women or
                  Irishmen, and that the exceptions would have been women, but for circumstances
                  over which we have no control. In demonstrating the truth of this statement, we
                  must not always accept current reports. History was written by man,
                  and his story naturally exaggerates the exploits of his own sex. Comparative philology and
                  the inspired writers are more trustworthy guides.
               Thus there are good grounds for supposing that ships were invented by a female.
                  The word for a vessel is feminine in English and most other languages, and a ship,
                  as you are all aware, has many other points of resemblance to a woman. Sometimes
                  she is attached to a buoy, sometimes she is tender to a man-of-war, or hankers
                  after a swell. On other occasions she goes into stays, or makes up to an old pier.
                  It has even been suggested by some commentators that the first vessel was named
                  after a female, probably its inventor. Ark, they say, is a well-known
                  woman's name, as in Joan of Arc; and as it has been recorded of Joan
                  of Arc that she was Maid of Orleans, so it has been written of Noah's
                  Ark that she was made of gopher wood. St. Paul himself, apparently,
                  recognizes the striking analogy between gals and galleys when he speaks of woman
                  as "the weaker vessel." But beyond this there is reason to suppose that Eve
                  herself was a whaler, for we read in the fourth chapter of Genesis,
                  "Adam, Seth. 'Eve, Cain, Abel.'" Many modern women succeed capitally
                  in the same line of business. How well I remember, when my mother took me on her
                  knee, what a lot of blubber she would get after a
                     littlewhaling! Indeed, I was once so much struck by
                  her performance, that I took to wailing myself. Women are no less adroit as
                  fishers for plaice and other flat fish, while in fishing for compliments they are
                  most acute anglers. They have always shown a marked partiality for water, insomuch
                  so that they have often been appropriately called ducks. Our depreciators may say
                  that we cannot man the navy; but it is from us that all sensible men select their
                     mates, and no man can deny that from our very girlhood we make the
                  best of skippers!
               
               In chemistry the services of woman have been considerable. Besides giving their
                  names to such useful therapeutic agents as Sal-volatile,
                     Bella-donna and Mag-nesia, she was the first to
                  employ a very valuable preparation of potash. "Io died of love for Jupiter," the
                  fable tells us; but we know better—Io-dide of potassium, a martyr to
                  the noble cause of science.
               Ladies' qualifications as logicians are of the highest order. For the argumentum ad hominem, for begging the question, for
                  eluding the point, and for never giving in, give me a woman. 
                     
                        In arguing, too, all men must own her skill,
                        For e'en though vanquished, she can argue still.
                     
                  
                   And combined with these apparently
                  contradictory gifts is that calm and unbiased judgment, that habit of impartial
                  decision, which has wrung from men the unwilling confession that we are indeed the
                     fair sex. If Aristotle introduced the synthetic method of
                  reasoning, it seems beyond a doubt that a woman originated the analytic system.
                  And yet historians must pluck even this laurel from our brow, and claim the credit
                  for an English philosopher. As if the first Ann Elizer could have
                  been a man! That our contributions to science might have been more numerous, I
                  cannot deny; but then so great is our attachment to the pursuit of
                  truth that we don't want to overtake it, and end the chase.
               In the realms of literature, however, woman has roamed untrammeled by any such
                  restriction, and her career has been proportionately glorious. Owing to her
                  natural aptitude for telling stories, she has already in a great
                  degree supplanted her competitor in the production of romances. Her superiority in
                  the poetic art would be still more marked were it not that she devotes so many of
                  her imaginative efforts to those sublime but impracticable
                     subjects—babies—and that many of her genuine triumphs have been
                  coolly claimed and appropriated by man. Thus Horace insidiously talks of the
                  "masculine" Sappho; and they actually teach in our colleges that the celebrated
                  poetesses, An-acreon and Lu-cretius, belonged to the
                  ugly sex! It would hardly become me to dwell upon our well-known
                  success as lecturers—both before and behind the curtain.
               It is not my opinion that woman's vocation lies among the trades or mechanical
                  arts. She feels a natural attraction to teas; but yet her finer
                  instincts revolt against a grocer's sphere of duties. Lot's wife may
                  have been changed into a pillar of salt; but, thank goodness, it is only men who
                  voluntarily convert themselves into salt-cellars! Our fair hands are naturally
                  suited for marketing, yet they would shrink from the cruel offices of the
                  shambles. The woman of high aspirations should not descend to the low plane of the
                  carpenter; nor, though she may favor sweeping reform, should she soil her skirts
                  in cleaning streets or chimneys. It is not for her to waste her restless energies
                  in mending shoes, in grinding knives, or repairing the fastenings of doors. And
                  yet—to their shame be it spoken—many of our most advanced females are to be seen
                  going about with disordered locks! They charge us with neglecting the
                  homelier feminine accomplishments: few of us, they say, can cut or alter, gopher
                  or take in. This petty reproach is most unfair. Any well-trained girl of the present generation (and what girl who
                  can afford the material is not well-trained?) can cut a body in the
                  most approved style, and alter or take in a beau; and our own husbands and fathers
                  are ready to avouch that we can go for a new dress, whenever we see
                  the ghost of a chance!
               The proficiency of woman in painting has not been particularly remarkable. It is
                  nevertheless true, that with characteristic boldness she has usually selected the
                  highest and most delicate of subjects, and is most devoted to painting
                     herself, and that, in another field, master pieces of design have
                  been executed by various designing females. But our triumphs in the symphonious
                  art, from the days "when Music, heavenly maid, was young," more than atone for our
                  comparative remissness with the brush. Fluting is supposed to have been invented
                  by the same talented lady who introduced crinolines, and who composed, in
                  commemoration of the latter invention, that celebrated opera, "The Rows of
                     Cast-Steel." Even Handel cannot hold a candle to the famous
                     An-dante, whose name appears on so many lovely compositions. Yet I
                  do not grudge to man his proper meed of praise: he may claim his Mozarts, his
                  Verdis, and his Offen-bachs; he can blow his own trumpet, and count by millions
                  his fiddlers, and performers on the pipe. I will even
                  admit that the goddess of harmony may have had a male associate, in accordance
                  with the views of the poet, who observes that "Music arose with her voluptuous
                     swell."
               Though the pulpit has been closed to women before the era of the Rev. Olympia
                  Brown, yet even under this disability they have won many theological distinctions,
                  and from the earliest ages the belles have called sinners to church. If most of
                  the prophets have been men, the Marta's were without
                  exception females. If we have had one John the Baptist, we have had
                  many Anna-Baptists. Indeed women have always been addicted to
                  schisms—especially witticisms. Clergymen themselves have selected the
                     gown as the proper garment for their sacerdotal office, and after
                  taking our dress they leave us in the cold! And yet it is peculiarly unfair to
                  debar us from the ministerial profession. We have always been favored mediums of
                  communication between mankind and the spirit-world. We were chosen to tend the
                  mysterious Vestal flame, and were the mouth-pieces for the utterances of the
                  Delphic oracles. Two sisters invented the Rochester knockings,—as Collins says,
                     "rapt, inspired"—and it remained for another woman to span a chasm of twenty-two centuries and commune,
                  in the best of Greek, with the manes of Demosthenes!
               I take this opportunity to remove a slur cast upon modern spiritualism.
                  Performances given in the dark, it is said, cannot bear the light. Now, just
                  consider the facts. It is well known that flames have a tendency to burn blue in
                  the presence of a genuine apparition, and a glimpse of one puts all natural hair
                  into a perpendicular attitude. Could a ghost with the slightest pretensions to
                  politeness, such a ghost in fact as would accept a civil invitation, be so
                  ill-natured to the wearers of artificial ringlets as to make his appearance in the
                  light. Besides, the duty on imported spirits is very high, and the darkness aids
                  them in eluding the guardians of the law. It is, further, to be considered that at
                  midnight, when spirits usually take their recess, the excise law goes into
                  operation. And if the gas was not turned off, their revilers would
                  talk of ghastly apparitions, or of mediums gassing the
                  audience! Would any spectre, I ask, with the smallest vestige of benevolence,
                  expose its patrons or itself to such atrocities?
               Our sex, which many of its detractors own to be enchanting, charming,
                  and bewitching, constitutes the greater part of the most interesting
                  supernatural beings. The Nymphs, Sirens and Mermaids, the Muses and Graces, were
                  all female. So were the Oriental Peris, and, with few exceptions, our own Fairies,
                  while even men allow us a majority among the angels.
               Our fitness for the healing art has been freely admitted by the rougher sex: 
                     
                        "O woman, in our hours of case
                        Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,
                        And variable as the shade
                        By the light, quivering aspen made,
                        When pain and anguish wring the brow,
                        A ministering angel thou!"
                     
                   A handsome homœopathic doctress might be expected to heal numerous cases of
                  blighted affection, on the principle that "like cures
                     like." Her charms, reawakening the susceptibilities of love-sick
                  swains, would often prove an effectual anti-dote. Thousands of men of
                  all classes, but especially clerks and students, are pining to experience woman's
                  gentle treatment. Indeed the profession should be exclusively her own; for, as Dr.
                  Mary W. r has forcibly remarked, with indignation stamped upon her manly brow,
                  every male doctor who pockets his professional fee unsexes himself and becomes a
                     fee-male.
               
               But it is not in this direction alone that man has usurped our feminine vocations.
                  Brewing, baking, weaving, etc., were once conducted entirely by women, as any one
                  acquainted with etymology might infer from such once common names as 'brewster,'
                  'malster,' 'bagster,' and 'spinster.' Of these trades they have only left us the
                  last—a business which is unfortunately rather overcrowded just now. In all past
                  ages the art of match-making was confined to us; but lately even
                  this, our ancient monopoly, has been encroached upon by the matrimonial columns of
                  certain journals. And, as if it was not enough to invade our various spheres of
                  usefulness insidiously and by degrees, we have often been legislated en masse out of our legitimate callings. Statutes
                  throwing thousands of women out of employment were enacted against the luxurious
                  habits of the Roman matrons. And yet those paragons of Arcadian simplicity, their
                  lords and masters, by the aid of drastic prescriptions used to manage three
                  dinners or so a day, and probably wanted to secure the price of a fourth by
                  reducing their wives' expenditures. But the most atrocious persecution of this
                  nature was the notorious Salic Law, a measure disqualifying women from holding
                  public offices, but originally aimed—according to certain unknown and talented
                  historians who have conducted their researches on the principles of Niebuhr—at a
                  popular Queen Sally. The misguided enemies of this princess have thought it a
                  capital joke to make an idle say!
               
               Our depreciators will have it that we are incapable of performing military
                  service, and therefore undeserving of a voice in the government of our country.
                  Now, in spite of all the disadvantages imposed upon her, and notwithstanding her
                  want of training, woman has fought, and fought heroically, on many memorable
                  occasions. Need I allude to the Carthaginian ladies who tore their hair out to
                  make bowstrings, and threw themselves into the flames of their native city? Need I
                  mention Semiramis or Zenobia, the warlike Clorinda, immortalized by Tasso, or the
                  chivalrous Britomart, celebrated in Spenser's "Faery Queene"? And the fire that
                  warmed our grandmothers and aunts' sisters burns as brightly in our bosoms to-day.
                  Each modern war has produced its heroines—the Commune its Petroleuses, the Italian
                  struggle its Della Torres, the Southern Rebellion its Belle Boyds, and other fair
                  creatures "who cherished noble longings for the strife." If, as Virgil records,
                  "Penthesilea led her bands of Amazons, and, though a virgin, dared to engage with
                  men," I know scores of maidens who would not shrink from
                  engaging with any eligible male, even if he were twice their size,
                  and who need but a slight hint to rush to arms. If Judith is lauded in the sacred
                  narrative for having fearlessly cut off a tyrant's head, more
                  memorable exploits occasionally pass unrecorded before our eyes. The other day, in
                  one of our most crowded streets, a brawny colored girl seized a youth who had
                  offered an insignificant price for her luxuriant waterfall, and, grasping him by
                  the hair, proceeded to "put a head on him." His big brother shared
                  his fate, being speedily knocked out of time by the Ethiopian pet, who, at the
                  beginning of each round, came promptly and spitefully to the scratch.
                  If Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, smote an iron nail into the temple of the
                  sleeping Sisera, did not Molly O'Dowd, the Billingsgate fish-woman, whip five
                  policemen in five minutes with the natural nails of her hands? Who has not heard
                  of the gigantic Polly-phemus, or of the gallant Lou-Ellen, the Welsh
                  princess who checked the victorious army of King Edward? Who has not read how the
                  stout German matrons, of the Two-ton race, fired with the true spirit of Mars—and
                  grandmars, fought side by side with their valiant sons? Before the invention of
                  gunpowder, women loved to draw the long bow; and when contrasted with
                  the most redoubted doubted male archers, our archer graces were invariably
                  conspicuous. Almost every girl had her bow—some, it is said, a dozen beaux at the
                  same time, each of course "upon a string." We have exhibited to the world a number
                  of brilliant and successful Sallies; we march with the
                     infantry in arms, and skilfully repair the breeches.
                  We are never wholly shiftless, and when most tightly pressed on both flanks by
                  hostile bands, we extricate ourselves by timely faints. We smile as we scent
                     the powder; the sound of the ball is music to our ears, and
                  even in the rout we remain irresistible!
               Even the gentlest and most sensitive of our sex may be roused into combativeness
                  by great and sudden provocation. Some time ago I myself was strolling quietly
                  along, musing upon the chances of the Presidential election—as Shakspeare
                  beautifully expresses it, "in maiden meditation, fancy free"—when an impudent
                  scamp fixed his eyes upon my bonnet, and asked if it was cold up
                     there! Thinking this a rather cool question, I was moving on, when
                  the scoundrel called me his Lilliputian. Now this was a little too
                  much. "Lilly who, sir?" said: "I'll have you to know that I'm neither Lilly this
                  nor Lilly that, but a respectable married lady." With that, I lifted him up gently
                  by the two ears, and made him regard the situation from a somewhat different point of view. As his education had
                  evidently been sadly neglected, I devoted a minute to polishing him off. He tried
                  to whistle it off as he retreated, but I noticed that the tune was, "Put me in my
                  little bed."
               After this knock down argument, why should I seek further for
                  examples of woman's fighting qualities. That she would make a great
                     hit in the gladiatorial arena, has been proved beyond a doubt by
                  the striking illustrations I have given.
               My fellow-countrywomen, in the hope that I may more signally display our executive
                  ability and aid in transplanting our undeveloped energies to other and wider
                  fields of usefulness, I have consented to make myself a candidate for the
                  Presidency of the United States. For the salvation of our sex, I have mastered my
                  natural diffidence; I have defied the voice of calumny, and borne the reproach of
                  almost every disreputable 'ism.' You see before you a long, suffering
                     creature! They say that I advocate polygamy, though my bosom friends can
                  bear me witness that I despise a woman who would undertake the duties
                  and responsibilities of married life with more than three husbands at the same
                  period of her existence. They insinuate that in the approaching cra I would
                  confine man to the care of the household and the nurture of children. Ladies, I
                  have no such desire. I hold that (in families too poor to keep a nursery boy) no
                  true wife should object to taking charge of the baby once in a while, especially
                  on emergencies which may require tact and dissimulation. They even accuse me of
                  favoring free love! They might as well say that I wanted to populate the Great
                  American Desert by means of the multiplication table. Free love,
                  indeed! Why, if there's one thing I scorn, it's a man who wants to have his
                  courtship free of expense—to make love on the cheap! I consider it an inalienable
                  right and privilege of the males to invite us to theatres, balls, drives and
                  champagne suppers—not that I ever imbibe—and to present us with
                  French candies, bouquets, diamonds, necklaces and chains. If they want woman to
                     hug her chain, that's the way to do it. And yet they say that I
                  wish to deprive men of all their privileges!
               My enemies have even directed the most odious and absurd buffooneries against me
                  and the noble ladies who labor with me. One jester forgets that I am not a
                  spinster, and apprehends that my Presidential term will be an era of
                     mis-rule, and my electors mis-chief-makers! Another
                  says I remind him of a Crusader, because I am champion of the cross!
                     The Sage of Chappaqua—who, I am sorry
                  to say, is more given to saws than wise sayings—suggests that I
                  should give up silks and satins, because I want muslin' during the
                  dog-days! Some learned philologist observes that we are on the fair road to prove
                  that woman is derived from woe and man, and virgin
                  from vir (a man) and gin (a
                  snare). This vile lampoon upon the worthy Dr. Mary W——r has appeared in a public
                  journal:
               "The personal appearance of Dr. W——r is not attractive. He is not particularly
                  neat in her clothing, and his hair is not nicely put up in a way to let you know
                  if he is a woman or she is a man. He wears a sort of a cross between a frock coat
                  and a petticoat, which comes down to her knees, beneath which are conspicuous his
                  pantaloons and boots. We thought he was somewhat rude when she stepped off the
                  platform, as he did not offer us her hand to aid us in alighting. He asked us to
                  attend her lecture, but she did not offer us any of his tickets."
               And just because this lady, smarting under a sense of her sex's wrongs, has
                  adopted a practical mode of re-dress, another scribbler must needs
                  stigmatize her as a pantaloonatic! I suppose it is masculine logic to
                  condemn the breeches which etiquette prescribes for males as breaches of etiquette
                  in a female!
               But I pursue my course undismayed by these shafts of sarcasm and detraction. I
                  feel that the crisis has come when the political trickery of man must yield to the
                  winning ways of woman. There are three factions in the field, exclusive of George
                  Francis Train; and each of them is weakened by internal dissensions, except that
                  of George Francis—whose party consists of himself! Now is the time to strike. Let
                  us combine for a few weeks, and the male creation will be at our feet. Where is
                  the vaunted politeness of our oppressors, if a lady is to stand for
                  office, and a man to occupy the Presidential chair?
               
               They may boast that Grant is a man of fine presents, or speak of him
                  as a highly gifted personage. They may talk of his having been a
                  tanner, or of Wilson's having been a cobbler, hoping to make their supporters true
                  to the last. As if it were a credit to public men that they had
                     sold their own soles for gain! But these official freebooters will
                  soon have to abandon their booty for the thread of their political
                  existence is waxing to an end!
               
               One moon-light night, not long ago, I stood beneath the sky awaiting the approach
                  of my spiritual affinity, through whose assistance I sought to read the secrets of
                  the stars. The rapturous and sublime emotions of the hour were presently interrupted by an inaudible
                  voice. "Demosthenes!" I murmured, as our spirits mingled, "say, what is the mystic
                  sentence of the night?" "Tondapameibomenos, thug domh pogue, ma colleen og,"
                  replied the orator with true oracular ambiguity—which means, when translated from
                  the original Greek, "To the tanner tanning, and leathering to the
                  leatherer." "And what of Greeley?" I inquired breathlessly. "Will Horace cope
                  successfully with the great star-combination?" "His horoscope says,
                  no," was the reassuring answer.
               It is therefore with much assurance my country-women, of assurance
                  derived from spirits and from the bier, that I enter the political arena as your
                  candidate, the exponent of your aspirations, and reformer of your grievances. In
                  your behalf I advocate the reconstruction of our postal system—a thorough
                  regulation of the mails. I favor the one term principle, which suits
                  my own retiring disposition. I maintain the importance of reducing taxation and
                  cutting down the public expenditure. And who is so fit as woman to bear the
                  standard of economical reform? Has she not always protested against the
                  extravagance of man, and often raised an immense bustle
                  about a little waist? I insist on the abolition of the oppressive
                  duties upon silks, satins, laces and gloves—dyes, perfumes and cosmetics—and other
                  necessaries of life; and, as it is an axiom in political economy that the public
                  burdens should rest most heavily upon articles of luxury, I propose to increase
                  the imposts upon tobacco and liquors, firearms and fishing-rods, base-balls, and
                  billiard tables, and all such incentives to idleness and dissipation.
               You have long sought, as your candidate for the White House, a representative of
                     high standing—a person of some weight in the
                  community—a woman capable of filling the Presidential chair, or any
                  other chair in the United States. Now that you have found a fit and
                     suit able executive—as they said of Andy Johnson, because he was a
                  tailor—stick to your colors. Practice your favorite motto, and "let your light
                  shine before men." If you meet with some discomforts, or lose a few
                  silly admirers more or less, recollect that we must sometimes "stoop to
                  conquer,"—as I once remarked when I gave a small boy a box on the ear. Go boldly
                  to the polls: take with you your credulous husbands, beaux and brothers. Let us
                  occupy the place intended for the last and best of created beings: 
                     
                        "For Nature swears us lovely dears
                        Her noblest work she classes, O;
                        Her 'prentice han' she tried on man,
                        And then she made the lasses, O."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CUTS AND GUARDS.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *From "The Round Table."
               
               IN a disturbed state of society, and at an epoch which we find it unnecessary and
                  indeed impossible to particularize, a rather truculent and hairy customer, richly
                  garnished with bowie knives and pistols, requested the services of a barber,
                  offering the liberal fee of a sovereign for a clean shave in five minutes, but
                  threatening in a decidedly business-like way instant death as the penalty for a
                  single abrasion of the skin. His conditions being cheerfully acquiesced in, at the
                  successful close of the operation the eccentric customer expressed his surprise at
                  the other's temerity, adding that he was quite in earnest himself. "But,"
                  explained the tonsorial artist, calmly and suggestively, "I should have seen the
                  blood first!" He had probably heard the proverb about a stitch in time, and
                  believed a seasonable cut quite as efficacious on occasions. The history of
                  gladiators and pugilists strikingly illustrates the same principle; but the merits
                  of the cut preventive are just as clearly exhibited hibited in the social arena,
                  and our present business is with the tactics of those more polished combatants who
                  aim to pierce the feelings, not the hides, of their antagonists. Have you wounded
                  a confiding friend in any tender point? Have you sneered at his morals before
                  divines, at his tailor before the fair sex, at his person before anybody, and do
                  you imagine him aware of the fact? Pass him on the earliest opportunity with an
                  abstracted mien, and a countenance more in sorrow than in anger. Startled at being
                  anticipated, he perhaps fancies that he has himself been misrepresented to you,
                  and, with a new insight into the malice of human nature, he believes you another
                  of its victims. Perhaps, angry at the indignity, he seeks an explanation, in
                  which, prepared and cool, you have a double advantage. Even should pride or a
                  certainty of wrongs received prevent his taking any action, you have still gained
                  by adding insult to injury. You have disturbed his equilibrium, while you have
                  maintained your own gentleman like repose; you have snubbed, and not been snubbed.
                  And if the motive of a meditated slight be interest or caprice instead of
                  righteous indignation, the antidote or solace is the same. For example, when a
                  long descended simpleton or a nouveau riche
                  desires to drop an obscure or a poor
                  acquaintance, it is better for both parties that the latter should take the
                  initiative. It preserves the self-respect of the one, while it wounds the
                  self-love of the other. So far for the philosophy of the cut defensive or
                  anticipatory.
               A readiness to take offence is generally a mark of conscious inferiority or an
                  exacting egotism. In the crowded assembly, in the commercial or fashionable
                  thoroughfare, the detective may notice everything, the reporter rather more. But
                  ordinary mortals are apt to be occasionally distracted by their thoughts and
                  surroundings—ladies to be immersed in a study of the fashions, the ruder sex
                  entranced by passing beauty. Society men are embarrassed by the multiplicity of
                  their acquaintances, who, like misfortunes, will come in battalions, and often on
                  both flanks at once; while strangers are not on the qui
                     vive to notice unexpected friends. Philosophers and short-sighted
                  people have a prescriptive claim to forbearance, always allowed by people
                  unconscious of any social inferiority or injury done; and the victim of a squint
                  may simultaneously offend two unreflecting strangers by unwarranted nods and
                  stares, while the real recipient of his oblique regards may smart under an
                  imaginary cut. Indeed, we have seen it in print that a squinting man of fortune,
                  lost in admiration of a lovely débutante at a
                  dance, was asked his intentions by the mothers of two ladies of an uncertain
                  age.
               But if in many cases it is narrow-minded or even vulgar to magnify a
                  non-recognition into a social casus belli, the
                  animus of some cuts is unmistakable, and is indicated by signs intelligible to all
                  but the naturally or artificially obtuse. The cut ideal, it is true, ignores the
                  existence of its unhappy object with a look so exempt from anger, regret, and
                  every other emotion, so naturally occupied by other sights and sounds, frivolous
                  or serious, of the time being, that it has absolutely no discernible traces.
                  Perhaps the recipient of that animated but unrecognizing glance, aware of some
                  growing coolness, of some wrong received or done, comprehends and excepts its
                  meaning—accepts it even with well-bred indifference. Yet it leaves some sting; his
                  society has been dropped and has created no necessary vacuum—he feels at least a
                  little smaller. The ideal has, however, been more fully attained when the puzzled
                  victim has exposed or re-exposed himself to the same neglect; and the closer the
                  ties of blood or affection that have been so nonchalantly severed, the more
                  complete the artistic triumph. A coquette who gives his congé to an ineligible or superfluous conquest, especially relishes his non-acceptance of the
                  dismissal, and gracefully renews the slight, pleased with the mingled tribute to
                  her histronic talents and her charms. Between this exceptional perfection of
                  disguise and the wanton display of petty spite there are many intervals. For if
                  voluntary abstraction, as philosophers say, distinguishes man from the other
                  animals, the nearer he approaches the brute creation the less will be the
                  development of this faculty. And, beneath a would-be imperturbable exterior, some
                  gleam of consciousness—an over-done gayety, a shadow of regret—will usually betray
                  the absence of the "nil admirari." Where, indeed, the person we ignore has become
                  an object of our positive aversion, a voluntary infusion of superciliousness, if
                  it does not enhance the venom of the cut, may at least spare us the recurrence of
                  an unwelcome presence; and candor is surely allowable when it can be utilized. On
                  a noscitur a sociis principle the cut prononcé is equally effective when an acquaintance
                  labors under an unpopularity deserved or undeserved, or when he has become so
                  hopelessly seedy as to detract from our status, social or professional. It is
                  gossiped, indeed, that some of our modern millionaries owe much of their success
                  to such prompt vindications of their sensitive respectability. In a majority of
                  instances, however, all signs of feeling and manifestations of intention are
                  involuntary shortcomings from the self-created ideal or the finished exemplar. Yet
                  we are cognizant of a few cases where such weaknesses of the flesh have worked out
                  satisfactory consummations. A glance of ingenuous indignation from a wrongly
                  aspersed friend may lead one to investigation and amends; a quiver of the lip, a
                  softening of the eye, a flush of the cheek, while it betrays an assumed
                  indifference, may bring back a truant lover in sackcloth and ashes to his
                  discarded flame.
               If the excellence of a cut varies according to the training and self-possession of
                  the actor, the mode of procedure is generally regulated by the motive. In this
                  country of ups and downs men of the world have found it injudicious to adopt the
                  direct with an embarrassed acquaintance who may be blessed with either character
                  or friends. A quiet avoidance answers their immediate purpose quite as well, while
                  it exempts them from indignant remarks about their insincerity or selfishness, and
                  reserves to them the privilege of welcoming or possibly sharing in the contingent
                  prosperity of their friend. In the execution of this judicious plan
                  shops and offices become sudden havens of refuge from inopportune collisions; and
                  the self-possessed may utilize even private vate houses by vague yet affectionate inquiries for an ideal Smith or Jones. A
                  meeting with a man "who has seen better things," on a country road, if less likely
                  to compromise one, is much more perplexing to evade, though an inventive genius
                  might improvise the chase of an imaginary rat. A gambler of versatility and
                  assurance used to anticipate the temporarily embarrassed members of his fraternity
                  by lamenting his own disasters and requesting a loan—throwing thereby the burden
                  of evasion on another's shoulders. But this last ruse may have a disadvantage of its own. The poor are notoriously
                     charitables—non ignara mali, miseris succurrere
                     disco—and it is distressing to be offered half of a disappointed
                  man's last dollar. The indirect cut is often suggested by pure amiability.
                  Arm-in-arm with Brown, a quiet Roman Catholic, you naturally shirk Cantwell, the
                  nasal controversialist. Warned by an angry sire against the society of Gay, a
                  ne'er-do-weel, young hopeful, side by side with that fascinating scamp, descries
                  his parent in the distance, and filially resolves to alter his course—to spare a
                  father's feelings. And doubtless a somewhat similar delicacy leads married people,
                  under somewhat similar circumstances, to elude their better halves.
               Besides rustics, and those who glory in exhibiting ing an expression of petty
                  malice, and who, trying to look contemptuous, become contemptiblem, some people
                  labor under peculiar disadvantages, in giving and receiving cuts. A snub-nose or
                  natural contortion of the mouth under such circumstances may seem an ill-bred
                  exhibition of spite; and short-sighted people who do not wear glasses must be
                  slightly abrupt. On the contrary, the single eye-glass, adjunct of the scenic for
                  and object of the vulgar sneer, makes some amends to its ill-used wearer when he
                  perpetrates a premeditated cut. The inexpressivcness of the unassisted, the glassy
                  stare of the assisted eye, coupled with a steadying of the facial nerves and a
                  general air of superciliousness, envenom the wound of this vitreous weapon, and
                  render it the most effective, gorgon-like, icy, and apparently "the most unkindest
                  cut of all."
            
            
               
               THE LOGIC OF SLOTH.*
                  
               
                  
                  *From "The Round Table."
               
               IF our ideas originate in reflection as well as in sensation, our earliest morning
                  thoughts are, like those of our childhood, generally drawn from the latter source.
                  Unless lately the winners or recipients of rare good fortune, or suffering from
                  the more poignant ills that flesh is heir to, our first waking impression is one
                  of soul absorbing physical repose. Like lotos-eaters, we linger in the soft
                  contentment of the present, till the evanescence of human enjoyment dawns
                  ungratefully on our increasing consciousness, phantoms of troubles and obligations
                  loom before the brain, and a struggle, from which the resolute only are exempt,
                  ensues between interest and inclination. Perhaps the most common and efficient
                  argument of the bland usurper, sloth, is what may be called the fallacy of
                  accumulation—the same that regulates the expenditures of the spendthrift, and
                  makes procrastination such a very successful thief. We claim, generally with
                  apparent reason, that "another five minutes utes is immaterial," and forget that
                  after the easily conceded period the argument will probably be just as conclusive
                  as before. Indeed, this fallacy is specially dangerous between the sheets. Should
                  there flash before the vacillating sluggard a vague and troublous conception of
                  such a truism as that the ocean is composed of drops, or that "many a little makes
                  a mickle," very possibly after the close of "just one moment more" he is as
                  sweetly unconscious of the thrifty Scotch maxim in particular, as of all
                  unpleasant facts in general. Such was his self-seductive sophistry who yearned for
                     "yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a
                     little folding of the hands to sleep." Morpheus is a logician as ready
                  as ingenious. A collegian resolved to nerve himself against his besetting sin by a
                  recital of the spirit-stirring passage from the Psalm of Life:
                  
                     
                        "Let us then be up and doing
                        With a heart for any fate;
                        Still achieving, still pursuing,
                        Learn to labor and to wait;"
                     
                   and brooding more and more softly on the concluding beauties of
                  the stanza, and waiting more and more patiently, he subsided in the arms of the
                  insidious god. By the same persuasive influence, fixed resolutions lutions of early rising, even solemn assertions,
                  are often nullified by the testy dignity of laziness, as superseding volition, and
                  derogatory to the pride of intellectual, if sleepy, beings. The proverb that "the
                  early bird catches the worm" is easily disposed of by the melancholy fact that
                     the early worm is caught by the aforesaid bird. Opposed to the
                  subtle disputant, most trains of thought lead to the same terminus, sleep; most
                  arguments involve the same "illicit process;" and we reason in a circle that has
                  an end in obliviousness. It may be a paradox to assert, that matutinal sloth keeps
                  up with the age, and is armed against every innovation that threatens to molest
                  "its ancient solitary reign." But if of yore determined sluggards shut their ears
                  to the cock's shrill clarion or the echoing horn, and other sounds of a less
                  advanced civilization, so the rush of the steam-engine, the shriek of the whistle,
                  and the droning of barrel-organs are equally ineffectual to rouse them. Perhaps it
                  is that such discords are not exclusively of the morning, but last all day if not
                  all night; perhaps it is that every unheeded warning weakens the voice of
                  conscience.
               It may seem hard that our hours of repose should be also dedicated to feline loves
                  and wars; it is hard, when nocturnal caterwaulings are finally
                  lulled, and blood-thirsty mosquitoes have ceased to trouble, that we cannot be at
                  rest. But we should bow to the immutable though strange arrangement. The
                  statistics of longevity offer us a fair chance of a long and healthy life by so
                  doing, and a well-known adage assures us of wealth and wisdom in addition. But how
                  are the irresolute to persevere in the arduous duty, and the lazy to conquer their
                  besetting sin? At a time when our higher impulses are commonly rather dull, the
                  most generally effective logical weapon to oppose to laziness is the
                     argumentum ad crumenam; though idlers would
                  save their clothes by staying in bed, and we have heard of a man selling his last
                  suit and keeping to the blankets in secure defiance of a modest and checkmated
                  landlady. Other argumenta ad hominem may be
                  equally or more powerful with certain temperaments. Thus, the savor of a favorite
                  dish, coupled with the reflection that it was probably growing cold, nay, even
                  being consumed, has effectually wakened many and stirred them into rapid action;
                  while the spectre of a sallow complexion forces many a fair and willing captive
                  from the thraldom of sloth. But where the allegiance is undivided, Somnus is a
                  ruler sufficiently despotic, and a diplomat wily enough to evade the most cogent
                  arguments; nor will solemn oaths always serve to reform his insensate votaries. Temperance pledges may be
                  efficacious—Bacchus is a lover of truth; but, like Cupid, the drowsy god will
                  smile at perjuries. In hardened cases we would rather prescribe some prearranged
                  contrivance unsusceptible of capricious change, and such as might stir some ruling
                  principle of action or jar against the sensibilities of the individual under
                  treatment. For example, Horace's cure for lethargy might be happily tried by the
                  friends of the miserly fainéant; for the timid,
                  the sword of Damocles, suspended from the ceiling half an hour before breakfast,
                  would be a suitable device; and the musical sloth might be awakened slowly and
                  sadly by the wailing of a bagpipe, or roused by infant howls to sudden animation,
                  not without a vivid appreciation for Herod and Mme. R——l. But let the trusty
                  servant, who persists in repeating and, splendide
                     mendax, in misstating the hour, be long-suffering and meek: let the
                  solicitous or funny friend, who gently applies the water-cure, be swift and wary.
                  For in truth a sluggard roused vies in fury with a woman scorned, and is no
                  distinguisher or respecter of persons. Indeed, Lord Bacon's list of deceptive
                  appearances, the sources of human error, is deplorably incomplete; for to his
                  Idols of the Tribe, the Den, the Theatre, and the Market-place he should have
                  added, if not prefixed the Idols of the Bed. We base this opinion on a very
                  extensive induction, embracing instances of courteous sluggards swearing at the
                  fair sex; of constructive sluggards smashing inanimate alarm clocks; of bashful
                  sluggards in their night-clothes urging the pursuit of their disturber; of
                  forgiving sluggards vowing eternal enmity; and of sluggards in general letting
                  their angry passions rise, and shocking the manes of Dr. Watts.
            
            
               
               AUTOPHOTOGRAPHS.
               THE following leaves from imaginary "Mental Photograph Albums," supposed to be the
                  self-drawn characters of Fisk, Greeley, and Grant, appeared respectively in the
                  New York "Tribune," "Commercial Advertiser," and "Frank Leslie's Illustrated
                  Newspaper." Mr. Fisk's caricature, it need hardly be remarked, was first published
                  prior to his decease, and the last two during the height of the Presidential
                  campaign of 1872. The author neither vouches for nor believes many of the
                  insinuations to be found in the subjoined squibs, of which the last two were only
                  designed to travesty the unseemly and unscrupulous style of political warfare
                  adopted by some journals.
               
                  AUTOPHOTOGRAPH OF JAMES FISK, JR.
                  What is your favorite color? Rouge et noir.
                  
                  What is your favorite flower? Wild thyme.
                  What is your favorite tree? Rum shrub.
                  
                  What is your favorite object in nature? Bull rushes on the Bank.
                  
                  What is your favorite season of the year? The month of March.
                  
                  What is your favorite gem? Jem Fisk.
                  What is your favorite style of beauty? "The loveliness ever in motion that
                        plays."
                  Who is your favorite architect? In-I-go Jones.
                  Who is your favorite painter? Phiz.
                  Who is your favorite musician? Max Maretzek.
                  What is your favorite piece of sculpture? An "animated bust."
                  Who is your favorite poet? Dr. Watts.
                  Who is your favorite prose author? Old Burton.
                  
                  Who is your favorite character in romance? "Black Friday."
                  What is your favorite book to take up for an hour? "The Sad History of Greedy
                     Jem."
                  What book (not religious) would you part with last? "Treasure-Trove."
                  What epoch would you choose to have lived in? The age of the Golden
                        Fleece.
                  
                  Where would you like to live? In "the Gardens of Gul."
                  What is your favorite amusement? Reflection (in the mirror).
                  
                  What is your favorite occupation? Chiseling.
                  
                  If not yourself who would you choose to be? Brigham Young.
                  What is your idea of happiness? "Oh! that this too, too solid flesh would
                     melt!"
                  What is your idea of misery? "Water, water everywhere, and not a drop of
                     drink!"
                  What is your bête noire? A curtain lecture.
                  What is your dream? "A Dream of Fair Women."
                  What is your favorite game? The Erie stockholders.
                  What do your consider your distinguishing characteristic? Modesty.
                  What is the sublimest passion of which human nature is capable? Love for our
                     enemies' wives.
                  What are the sweetest words in the world? "Not Guilty."
                  What are the saddest? "Gone where the woodbine twineth."
                  What is your aim in life? To encourage the legitimate drama.
                  What is your motto? 'Tis as well to be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
                  U. S. G. 'S MENTAL PHOTOGRAPH.
                  What is your favorite color? Claret.
                  What is your favorite flower? A toddy-blossom.
                  What is your favorite tree? A whiffle-tree.
                  What is your favorite object in nature? A "stone fence."
                  What is your favorite letter? "The absent T."
                  What is your favorite season of the year? The present season.
                  What is your favorite perfune? Jockey Club.
                  What is your favorite wine? Mumm.
                  
                  What is your favorite style of beauty? A bullpup.
                  What is your favorite names? Tom and Jerry.
                  
                  What is your favorite painter? Tommy Nast.
                  What is your favorite musicians. Harpers.
                  What is your favorite instrument? The pipe.
                  What is your favorite poet? Long fellow.
                  
                  What is your favorite prose author? More.
                  
                  What is your favorite character in romance? Cigarette.
                  What is your favorite characters in history? The last of the
                        Bourbons.
                  
                  What is your favorite book to take up for an hour? Job (when
                     fat).
                  
                  What book (not religious) would you part with last? "Hard Cash."
                  What age would you choose to live in? Pill-age.
                  Where would you like to live? In a palace or a cellar (wine).
                  What is your favorite amusement? Travelling (on a free pass).
                  What is your favorite occupation? Raking (in).
                  What trait of character do you most admire in man? Generosity.
                  What trait of character do you most admire in woman? Liberality.
                  What trait of character do you most detest in each? Sponging.
                  If not yourself, who would you rather be? The next President of
                     the United States.
                  What is your idea of happiness? Four Aces against four Kings.
                  What is your idea of misery? Four Kings against four Aces.
                  What is your dream? ULYSSES I., DEI GRATIA AMER. IMP.
                  What is your favorite game? Grab.
                  What do you believe to be your distinguishing characteristics? A
                        dogged and stable disposition.
                  What is the sublimest passion of which human nature is capable? Love for our
                        enemies—before the election.
                  
                  What are the sweetest words in the world? "All that I have is thine."
                  What are the saddest words? "It was my last cigar."
                  What is your aim in life? To be the most gifted man of the
                     age.
                  What is your motto? "To him that hath, shall be given."
               
               
                  AUTOPHOTOGRAPH OF H. G.
                  What is your favorite color? The pink of elegance.
                  What is your favorite flower? Graham flour.
                  
                  What is your favorite tree? Treason.
                  
                  What is your favorite object in nature? A snake lying in "The
                     Sun."
                  What is your favorite season of the year? The Lecture season.
                  What is your favorite perfume? An odor of sanctity.
                  What is your favorite song? "Woodman, spare that tree."
                  What is your favorite style of beauty? A white hat: H. G.'s tile
                     of beauty.
                  
                  What is your favorite name for a man? Pat (on the back).
                  What is your favorite name for a woman? Fan (the Greeley).
                  What are your favorite musicians? Trumpeters and
                        drummers.
                  
                  What are your favorite instruments? Brazen and Reid.
                  
                  Who is your favorite painter? Turner.
                  
                  Who is your favorite poet? Horace (the Roman).
                  Who is your favorite prose author? Horace (the rum 'un).
                  Who is your favorite character in romance? The Genius of the
                        Ring.
                  
                  Who is your favorite character in history? Jeff. Davis.
                  What is your favorite book to take up for an hour? "Under Two Flags."
                  What book (not religious) would you part with last? "Recollections of a
                     Busybody."
                  What is your favorite amusement? Fishing for plaice.
                  
                  What trait of character do you most admire in man? Consistency.
                  What trait of character do you most admire in woman? Free love.
                  What trait of character do you most detest in both? A tendency to
                        cursory remarks.
                  If not yourself, who would you rather be? Grant—"If I were not Diogenes, I
                     would be Alexander?"
                  What is your idea of happiness? A country where there is no ail or bier: a land
                     of departed spirits.
                  What is your idea of misery? A fall between two stools.
                  What is your dream? "I dreamed that I dwelt in marble halls."
                  What is your favorite game? The American public.
                  What do your believe to be your distinguishing characteristic? A love of
                        plants—especially the beats of Cincinnati and the
                        sage of Chappaqua.
                  What is the sublimest passion of which human nature is capable? "Clasping hands
                     across a bloody chasm."
                  What are the sweetest words in "The World?" "Anything to beat Grant."
                  What are the saddest words in the world? "Friend after friend departs."
                  What is your aim in life? To raise the standard of Duty (on
                     imported products).
                  What is your motto? "Put yourself in his place."
               
            
            
               
               EMPHASIS AS A VEHICLE OF MALICE.*
                  
               
                  
                  *Republished, with one additional incident, from the N. Y. "Ledger."
               
               THE late Madam Alice Prépense, cruelly nick-named Malice Prepense, was one of the
                  most interesting women I ever knew. Her outspoken and ingenuous method of
                  vindicating her absent friends from the slanders of their maligners was a cause of
                  wonder and admiration. And it was noticeable that there were few victims of
                  scandal within her circle who were not her friends. In fact, no
                  sooner did any one smart under the tooth of envy than she enlisted in his service
                  and hastened to the rescue. Such was her zeal in championing injured innocents,
                  that she was invariable "posted" upon the latest slander a few hours after its
                  inception. Like the late Mr. Greeley, she loved to "nail a lie:" and she has been
                  known to contradict several before they were uttered. She evidently thought
                  prevention better than cure. That her advocacy was always judicious has been
                  questioned by some cynics, but no one could deny that it was warm and
                  spontaneous.
               About this time three years ago, I entered her closely little reception-room one
                  afternoon, and found her apparently struggling with suppressed emotion. It was the
                  day after the unpleasantness in the Church of the Chosen, when the Rev. Dr.
                  Goodfellow was accused of trifling with the affections of Miss Mainchance,
                  daughter of the leading trustee.
               "Oh, Mr. ——," exclaimed my hostess, "can you believe those dreadful
                  things about poor Dr. Goodfellow? I'm sure if he was heard calling
                  her his dearest Jane, he was only quoting the song. You know he was
                  so fond of talking poetry to her. And then as to his telling Mr. Mainchance that
                  he hoped to make her his own, why of course he merely implied to take her into his
                     fold."
               Smiling at the strange blending of stress and distress in the intonation of
                  Madame, I observed that the Doctor had denied using the expression attributed to
                  him either literally or metaphorically. I added that the venomous stories of a few
                  Pharisees, who wanted a pastor more after their own stripe, could never make me
                  suspect Dr. Goodfellow of such frivolity.
               "Ah!" cried Madame Prépense, "the very sentiment ment I just expressed to Mrs. Brown, when she
                  called him a young Lothario! 'My dear Mrs. Brown,' said I, 'you might bring the
                  whole congregation to reason with me consecutively, but you never could persuade
                  me that he was a young Lothario.'"
               The said Mrs. Brown, to judge from her subsequent conversation, went home
                  impressed with two new ideas—that the parson's parishioners believed in his guilt,
                  and that that guilt was enhanced by his age.
               "Apropos of Mrs. Brown," Madame presently resumed, "I can't imagine how Sophia
                  Atkinson can go prying into her connubial relations. What on earth is it to Sophy
                  if Mr. Brown did propose for his wife only to spite her sister who jilted him?
                  That, I suppose, must be what Sophy is trying to find out. Did they
                  go talking about her when Col. Jenkins went to Europe for his
                     health and stayed there, after visiting her for ever
                  so many months? And the Browns have always been so kind to her. I recollect Mrs.
                  Brown quite agreed with me that there was not a word of truth in that
                  horrible story about Sophy's uncle."
               "What story?" I inquired, somewhat anxiously, for I had hitherto rather esteemed
                  the gentleman in question.
               "Why, that he had actually married that Creole in the West
                  Indies."
               "But in Heaven's name!" I exclaimed, "what woman do you allude to?"
               "Oh, you don't know, then—to be sure, you were South at the time; and they did
                  hush up the report so suddenly. If I'd only recollected, I shouldn't have said a
                  word about it. Far be it from me," she added, fearing that I was about to press
                  the question, "to aid in propagating ill-natured gossip—especially as you are a
                  friend of his."
               With a sense of misplaced confidence I made my adieux.
               Shortly afterward Madame Prépense had a great misfortune, as she herself
                  asseverated. In emphatically contradicting a scandal (which her usual vigilance
                  had scented in advance of her neighbors) in the same distinct terms on four
                  separate occasions, she was yet the unconscious cause, she lamented to say, of
                  starting four different versions of the story. This happened the day after the
                  second great bond robbery of the Implicit Trust and Banking Co., about which there
                  was so much mystery. Prior to the first robbery the president, William O. Cipher,
                  had appointed his eldest son John to a vacant clerkship in the bank.
               
               Madame took care to be at home that day. The Ciphers were friends of her friends;
                  and, as she observed, she was not the woman to go about disseminating
                  mischief. Four ladies happened to call separately in the forenoon. I shall call
                  them Numbers One, Two, Three, and Four.
               Number One was not slow in introducing the absorbing topic.
               "Oh!" interrupted Madame, "please don't ask me to talk of that. I can't be
                     convinced that John Cipher stole those bonds!"
               After a short visit Number One withdrew to circulate a rumor that almost every one
                  thought young Mr. Cipher the delinquent.
               Number Two, when she alluded to the same subject, was also cut short by
                  Madame.
               "My dear Mrs. ——," said the latter, "you know I dislike scandal; and, besides, I'm
                  sure it was not John Cipher that stole those bonds."
               Exit Number Two, persuaded that old Mr. Cipher was the man.
               Number Three, an old but not ill-natured newsmonger, in answer to an inquiry of
                  hers, was informed by Madame, with an air of commiseration, that she did "not
                  think John Cipher stole those bonds." Number Three went out and told
                  her friends that that poor young man had always meant to return the bonds, but was
                  prevented by a strange series of misfortunes, etc.
               Number Four had quite another story to tell. To her Madame had expressed her
                  conviction that "Mr. Cipher did not steal those bonds;" and Number
                  Four had left with the impression that he did steal the ones which
                  had disappeared on the former occasion.
               I understand that my departed friend, on the same day, stated to a fifth caller
                  her italicized belief that the aspersed gentleman "did not steal the
                     bonds;" exciting thereby a vague suspicion in her visitor that
                  Cipher did steal, or was capable of stealing something else. Luckily Number Five
                  was not given to acting upon vague suspicions.
               A Mr. Jones, a neighbor of ours, had a young, fond, and impulsive wife. This lady
                  once undertook to beard Madame, and charge her with defaming her husband's
                  character. "My dear Mrs. Jones," cried that indignant matron, "if we had been
                  better acquainted, you would have known that I never utter an ill-natured remark
                  unless it be to contradict it. It is true that somebody did observe in my hearing
                  that your husband was 'more knave than fool,' and I emphatically denied the
                  insinuation, word for word."
               
               "Ah!" said the implacable wife, "I know what you meant by your emphasis; you meant
                  to reflect upon my husband's intellect."
               "I assure you I never thought of it; but if any well-meant remark of mine has made
                     other people reflect upon it, and if it is so unpleasant a
                  subject, I'm sure I am very sorry."
               This sadly misinterpreted woman was not even appreciated by her family
                  tradespeople. A sulky old butcher once wanted to bring an action against her for
                  saying at an old maid's tea that "she never thought he sold horseflesh for
                     mutton." This, he complained, had injured his business as much as
                  if she had libelled him in the papers. But she made the amende, and professed herself perfectly willing to retract the
                  statement, which, I am sorry to say, was far from satisfying this unreasonable
                  knight of the shambles. The grocer, who waxed wroth with her for affirming her
                  belief that "he didn't mix pork fat with his butter himself," got
                  about equal satisfaction; for she magnanimously offered to admit, for the sake of
                  peace, that he did perform the mixture in person.
               Poor Madame! she was an infallible antidote to egotism—no one in her presence
                  wanted to turn the conversation on himself.
            
            
               EUPHEMISMS.*
                  
               
                  
                  *Republished, with many additions, from "The Round Table."
               
               THE employment of euphemisms among the ancients was usually generated by a
                  peculiar motive, now almost inoperative. The use of harsh or disagreeable epithets
                  was considered inauspicious when applied to malignant supernatural agents or
                  things connected therewith. Thus the Greeks sought to avoid the wrath of the
                     Furies and the threatening presages of left hand
                  phenomena by the most soothing expressions. This classical notion still lingers in
                  some rural districts of the Old World; and we have heard an old Scotchwoman object
                  to an innocent remark about the devil on the ground that it was "nae gude to speak
                  of sic like." Even in New York city certain people of "refinement" shudder at the
                  mention of Hell-gate, and always refer to that dangerous passage by the more
                  "elegant" title of Hurl-gate. More frequent traces of the tendency
                  alluded to remained among the peasantry of the Middle Ages. Hence, probably, the appellations
                     good-folk and fairies as applied to whimsical and
                  often mischievous elves; and it is just possible that the sobriquet of "The Old
                  Gentleman" may have been designed as a sop for Cerberus.
               But with us moderns euphemisms more commonly serve to dress wolves in sheep's
                  clothing, or silence the qualms of quaint old-fashioned consciences. The argot, or cant of professional thieves, from which
                  examples of this figure are often quoted, was originated merely as a medium of
                  secret communication, and not to act as a narcotic to a moral sense already
                  dormant or defunct. This artificial dialect, so far as it is borrowed from our
                  vernacular or from other intelligible sources, seems to include as many of those
                  terms that enhance as of those that extenuate, to an unprofessional mind, the
                  crimes or horrors they express—proving thereby to outsiders that, if there be
                  honor among thieves, there is very little conscience. Many even of their
                  euphemistic phrases, such as the "everlasting staircase," otherwise "the hopper,"
                  for the treadmill, and "a dance upon nothing" for an execution, are better adapted
                  to remove fear than moral scruples. But amateur transgressors, like Pistol, who
                  called stealing "to convey," avail themselves of this façon de parler more particularly as an antidote against
                  inconvenient conscientiousness. Thus the slang of many schoolboys betrays a very
                  confused discrimination between the meum and
                     tuum. With them to "prig," to "crib," to
                  "bone" or to "bag" contains little or no unpleasant suggestion of injustice or
                  dishonor. Drunkenness conceals its various phases under a variety of figurative
                  expressions, including "half-seas-over," "jolly screwed," and "tight"—an epithet
                  most frequently applied to loose characters. The same tendency is further
                  evidenced in such seductive phrases as "parfait
                     amour," "Cream of the Valley" gin, "taking a smile," Hibernice "a
                  drop of the crathur;" though perhaps it cannot be strictly called a euphemism
                  which does not veil something essentially wrong, coarse or disagreeable. Among the
                  verbal courtesies prevalent in Western bar-rooms is one of a wholly different and
                  seemingly more deterrent character. Immediately before taking a drink, when the
                  English bibber ceremoniously "looks toward you," and the New York tippler wishes
                  you luck, we understand that the Western "drinkist" very usually remarks, "Here
                  goes another nail in the coffin!" The highly metaphorical language in which the
                  reporters of Bell's Life in London and the sporting papers
                  delighted to cloak the barbarities of a "rattling mill," has contributed to prolong the existence of the "P. R."
                  until it has become an anachronism. By the aid of this typical and entertaining
                  slang the fistic art would probably have still possessed the popular sympathy and
                  the patronage of a few well-meaning gentlemen, if the traditional pluck and
                  straightforward dealing of pugilists had not wholly deserted our modern bruisers,
                  whose backers, umpires, patrons and hangers-on are, with hardly an exception,
                  either gamblers or thieves. "To tap the claret," or "draw the ruby," "to send to
                  grass" or "on a visit to his mother," "to let out the left mawley," "to close the
                  right peeper," to pay attention to the "potato-trap" the "bread-basket," or the
                  "snorter," are terms which are either imaginative or grotesque, and have a flavor
                  of sport and humor. "To counter on the brain-pan," even conveys a
                  soothing, if ungrounded, compliment to the wounded boxer. And the image presented
                  by such phrases becomes still less formidable when these frolics are performed by
                  such harmless creatures as the Birmingham "Pet," the New York "Novice," the
                  Chicago "Chicken," the Benicia "Boy," or the Irish "Infant."
               It has been observed that the misuse of "play" as a synonym for gambling has gone
                  far toward the toleration and diffusion of that practice; and the sporting terms
                  "gamboling on the green" and "fighting the tiger" contribute, though less
                  powerfully, to the same result. With similar effect Germans use the word tempeln (to build a temple), a rather suggestive
                  substitute for playing faro. In many cases too, it is the studied abuse of the
                  term love instead of lust or passion, and of flirtation
                  where coarse familiarity would be a more fitting expression, that gives success to
                  the seducer; and the playful phrase, poudre de
                     succession, which was once current in France, has perhaps more than
                  once nerved a vacillating poisoner, or even made him, like De Quincey's
                  connoisseur, regard murder as one of the fine arts. Contracted or disguised oaths
                  may be viewed as euphemisms, that retain the efficacy of their originals as
                  soothing syrups for the irritated feelings, while agreeing better with the moral
                  constitution. Some of these have a further advantage for the etymologist, allowing
                  him the free use of expletives without at all compromising his dignity before the
                  majority of his hearers. Most people, for instance, are ignorant that the
                  grotesque "odds bodikins," is corrupted from God's body, as
                  "'zounds" is from God's wounds, or that, whoever uses the
                  unconnubial and antiquated "marry," swears, at least objectively, by the Virgin
                  Mary. If the vulgar "darn" is a rather more transparent parent incognito of its profane original, it has a
                  merit of its own, that, while professing an insincere desire that we may be
                  mended, it really consigns us to a place where such a consummation is quite
                  impossible. The Irish malediction, "bad 'cess to you!" is just as thinly veiled.
                  This widespread yearning to secure the pleasures without the pains of profanity
                  appears also in the suppression of the name of the Deity in the once popular
                  "'slife" and "'sdeath," and its corruption in "egad," or the colloquial "So help
                  me Bob," as well as in the Shaksperian expletives "by Gis" and "by Chrish." In the
                  examination of such pitiful shifts and hypocrisies we must console ourselves with
                  the borrowed reflection that they are so many acts of "the homage paid by vice to
                  virtue."
               Of certain euphemisms a moral eclipse is less the object than the cause, as when
                  the terms silly, simpletons or innocents—all strictly and originally
                  expressive of goodness—were first applied to fools; when stupefied topers were
                  first irreverently said to be "maudlin," or like the Weeping
                     Magdelene, as she is commonly depicted; or when "smartness"
                  becomes a synonym for successful swindling.
               Delicacy, genuine and spurious, is a prolific source of analogous expressions.
                  Thus, in relation to those frail and outlawed females not to be even thought of in
                  unvarnished Anglo-Saxon, what a variety of pleasantly-sounding foreign
                  terms—lorettes, Aspasias, traviatas, the demi-monde—spare the modesty of the
                  newspaper correspondent and the ingenuous blushes of the curious reader! Such
                  illusive paraphrases as "gay women," "filles de joie," and "pretty
                  horse-breakers," are part of the hollow radiance that surrounds the unforgiven
                  sin, and is the ruin of so many human moths of either sex. The Latin
                  "conciliatrix" must have been much more agreeable to the creature denoted by it
                  than its uncompromising English translations. Perhaps the most odious and
                  demoralizing euphemisms—which are happily becoming somewhat more rare in this
                  country—are those which evade the use of a common word or phrase, in itself pure
                  and harmless, merely because it may possibly convey a foul idea to an impure mind.
                  Of course the evil ceases when the euphemistic substitute, as is rarely the case,
                  has been universally adopted; but while it is being forced into use and is
                  struggling for existence, each repetition of the unaccustomed word must remind
                  even the most innocent of the reason of its novel usage, and,
                  consequently, of the very thing which it is purposed to banish from our thoughts.
                  The vulgar originators ginators, of
                  such nauseous innovations really insult their listeners, by inferring the
                  likelihood of their attaching a base and uncommon meaning to a term having also a
                  pure and common meaning, when that term is clearly intended to be understood in
                  the latter sense. Honi soit qui mal y pense.
               
               The misuse of the words "gentleman" and "lady," so often assumed by or soothingly
                  addressed to the most degraded classes, is a striking specimen of the euphemisms
                  that are prompted by courtesy. We are not without some misgivings lest "the man in
                  the moon" or "the man at the wheel" may prefer successful claims to gentility;
                  though it might seem that this specific tendency had reached its ne plus ultra when four families occupying the corners
                  of one room assured a pitying visitor that they had been pretty comfortable "till
                  the gentleman in the middle took a lodger!" "Belle-mère," to express
                  a generally unpopular relation, is another polite misnomer, as is the
                     "Dear Sir" in the missive of an indignant dun, or in the
                  procrastinating debtor's reply, however appropriate the epithet may be in a purely
                  commercial sense. Policemen extend further the demulcent influence of euphemisms,
                  and politely notify malefactors that they are "wanted," occasionally even
                  presenting them with "a pair of bracelets;" while bailiffs describe the most
                  urgent legal claims—sometimes much more annoying than the "law's delay"—as "little
                  matters." Some similar verbal courtesies, however, are less disinterested, as when
                  one advertises for "a valise taken by mistake from the S. S. Daniel
                  Doo," or offers a reward for the return of $100 "found between the
                  Grand and Fifth Avenue Hotels." It is not an unselfish politeness which adds the
                  assurance that "no questions will be asked."
               An offset to the general perversion of this figure of speech is presented in those
                  poetical expressions designed to mitigate distress, which describe death as sleep,
                  the dead as the departed, or parting as bidding good-by. "Hôtel Dieu" is a
                  beautiful name for a hospital: with some such equivalent for the contemptuous
                  "poor-house," so many would not avoid its humiliating hospitalities by starvation
                  or suicide. "Mont-de-piété," too, is a pleasanter euphemism than the accommodating
                  "uncle," who always takes considerable interest in performing the
                  duties of a kinsman.
            
         
      
   
