
    ----CITATION----
        Fay, Alice.. Lily Bell, or, The Lost Child .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6424
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               LILY BELL. 
             
          
          
             
             
               LILY BELL: 
               OR THE LOST CHILD. 
             
            BY ALICE FAY.
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        I FOUND that lilies bloom, 
                        Where the day was dark and chill; 
                        It smiled like a star in the misty gloom, 
                        And it sent abroad a sweet perfume, 
                        Which is floating around me still. 
                     
                   
                  J. G. PERCIVAL. 
                
             
            
               BOSTON: 
               JAMES FRENCH AND COMPANY.,  
                     78 WASHINGTON STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1857. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by JAMES FRENCH & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. 
            
               Stereotyped by J. E. FARWELL & CO., 
               32 CONGRESS STREET, BOSTON.
             
          
          
             
            INSCRIBED WITH SINCERE AFFECTION, TO MRS. ELIZA E. BATES. 
          
          
             
             
            GENTLE READER:-Rambling on a sweet Summer's morning over the dewy fields of imagination, and of childhood's dearest memories, I beheld a Lily blooming by the banks of a silver streamlet; I gathered it, and, with trembling hand, present it now to you. 
            
               A. F.
             
          
       
      
         
            Lily Bell, or, The lost child 
             
                
                
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Alas for the rarity 
                           Of Christian charity 
                           Under the sun. 
                           Oh, it was pitiful! 
                           Near a whole city full 
                           Home she had none. 
                        
                      
                     HOOD. 
                   
                
               THE day was drawing to a close. A quiet calm had succeeded the busy day-tramp, broken only by the occasional whistle of a laborer, as, with his little tin pail lightly swinging in his hand, he was rapidly hastening towards his home. Already had the sentinels of heaven commenced their nightly rounds, and soon would be heard the heavy tread of the watchmen upon duty. Yet with a whole city full of people, one little girl, whose name was Lily, remained unhoused and uncared for. All the live-long day had the destitute child wandered up and down the various streets of the great city, not knowing whither she went. She could not beg; for once or twice during the day when she had seen a kindly-looking face, she felt so tired and lonely that she thought she would tell the passer-by she was a poor little girl without father, or mother, or home; but something in her heart all the while withheld her from making this confession. 
                
               So intent had the world been upon its own particular business, or pleasures, that she had remained unnoticed; and as the night came on, she was still without a shelter. 
               Sad and weary, Lily leaned her aching frame against a cold iron railing which surrounded a private dwelling, and here, with no friend, save the good God above her, she breathed from the depths of her sobbing heart, one verse of an evening hymn taught her very long ago by her gentle mother:- 
                      
                        "Jesus, tender Shepherd, hear me, 
                        Bless thy little lamb to-night; 
                        Through the darkness be thou near me, 
                        Keep me safe till morning light." 
                     
                  
                
               Doubt not, dear reader, that the recording angel registered this aspiration above, for the prayers of such sorrowing little ones are sacred in the sight of angels. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Who was her Father? 
                           Who was her Mother? 
                           Had she a Sister? 
                           Had she a Brother? 
                        
                      
                     HOOD. 
                   
                
               WE left Lily leaning against the cold iron railing, all alone and the night coming on. Here she might have remained for a long time unnoticed had not a man in passing rudely jostled the child with the corner of a board which he was bearing upon his shoulder, causing her to scream out with fright and pain. 
               "What now!" cried the man letting fall the board and approaching the child compassionately, "poor little 'un, I've well nigh killed you, ha'nt I?" 
               "No, sir! you did'nt hurt me much," replied the child almost cheerfully. "There ain't many a young 'un 'ud put the best side out like that ere," said the man; "but what are you doing here this time, o'night? I'm afeared your mammy'll be consarned 'bout you, better run home." 
               Upon this the man prepared to resume his journey, when a low, deep sob broke upon his ear. Turning again to the child and perceiving ceiving her little frame convulsed with weeping, he drew her gently towards him and kindly enquired: 
               "Lost your way home, little 'un?" 
               "No sir;"-and the sobs grew thicker and louder-"I haint got any home." 
               "Haint got no home, nor pappy, nor mammy?" enquired the man, evidently surprised. 
               "No sir," replied the child mournfully, "the woman, when my father died, said she couldn't keep me any longer, and I must go off and get my own living." 
               "You don't say anybody turned such a little wee bit of a gall into the street." 
               "Yes sir, she said she couldn't keep the city's poor upon, her hand." 
               "Heaven reward the wretch," muttered the man as he brushed his hard, rough hand across his eyes. "No, no, there's something in the book Betsy reads in so much, what says anybody that gives a cup of cold water to such little creeters shall have their reward; and what does it matter if I don't get my reward here. Seems ef I couldn't see such little 'uns suffering, and then go home and sleep of a night. No, no, I'll take her; I'll take her,-only six little 'uns at home, the seventh can't be of much account." Then suiting the action to the word and shouldering his plank, he said: 
               "Come, child, follow right on after me; I'll take you home to my wife Betsy; she'll take as good care of you as ef you was one o' her own brood." 
               "You ain't the man that puts folks in the poor-house, are you?" said Lily, after having followed him for some time in silence. 
               "Well, no, reckon I aint," replied the man laughingly, "my house is poor enough ef that's all, but then we can take care of ourselves yet awhile." 
               After walking for some distance they passed into a narrow lane, and Lily knew by the low, moaning sound which she heard that they were very near the water's edge-Presently the man paused before a cabin-like house, and laying down the plank, softly opened the door and beckoned to the child to follow him. For a moment he stood looking at the happy group before him, all of whom were busily engaged at work or play,-then wishing to attract their attention, he said: "Well, well; guess you don't know yer daddy's come, do ye?" 
               At the sound of their father's voice, his children all sprang to meet him, and a beautiful smile flushed over the broad, good-natured face of his wife, Betsy-a smile that spoke volumes of domestic happiness. 
               "Well, my young 'uns," said the father, patting the heads of the several urchins before him, "you been good children to-day, minded your mammy, eh?" 
               "Yes!" vociferated a host of little voices, "you can ask mother if we hain't." 
               "Guess I'll take your word for it;" then turning to Betsy, he said, "Could you get me a bite of supper; seems ef I'm pesky hungry, and who knows but this ere little gall'll go snucks with me;" and turning round he led forward the girl, who had remained unnoticed in the back part of the room. 
               "What gall's that you've been bringing home with you?" said his wife; and as she noted the ragged appearance of the child before her, a shadow deepening almost into a frown, passed across her brow, obscuring the smile she had previously worn. 
               "There, then, Betsy," said her good man soothingly, "don't fret now,-I'll let you know the story,-'pears to me then you won't blame me." 
               "Seems though when you've got so many little children o' your own to feed and keep the breath o' life in, 't wan't your duty to take any more," returned Betsy reproachfully. 
               "Supposin' now," said the man without replying to the last remark of his wife, "supposin' now our Charley was leanin' on a railin' of a night, without house nor home, wouldn't you say the creeter that would n't save the little feller and did n't take him in, was a wretch and no mistake, hey?" 
               "Why, yes," replied Betsy, evidently much softened by the mention of her own Charley. 
               "Well, then," continued John, "when I see this little 'un all alone in this great city, no mammy, nor pappy, nobody, nor nothing, and she cryin' as ef her heart was fit to break, why, I ses to myself I 'm poor-six young 'uns of my own-but then I've got a house, sich as it is, and 'nough to eat. So I 'm rich to what she is. Then I telled the child to follow close after me and you'd take as good care of her as ef she's one o' your own; and so you will, I'll venture." 
               "So I will, John; so I will," replied Betsy, drawing the child affectionately towards her, and at the same time brushing away a tear with the corner of her blue checked apron, "you did right; I was wrong to be so angry-like, but when I thought how poor little Jemmie could n't have half the things now he's so sick, he ought to have, I didn't feel jest right; I don't have half faith enough-pure an' livin' faith." 
               "Did n't I tell you so; didn't I tell her you'd take her like one o' your own," said John laughing, while all the time a tear was coursing down his rugged face; "you've got a great heart Betsy." 
                
               And so they both had great and good hearts; hearts that sympathized with others woes,-and not only sympathized, but alleviated them so far as lay in their power. Think of this, oh, ye votaries of the world, and from God's simple ones learn a valuable lesson. How much good springs from this act of charity, you will, gentle reader, if you follow on with me, in due time learn. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Ah! well may sages bow to thee, 
                           Dear, loving, guileless infancy! 
                           And sigh beside their lofty lore 
                           For one untaught delight of thine, 
                           And feel they 'd give their learning's store 
                           To know again thy truth divine. 
                        
                      
                     MRS. OSGOOD. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           When heaven and angels, earth and earthly things 
                           Do leave the guilty in their guiltiness, 
                           A cherub's voice doth whisper in a child's 
                           There is a shrine within thy little heart 
                           Where I will hide, nor hear the trump of doom. 
                        
                      
                     MATURIN'S BERTRAM. 
                   
                
               LILY did not waken early the next morning, and good Betsy Brown had not the heart to rouse the child from her sweet, sound slumber. "For who knows," said Betsy to her husband as they both entered the bed-room to take a look at the sleeping child,-"Who knows ef she's had a night o' good sleep this many a day." So Betsy stilled the children, who occupied an adjoining room, and left the little slumberer to waken at her own pleasure. 
               After Betsy had cleared away the breakfast dishes, and put the kitchen-which served the triple purpose of work-shop, kitchen and parlor-in order, she heard a noise in Lily's room, and thinking the child might feel sad at finding herself alone in a strange place, she entered, and assisted Lily, who had already risen, to dress. 
               "Well, you feel better for such a good night's sleep, don't you?" said Betsy, addressing Lily in a motherly tone of voice, at the same time smoothing out the snarls of her curly hair. "You won't be lonesome here, I reckon," she continued, "for there's a hull house full of children here." 
               "Seems ef you'd be great company for sick Jemmie; some how he's so gentle-like that he allers took to galls mor 'n to boys." 
               "Is Jemmie your little boy?" ventured Lily. 
               "Yes, he's my oldest one; but he's allers ailing, and we's thinking he can't stay here long;-too good for this world," and Betsy wiped away a motherly tear which could not be repressed. 
               Lily looked on evidently moved at the mother's emotion; then her thoughts floated away to her own home, and she wondered if her mother ever cried, now she was gone, and if she should see her dear mother again; she thought, too, of that bitter night when she was borne away from her mother's arms, a sleeping child, and how, when she awoke, no mother was near her,-only her cruel father and the hideous faces of his accomplices in guilt were to be seen. 
               All this passed through the child's mind quicker than I have written it, and then the fountains of the heart were broken up and her large, deep, blue eyes filled with tears. 
               "What's the matter?" said Betsy, perceiving the child's tears, and suddenly losing sight of her own sorrow, she endeavored to comfort the child. 
               "There, there," said she, soothingly, "don't take on so; I did'nt ought to cry 'fore you; it's ketchin'." 
                
               "Oh, my mother! my mother!" sobbed Lily, whose grief, instead of being assuaged by sympathy, only grew more and more violent;-"my mother!" 
               "What about your mother?" enquired Betsy, hoping the recital of her grief would restore her to quiet; for it was becoming fearful to see the child's frame so convulsed. "Did God take your mother?" 
               "No, no," said the child passionately; "father took me away from mother and brought me here, and now he's dead and I don't know where mother lives. Oh, dear!" 
               By much effort, Betsy succeeded in calming the child, and leading her into the kitchen, where a group of children were at play, she said, "Look a 'here, this is Lily; she's going to be your sister; and this is Jemmie," she said, turning to a dark-haired, deformed boy who was seated apart from the rest absorbed in watching the deep blue waves, as at one moment they would rush upon the beach, seemingly eager to obtain a foot-hold, and then recede with angry murmurings at their failure. 
               Jemmie extended his pale, thin hand to welcome the little girl, and appeared to her so kind and affectionate that the heart of Lily warmed towards him; and before she herself was aware of it, her enquiries were made much faster than they could possibly be satisfied. 
               Children are governed by no conventional rules of etiquette; they know their friends as by intuitive perception, and when they see a kindly face their little hearts rush out to meet the owner. Soon they are seated upon your knee twining their fingers in the curls of your hair, and shouting in all the frolicsome delight of their childish natures. Beautiful is childish confidence, and beautiful are loving children. Well may we look upon them as love-tokens, kindly sent to brush away the cobwebs and dust from man's heart, accumulated by long intercourse with the world. 
               "Don't you think those sail-boats are very pretty?" said Jemmie, after calling Lily to the window and attracting her attention to a group of little boats for off in the sound, whose white sails were gaily fluttering in the breeze. 
               "Oh, yes! yes!" said Lily, clapping her hands with delight; "they look like little stars. I know I shall like to live here ever so much." 
               "I hope you will," replied Jemmie, his dark eye glowing with the fire of an enthusiast. "I think you are some like me, Lily, for I always love to see such beautiful things." 
               "Here's where we get all of the wood we burn," said Jemmie, pointing to some pieces of timber which were being thrown upon the beach by the force of the waves; "it is thrown off the docks above here a little ways, and when the tide comes in, father goes down and pulls it out of the water, and when it gets dry we bring it to the house." 
               "That's real funny, ain 't it?" said Lily, quite interested. 
               "Rather," replied Jemmie, smiling; "we call it drift-wood." 
               "Can you ever go on the beach and play, Jemmie?" 
               "Yes, when very warm weather comes; but something tells me that I shan't go again, for I've grown a great deal worse since summer went away; you mus'nt tell mother, though, for she always looks sad if she thinks I don't feel as well as usual." 
               "You've been sick always, hav'nt you?" said Lily. 
               "Almost always." 
               "Ain't you tired?" enquired Lily. 
               "When I 'm sick I feel tired; but then I've always had a comfortable sickness; and besides I know if it was'nt right I should'nt have been sick." 
                
               "But I should'nt think it was right if I was sick." 
               "What not if God sent your sickness?" said Jemmie, evidently surprised. 
               "No, I should'nt," replied Lily; for although the child often prayed, her faith was but the faith of a child. 
               "That would be doing wrong, Lily." 
               "Do you think you shall die, Jemmie?" enquired Lily, evidently wishing to change the subject; "my father died." 
               "Yes, I know I shall die." 
               "You don't want to die, do you?" 
               "Yes, Lily, for then I shall see God." 
               "My father did'nt want to die," said Lily musingly; "he told the woman where he lived he would'nt die. No, my father did'nt want to see God; do you suppose that anybody that made up dreadful faces when they died would see God?" 
               "The wicked will not see God, Lily," replied Jemmie, evading, with childish delicacy, a direct answer. 
               For hours these two children might have talked on in this same strain, had not Betsy perceived that the rest of her little ones did not seem to relish Jemmie 's monopoly. Therefore she advised them to go and have a good play together; and thus engaged, we will leave Lily for the present, hoping that in the family of John Brown her former griefs may not be revived. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                   
                     
                        The simplest faith, be it only deep and trustful, the very smallest idea of a mission in life assigned by God-be it only lovingly and clearly seen-lifteth the poor out of the dust, and to them that have no might in-creaseth strength.
                      
                     JAMES MARTINEAU. 
                   
                
               MONTHS passed away and Lily was soon considered by John Brown and his wife as one of their own children. "Indeed," said Betsy, when it was suggested to her that the child might be placed in some kind family and they might thus be relieved of so great a care and expense; "Indeed she's no burden; for a handier little gall never lived; and seein' my boys are narer one of 'em galls, we've concluded to keep her; and as for her larnin' more som 'ers else, it can't matter much jest now while she's so young, if she don't larn anything to her hurt." 
               John Brown, the worthy man who had previously found Lily and conveyed her to his home, was employed as porter in a mercantile house in the city of New York. In order to make a small income meet the wants of a large family to the best advantage, he resided, when unemployed, in a small town a short distance from the city, going back and forth from New York as his work required. To be sure, his occupation was humble, his hopes were correspondingly humble; in a quiet, but homely cottage he lived happily. He was contented with his lot; and quiet content is a fruitful source of happiness. Happy was he, for he never let an opportunity of benefiting his fellow-men pass unimproved. 
               All day long his kind heart and quiet conscience greatly enhanced his enjoyment of life; and by night it was as though he was pillowed upon roses, so sweet was his sleep; the sleep of one at peace with his Maker and his brother-man. 
               Fortunate it was for poor Lily that she had fallen into such good keeping and among those who were so willing to care for all her wants. 
               For a long time John Brown had endeavored in vain to ascertain whether Lily had any relations in the city in which he found her. At length he discovered that her father had died as she herself had before stated, and that no one knew who he was, or whence he came, only the woman where he lodged said his name was Bell; and also added, that "for her part she would like to have the expense of his being there and dying paid right off." 
               At the time Lily was first introduced to the reader, she was evidently about ten years of age. Whenever enquiries were made of her in respect to her father and other points relating to her former life, she invariably shuddered, and at the same time, covering her face with her hands, she would sit for hours in the most thoughtful manner, maintaining a moody silence. She was a child of the most delicate, nervous organization. When in a fit of passion, she would stand for some moments apparently calm, when at length the blue veins upon her delicate forehead would swell out in bold relief; and then, as her passion seemed to have reached the climax, she would utter the most piercing shrieks, and almost endanger her life in the storm which would follow. Every particle of mental and physical strength seemed for the time to be concentrated in that one grief. Poor child, who will shield you from the wild cares and bitter sorrows of life, which you are so illy prepared to bear? God grant that whatever befall you here, strength from on high may be given you to subdue those violent out-bursts of passion, and drink with submission the cup which your Heavenly Father given you. 
               In a physical point of view, Lily was delicate; her auburn hair, her large blue eyes, the almost transparent clearness of her complexion, together with the exceeding frailty of her form, indicated that great care must be used in building up and strengthening her constitution. She was not, at the time of which we speak, a child of remarkable mental endowments, nor had her mind been prematurely developed; but, like other children of her age, she loved her childish sports and childish companions; beyond this, she neither knew nor cared. 
               Very unlike Lily was her foster brother, Jemmie Brown, eldest son of John Brown and his wife Betsy. In his infancy, through the carelessness of a neighbor who had charge of him, he sprang from her arms, and falling upon a rock beside the door, received an injury which had rendered him a cripple for life. He was now only twelve years of age, although many more years seemed to have passed over his head. Many were the months which he had passed in the most excruciating pain without ever uttering a murmur. He was proverbial for his mild patience; insomuch, that he was always know as "Patient Jemmy." 
               As I before stated, Mr. Seymour was the employer of Mr. Brown, and there existed between the employee and the employed a singular intimacy; singular on account of the great difference in the stations of the two parties, but Mr. Seymour was not the man to measure his fellow man by sordid measurement; he recognized and admired sterling worth although found in a hovel. For years, Mr. Brown had ever been to him the same faithful servant; and Mr. Seymour trusting him implicity, had great respect for him. 
               Very often he allowed his only child, Herbert, to accompany him home and pass the day with Jemmie, always sending by him some little comfort to cheer the sick child. 
               One warm summer's day, while Herbert was making one of his accustomed visits, the two children wished to play upon the beach within sight of the house. Mrs. Brown wheeled Jemmie to the desired place, leaving him, with the injunction that Herbert must not venture too near the water's edge. He, however, forgetting the injunction and becoming absorbed in his play, by some unforeseen accident was precipitated into the water. 
               The danger was not very great, but the fright of the children rendered them helpless. Finally, Jemmie recovering his senses somewhat, shouted to his little helpless companion: 
               "Pay to Dod, Herbert! pay to Dod!" then clasping his hands and raising his eyes to Heaven, he commenced: "O, Dod! O, Dod!" Soon he heard a step, and seeing some person advancing, he again lisped forth: "Need n't pay to Dod any longer, Herbert; Sal's a tomin'." Suffice it to say the little boy was relieved from his unpleasant situation. 
               Well would it be for many older persons, if, when the waters of affliction press heavily upon them, they should remember this little child's admonition, "Pay to Dod!" Would not deliverance come? 
               As Jemmie increased in years, his mind became prematurely old, the intense suffering which he at times experienced, seemed to refine and purify his heart. He appeared to realize that his days upon earth were already numbered, and every moment was spent in endeavoring to direct Lily's mind to the source of all good. He assisted her to restrain her overflowing passions. He drew her mind gently and gradually to the contemplation of that beautiful land which he was swiftly approaching, and taught her many her lessons which should remain with her and imperceptibly influence her future life. 
               Still he was fast fading away, as tranquilly as the gentle stars disappear from the sight, as the dawning of the morning becomes merged in the universal light of day. So the spirit of Jemmie seemed almost lost in the glorious light of heaven, and as the balmly summer days came with their gay flowers and singing birds, "He was not, for God had taken him" away from the cares and vicissitudes of earth. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           We sacrifice to dress, till household joys 
                           And comforts cease. Dress drains our cellars dry 
                           And keeps our larder lean; puts out our fires, 
                           And introduces hunger, frost and woe, 
                           Where peace and hospitality might reign. 
                        
                      
                     COWPER'S TASK. 
                   
                
               LIFE! fashionable life! fashionable life in New York!! Wherefore in New York? In none other city in our country are the extremes of fashion followed to so great an extent. Here extravagances are carried to an almost incomprehensible degree, the getting and spending of money being the absorbing passion. 
               The pseudo aristocracy, who, like Jonah's gourd, in one day's time have attained to their present size, vie with one another in their ostentatious demonstrations, each struggling hard to outshine the other. 
               A man is willing to toil so very hard, to resort to the most nefarious means of acquiring wealth, being fully rewarded if thereby he has accumulated the means of building a dwelling superior to that of his neighbor Mr. A.; or can support better style than his neighbor Mr. B. Oh! he is a happy man; he has reached the "summum bonum" of his earthly existence; and what an air of newly acquired dignity almost amounting to pomposity does he assume as he walks down Wall Street. He need not tell you in so many words that he owns a house on Fifth Avenue, it is sufficiently implied in his manner. 
               But the women of our country, they surely do not participate in this reigning love of show?-this inordinate love of dress? Would you think so if you could see them tripping down the steps of their elegant mansions literally loaded with costly trappings? With truth they might be called walking milliners and haberdasher's shops. 
               The value of the shawl they wear upon their shoulders would fully realize the highest dreams a poor man ever had of wealth. The bonnet too, "such a love," was purchased at the exceedingly modest price of one hundred dollars; very low at that, so their milliners assured them; and then the value of their laces and embroideries, Oh! I dare not speak of that aloud. Come to me, ye unsophisticated country maidens, and do not utter any exclamations of astonishment while I whisper in your ears that a city lady's collar sometimes costs more than your father would allow you for a "setting out" were you about to be married. Just think of it, and cease to wonder that the extravagances of our women beggar their husbands and almost involve their country in ruin. 
               Ostentation is the great American weakness. Living for the eyes of our neighbors is most demoralizing to the soul. All the little beauties and delicacies of refined life are oftentimes sacrificed to this one great principle of making a show. Miserable existence! when will a change come? 
               Mr. and Mrs. Seymour were what would be called, if measured by the world's gauge, worldly people. 
               Mr. Seymour was possessed with considerable wealth, together with a large and prosperous business. In business matters he was a brisk, energetic man; at home he was an affectionate father, and would have been a kind husband were it not for the propensity he had of tantalizing his poor, weak wife until serious consequences resulted. 
               There was great apparent danger lest his heart and its good impulses should become wholly incrusted in the golden scales of Mammon. This would evidently have been the case, had it not been for his little boy Herbert. Between himself and his son there existed the most perfect affection. If ever his thoughts were filled with pure and holy thoughts and aspirations, it was when after returning from his store, he would sit for hours with his child upon his knee, drawing upon his imagination for stories to meet the demand with which Herbert ever called for "more, more, Papa." 
               He told him Fairy tales and stories of Angel children, called home early, before their little hearts ever knew actual sin;-of the faithful dog who saved his master's life; and Herbert would sit for hours listening to his papa, and wondering if any other little boy's father could tell so many pretty things, little knowing that his own papa lived for the time in the far famed Utopia. 
               Alike were the father and son benefited by these pleasant interviews of amusement; they soothed and refined the father's nature, causing his heart to rush out sympathizingly towards his fellow man. And then they whiled away so many hours for Herbert which would otherwise have been very lonely, for at times his mother was so nervously delicate that she could not endure his childish prattle, and at all other times she was so fearful lest her dress or collar should become disarranged, that he rarely dared to venture near her, much less caress her. 
               She loved her little boy as well as her fashionable heart would allow her to love anything; but how could she demonstrate her love and still preserve the inimitable arrangement of her toilet? Therefore fore her child would have been left to the mercy of the servants' or to choose its own employments had it not been for the kind and watchful care of his father whose heart was bound up in him. 
               He made the most judicious selection of playmates for his boy; directed him in his studies; allowed him all harmless means of amusement, doing none of these things however because he possessed any particular moral or religious principle, but because his kind heart prompted this care to secure for his son future happiness and respectability. 
               Mr. Seymour respected his servant, John Brown, for his faithfulness and cheerful content; and knowing that no harm could possibly accrue to his son from such a source, he encouraged the intimacy between Herbert and the poor sick Jemmie, until Herbert had learned to love the deformed boy; and after Lily had become a member of the family, the three had spent many pleasant days together until Herbert had given to Lily also a brother's love. 
               Child as he was, the death of Jemmie bore heavily upon him; he could not realize that his little playmate would never speak to him again, never play with him any more. 
               He remembered how a long time ago he had lost a little sister and he thought of her pale still face, her closed eyes, and oh! how cold her forehead was when he placed his little hand upon it, and he remembered that his father said she was an angel now, and he knew Jemmie was an angel, for he was such a good boy, and his father had told him that all good children become angels when they die, and he insisted upon his father's relating to him many times a day the particulars of Jemmie's death, always begging him to conclude with the pretty verses: 
                      
                        "'Tis Jesus speaks, these lambs said he 
                        I fold within my breast." 
                     
                  
                   And he felt sadly while thinking that poor Lily must now be so very lonely. 
               He tried to think of some way by which he could afford her a little comfort;-he would send her some pretty red apples he had, and he would give her his large book on quadrupeds, full of beautifully colored plates; but he thought she would soon grow tired of them and be lonely again. What could he do for her? Suddenly his blue eyes brightened, and his countenance became very animated as if a happy thought had crossed his mind. "I know what I will do," said he to himself. "I will ask papa if she may come and live with us, and be my little sister. Oh, that would be so nice!' she could go to school with me and we would play together at home, and papa would tell us such beautiful stories." 
               Very often our imaginings of happiness are suddenly obscured by clouds; and so it was in the case of Herbert, his face as quickly as it had before brightened became clouded as he continued his soliloquy; "Oh, dear! mamma would never let her come, for only yesterday she told me I was the plague of her life and she was sure she could'nt live with more than one child around." 
               Nevertheless for all this the child concluded to broach the subject to his parents that very evening, and he was sure his father would hear him kindly. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           So tedious is the day, 
                           As is the night before some festival 
                           To an impatient child that hath new robes, 
                           And may not wear them. 
                        
                      
                     ROMEO AND JULIET. 
                   
                
               ALL day the child revolved in his mind the question, "Can Lily come here, or not?" the answer to which involved so much of his apparent happiness. 
               Never before had time hung so wearily upon his hands. "Why does not father come?" he often asked, forgetting that the hour was much too early for his fathers arrival. 
               Finally, after being wearied with watching, he heard the well known tread of his father upon the stairs, and rushed out to meet him. In a moment he was in his arms. 
               "O papa, I've something to tell you," said Herbert putting his little curly head close to his father's ear, "I've something to ask of you, can you guess what it is?" 
               "You've something to tell me, and something to ask me, have you?" said Mr. Seymour playfully, as he placed Herbert upon the floor and led the way to the parlor. 
                
               "I suppose the something to tell me is, that you have taught the kitten her A, B, C, this morning, and by this afternoon she is just able to spell 'story,' and I guess you are going to ask me for a new top, or a kite, or perhaps you want one of papa's cigars," said he, at the same time presenting his cigar-case. 
               "Did you know my son that young America is very progressive. I don't know but some afternoon papa may come home and find Herbert with a beaver hat, gold chain, seal, and a cigar in full blast. What do you think of that my son?" 
               Herbert laughed immoderately at the picture his father had drawn of him, but he guessed his father would never find him in such a situation until he became a full grown man. And as for a cigar he never should smoke the ugly thing. 
               As they approached the parlor, Herbert, lowering his voice, whispered to his father,- 
               "Papa, mamma has a very bad headache and we mus'nt make any noise." 
               "Humph," said Mr. Seymour with a sarcastic smile; then throwing open the drawing-room door, he entered, and approaching his wife, who was half reclining upon a large easy chair, enquired carelessly,- 
               "What's the matter, Estelle, one of your old headaches?" 
               "Yes, George," replied Mrs. Seymour, her face at the same time assuming the most dolorous expression imaginable-"I've suffered excruciatingly to-day, it is really dreadful to be as nervous as I am." 
               "Dreadful, indeed," mentally ejaculated her husband. "Dreadful in its consequences not only to yourself, but to your family." 
               Her husband had learned by experience, however, that silence was the better part of valor. Therefore after making a few light remarks to his wife, he turned to his son, saying, "Well Herbert, seems to me you were going to tell papa something and ask him something. What was it, my little man?" 
               "But I'm afraid if I ask you what I want to, you won't let me have it, replied Herbert."- 
               Well I certainly cannot let you have anything when I do not know what it is you want," playfully retorted his father. 
               "Well then," said Herbert, pulling hard at a button upon his father's coat, "do you know at John Brown's?" 
               "Lily Bell," repeated the father musingly, "Lilly Bell, a little auburn haired and blue eyed girl, about as large as you are?" 
               "Yes, sir," replied Herbert. 
               "Well, what then my son?" 
               "I thought now Jemmie was dead, she would be lonely," said Herbert hesitatingly." 
               "And therefore you wish to send her over some playthings to amuse herself with, hey? And you wish me to get them for you." 
               "I thought of that at first, papa, and then I thought she would soon grow tired of them and be lonely again, so I thought perhaps you and mamma might let her come here and live and be my sister, and I could play with her and amuse her when she was lonely." 
               "But mamma is not fond of childeren, Herbert," continued his father, "Do you think she would consent to Lily's coming?" 
               Herbert's face assumed a most dubious expression, as he glanced towards the other side of the room where his mother was sitting. 
               "I don't know," he replied. 
               "We can find out I guess," said Mr. Seymour smiling. 
               "Estelle, what do you say to Herbert's proposition?" 
               "What is it? George; I'm sure I have'nt heard a word you were saying," said Mrs. Seymour languidly. "It is almost cruel to speak to me when I have such a headache." 
                
               "Well we won't trouble you at present then," replied Mr. Seymour coolly. 
               "Did you say you had anything new to tell me George," continued Mrs. Seymour, regardless of the last remark of her husband. "I really believe I should be refreshed by a good budget of news." 
               Already the vivifying effects were observable upon the lady. 
               "The news is," said Mr. Seymour, with considerable severity, "that Herbert wishes me to assist him in a deed of charity." 
               "A deed of charity!" repeated the lady, her interest visibly decreasing. "Seems to me I might be allowed the luxury of a headache without being bored to death by deeds of charity. I, who do so much for the needy, I have always had the name of giving more to the church than any other female member, I imagine I do my duty and more too." 
               "You give enough to be sure," replied Mr. Seymour. 
               "But is it any trouble after the money is placed in your hand to let it gracefully drop into the contribution box?" 
               "Do you deny yourself one single cent that you may increase your means of doing good?" 
               "Do you visit the poor and afflicted, seeking for objects of distress upon whom you may bestow your charity?" 
               "Perhaps if you did-" 
               "Oh! my poor head," cried Mrs Seymour. 
               "As I was going to say," persisted Mr. Seymour, "Perhaps if you did your poor head would not be so sensitive when any call for action is before you." 
               "How cruel of you to speak so, George," sobbed Mrs. Seymour, "when you know how weak my nerves are, it is really shocking." 
               "Shocking indeed," continued her husband, "that a woman should waste her life and all its energies; a woman too who professes to live for Christ; I'm heartily sick of religion, it is a mighty humbug. If professing christians cannot let their light be seen, it must be they have no light in them. I thank God I was never drawn into a Christian life, I should not rest as easy as most of them do." 
               "Papa don't make mother cry," said Herbert laying his hand upon his father's knee and looking up beseechingly into his face.-"Did'nt you say the other day that if was religion made little Jemmie die so happily, and now you say you are sick of it? What makes you say so, papa?" 
               "You could not understand me, my son, if I should tell you," said the father, speaking more gently. 
               "But we will not continue this subject, it is not pleasant is it, Herbert? 
               "We will tell your mother now, if she will hear us, about Lily Bell." 
               "Lily who?" said Mrs. Seymour, determining in spite of her ill humor to be as amiable as possible. 
               "Who is this Lily?" 
               "A little girl who has no father nor mother, and who has been adopted by John Brown, one of my men. He has lately lost his little boy, and Herbert here is afraid the child will be lonely and he wants her for his sister." 
               "Why really, Mr. Seymour, you don't think of having any more children in the house, and I with my weak nerves. Oh! George?" 
               "But you know it would be an act of charity, and you pride yourself upon your benevolent acts," most unmercifully persisted Mr. Seymour. 
               "What a heartless wretch you are, George, to treat me thus in the presence of our child." 
               "Well, well," said Mr. Seymour soothingly, perceiving that he had carried the matter quite too far and fearing that a scene might follow. 
               "Well, Estelle, we'll, make up friends and see what we can do for this child. I suppose John Brown is very poor, and with his large family it would really be a kindness to take one off his hands. Besides Herbert would have company, and desires to have her come and then it would be a great relief to you, Estelle, Herbert would not trouble you half as much as now. Don't you think she had better come?" 
               "But you are so poor, George," replied Mrs Seymour, whose turn had now come to play upon her husband. 
               "Yesterday you could'nt give me the money I asked of you to get me a new shawl and to-day you are proposing to adopt a little beggar girl, wonderful consistency." 
               "She is'nt a beggar girl," said Herbert indignantly. "She is John Brown's adopted daughter, she don't beg for a living." 
               "Well, she's a poor child is'nt she that wants a home?" replied his mother. 
               "I don't know as she'll want to come," said Herbert, "but I want her to." 
               "What do you say, Estelle, shall she come?" 
               "If you can afford it," said Estelle, making an effort to smile. 
               "Nonsense," said Mr. Seymour, "because I could'nt give you five hundred dollars to buy you a shawl with yesterday, you think it would'nt be consistent to adopt a child who could be supported comfortably for two years upon the value of your shawl." 
               "But then it was such a beautiful shawl, and only five hundred dollars, which was very cheap, so Mr. Murry said, for that quality of goods. Oh, George, I really did want it so much." 
               "Well, perhaps we can make a bargain. I'll give you five hundred dollars for your shawl, if you will consent to receive Lily into the family." 
                
               "I don't know as I have any very particular objections," replied Mrs. Seymour. 
               "But your weak nerves, Estelle?" 
               ""Oh, George, in mercy stop. I'm quite well now. In fact I believe I'll go down right off and get the shawl before it is gone. They are in great demand and I'm fearful of losing it. I really believe the air will do my head a deal of good. 
               Truly the languid lady appeared to have considerable life in her as she tripped out of the room to prepare herself for her walk. Presently she appeared again. 
               "Well, George, you going with me?" 
               "I think not, Estelle; make haste, and I'll stay and amuse Herbert." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Good is no good, but if it be spend 
                           God giveth good for none other end. 
                        
                      
                     SPENSER'S SHEPARD'S CALENDER. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           'Mongst all your virtues 
                           I see not charity written, which some call 
                           The first-born of religion, and I wonder 
                           I cannot see it in yours. Believe it, Sir, 
                           There is no virtue can be sooner missed 
                           Or later welcomed; it begins the rest, 
                           And sets them all in order. 
                        
                      
                     MIDDLETON. 
                   
                
               GAILY the invalid lady walked down the thronged streets, cheered by visions of the splendid shawl she was about to purchase at the exceedingly low price of five hundred dollars, until she stopped before a superb store in Broadway, which she entered and passed through to the shawl department. 
               "Good day, Mrs. Seymour," said clerk No. 1. 
               "You want to look at that shawl again." 
               "How could you have anticipated my wishes so well Mr. Murry," replied Mrs. Seymour, laughingly. And in the now joyous woman you would scarcely have recognized the recent invalid with such shockingly weak nerves. 
               "Ah, Mrs. Seymour," replied clerk No. 1, "I know these shawls are irresistible, and you never could rest until you possessed one." At the same time he handed from its case an elegant India shawl, holding it in such a manner as to display all its beauties. 
               "Superb," said clerk No. 1. 
               "Superb!" echoed Mrs. Seymour. 
               "Such a blending of colors!" chimed in clerk No, 2. 
               "Such splendid material," said clerk No. 1. 
               "And then so cheap-only five hundred dollars," said clerk No. 2. 
               "Really, I think I must take it," said Mrs. Seymour. 
               "I 'm afraid if I let this opportunity go I shall never get another as good." 
               "Depend upon it you've made a great bargain," said clerk No. 1, preparing to have the shawl sent home. "Really, I have sold this shawl to you twenty-five dollars cheaper than I ought to have done. "See here;" and he directed her attention to the firmness and beauty of the article. 
               "We have an agent who selects the choicest goods regardless of expense." 
               "Oh, yes!" answered Mrs. Seymour. 
               "I'm more than satisfied." 
               "I 'm sure I never can find another shawl so beautiful, and so cheap; only five hundred dollars." 
               "Only five hundred dollars," echoed and re-echoed through the heart of a poor sewing girl who was passing out of the store, having just brought in some work. "Only five hundred dollars, and my two little sisters almost starving at home for the want of less than five hundred cents." 
                
               "Only five hundred dollars," wkich would have sent happiness, at least momentary, to the hearts of hundreds of suffering ones. 
               "My shawl was only five hundred dollars, and my brothers and sisters are starving. Wonderful incongruity!" 
               "Only five hundred dollars," said clerk No. 1, as Mrs. Seymour swept out of the store. 
               "Did'nt we gum her well, Sam?" addressing clerk No. 2. 
               "That we did; I'd advise her husband to go shopping with her next time if he does'nt want to be a ruined man," replied clerk No. 2. 
               "It is always just so," boasted clerk No. 1, "always get twice the worth of the goods from her." 
               "I tell you, James, that shawl never cost four hundred dollars. We've made a clear gain of nearly one hundred and twenty dollars," continued clerk No. 2. 
               "Quite handsome, hey?" 
               "Well, yes," said clerk No. 1. 
               "The fact is, you can cheat these women out of their eye-teeth. Tell them anything is imported, how quick they discover it is a most beautiful thing. Could'nt sell anything if we did'nt cheat a little. If the ladies make us cheat them, upon their shoulders must rest the responsibility. Don't you say so, Sam?" 
               "Yes, indeed", replied clerk No. 2,"Mrs. Sillsbee to whom I sold that damaged shawl. You know the colors were very much mixed together; well, I told her it was a new kind of shawl, just imported, and if you'll believe it, the old fool drank in every word and paid me three times the worth of the shawl. I knew I was safe in selling to her, for if she should tell a judge of goods what I told her they would call her insane, and so it would paste away; he, he." 
               Leaving the two clerks to chuckle over their great bargains, Mrs. Seymour returned home to expatiate upon the beauties of the shawl. Although possibly she would not have been quite as much elated had she overheard the conversation of the two clerks. But resting in blissful unconsciousness, a happier woman never lived than she. Her weak nerves, deeds of charity, family duties were all alike forgotten. Her whole being was absorbed in the new article. Hastening home and entering the parlor she found her husband and child still engaged in an animated conversation. 
               "Well, George," said she, throwing herself into a chair near her husband. 
               "I've really succeeded in getting it at last." 
               "Getting what?" replied her husband. 
               "Why my shawl, George," continued she, almost impatiently. 
               "It is really wonderful that before this time it was'nt sold. I did'nt half think I should be able to get it. But Mr. Murry said he rather laid it one side, expecting me to call for it. Ain't it a love of a shawl, George?" 
               And she held the shawl before his eyes, evidently expecting a great amount of admiration. 
               "I don't know what you ladies call the love of a shawl," replied her husband, comically. "I've read the 'Loves of the Angels,' but these loves of shawls are beyond pay appreciation." 
               "Well! well!" replied his wife, too highly delighted to allow her husband to disturb her good humor. 
               "Is'nt it a beautiful shawl? Do you understand that any better? Such a blending of colors! The material so very fine!" 
               And she went on repeating verbatim every remark of the clerks respecting the shawl. 
               "I declare," said her husband, raising his hands in mock astonishment. 
               "If the glibness of your tongue would'nt shame the very best salesman in the city. I'll speak to Morris and have you put in head salesman in our store." 
               "It would'nt do, though I imagine you could never get yourself so eloquent over West India goods. Could you, Estelle?" 
               "When will you be done with your nonsense, George, and be sober enough to tell me how my shawl looks?" 
               And she threw it gracefully over her shoulders, all the while glancing admiringly in the mirror before her. 
               "Oh, it looks well enough; good colors and good materials. I guess it will wear well," replied he provokingly. 
               "Oh dear," said Estelle, pettishly, gathering up the folds of her shawl and preparing to leave the room. "If I only had a husband who could appreciate my refined taste I should be more comfortable. Really, I believe that dreadful headache is coming on again tonight," and she pressed her little hands hard against her temples. 
               "Herbert, dear, tell Jane not to call me to tea. The air has really injured me." 
               "Injured her, indeed," said Mr. Seymour, as she left the room. "Guess a little more of it would do her good." 
               "Papa," said Herbert, looking his father full in the face, "What makes you get mother angry?" 
               "Why, do I child?" 
               "You made her cry this afternoon, and now she is angry because you did n't say she had a pretty shawl." 
               "That's all her nonsense," replied Mr. Seymour, laughing. 
               "It wasn't nonsense when she cried, was it?" persisted Herbert. 
               "I guess so, my son. But we were talking of Lily before Mamma came in," continued Mr. Seymour, glad to change the subject. 
               "What had we concluded to do with her when she came?" 
               "Why, if Mamma will let me, Lily can have my little room, and I will go into the small one over yours," replied Herbert. "The sun shines into my windows every morning, and looks so happy, that I thought it would be company for Lily." 
               "You are a good boy," said the father, affectionately placing his hand upon his son's head, evidently touched by his thoughtfulness; "you are a good boy," he repeated. "Always deny yourself so far as you-can for others, and you will never want for friends." 
               The next day it was ascertained that Mrs. Seymour had no objections to Herbert's giving up his room to Lily if he chose. Though she said "for her part she could not see the need of a little beggar girl's having the best room in the house." 
               "She isn't a beggar girl," Herbert almost rudely replied, "she is-" 
               But poor Mrs. Seymour's weak nerves would allow of no discussion, and Herbert was obliged to bear the mortification of his mother's insisting she was a poor beggar girl. 
               It was therefore agreed that Lily should come to her new home as soon as Mrs. Seymour could make necessary arrangements. 
               Herbert could scarcely contain himself for joy. He never once thought his mother would let her come, he said. But he was so very glad, and his parents were very kind. Better than John Brown's father and mother, who would n't even let his cousin come and visit him. How very happy he would be. 
               Little did he then know that in the dim and shadowy future, misery untold, would fill his soul. Little did then he know that this Lily, his childhood's friend and sister, would, in his manly years, wring from his heart tears of bitter agony. 
               His life was still a blank: upon a few leaves only had the finger of time left its pencillings. 
               Deal kindly with me, gentle reader, while I endeavor to fill the blank for you as time shall reveal its unwritten tracery to me. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           When forced to part from those we love, 
                           Though sure to meet to-morrow, 
                           We yet a kind of anguish prove 
                           And feel a touch of sorrow; 
                           But, Oh! what words can paint the fears 
                           When from those friends we sever, 
                           Perhaps to part for months, for years, 
                           Perhaps to part forever. 
                        
                      
                     ANON. 
                   
                
               MR. SEYMOUR determined upon laying the subject immediataly before John Brown, therefore upon meeting him the next morning, he thus accosted him: 
               "Good morning, Mr. Brown; fine morning, sir." 
               "Yes, sir," replied John, respectfully bowing. "If this weather holds on we shall have a second summer I reckon." 
               "Perhaps so, perhaps so," continued Mr. Seymour. "Your family at home are well, I suppose, Mr. Brown?" 
               "Pretty well thank you. All 'cept my little gall; she's a wee, tender thing, and she takes Jemmie's death so to heart I 'm afeared it'll nigh finish her." 
                
               "Poor child, poor child," said Mr. Seymour compassionately. You cannot divert her mind I suppose." 
               "What did you say, sir?" enquired John, in a tone that plainly said, "You must use very simple language with me." 
               "You can't amuse the child, so that she will forget the death of her brother, can you?" 
               "That's what I can't. I carrys her home at night this little thing and that pretty thing, she always says, 'Thank you,' so gentle like, but wife says when I 'm out of sight, she puts it right away. Poor child, I reckon the Lord 'ill take her afore long." 
               "I suppose you wouldn't think you could let me have her and adopt her, would you," said Mr. Seymour in a tone which plainly showed that he had but little hope of getting the child. 
               "Let you have my Lily Bell?" repeated John in a voice of amazement, looking hard at Mr. Seymour. "I might let you have my right hand sooner. Why, Mr. Seymour, my Betsy 'd grieve her heart to bits to part with the child now Jemmie 's gone; couldn't think of it." 
               "I know it will be hard for you to part with the child," continued Mr. Seymour, "but I thought you had a large family of your own, and were obliged to work so hard, perhaps you would be willing to part with one." 
               "Not a bit more because I 'm poor, Mr. Seymour, not a bit more," replied John. "I'm willing to work my finger's ends off for my little 'uns; don't want to part with 'em." 
               "But you know, Mr. Brown, it is your duty to consider the good of the child," continued Mr. Seymour. "The fact is, my son wishes very much, if I can gain the consent of you all, I should adopt Lily. This I am willing to do-you know I have no daughter-to educate her as a daughter of mine should be educated, and I shall probably ably leave her a handsome little fortune. Now the thing is, do you think it is best for the child to lose so good an opportunity?" Mr. Seymour saw that John was beginning to view the matter in a different light: hitherto affection, not reason had been his guide. He therefore proceeded: 
               "You know she is a very delicate child, and not prepared to bear poverty. When she grows up, you may regret that you did not accept my offer." 
               "I 'm beginning to see, Mr. Seymour," said Mr. Brown, much agitated. "You think it'll be for her best good; I can't say it won't." 
               "I think it would be decidedly best for her, Mr. Brown," replied Mr. Seymour, "I know it must be very hard for you to part with the child, but I 'm sure you will be willing to consider her interest." 
               "I hope so, I hope so," replied the poor man. "It's dreadful cuttin' here though," and he placed his hand upon his heart. "But you see I can't stand in the way of her good nohow-she'll never have it to say that John Brown could n't put down his selfish soul, never. I'll speak to her to-night 'bout it; dreadful hard though." 
               "I 'm afeared rich people think we poor people hain't got no souls," said John to himself, as Mr. Seymour turned from him to depart. "Jest's ef Mr. Seymour let his Herbert go into other folk's hands. Never thought it'd come to this that I'd be obleeged to let the little creeter go. Might know I couldn't keep nothing here. The Lord's will be done, 'spose Betsy'll say. Why don't the Lord will to take some of the rich folk's children away what can afford to lose 'em, not keep to work on us poor people what hain't got nothin'." 
               John had not yet learned that "whom the Lord loveth him he chasteneth." 
                
               He did not even know that the most beautiful and charming promises of the Written Word, are given for those of poor and humble estate. That out of darkness God in his own time bringeth forth light. And even this great sorrow so soon to fall upon him, might bring to him in future life great measures of joy. 
               Inscrutable are thy ways, Oh, God, and past finding out. Blessed are we when we have learned to trust in the promises of God securely, knowing that he ever doeth all things well. 
               All through John Brown's hard day's labor, first and uppermost in his mind was the thought of losing his child. Slowly and sadly he wended his way towards home at night and as he entered the house, his wife Betsy, noticing his sad face, cheerfully addressed him: 
               "Well, John, you 're pretty well tired out to-night, ain't you? Guess your tea'll bring you too a little, won't it?" 
               "I don't know, wife; can't tell nothing here." 
               "But what is it, John?" continued his wife, almost alarmed at his manner. 
               "Come here, then, out o' hearin' o the child, and I'll tell you." And as he spoke, he motioned her to a distant part of the room. He then narrated to her the substance of the conversation between Mr. Seymour and himself in the morning. 
               "What do you say now, Betsy; ain't it 'nough to make me feel bad?" 
               "What shall we do though? seems ef't would break my heart to part with her," cried Betsy. "But then it's best. Oh! dear, dear!" 
               "Mus n't take on so loud, Betsy," said John, soothingly. "She'll hear you, sure as fate, and it'll kill her." 
               "Who 'd ever a thought," said Betsy, lowering her voice, and glancing towards the child, "that when you brought her here, we should all set so much by her, and now when our hearts are ail bound up in the little creeter, she must go. It's all for the best, John, I see the hand of Providence." 
               "Jest what I knew you'd say as well as if I had hearn you. It does me good, though, for if you say so, it must be so. I'm sure you 're one of the Lord's own." 
               "Oh, John," replied Betsy modestly, "'Tain't because I'm good; no, I leave the Lord, but he don't leave me." 
               The quick eye of Lily discovered that something had gone wrong with her foster parents. She therefore hastened to them, endeavoring to cheer and soothe them by her kind words and caresses. 
               "Dear father," said she, "why do you look so very sober; and mother has been crying. What can be the matter?" 
               "I guess you'll be cryin' when you know what's the matter," replied John. "You did n't know that some one wants to get Lily Bell away from father John and mother Betsy, did you?" 
               "Me," said Lily with surprise. 
               "Yes, you, little 'un." 
               "To live with them," enquired Lily, "and not come back to you?" 
               "Yes," replied John. 
               "Well then," replied Lily, assuming a determined air quite amusing in one so young, "you can tell them I shall never come in the world, never." 
               "But s'posin', little 'un, Betsy and I should think you 'd better, what then?" 
               "You wouldn't think it was better, would you?" enquired the child anxiously. 
               "We don't know but it is, my dear little 'un," said John. 
                
               "Oh! dear, dear!" cried Lily, "it can't be better for me; I can't go, no, I can't." 
               "There, there," said Betsy," don't you cry; we'11 see about it. You need n't go if you don't have a mind to." 
               Lily was somewhat soothed by this last remark, for she felt it to be a very certain thing she should never want to go. 
               After tea the family gathered around the open fireplace to discuss the advantages and disadvantages. John Brown and Betsy saw clearly that the advantages were all on the side of Lily's leaving them. They tried to convince the child that it would in time be the best thing for her. She would only continually reply, "No, I never can go." 
               "But," said John Brown, despairing of ever convincing her against her will, "you can see us as often as you want to, and it'll be a great deal better for you, for you can have an edication, and I 'm too poor to give you that." 
               "But I can't be your little girl if I go," said Lily, half enquiringly, with tears in her eyes. 
               "Yes you can, we will always be your father and mother, and love you, and you can love us too." 
               "And I can come and see you?" enquired Lily. 
               "Yes." 
               "Oh, dear, but I don't want to go, and you want me to?" 
               "Because it will be best for you." 
               After much conversation in endeavoring to convince Lily that it was for her good to accept Mr. Seymour's offer, she reluctantly consented. 
               She sought her little bed that night with a heart full of deep and bitter thoughts. She remembered that night when John Brown introduced her to his family, a homeless, houseless wanderer. How kind they had always been to her. She thought of Jemmie,-dear, gentle Jemmie,-he was gone; there was not so great a tie to bind her here. But she loved her parents. 
               Poor child, she was soon to make new acquaintances. How her little heart ached, only those may know who have themselves been often turned upon the wide world, to seek new friends and homes. After her first grief had in a measure passed away, she thought that perhaps if she should become the rich Mr. Seymour's little girl, sometime she could repay John Brown for his kindness. 
                
               We will pass over the parting of Lily with the kind family of John Brown, and leave her for the present, established in her new home, with Mr. and Mrs. Seymour and Herbert. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           'Tis a goodly scene, 
                           You river like a silvery lake, lays out 
                           His coil i' the sunshine lovingly-it breathes 
                           Of freshness in this lap of flowery meadows 
                        
                      
                     SIR A. HUNT'S JULIAN. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Thrice happy he! who, on the sunless side 
                           Of a romantic mountain, forest crown 'd, 
                           Beneath the whole collected shade reclines: 
                           Or in the gelid caverns woodbine wrought, 
                           And fresh bedewed with ever-spouting streams, 
                           Sits coolly calm; while all the world without, 
                           Unsatisfied and sick, tosses at noon. 
                        
                      
                     THOMPSON 's SEASONS. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Softly the blended light of evening rests 
                           Upon the lovely stream! Thy gentle tide, 
                           Picturing the gorgeous beauty of the sky, 
                           Majestically flows. 
                        
                      
                     MRS. ELLET. 
                   
                
               THE town of W--, at the time of which I write, was a quiet retired village, beautifully situated about two-thirds the way up the Connecticut river upon its western banks. In this New England village might the most dainty and critical lover of Nature feast to satiety upon the rich and varied scenery before him. 
               Upon the eastward of the town, and just across the river, rise in abrupt beauty, a long range of verdure-clad hills. These extend as far as the eye can reach upon either side. To the southward commences a succession of low mountains, which, were it not for the river, would have the appearance of being connected with the hills before mentioned, and forming a complete semi-circle. These hills extend to the westward, while a corresponding ridge from the north meets the southern ridge, forming a high and beautiful mountain, whose distant and delicate outline is indistinctly marked upon the far-off horizon. 
               Go with me to the opposite side of the river upon a clear, lovely afternoon in early autumn, the sun was just setting. The weather was in harmony with that ever-fitful thermometer-our physical system-a sense of quietness pervades all around, unbroken, save by the chirping of the crickets and the hum of innumerable insects, all of which seem to woo you to that dreamy, poetic reverie through whose misty light the whole scene is invested with new beauty. You feel the wind soothingly fan your ckeek, you abandon yourself to the most delicious emotions, you revel in Nature. 
               Upon the right, and in the middle of our picture, lies the peaceful and quiet village of W--, calmly reposing in the arms of the old mountains, like an infant sweetly slumbering upon its mother's bosom. 
               Here and there, nestling amid the green foliage, peep out the little white cottages, while high amid them all rises the tall white spire of the village church. 
               To the southward are stretched out broad fertile fields, sprinkled all over with grazing cattle and sheep, with their lambs frolicking by their sides. To the left of the village, and in the foreground winds the beautiful and graceful Connecticut. How coquettish is this lovely river, as she bursts upon you in full beauty, then hides herself in the thick foliage, all the while tempting you to follow, with lover-like fondness, until suddenly she leaves you, pursuing her course in a far-off direction. How gracefully are her borders decked as if for a gala day! Look at those clumps of trees yonder as they bend over, and see their fair branches mirrowed in the shining waters beneath. 
               See those kine as they approach and cautiously place their feet to the flanks in the stream to drink of its pure waters. 
               A few bold dashes here and there, and then to the background, the glory of the scene-the mountain-far to the right of the village, is seemingly composed of living green, over which the "Maid of the Mist" has thrown her mantle of bluish gray. The sun has disappeared, its rays are still reflected in most gorgeous colors upon the sky above, and again reflected upon the river below. Look for a moment at the clouds; see, they are fast following the sun. What magnificent orange, shaded out to the most delicate color, blending with the most perfect shades of purple! Look at those of roseate hue fast fading into white. The little silver clouds lovingly meet and mingle into one, then hurry on to form a part of the parent mass. 
               What painter can transfer to convass such transcendently gorgeous beauty? 
               Such power of infinite conception! such inimitable taste! Bow thy head, Oh, man! and let the homage of thy heart acknowledge the beauty of the natural world, as so strikingly manifested in the works of the Creator! 
               This is a single picture; I could give you many more, but shall refrain at present. I would advise any lover of Nature, with a poet's heart and a painter's eye, to step into the cars, (those annihilators of space,) some fine morning in early fall, and see if I have given to my picture too much of the "coleur de rose." I have not told you the half which would greet your eyes. I have said never a word of the lovely shaded walks, the innumerable brooks, the little laughing brooks, which come rushing, foaming at your feet, without so much as "by your leave, Sir;" of the quiet mother streams which are supplied with as fine trout as ever were tempted by the barbed hook. Come and see for yourselves; you will not be disappointed. 
               We will now turn, for a moment, to the village and village people. I call it village; thus the inhabitants denominated it, and it corresponded fully to their ideas of all that a village should be. Forsooth many a modern youth, whose views are large, would laugh to hear the name applied to such a small place. Well, laugh away, young man; people of humbler views scorn not the day of small things. 
               The town of Windsor was, like most small towns in Vermont, a farming town; the fields of heavy grain swayed to and fro by the gentle breezes; the fine orchards groaning under their weight of fruit; the luxuriant fields of potatoes running almost wild, indicated a land under a high state of cultivation. The houses were neat and substantial, without unnecessary show; it was evident that utility was the watchword of the town. 
               Even the vine which clambered over the windows and doors of the cottages, giving them such a pretty effect, was the heavily-laden hop-vine, else it would have no place there; yet, as I remarked before, everything bore an air of neatness and gave evidence of a people "well to do" in the world. 
               The village church was situated in the centre; while beneath its deep shade reposed the bodies of the fathers and mothers of the town, reaching back for many generations, thus forming the old church yard. A few steps from the church, and in a pretty rural cottage, dwelt good Pastor White. For more than half a century had this faithful minister of the cross dispensed to his loving people in yonder church the gifts of our Lord, Jesus Christ. 
               He had witnessed the passing away of one generation and the succession of another. He had united the gay young bride in holy marriage to her liege and loving lord. He had been the first to congratulate the young mother upon the birth of her first-born. He, too, had been the first to weep and offer words of comfort to that mother when her little one was laid as a precious treasure tearfully and silently away in its narrow resting place. 
               And when any affliction visited his children, (for so he called his parishioners,) he prayed without ceasing that their afflictions might be sanctified to them. And ofttimes has the angel of mercy whispered peace to the tried and tempted soul in answer to the prayer of God's faithful minister. He was the main stay of the village; to his arbitration was left all the disputes and wrangles into which the people were occasionally plunged. All the inhabitants, from the little boys who quarrelled for their rights to their own marbles, up to the hoary-headed man, whose neighbor's oxen had broken down his fence, laid their wrongs before him, resting perfectly sure that his decision was infallible. 
               At the time of which I write he was an old man. The frosty hand of time had turned the jetty hue of his locks to the whiteness of the snow. As he made his parish calls, he was wont to support his faltering steps by the use of a stout hickory cane. 
               Oh, what a beautiful picture did he make while walking through the village, with his snowy locks falling upon his shoulders, his bowed form, and then his face so full of meek humility and love! 
                
               He had a kind word and a pleasant smile for whomsoever he should meet. 
               Blessed be his memory, for he too now sleeps in the village churchyard. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           How blest the farmer's simple life! 
                           How pure the joy it yields! 
                           Far from the world's tempestuous strife, 
                           Free 'mid the scented fields! 
                        
                      
                     C. W. EVEREST. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Labor is worship"-the robin is singing: 
                           "Labor is worship"-the wild bee is singing. 
                           Listen! that eloquent whisper upspringing, 
                           Speaks to thy soul put of nature's great heart. 
                        
                      
                     MRS. F. S. OSGOOD. 
                   
                
               NEXT in standing and repute to Pastor White, was Joseph Arnold, the wealthy farmer, who lived in a large yellow house upon the hill. He had always been crowned with the highest posts of honor the small town could offer him commencing with the school committee and going through alternately with the offices of selectman, Justice of Peace and Town Representative; he was also deacon of the village church. 
               "Uncle Joseph," (for so the young people called him,) was as hearty, hale and noble a man as ever drove his team afield beneath the noon-tide sun. His form was decidedly of Aldermanic proportions and his large shining face, with the merry twinkle of his eye, beamed with the richest good humor and fun-real fun. 
                
               Under this brusqueness of manner was hidden a never failing fount filled to the brim with the milk of human kindness. Besides all these rare qualifications, there was one charm ever present in the minds of maneuvering mothers, (for there are such in the country, as well as in the city,) and their blushing daughters. Ah! my reader, although uncle Joseph possessed an uncommon share of good sense, still he had remained in single blessedness for more than forty years, and many a maiden upon the shady side of thirty, secretly sighed over the utter failure of her endeavors to awaken a chord in Uncle Joseph's heart in responsive unison with her own. 
               Rumor stated that in early life, he loved and lost, the idol of his affections. Be that as it may, at the present time he was a bachelor, and while he remained in this state there was left to these aforesaid maiden's, a hope of success to which they as eagerly clutched, as doth a drowning man a straw. 
               At this time Uncle Joseph lived in his yellow house upon the hill, with his sister Temperance, (all the neighbors called her Tempy,) together with their maid of all work, Sally Dobson. 
               Now Tempy was the very pink of neatness, and many other womanly virtues; but both she and Uncle Joseph had their peculiarities-Who has not? 
               And Sally Dobson after living in the family for many years, had come to unite in her own person the peculiarities of the two. What Mr. and Miss Arnold said was "law and gospel" with Miss Dobson, and vice versa of the other parties. Some votary of scandal had the audacity to hint, that Miss Dobson never would have "lived out" so long, seeing she had quite a property of her own, if she had not a secret leaning towards the Deacon. The thought has sometimes occurred to me that this might very naturally have been the case, and Tempy suspected the same thing; but being, as she was ever upon the look-out for Uncle Joseph's interests, she determined there should never be a result to Miss Dobson's wishes. In this one thing alone, Tempy and Miss Dobson differed. The Deacon, good soul, was entirely innocent of the intents of the ancient maiden on his peace, for all the time his heart happened to have been straying off in another direction, unsuspected by his sister and Miss Dobson. 
               But love will out, you know; and by and by we shall introduce you to the object of Uncle Joseph's secret meditations. 
               Joseph Arnold was a large land owner, possessing several farms, the cultivation of which, being unable to supervise himself, he was accustomed to let them out upon shares to farmers who had not the means of buying. 
               He also owned a couple of cottages in the village, one of which was tenanted by Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Pry and Widow Bell, each occupying a separate half of the house. 
               Now Mrs. Jacob Pry was known to be the prime mover of all the scandal that disturbed the quiet village of Windsor. 
               Never were the movements of a man, woman, child or chick, allowed to remain unnoticed through her lynx-eyed vigilance. She was invariably shunned by all lovers of harmony and concord; while upon the other side, those who belonged to her clique were her most devoted admirers, on account of the peculiar faculty she possessed for prying out, and bringing to light all the evil done under cover, and a great deal that never was done. 
               Widow Bell, who occupied the house with Mrs. Pry, was the very opposite of her scandal-loving neighbor. She had been a resident of the town but a few years. Who she was, (aside from her name,) or whence she came, was unknown to all save to Pastor White. 
               In vain had Mrs. Pry surmised, peeped, questioned, resorted to every means, hoping thereby to find the end of the thread by which to unravel so great a mystery. But never a bit the wiser was she, as the secret was safe with the good Pastor, for he never even told his wife; and Mrs. Pry had the good sense, although she was dying of curiosity, never to attempt drawing one word of the lady's former history from herself. 
               Mrs. Bell supported herself by plain sewing. During the time she had lived in the village, never had one breath of scandal arisen against her. All respected, many loved her. She was possessed of such a kind heart, such refined manners, that Joseph Arnold was attracted to her house much oftener than it would have been necessary for him to have gone in order to collect his rents, or make the necessary repairs about the house. 
               Not a soul in the town supposed Joseph Arnold a marrying man, therefore there were too surmisings afloat among the community.-But the Deacon knew of no reason why he should deprive himself of the joys of wedded life, more than other men. He had enough of this world's goods. He had the respect and love of the people generally, but there was no being with whom he felt perfect companionship; no person whose heart was entirely his own. 
               "Why," said he to himself, "should I waste all my affections upon nothing, if I can find a worthy person to share both them and my fortune?" 
               When a bachelor begins to take such a view of matrimony, he is as good as lost; and so in the present case it proved. 
               Visions of the widow haunted many of his thoughtful moments. Even his religious duties were seriously intefered with; for, like a more youthful lover, upon entering the church of a Sabbath, he would involuntarily glance in the direction of Mrs. Bell's seat; seemingly well satisfied if it was filled; and otherwise if this were not the case. 
               As I have already told you Mr. Arnold knew of no reason why he should not marry. He soon argued himself into the belief that it was his duty to marry, and feeling thus, it was no wonder that he looked around to find just the right one for him to make his own. 
               For a long time, he had entertained a secret inkling that the widow Bell was the very woman to complete his happiness, if he could only secure her love, that was the great question now with the Deacon. Like a sensible man, as he was, he determined to set his mind speedily at ease as to the feelings of the widow Bell in relation to himself. Therefore at his earliest convenience he resolved to make a tender of his heart to the widow, in a business, as well as lover like manner. 
               "I won't have over none of your nonsense to her, sentimental stuff," said Joseph to himself. "I'll just drop in of an afternoon, kinder accidentally you know, and invite the Widder to take a share in the yeller house, that's what I will." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Whither my heart is gone, there follows my hand, and not elsewhere. 
                           For where the heart goes before like a lamp, and illumines the pathway, 
                           Many things are made clear that else lie hidden in darkness. 
                        
                      
                     LONGFELLOW'S EVANGELINE. 
                   
                
               THE afternoon in question soon arrived, and Deacon Arnold sallied forth with indescribable feelings, upon his errand of love. As he approached the cottage that contained the object of his solicitude, he found his heart beating most violently; in fact, he was in a tremor never experienced by him before. He had made no allowance for certain palpitations which might seize his heart, while previously imagining the business like manner in which he should lay his plans before the widow;-nor had he once thought that his voice might possibly betray some slight emotion. In his own opinion, he was proof against such nonsense, as he termed it. But as he felt these most alarming symptoms attack himself, he thus endeavored to quiet them: 
               "Plague take this pesky old heart of mine; can't it stop thumping so nohow. By Jimmy, 't won't do to see the Widder in such a plight. Guess I'll step round and 'tend to that piece of fence that's down, and git my breath a little." 
               As Mr. Arnold had proposed, he took a turn round to his stone fence, and after feeling somewhat relieved, he again approached the Widow's house. His heart beat high and loud as before, but summoning to his assistance a most "don't care a cent" exterior, he ventured to knock upon the door. A gentle voice from within, said "come in." 
               Uncle Joseph raised the latch and entered the apartment where the widow Bell was seated alone, (how propitious,) sewing. 
               "Good afternoon, Widder," said Mr. Arnold, "thought I'd jest step round and see 'bout a little business I had on hand." 
               "Good afternoon," replied Mrs. Bell, at the same time handing him a chair. "I suppose my rent is due by this time," she continued, not imagining Mr. Arnold could have any other business with her. 
               "Botheration," ejaculated the Deacon, "'T ain't Joseph Arnold that's on hand the minute a cent's due him-never thought of the rent, Widder. Pretty fine weather we 're having," continued he, at a loss how to communicate his true errand. 
               "I 'm inclined to think you are mistaken, Deacon," replied Mrs. Bell, smiling at his blunder. "The rain against the window panes tells a different story." 
               "Well, I declare, if I ain't an old fool; I knew it was raining all the while-hain't got my senses 'bout me. The fact is, Widder, the fact is"-here he hesitated again. 
               Mrs. Bell looked up in astonishment; what was the matter with Mr. Arnold? He wasn't drunk, oh, no! He was a good man, and of course never known to drink anything but cider, and very moderately of that. Could it be, thought she, that his mind was wandering? She had never heard such a report, or seen indications of such a thing before. His conduct was inexplicable-she would wait and see. 
               "The fact is, Widder Bell," again stammered Uncle Joseph, "I'm dreadful lonely up to that big yeller house." 
                
               Mr. Arnold had come to the conclusion that it might be quite as easy to try a few hints upon the Widow as to proceed in his business-like manner. 
               "There's only three of us, and the house is big enough for a dozen; did n't know but I might find somebody that 'd be willing to take part of the house with me." Having acquitted himself in this way, he looked up at Mrs. Bell, hoping to discover whether his words had produced any effect upon her. 
               There she sat still sewing. Her face told no tales, although she began to have an indefinite idea of the object of Uncle Joseph's visit. Still she replied not a word, and Mr. Arnold, after a slight pause, proceeded: 
               "The fact is, Mrs. Bell, I've got enough of this world's goods, and I hope I've got a treasure in heaven; but something's wanting on earth yet; I 'm plaguy lonely; if I live in this way much longer my heart will be all wizzened away, jest like a dried kernel in a nutshell. You see everybody wants somethin' to love; I presume you've sometimes thought so yourself?" A pause. Uncle Joseph waited a reply, but being convinced by the long silence that if the conversation was carried farther it must devolve upon himself to continue it. "Well, then, I've concluded to be married-to take a wife," said he, afterwards, as if in corroboration of his first statement. 
               "Ah! indeed!" ventured Mrs. Bell, "A good idea I presume." 
               "Hope you'll say so, when you know whom I 'm after," retorted Uncle Joseph, laughingly; "But to be brief, Widder, you know it's a great thing to be brief and come right to the pint,' no use going round the corner forever; well, to be brief, I say-you know the wise man says 'brevity is the soul of wit;' and I believe it-I never saw the pith of a joke yet that was spun out as long as my arm. I again repeat it, to be brief-hem; here Uncle Joseph cleared his throat, "hem, hem. Old fool," said he to himself, then turning to Mrs. Bell, and edging up a little nearer to her, much to that lady's consternation, who had really begun to believe herself alone with a crazy man, he said: 
               "You 're jest the one for me." Having made this declaration, he seemed evidently at ease. He experienced no more difficulty in attempting to speak; words rolled from off his tongue in rapid succession; in fact, love made him eloquent. "You see, I want to know if you'll be my wife, Widder?" 
               The Widow could no longer fail to comprehend his idea. For a moment a merry smile twinkled in her eye as she thought of Mr. Arnold's awkward attempt at love making. Presently her face wore a serious expression, much to Uncle Joseph's dismay. 
               "Mr. Arnold," said she gently, "your proposition is very unexpected to me; I should want time for reflection." 
               "Could n't you reflect right off; maybe I could help you," cunningly interposed Mr. Arnold. "The fact is you've got my heart, and delay makes me impatient." 
               Mrs. Bell again smiled at the eagerness of her bachelor lover. She knew she had no objections herself, for was not Mr. Arnold one of the best men that was ever born and brought up; and although he was peculiar and homely in his manners, did he not have a great heart? She knew it all; and she also knew it would be no very hard task for her profound esteem to deepen into the warmer feeling of love. It however needed considerable persuasion on the part of Uncle Joseph to over-rule her many objections, for with the true tact of woman, she did not mean to be too easily won.
                
               At length he obtained the consent of the Widow to be his, and his joy knew no bounds. If Mrs. Bell had thought him crazy before, she might with greater propriety have thought him more insane now. Still, my dear reader, she did not think him crazy at all. I presume she found sufficient excuse for him. That brave, stouthearted man that did not mean to say a sentimental thing, but was going to proceed in so business like a manner, actually found himself uttering the most beautiful bits of sentiment in the willing ear of the lady of his love. And as we are telling a true tale, you will believe-although prudish or old maid notions might forbid my committing such an oracle of good faith-yet for the profit of more youthful lovers, I must write it out,-the Deacon actually kissed the "Widder." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           And their were a thousand tongues empight, 
                           Of sundry kinds and sundry quality, 
                           Some were of dogs, that barked day and night, 
                           And some of cats, that brawling still did cry, 
                           And some of bears, that groan'd continually, 
                           And some of tigers, that did seem to grin 
                           And snarl at all that ever passed by: 
                           But most of them were tongues of mortal men 
                           Which spoke reproachfully. Not caring 
                           When, nor where. 
                        
                      
                     SPENCER'S FAIRY QUEEN. 
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        When shall I be no more? 
                        And Adam wedded to another Eve 
                        Shall live with her enjoying. I extinct; 
                        A death to think- 
                     
                   
                
               YES he kissed her! and Mrs. Jacob Pry who had been listening in the little back entry heard him. Did she not roll this secret as a sweet morsel under her tongue? Would it not make talk enough for herself and her clique at the next sewing circle? 
               At length, after patient watching, she had indeed found something against Widow Bell. "For," said Mrs. Pry to herself, "It'll go dreadfully against her, dreadfully. I always knew something was the matter, or she'd never have been livin' here all alone. Now I've got hold o'this I would'nt be in her shoes for one five dollar bill." 
               But to return to the lovers; Uncle Joseph was delighted. The widow was happy. The rain had ceased and the sun was now shining brightly in upon them, as if to lend his gladdening rays to enhance the joy of their already happy hearts. 
               Ever and anon a tear drop glistened in the Widow's eye, and an expression of deep interest rested upon the Deacon's countenance. 
               "I have had many, many sorrows," said Widow Bell in a subdued voice, "I dare not trust myself to tell you of them; and yet I would not marry you until you know my whole history." 
               "Don't worry, don't worry," said Uncle Joseph compassionately, "'Taint of no consequence jist now, we'll have all the happiness we can to make up for lost time." 
               "Maybe when you've heard the long list of my misfortunes you will not wish to unite your destiny with one who seems to have been fated." 
               "Pooh, pooh, Widder, I don't believe in fate, it's all Providence, if we only believe right." 
               "Yes," replied the Widow meekly, "if we only have faith in God's promises." 
               "True, true," ejaculated Mr. Arnold. 
               "I was thinking to say to you, Deacon, that if you would call upon Pastor White he would tell you my past history; I'm selfish, I know, but I dread to revert to past events, which have caused me so much pain." 
               After a few honied words of love, Uncle Joseph took his departure. His heart was filled with many, and tumultuous thoughts, uppermost of which was the Widow Bell. He found himself in a wondrously drously good humor with the world generally, and womankind particularly. 
               In great glee he patted the head of every individual urchin he met on his way home. Arriving at his house, he was so decidedly antic as to call down a severe remark from Miss Tempy, to the effect, "That it was unbecoming for a man of his years to indulge in so much levity." 
               "I tell you what it is, Tempy, may as well blunt it right out, and if you scold why I guess I can bear it now. Well the truth is, I'm going to be married-" 
               "Married, Joseph!" cried Tempy in astonishment,- 
               "Married," echoed Miss Dobson, her face assuming a most singular expression. 
               "Why, yes, married, 'taint nothing after all, only you've got such an idee into your heads. Why should'nt I be married as well as other men?" 
               "D'ye hear that, Miss Dobson," almost shrieked, Tempy, choked with indignation, "just as if every man had a sister to keep his house for him, and such a faithful servant as you are Miss Dobson. What on airth does the man want of a wife?" 
               "La, sakes," said Miss Dobson sympathizingly, "there are some men in the world that when they've got all they want and more tew, are forever reachin', an reachin', after something else." As Miss Dobson was not yet aware of the direction in which Mr. Arnold might look for a wife, she ventured only a few rather mild remarks upon the subject, for the fact was, she had for some time indulged a secret hope of having him herself. 
               "Well, if you are going to be married, you may as well tell who you are going to marry," tartly continued Tempy, displaying a woman's curiosity. 
                
               "Well," replied Uncle Joseph, who was on the point of beating a retreat before such a volly of feminine indignation. 
               "I suppose I'm going to marry Widder Bell." 
               "Widder Bell!" repeated Tempy, "Goodness gracious, if ever I did; widder Jack-o-napes as well. Oh! Joseph who'd ever thought I'd a-had tu-be turned out of my own house by a woman nobody knows anything about. What do you say to that?" continued she looking at Miss Dobson, as if she felt assured that in her she should find a most devoted champion. 
               Poor Miss Dobson was unable for a moment to reply. Righteous indignation rose to such a pitch that words refused to give utterance to her astonishment. To think that the Deacon should pass right by her when she had lived in his house twenty years, and taken to that Widder, was it not dreadful? 
               At length after a few smothering sighs she replied: 
               "Tis abominable, Miss Tempy, the Lord'll visit him for his unkindness to you, (a slight allusion to herself,) and just think too, if he'd been going to be married what did he take the Widder for; plenty gals better than she'd a been glad to had him. There's Jemima and Keturah Simpkins and Arrabella Pry, would a been more suitable?" 
               "Yes, or you, Miss Dobson; if it had only been you, I could have borne it better, you know we're used to you," said Tempy. 
               "I should'nt havethought of being married," replied Miss Dobson. 
               "No, of course you would'nt," put in Uncle Joseph, perceiving which way the wind blew, "and as for having those old maids with faces like roasted apples, brown and wrinkled, I was determined I would'nt do that." 
               "Ah, ha." continued he, laughing, purposely to increase the ire in the maiden ladies' bosoms. "I've got just the one I want." 
                
               "Thank the Lord I never was led to make such a fool of myself,' retorted Tempy. "Amen," responded Miss Dobson, in a heartfelt manner. 
               Here an uproarious burst of laughter issued from Uncle Joseph. 
               "Should'nt I think I was the greatest rogue in the world to hear your pious conversation, and all the sin I expect to be guilty of is the sin of matrimony. You'd been married yourself Temp, if you'd ever had a chance." 
               "Been married," replied Tempy contemptuously. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           What bliss is born of sorrow! 
                           'Tis never sent in vain, 
                           The heavenly surgeon means to save, 
                           He gives no useless pain. 
                        
                      
                     THOMAS WARD. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Be of comfort, and your heavy sorrow 
                           Part equally among us. Storms divided 
                           Abate their force, and with less rage are guided. 
                        
                      
                     HEYWOOD'S WOMAN KILLED WITH KINDNESS. 
                   
                
               THE next morning Mr. Arnold started off, bright and early, to Pastor White's, to hear Widow Bell 's history which she had long before confided to her minister. 
               After the usual morning 's salutation, Mr. Arnold commenced thus: 
               "Parson White, I don't know but I'm going to do a silly thing." 
               "What is it, Deacon?" 
               "The truth is, I 'm going to be married." 
               "Glad to hear it, Mr. Arnold, that is, if you have made a judicious selection." 
               "It 's no more nor less a person than the Widow Bell." 
               "I am rejoiced to hear it," replied Mr. White. "You could not have done better," proceeding to enumerate some of her many virtues. 
               "I thought so, Mr. White. She told me to come to you and I 'd hear a little of her former history, that she had'nt the heart to tell me herself. It '11 ease her mind to have me know it." 
               "It is better you should know it, Mr. Arnold, before you are married. It may, in your future connection, remove all cause of misunderstanding. 
               "Mrs. Bell, as you are aware, has been once married and lost her husband. 
               "When she was very young, much against the wishes of her friends, she married Mr. Bell. His greatest faults then were a lack of energy, and an indisposition to labor. Subsequently in his after life these faults led him into many vices. He became dissipated, gambled, and resorted to many other species of low and demoralizing vices. Mrs. Bell had at this time two young children, which she was obliged to maintain entirely from her own resources. And not only was she obliged, by hard labor, to support them, but every cent her husband could place his hands upon was appropriated to his own base uses. 
               "Matters finally grew so much worse that she could hardly save enough from her husband to support herself and little ones. If she concealed her earnings, by threats he would extort them from her. 
               "Why, in the name of common sense, did'nt the law protect her?" interrupted Mr. Arnold. 
               "The law, you know, allows to husbands all their wives' earnings." 
               "Miserable law, then, that won't protect a poor female." 
               "As I was saying," continued Pastor White, "for the sake of her children she lived in this manner as long as she could endure it, when one day her husband suspecting that she had a little money secreted, threatened if she did not give it to him that he would rob her of her children. She plead with him long and earnestly; again and again she told him she had not one cent; but he, as if he had not already caused her misery and grief enough, took her children from her arms and bore them to some place of concealment of which she did not know. Diligent search was made for her husband and children, but he continued for a long time to elude the grasp of his pursuers. 
               "It was afterwards ascertained that he, together with a large party of marauders, who were upon their way from Canada to New York, were secreted in the southern part of the State, in a place called "Murder Hollow," about three miles from Mrs. Bell's house. She has never received any tidings from them to the present day. 
               "They have been advertised. In fact she has made the most vigilant search, without success. Her husband died in New York about five years ago; she has resided in this place two or three years, and a more patient woman under her long-drawn-out afflictions, I have never known. 
               "She still indulges the hope that the Lord will restore her children to her, and has confidence that until then, they will in some way be provided for. She humbly bows to the will of God, and bears with remarkable resignation and cheerfulness what seems to be inevitable." 
               Parson White's story was concluded; he paused; but Uncle Joseph's emotion would not allow him to speak. 
               Finally controlling himself sufficiently he said, "Poor woman, is there no way in which her children may be restored to her?" 
               "I fear not, Mr. Arnold." 
               "But I might go to New York," persisted he. 
               "That would do but little good, my friend, at this late day; it would be impossible to find them; probably they have been taken care of by the city authorities and may bear different names." 
               "What were her children, boys or girls?" 
               "One boy and one girl," replied Mr. White. 
               "Poor woman," Uncle Joseph ever and anon repeated, "can't nothing be done nohow, Pastor?" 
               "I think not, Deacon." 
               "Well, then, jest as long as I live the poor woman shall have all the happiness any one can have in this world; she'll be happy I'll warrant, and there's one thing certain, I'll keep one eye on the look-out for those children of her's; we shall find them yet, I trust." 
               Mr. Arnold left Mr. White and proceeded on his second visit to Mrs. Bell. 
               I will pass over the almost sacred privacy of their meeting. The quiet happiness which filled the widow's heart, a heart that had been desolate for years, and Uncle Joseph's more demonstrative joy. Suffice it to say that Uncle Joseph did not leave Mrs. Bell until he had gained her consent to a speedy union, for said he, "At our time of life, we can't afford to waste our days and nights in courting. 
               Mrs. Bell urged the propriety of a quiet marriage, but Mr. Arnold would not hear one word to such a manner of proceeding. 
               "No, no," said he, "I want something to date from during the rest of my life, and if I marry without any noise shan't hardly know I 'm married; for my part, I want a real, old fashioned, merry wedding. Don't give yourself any trouble about it, Widow Bell. I'll make all the necessary arrangements, and you may be one of the guests; how'll that answer?" 
               Mrs. Bell discovered that the deacon's heart was really fixed upon a large wedding, and she, good woman, very pleasantly fell in with his proposition. 
               Therefore it was concluded that the very next Sabbath their intended marriage should be announced, as was the custom in that State, and upon the following Wednesday, the wedding should be consummated at Uncle Joseph 's house in the presence of many invited guests. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           It wounds, indeed, 
                           To bear affronts too great to be forgiven, 
                           And not have power to punish. 
                        
                      
                     DRYDEN'S SPANISH FRIAR. 
                   
                
               MISS DOBSON had no sooner fully realized the fact that Uncle Joseph was going to be married, and that he intended to marry Mrs. Bell, than she donned her sun-bonnet and thought she would just drop into Mrs. Pry's a few moments, to find if such a thing were possible-a single flaw in the Widow's character. 
               After meeting Mrs. Pry and making a few common-place remarks, Miss Dobson commenced her enquiries thus: 
               "I suppose you never see a great deal of your neighbor, Mrs. Bell; don't know much about her, dew ye, Miss Pry?" 
               "Don't know much 'bout her! it would be well for her if I didn't know quite as much as I dew," replied Mrs. Pry, with a knowing wink and shake of the head. 
               "What, you hain't discivered anything agin her," continued Mrs. Dobson. 
               "P'rhaps you would n't call it agin her," replied Mrs. Pry, in a tone that plainly implied, "P'rhaps you would too." 
                
               "Well, dew tell now," said Miss Dobson, leaning closely up to her. 
               "You know it's agin my principles to talk 'bout my neighbors, Miss Dobson." 
               "I know it, Miss Pry." Now Miss Dobson knew she was telling an unqualified falsehood. 
               "Well, then, seein' it's you, I don't know but I might as well tell you; besides, Miss Dobson, vice ought to be brought to light, whether it is found in high or low places." And Mrs. Pry assumed a most solemn expression, as if she felt the great responsibility resting upon her of hunting up and bringing to light all the great sins of the town. 
               "I knew, Miss Pry, you had a great deal of principle in such matters, and you're right about it,-but dew let's hear what it is 'bout the Widder." 
               "Well, Miss Dobson, 'seemin' it in the light of duty, I shall have to tell you I have my doubts 'bout Mrs. Bell's character." 
               "La, sakes, you don't," cried Miss Dobson in astonishment, leaning a little nearer, as if fearful she should lose a single word. 
               "Yes, I dew, though," continued Mrs. Pry, "and more 'n that, I know tew." 
               "Ah," said Miss Dobson. 
               "Yes, you know Mrs. Bell came here in a very secret manner. Well, I knew all the time somethin' was wrong. Sez I to Mrs. Pry and Arabella, sez I, 'depend on 't, that widder never comes here like a thief in the night for nothing' that's the very 'pression I made, and you know it was nat'ral enough for me to kinder keep on the look-out; didn't know but she might be a dreadful bad woman." 
               Miss Dobson nodded assent. 
               "She was so mighty cunnin' she was, that I couldn't ketch her no way, and I was pretty well persuaded in my own mind that everything thing was' n't goin' right all this while; but I made up my mind not to say a single word till I found somethin' out; I watched and watched, and always kept my door open into the entry to hear all I could. Well, I would sometimes hear a man's voice.-Thinks I, this never'll answer; you know, Miss Dobson, it don't answer for a lone woman to be receivin' gentlemen at such a rate." 
               "No, indeed! Miss Pry." 
               "As I was going on tew tell you, I jest told Mrs. Pry and Arrabella we 'd got to look out for her, it was our duty, Miss Dobson. Well, one day, if you'll b'lieve it, I heard a man's voice agin, and I jest sent Arrabella round to listen under the window, while I stood in the entry that led into her room; they kept talkin' and talkin', I couldn't hear 'zactly what they said; but I knew it was improper-when if you'll believe it,-it's most too bad to tell, Miss Dobson, but you'll never mention it." 
               "Not for the world, Miss Pry, dew tell, dew," and Miss Dobson in her eagerness, rose from her chair and edged closer up to Mrs. Pry, standing with mouth open and hands upraised. 
               "Well, Miss Dobson, if you'll believe it, somebody was a kissing the Widow, and I hadn't but jest heerd it all, when in come Arrabella shocked as much as I was, and told me she heerd the same thing, so you see I war n't mistaken." 
               "Oh, Lordy! Lordy! if that ain't jest the worst thing I ever heerd tell, if it ain't awful; that such sanctimonious faces should dew sich great sins, Oh, dear!" 
               And Miss Dobson sunk into the nearest chair, utterly exhausted by her emotion. "It's your duty, Miss Pry, to expose it; jest think of a woman's doing sich things, and then comin' to the communion table with a face as innocent as a lamb. "There's no countin for the depravity of the human heart," continued Miss Dobson, as she held forth for some time, fired with righteous indignation tion. After having exhausted herself, a bright idea seemed to take possession of her mind. She said to Mrs. Pry: 
               "Jest you keep that a secret for a little while, and I reckon sometime we'll make a rumpus for somebody." 
               "What now?" gasped Mrs. Pry, in her eagerness for news. But Miss Dobson was too cunning not to keep her secret and she merely said: 
               "O, you'll know one of these days." 
               Presently the maiden lady took her departure, evidently well pleased with the bit of scandal she had received. 
               "Yes," muttered she to herself on her way homeward, "I'll have my revenge yet upon the Deacon. He hain't slighted Sally Dobson for nothin' I can tell him. Let him marry the Widder. I'll help him, but if he don't sing another song before one week's over his head, it'll be because I can't manage things jest as I think I can, that's all." 
               With these reflections, Miss Dobson entered the Deacon's house. She was unusually pleasant and cheerful, and even went so far as to tell Tempy if she was in her place she wouldn't make a single objection to Mr. Arnold's marriage, for said she: 
               "You can't do anything with these men, and maybe it'll make trouble for you." Then whispering very confidentially in her ear, "It's my private opinion the Deacon'll be sick of his bargain before a week goes over his head." 
               "I hope so," responded Tempy, "It'll serve him right." 
               "Jest so," replied Miss Dobson. 
               Thus these two stricken damsels heaped, not congratulations, but innumerable anathemas upon the poor devoted head of the unsuspecting and honest Deacon. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                   
                     
                        I charge thee invite them all.
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
               GREAT was the astonishment of the village people generally when it was announced from the pulpit the following Sabbath that marriage was intended between Deacon Joseph Arnold and Mrs. Eliza Bell. Comments enough were made to fill a large quarto volume. The universal topic being, in the first place, that Mr. Arnold, at his time of life, should think of being married; and then some marvelled at his choice; some were delighted as they said, at the widow's prospects for the future, and others, envious of her good fortune, found it impossible to express their feelings without resorting to certain nameless gestures, unintelligible to those who had not been before informed of Mrs. Pry's secret, which, by this time, (although she had solemnly promised Miss Dobson to observe the most profound silence,) had been circulated among all her particular scandal-loving friends. 
               Great were the preparations at Mr. Arnold's farm house for the approaching marriage festival, and Miss Dobson lent her services with right good will, being much encouraged by the thoughts of the delight she should experience when her revenge became complete. 
               Mr. Arnold insisted, much to the disturbance of Tempy's excitable ble temper, that all the village should be invited. "No one," said he, "shall have a chance to feel slighted this time, for I'll invite everybody, from old mother Dodge to Jedediah Hodges." 
               Therefore the Deacon provided himself with a little strip of paper and a pen and commenced a list of the names of the guests to be invited. 
               "There's Pastor White and his wife," said he to himself; "Mr. and Mrs. Pry and Arrabella, Jemima and Keturah Simpkins;" and he proceeded to make out a long list of names which was given to his man James, who was to deliver the invitations, with the injunction that they must surely come in the afternoon, as early as they could, and spend the evening. 
               Tempy and Miss Dobson were busily occupied for several days in preparing the house and manufacturing quantities of eatables for the occasion. 
               Now if there was any one thing Tempy prided herself on, it was her remarkable skill in cooking; and happy was she when a chance was given her to display it. Never had such an opportunity presented itself before, and she determined to out-do any former wedding ever witnessed in the quiet little town of Reading. 
               My dear readers, you must understand that a country wedding is a very substantial affair, so far as the edibles make a part of the fete, and Tempy would have scorned the wishy-washy stuff so much in repute in city weddings. In the first place, there must be bread, large loaves of light sweet bread; and then pies, and such pies! including the far-famed "pumpkin pie," besides cake and a pig, roasted whole, innumerable chickens and turkeys, preserves, and various other etceteras not enumerated or expressed, but intended to be placed in order upon the wedding board, were enumerated, with silent commentary by the delightful Tempy. 
                
               After several confidential tete a tete with her right hand man Miss Dobson, Tempy concluded to hear the big brick oven upon the day of the wedding, in order that everything should be nice and warm. 
               As a matter of necessity, the house must be cleaned from attic to cellar, for Tempy would have endured martyrdom rather than that her house should not have been, by dint of hard scrubbing, rendered immaculate. 
               The head of every individual nail in sight was polished to such a degree as to reflect little dancing rays of light; the wood-work was thoroughly scrubbed with soap and sand until the paint was nearly sacrificed. 
               Even the dust collected within the keyholes was no longer allowed to repose in security, but was unceremoniously blown out by means of a pair of bellows. The little brass hands which ornamented the old Dutch clock, were rubbed with rotten stone and oil served the double purpose of mirror and clock ornaments. 
               The old fashioned dresser, with glass doors, which had occupied one corner of the sitting room for thirty years, like everything else underwent a thorough renovation. The large polished white plates, with blue edges, were re-arranged in tiers upon their edges against the wall, occupying a lower shelf; while upon an upper shelf was ranged a long row of smaller plates, curiously shaped with notched edges, composed of a common kind of earthen ware, with white groundwork and a little brown vine around the rim, while in the centre was an eye representing the All-seeing Eye, and directly beneath were the words, "Give us this day our daily bread." 
               Although now-a-days these good old plates have been banished for fashionable earthen-ware, still they were a beautiful memento of the goodness and bounty of our fathers. 
               Upon the middle shelf was placed an enormous China punch bowl, belonging originally to Grandfather Arnold, which, on account of its great age and associations, was held in due reverence by its present owners, Joseph and Tempy Arnold. Its huge sides were ornamented with grotesque figures in very vivid colors, of youths and maidens making love under shady trees, with a profusion of flowers and grass to add to the beauty of the scene. To be sure, the trees and flowers would have been pronounced by artists in this day, a libel upon Nature; nevertheless, they were the perfection of beauty to their possessors. 
               A long box-like couch, or lounge, occupied one side of the room, covered with very antique-looking copper-plate. Here were, in pink pictures upon a white ground, shepherds and shepherdesses tending their flocks, and the merry haymaking scene was so well delineated that by a little exercise of the imagination one might hear the jovial laugh and merry jest during the passing round of the refreshing pitcher of beer. 
               Tempy Arnold was not the person to displace a useful article for one of fashion. As she used always to say, "What was good enough for her mother, was good enough for her." Therefore, the same old fashioned high-backed chairs, of carved oak, which had been ranged closely against the walk with mathematical precision in her mother's day, occupied the identical position now. 
               White curtains, with a wide fringe of netting, shaded the windows. The high mantle-pieces were ornamented with three brass candle-sticks, tipped upon their edges, and like the rest of the furniture, underwent a scouring sufficient to test their metal. Upon the centre of the mantle, waved, as if in conscious glory, two gorgeous geous feathers, that had been the particular pride and admiration of some long-deceased peacock. These two beautiful feathers gave a art of tout ensemble a perfect finish to the whole, and Tempy gratefully exclaimed that, they were "so grand and so nice, she would not alter them a bit" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Across the threshold led, 
                           And every tear kissed off as soon as shed, 
                           His house she enters, there to be a light 
                           Shining within, when all without is night; 
                           A guardian angel o'er his life presiding, 
                           Doubling his pleasure, and his cares dividing! 
                        
                      
                     ROGER'S HUMAN LIFE. 
                   
                
               TOO long a time would be occupied in narrating every particular object, which occurred during the wedding preparation days. Suffice it to say that in Tempy's best style the house was cleaned, the viands prepared, and the invitations given for the approaching festivity. The wedding day arrived. The guests were assembled to witness the union of Deacon Joseph Arnold, and Mrs. Eliza Bell. 
               Uncle Joseph was seated in his favorite chair, habited in a new suit of black; a smile was lurking in his merry eye. Still ever and anon he showed evident symptoms of embarrassment and glanced nervously towards the door as if impatient for another arrival. (The Parson had not yet made his appearance.) By the side of Mr. Arnold was seated the Widow Bell dressed in a plain dove-colored silk, and a neatly wrought muslin collar. Outwardly she wore no ornaments save a plain gold ring, which token of affection had cost the good Deacon a ride of ten miles, through a drenching rain storm, to procure cure. Inwardly she wore the ornaments of a meek, quiet and trustful spirit, and the light of this spirit lent a holy expression to her otherwise sad countenance. Dear soul, through her whole life time of suffering, she had been a patient, gentle, loving woman, and her full reward would in due time await her. The Widow was seated by the side of the Deacon in presence of the assembled guests patiently awaiting the arrival of Pastor White. 
               The door opened and the venerable Pastor entered. 
               After shaking hands with the Deacon and his intended bride, and bowing good evening to the company generally, he requested the parties contemplating marriage to rise. 
               With clasped hands and upraised eyes he invoked the God of Heaven to bless the couple who were soon to be united in the bonds of a holy matrimony, a marriage rite instituted by our Saviour and defended in the holy Scriptures, he prayed that their wedded life might be peaceful and happy. As the words of the last named sentence were uttered, Miss Dobson, who had been partially hiding her sanctimonious face behind the voluminous folds of her cotton pocket handkerchief, nudged with her elbow Mrs. Pry, who was setting beside her, at the same time disclosing so much of her face that an observer could not help noticing a most unamiable smile of satisfaction as she whispered, "P'raps the Parson's prayers won't avail much this time, Miss Pry, guess 'twon't be very peaceful wedded life," and the poor maiden lady laid aside her devotional air sufficiently to give her head a triumphant shake, as she again pressed her face closer into her handkerchief. 
               Human nature under all circumstances will develope itself. Her looks were not lost upon Jedediah Hodges, who stood directly opposite her, without the slightest show of devotion, and who was led by the ladies manner to propound the following query to himself, 
                
               "Dew tell, if Miss Dobson ain't a leetle grain disappointed herself?" 
               The marriage ceremony proceeded and the man of God pronounced over those two united hearts the solemn words, "What God hath joined together let not man put asunder." 
               Congratulations were mutually exchanged, and the wedding festivities proceeded. Uncle Joseph seemed to have become suddenly rejuvenated, for, deacon as he was, and a worthy one too, he still carried with him a cheerful heart and a face of corresponding gladness. 
               He entered fully into the sports of the younger portion of the company. He played with them the games of "button," convulsed the sprightly youths with laughter, by his awkward and abortive attempts to catch the platter before it should have performed its revolutions in the centre of the floor preparatory to falling, which failing to secure poor Uncle Joseph was formally arraigned before a tribunal to pay the forfeit for his want of agility. 
               It was at this particular wedding, that Hiram Snow, the schoolmaster, first became conscious of the charms of the Village belle, Nettie Bloom, a free, natural, saucy, rosy-cheeked creature, who had never known the restraint of fashionable life; but who, nevertheless, was a pattern in her way, besides being an especial favorite of Pastor White's, to whose little flock she belonged, both by baptism and profession. 
               The result of these new found charms in the space of six months resolved itself into the form of a declaration of marriage. 
               It was at this time also that Jedediah Hodges perceiving the hand of Arrabella Pry hanging naturally by her side, managed privately to give the said hand a tender pressure, at the same time bestowing upon her unutterable glances from under his great shaggy eyebrows. The gentle pressure of the hand and the looks, induced a palpitation of the heart which in the course of the year brought about natural consequences; viz:-matrimony. 
               Therefore some change was made in the Village, affairs and Uncle Joseph was instrumental by his example, in appropriately bringing together four worthy persons, whose after lives were crowned with domestic happiness. 
               The wedding eve passed away, and the Widow Bell, now Mrs. Joseph Arnold, took up her abode in the Squires yellow house on the hill, as the respected wife of Deacon Arnold. 
               It was with great reluctance that Miss Tempy placed in the hands of Mrs. Arnold the keys of the household. 
               Her maidenly face became considerably elongated, and nervous twitchings encircled her mouth. Nevertheless she put her best foot forward and received her sister in-law with a good degree of grace. 
               Not so Miss Dobson; the morning after the wedding she spitefully informed Miss Tempy, that for her part she would not work in the house under Mrs. Arnold. Therefore much against Tempy's remonstrances she left the services of Deacon Arnold. 
               Every country Village, contains its little "coterie" or "club" devoted to the dissemination of scandal, (at least it is so written,) and this was preminently the case in the town of Windsor. 
               The sewing societies were usually the mediums through which all the news of the town were collected from its various scandal loving members and, I am sorry to write, circulated. 
               I would not have you suppose there were not some good people who frequented these societies, whose high sense of duty and principle prevented them from scandalizing their neighbors. Yet "There are exceptions to all rules," and although the high minded, honorable ladies of the village frowned upon every attempt at detraction and tale bearing, there were others who seemed to enjoy tale bearing and unlady like gossip. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Revenge, at first though sweet, 
                           Bitter 'ere long, back on itself recoils. 
                        
                      
                     MILTON'S PARADISE LOST. 
                   
                
               UNCLE JOSEPH'S wedding had not yet ceased being a "nine days' wonder," when the sewing society met at the house of Mrs. Simpkins, The large basket of work had been distributed, and little knots of persons, busily engaged both with their hands and tongues, were formed here and there in different parts of the room. 
               "Who 'd a thought the Widder would have worn a light silk gown at her time of life, to be married in," said Miss Keturah Simpkins, a lady, who, like Miss Dobson, had manifested evident symptoms of wonder and dislike at Uncle Joseph's choice. 
               "Why, I thought it was becoming, Miss Simpkins, a plain, quiet color," interposed Mrs. Bloom,-a mild, gentle woman, who always had a good word for every one. 
               "Well, then, I did n't, and it's my opinion that some people are wolves in sheep's clothing," continued Miss Simpkins. 
               "And mine tew, Miss Keturah," sharply spoke up Mrs. Pry from the other side of the room, with a knowing wink. 
               "Prove what you say, ladies," again mildly interposed Mrs. Bloom. 
                
               "Did you say prove it, Miss Bloom," said Miss Dobson, at the top of her voice. "I reckon it can be proved, and pruty satisfactory tew." 
               "Why, you will all acknowledge that wrong is done when a person is calumniated without sufficient reason," said Lydia White, drawing near the little circle. 
               "I don't know anything about what your calumnated means," continued Miss Dobson, "but I do know that Mrs. Joseph Arnold arn't jest what she pretends to be." 
               "You know it, Miss Dobson?" enquired Miss White, "are you quite sure?" 
               "Yes, I dew," cried Sally, getting impatient, "and Miss Pry knows it tew." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Come, Miss Pry, the matter may as well out now as any time; you 'd better make a clean breast of it and dew your duty," said Sally Dobson, waxing warm upon the subject. 
               Mrs. Pry needed no urging; a few moment's time were sufficient for her to relate the wondrously wicked story of the Widow's being kissed by a live man. To be sure she embellished the original truth after her own heart, and consequently the story, with nothing seemingly for its foundation, had grown as large as a mountain. 
               Lydia White's quick penetration pierced through Mrs. Pry's garbled narrative; but she said nothing, willing for once that these scandal mongers should be caught in their own net, hoping they might be taught a lesson which would keep them from committing a like blunder again. But all were not disposed to keep quiet. Miss Simpkins declared the "church must have a 'deal' with Mrs. Arnold; such things could n't go on among members of the church; if this should pass, by and by they would get to be as bad as Sodom and Gomorrah." 
                
               The sin was fully discussed, and Mrs. Pry was appointed to lay the matter before the Pastor, when he should arrive in the evening. In due time he came, and with some trepidation, the good lady, urged on by Miss Dobson, communicated the secret to Mr. White. 
               Mr. White heard the narrative in silence. With a pleasant smile playing around his mouth, as he glanced towards his daughter Lydia, at once fully comprehending the matter, he said to Mrs. Pry: 
               "I think I'll go up and enquire about this matter, and as brother Arnold is one of the deacons, I'll just ask him to come down. How does that plan suit you?" 
               "It's the best course, Mr. White," replied Mrs. Simpkins. "He'll see for himself then that he hain't done jest the thing in marrying the Widder." 
               Mr. White, after putting on his overcoat, took his hat in his hand, and bowing to the ladies, started upon his mission. 
               With a smile playing upon his face, he walked hastily to the Deacon's house, and taking him one side, told him the story as just related by Mrs. Pry, at the same time advising him to put on his hat and step round to see the ladies. 
               Mr. Arnold at first, could not comprehend the meaning of the Pastor's visit, but as by degrees it became more perceptible to him, he burst into a loud laugh, at the same time exclaiming: 
               "Why, Mr. White, I believe my soul they're going to bring my wife up before the church for kissing her husband." 
               "I suspected as much, Mr. Arnold, but I thought I 'd let them go on with their story; if they are caught, they'll learn that slander is a dangerous thing." 
               "We'll see, Mr. White, we'll see," and Uncle Joseph smiled in his heart, at the trouble some persons took to make themselves especially uncomfortable. 
               They soon reached the house of Mrs. Simpkins. At the sound their approaching footsteps, Miss Dobson made her exit, listening to the conversation in a little entry close by. 
               "Good evening, Mrs. Pry, good evening, ladies," said Mr. Arnold as he entered; then advancing towards Mrs. Pry, he continued: 
               "Mr. White tells me you have a grave charge to bring against my wife." 
               "Yes, sir," replied Mrs. Pry, for a moment hesitating and looking down, then recovering from her momentary embarrassment, for the fortieth time she repeated her story. 
               "You are certain you heard a man kiss Mrs. Arnold when she was Widder Bell?" 
               "Yes, I heard it, and Arrabella heard it tew." 
               "And you have often heard a man talking with her?" 
               "Yes, indeed, and sometimes as late as ten o'clock." 
               "Can you tell the precise time, Mrs. Pry?" 
               "Yes, it was the fifteenth of October. I know for sartain; I chalked it down on the cellar door by the side of Mr. Pry's accounts; 'twan't because I harbored any ill feelings towards your wife, Mr. Arnold, but I knew right was right, and all wrong must be brought to light.' 
               "That's true, Miss Pry, but you will allow it would make some difference if she was kissed by a brother." 
               "She han't got no brother, has she?" gasped Mrs. Pry, fearful lest she should be left in the lurch. 
               "Not that I know of," replied the Deacon, smiling. 
               "Well then, you see I'm right," continued Mrs. Pry, regaining her composure. 
               "Not too fast, my friend; supposin' I was courtin' the Widder that day, and when she consented to be my wife, we sealed the compact with a kiss." 
                
               "It was before you courted the Widder, Deacon." 
               "Well, let's see;" and as he spoke he produced a little account book from his pocket, and turning over the leaves, found in white and black the date of the very identical day of his engagement, which, unfortunately for Mrs. Pry and Miss Dobson's deep plans of settled revenge, proved to be the fifteenth of October. 
               As the truth began to dawn upon the mind of Mrs. Pry that she had made a great mistake, inasmuch as she was about to bring Mrs. Arnold to be dealt with by the church for kissing her intended husband, she gradually withdrew herself into a corner, looking very much as if she had been drawn through the smallest possible space. Mr. Arnold laughed heartily at this ridiculous turn of affairs, and bidding Mrs. Pry good night amidst the merriment of the company generally, and Lydia White and her father particularly, and saying "I presume Miss Pry, your business with me is now ended," he took his departure. 
               "But poor Miss Dobson, who was to have her revenge by witnessing the excited jealousy of the Deacon, as she saw the secret brought out in its true light, darted fiercely upon Mrs. Pry, saying: 
               "There, I told you so, didn't I, Mrs. Pry, didn't I tell you nobody gained nothing by talking about their neighbors, and here you've been all this time talking about an innocent woman; for shame on you." 
               "For shame on you, Miss Dobson; didn't you put me up to it, and it's my opinion now that you wanted the Deacon yourself, and intended to make trouble. Pretty work for a christian woman to attempt to break up families at this rate." 
               One thing is quite certain to this day: Miss Sally Dobson's wrongs remain unrevenged. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Those that do teach young babes 
                           Do it with gentle means. 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Both men and women belie their nature 
                           When they are not kind. 
                        
                      
                     BAILEY'S FESTUS. 
                   
                
               "REALLY, Estelle, I feel quite worried about Lily of late," said Mr. George Seymour one afternoon as he was seated with his wife in their elegantly furnished parlor, and laying down the book he had been reading his face assumed an unusually serious expression. 
               "Lily?" replied Mrs. Seymour. "Pray what ails the child?" 
               "Why, hav'nt you noticed how pale and thin she looks, Estelle?" continued he. 
               "I don't know but she looks as well as all children of her age; you know she is growing, George." 
               "It is'nt that alone, she does'nt get good, pure air enough, I 'm afraid; she is decidedly thin and very pale." 
               "Pooh!" replied his wife, "it's all your imagination." 
               "No," continued Mr. Seymour, "Herbert noticed the same thing and spoke to me of it this very afternoon." 
                
               "It is a pleasant thing to have one take an interest in your welfare and watch over your changing health," said Mrs. Seymour, with a slight curl of the lip. 
               "I have concluded that the best thing for her health would be to send her into the country for a time to recruit," contined he, without noticing his wife's remark. 
               "Ah, indeed!" replied Estelle, with an undisguised sneer, "Think of all my ailments ever since I have been married, yet you never thought it best to send me anywhere for my health; neither have you made one-half the outcry you've made ever since that child came into the house. Her delicate health! Pretty attention I've received!" 
               And Estelle leaned back in her elegant easy chair, with a look that said more plainly than words, "I need your sympathy." 
               "Good reason why, Madam Seymour," replied her husband half playfully, half tauntingly; "you've always made outcry enough without my assistance, and don't you have the undisputed privilege of going when and where you choose for your health? What would be the use of my making an outcry? you are amply able to do it yourself." 
               "I'd thank you to make no reflections upon me, Mr. Seymour," said Estelle, pettishly. "It's a matter of thankfulness to the Lord that I have taken care of myself, or I should have been in my grave long ago, for all the care I should have had from any other source." 
               "Ah, indeed, Madam!" replied Mr. Seymour laughingly. 
               "Well, I 'd advise you to retire to your room this moment and make your thankfulness a matter of special prayer. It's your duty, my dear, and I'll be off for a few moments." 
               "A beautiful way you have of making a mock of religious services!" 
                
               "My adorable wife, do repeat that last remark; it really escaped me," continued Mr. Seymour ironically. 
               "Wretch!" muttered Estelle. 
               "Indeed! Well, I must be going; good day, my dear wife, good day, madam," and he bowed himself out with a grace which would have done credit to the most learned pupil of Terpsichore. 
               Presently the parlor door opened and a tall, but girlish form entered. At the first glance one would scarcely have recognized the form and face of Lily, for time, that transforms all things, had also left its impression upon her changing countenance. Four years had passed since she had entered Mr. Seymour's family; four uneventful years spent mostly in study and childish plays. What wonder that she should be changed? We left her a mere child; now she was the blooming girl, fast merging into womanhood. Her large blue eyes had assumed a more thoughtful expression, one which savored somewhat of sadness; although, as Mr. Seymour had remarked, she was thin and pale. 
               As she entered, the door accidentally closed with considerable violence, which elicited from her amiable mama, 
               "Do, Lily, learn to enter a room with less noise; it distracts me with my weak nerves." 
               "I did not intend to make any noise, mama," gently replied Lily. 
               "Well, well, don't keep up your annoyance," replied her mama. 
               The sensitive Lily withdrew into a small recess near the window, completely hidden from the view of those within by the folds of the massive curtain. 
               "Is'nt it cruel," said she to herself, "that mama should speak so crossly to me? Dear! dear!" and the large tears coursed their way down her cheek. 
                
               But Madam Estelle sat perfectly unconscious of the child's grief, which had been provoked by her own selfish will. 
               She cared little for the pain she inflicted upon others. Her own bodily and mental woes were of sufficient enormity to occupy all the time she could spare from the perusal of the last novel. 
               An unkind word is long remembered by a sensitive child; more especially when that child is an orphan and comparatively alone in the world. 
               The bitter sobs caused by unkindness give pain to her heart, the bosom heaves, the lip trembles, and tears, sweet in their very bitterness, fill her eyes. Oh, speak kindly to the orphan child, per-adventure enough will necessarily occur to cloud her young life without one unkind word from you. 
               Deal gently with her; do not cast her off thinking her welfare concerns you not. How much better were it to take the lonely one, the orphan by the hand, for is she not one of God's little ones, of whom he has kindly said, "Of such is the kingdom of Heaven?" Smooth her pathway, if you can, but do not check the roses which else might have blossomed in her pathway, "though sadly her young heart have erred, speak not to her a bitter word." Be kind to her; it is a gentle boon costing you nothing, and when the bitter hour of trial comes to her soul, the memory of your kindness shall be as a green spot in your memory;-an oasis in the dark desert of life. 
               Remember the cup of cold water given in the name of the Redeemer; wouldst thou be his disciple? "Go thou and do likewise." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Number thy lamps of love, and tell me now 
                           How many canst thou relight at the stars, 
                           And blush not at their burning? One, one only. 
                           Lit while your pulses by one heart kept time, 
                           And fed with faithful fondness to your grave; 
                           (Though sometimes with a hand stretched back from heaven) 
                           Steadfast through all things, near when most forgot; 
                           And with its finger of unerring truth 
                           Pointing the lost way in thy darkest hour- 
                           One lamp, thy mother's love, amid the stars 
                           Shall lift its pure flame changeless, and before 
                           The throne of God burn through eternity, 
                           Holy as it was lit and lent thee here. 
                        
                      
                     N. P. WILLIS. 
                   
                
               LILY remained seated by the window so fully absorbed in her own bitter grief that she did not observe the great change which was taking place in the elemental world without, until aroused by a loud peal of thunder. At this moment a faint shriek caught her ear; upon looking around she discovered that the cry proceeded from her mother:-"Lily, child," called Mrs. Seymour, as soon as she had recovered sufficiently from her fright to be enabled to speak; "Run to papa, quick and tell him I shall die, if he does'nt come, and stay with me through this dreadful shower. Oh!" she cried as another burst of thunder fell upon her ears, while a vivid flash of lightning almost blinded her. 
               Lily ran quickly, although she did not succeed in finding papa, but brought in his stead, Mrs. Seymour's waiting maid, who bore that lady to her chamber, and after placing her carefully upon a couch closed the blinds so closely, that the lightning could not penetrate within the chamber, and then proceeded to comfort her mistress whose ravings were like those of a madman. 
               Lily returned to the parlor and with a mind stricken with awe, gazed from the window upon the scene before her. 
               To a mind highly imaginative and poetical, what is more replete with beauty and sublimity than a shower of rain, and its consequent embellishments? 
               And in the present case, a most glorious sight presented itself to the wondering gaze of Lily. 
               Far to the westward rose high clouds, seemingly mountains of gold were seen, brilliant and shining; beyond these arose higher and higher, huge piles of thick, massy clouds looking as if they were the fitting habitation of the great God of thunder. 
               Nearly the whole heavens wore a dark and threatening aspect; now and then might be seen peeping through the prevailing blackness little patches of the bright and beautiful blue sky, like the glimpses of angel faces seen through the dense blackness of the storms of life. Ever and anon little delicate, fleecy, silver clouds, fit chariots for the zephyrs, scudding along with great rapidity, as if fearful of ing overwhelmed in the convulsive mass. 
               Presently Alus lent his aid and the dust was sent dancing away into whirlpools far out of sight. The houses creaked, now and then a loose blind was sent with great violence against the house as if it were being taken from its hinges. 
                
               The mass of black clouds was all in a glow as though literally it was about to display its silver lining. Peal upon peal echoed and rechoed upon the air, and then Nature, as if the more effectually to relieve the tumultuous throbbings of her great bosom, shed large drops of tears, which, as they fell, came pattering against the window panes near which she was leaning. 
               Lily was lost in admiration of the scene; her tears were dried; her own grief was forgotten in contemplation of the strife of the elements. 
               Ah, Nature! whence the sorrows of thy great heart? Weepest thou over the dark deeds of man, tears of agony? or are thine the tears of sympathy alone? Sympathy with the stricken mourner; sympathy with the lonely heart. Surely it is that thy heart throb-are in consonance with many a sorrowing one. 
               The storm passed away, and through Nature's tears the sun sweetly smiled. Still Lily stood apparently unmoved, as though absorbed in deepest thought. 
               Presently awaking from her dreamy mood, and folding her hands in her lap, she whispered, 
               "O! if somebody loved me, if somebody loved me!" 
               "Somebody does love you Lily, dear," said a handsome, manly little fellow, stepping closely to her side, and gently passing his arm around the child's slight waist. "I love you, Lily." 
               "Oh! Herbert," said the child, starting, and showing evident embarrassment, "I did n't know you were here." 
               "I just came in time to hear your tearful remark, Lily; why, what makes you feel as if no one loved you? Don't papa love you, and I, and mam-" 
               Here Herbert hesitated, for he knew his mother loved no one very much but herself. 
                
               "You and papa love me, Herbert," she replied, "but sometimes I feel, Oh, if I only had a mama to love me too, I should be so happy!" 
               "But I havn't got any mama to love me any more than you have, Lily," replied the boy, evidently by way of consolation. 
               "No, dear Herbert; but you are a boy, and you don't need a mother to love you as much as I do," philosophically reasoned Lily. 
               "Ah! Lily, you won't have it right any way," retorted Herbert, playfully. "We'll love each other, and that'll answer, won't it?" 
               "Yes," said lily with her lips, but her heart refused to sanction her words. 
               Poor child, you sigh for a mother's love; well may you, for if there is a perfectly pure and holy love this side of heaven-if there are deeds done in the whole world worthy the name of true affection-if there is a true, holy, patient, enduring, self-sacrificing love,-it is the love a gentle mother bears for her children. All other falls infinitely below the pure, hallowed affection of a mother! This has been refined, tried and weighed, and never found wanting in the strength of its noble endurance. It is like golden sands strewed thickly through the pathway of life. Treasure it as an holy affection. She may be old; her raven locks are threaded with the silvery touch of time; her brow is wrinkled by a life of cares and troubles; her form is bowed as she goes forth laden with the weight of years; and although you be strong and in the very prime of manhood, she is your mother and deserves all your love. Let her lean upon you for support, as the tender vine clings around the stately oak; and when God calls her home, lay her gently away to rest, bedewing her grave with the tear of a grateful and a heartfelt affection. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Kindness by secret sympathy is tied; 
                           For noble souls in Nature are allied. 
                        
                      
                     DRYDEN. 
                   
                
               "DON'T cry again, dear Lily," said Herbert, as he noted her sad face the moment he had concluded his conversation. 
               "Hav'nt we had a delightful shower? See how beautifully everything looks," said he, leading her to an open window and pointing to the lovely scene. 
               "Where were you through the shower, Lily?" 
               "I was here, Herbert." 
               "What, all alone?" 
               "Why yes, indeed, I loved to be alone, everything was so beautiful." 
               "But the shower was very hard; were you not afraid just one little bit, Lily, for I don't want you to have more courage than I?" 
               "No, not one bit," replied Lily, laughing at the comical manner in which Herbert spoke. 
               "Why, mama has been very near fainting. Ellen came to stay with her. Why were not you afraid, Lily, just as much as mama?" 
               "Why, you know, mama has very weak nerves and cannot bear as much as I can." 
                
               "Lily," said Herbert thoughtfully "I never thought mama's nerves weaker than other people's. I think she makes believe." 
               "Oh, Herbert, I don't," replied the child. 
               "Well I do, for I have noticed that whenever she wants to do anything for herself she can do it. Lily, do you think mama's a Christian?" 
               "Don't you, Herbert?" 
               "I don't think she's such a Christian as Jemmie Brown was, Lily." 
               "Neither do I, Herbert. If she had been, I don't believe she would be afraid in a thunder shower. You know Jemmie was never afraid, he was so good." 
               "Yes, Jemmie, was good," replied Herbert. "It's a long time since he died." 
               "Almost five years, Herbert, but it does'nt seem half as long, does it?" 
               "No, indeed, Lily, and you have been here more than four years, but you've grown a great deal. See, you 're almost as tall as I." Then hesitating a moment he added, "Did you know, Lily, that papa was going to send us both to school in the country." 
               "What, you and I?" said Lily in surprise. 
               "Why, yes, you little squirrel, did'nt I say so. 
               "I suppose, so, Herbert." 
               "Well, we are going together, for papa said we would be lonely separated. Was'nt it kind of him to think of that, and don't you think you M like to go into the country, where we can go haying and berrying, and hear the birds sing and pick as many wild flowers as we want and hunt birds' nests, help feed the chickens and turkeys, make butter and cheese, eat strawberries and cream?--" 
               "Oh, Herbert, pray do stop; you'll exhaust yourself," cried Lily, playfully placing her hand before his mouth. 
                
               "And we can see the little squirrels jump over the wood fences and the pretty brooks running along, and gather beech-nuts." Here the hand was again interposed much to the young people's merriment. 
               "Well, really, in sober earnest, Lily, should'nt you like to go?" 
               "Pretty well, Herbert." 
               "Pretty well," repeated the boy, disappointedly. "Why don't you jump right up and down like I do, and laugh, and say, 'I guess I would like to go?'" and Herbert commenced capering around the room. 
               "Because I don 't like any thing to-day, Herbert; I believe I'm cross." 
               "Pooh! cross, and with the glorious idea of going into the country before you! Why, Lily, I 'm astonished." The youth gently led Lily from her seat and commenced waltzing round the room. 
               "When do we go, Herbert?" enquired Lily, as soon as she could recover her breath sufficiently. 
               "Papa has'nt made any arrangements yet, but I presume it will be before long; I hope so." 
               "But I dread to see any new faces," interposed the girl. 
               "Oh, they'll soon be old faces; we shall have to stay but a little time before we get over that feeling," replied Herbert, determined to look on the bright side of everything. 
               "Do you know where we are to go?" 
               "Somewhere in Connecticut I think, although I don't exactly know; father has a place in view for us; you know we are not going to a regular boarding school, like Mr. Smith's here, but are to be placed in a private family. Father does'nt like boarding schools." 
               "I should rather do so, should'nt you?" enquired Lily. 
               "Yes, indeed, and father says we need'nt study all the time. He wants us to become more healthy and strong. I shall go fishing sometimes, Lily, and you can go with me," said the youth patronizingly. 
               "Well, I think after all I shall like the country ever so much," said Lily with considerable enthusiasm. 
               "I guess you will, young lady." 
               In this manner, Herbert and Lily talked on for a long time until they became nearly wild with their buoyant expectations of a country life. 
               Herbert Seymour was a kind, affectionate boy, although even at this time his ire would have been visibly raised, had the appellation of boy been attached to him. 
               In his own opinion, he was almost a man. Possessing all the elements of a noble, manly nature, and for one who had scarcely complet- his fifteenth year, was considered a lad of much promise. He dearly loved his sister Lily and papa, and daily strove by many little attentions to merit their approbation and esteem. 
               In order to carry his plan into execution, Mr. Seymour wrote to an old friend residing in Reading, Conn., who for a long time had been employed in teaching. A short time sufficed to bring the following reply. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              READING, MAY, 27th. 
                               
                                 MR. GEORGE SEYMOUR, 
                               
                              DEAR SIR:
                            
                           Your letter is received. I will take your children into my school with great pleasure, and have been most fortunate in securing them board in the very worthy family of Mr. and Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                           For the improvement of health we are admirably located, and I will endeavor to carry out all your wishes, as they are made known to me, respecting your children. 
                           
                              Very truly yours, 
                              JOSIAH EDMONDS.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               Satisfactory arrangements being now made the day was appointed upon which the children should leave their home. 
               Mr. Seymour accompanied them, and remained for a few days with them, in order to ascertain by personal observation the nature of the place and school at which his children were to spend a year or two in the acquisition of useful learning. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted; 
                           Teach sin the holy carriage of a saint. 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
               "PAPA," said Lily one day before her departure for school, as she was standing with one little hand placed upon the arm of Mr. Seymour's easy chair, "Papa, can I go to Mr. Brown's to-morrow? I want to see them very much before I go away." 
               "Why, yes Lily, if you wish, but you must not go alone. I'll see if your brother can go with you," replied her father, placing his hand affectionately upon the child's head. "You'd like to have Herbert go, would n't you?" 
               "Oh, yes indeed," replied Lily. 
               "You must take Mother Brown a large basket full of nice comforts." 
               "Oh! papa, how kind you are." 
               "Why, no, I guess not, child," replied Mr. Seymour, laughing, "come, sit down here and tell me what you think Mother Brown needs most," and as he spoke, he drew a little ottoman closely to his side, upon which the child seated herself. 
               "Now begin Lily." 
               "Well, in the first place, Papa, her dresses must be nearly worn out. You know she cannot afford but a few at a time, and I should like to get her a new one." 
               "Well, I suppose you want a nice orange brocade." 
               "Why, papa, how ridiculously Mother Betsy would look in a brocade." 
               "Ah, indeed, little Miss Common Sense, what does she want?" 
               "She wants a nice calico, with dark blue ground and little white dots all over it; and we must be sure that it will wash." 
               "And a couple of pipes and a pound of tobacco," interposed Mr. Seymour. 
               "Why, no, papa, she doesn't smoke, but she takes snuff, and she'll want half a pound of yellow snuff, and two blue checkered aprons." 
               "Yes, and a pair of white silk hose." 
               "How funny you are to-day, papa." 
               "That's what you always tell me, Lily dear." 
               "We must think what we are going to give Mrs. Brown, papa. She 'd like a little tea and sugar and some gray stocking yarn and some slate colored stocking yarn, and if you could let me have a few oranges for the children and some candy." 
               "Hold, hold, Lily, there's no end to your wants; why, you'll make me a bankrupt at this rate!" 
               "I guess not, papa, shall I?" replied the child, looking up archly into his face. An affectionate kiss upon her cheek was the response, and father and child were both gratified and delighted with their arrangements for the surprise they intended for the good Mrs. Brown. The next day found Herbert and Lily with a servant fitted out with a large basket filled with the very articles Lily wished for a present to Mrs. Brown, prepared for her by her kind and indulgent father. 
                
               They walked to the Railway station, and after a few moments ride in the cars, arrived in sight of John Brown's humble cottage. Lily eagerly hastened from the cars and to the house of her destination. A low rap brought Mrs. Brown to the door. 
               "I daresn't believe the eyes of me," said Betsy, as the faces of Herbert and Lily presented themselves to her astonished gaze." 
               "Lord bless you, children, I 'm glad to see you," cried she, placing her huge arms around Lily, and imprinting a motherly kiss upon her cheek. 
               "Oh! Mother Betsy, I'm so glad to see you too," replied Lily, as soon as she was free from the old lady's embrace, "and you don't know what I've brought you." 
               "Bless your heart, you're always bringing your old mother somethin' comfortable," said Betsy. 
               Hereupon Lily proceeded to take from the basket, first, the dress; yes, a dress of genuine indigo blue. 
               "No fading to that," said Betsy, as she crumpled it closely in her hand to ascertain the heaviness of the texture. "To think," she said, "that the child should remember how fond she was of indigo blue calico." 
               Secondly came the half pound of snuff, over which Betsy really sneezed. Then the blue checkered aprons were displayed. Betsy expatiated long upon the fine quality of the goods, and there was enough to allow two full breadths to one apron, which would surely encompass her large person. Betsy stood looking on with amazement during the unpacking of the basket, ever and anon raising the corner of that veritable blue apron to wipe away a stray tear that would rise unbidden to her eyes; poor woman, she had very weak eyes, particularly if her heart was touched. 
               "Bless your little heart," at length murmured Betsy. "You 're the kindest little creeter as ever lived; the Lord'll reward you one of these days." 
               "Won't the Lord reward you, mother, for taking me when I had no father and mother, and taking care of me?" 
               "I 'm rewarded all the time, Lily," replied Betsy; "yes, every day." 
               "All the good are, mother." 
               "I ain't very good though, my child." 
               "People think differently about that," said Herbert, who had hitherto been a quiet looker-on. "You think you are not good, and every one else thinks you are, and what every one thinks must be true." 
               "Not allers, Master Herbert," replied Mrs. Brown; "not allers." 
               Lily and Herbert passed the day most pleasantly. They gathered little transparent shells upon the beach; caught the delicate sea-weed, as it floated on the surface of the blue water, upon sheets of white paper, in order that they might dry and preserve their form. Together they visited the grave of their friend Jemmie, over whose remains Mr. Seymour had erected a neat, marble slab. 
               Before leaving Mrs. Brown, Lily threw herself into the good woman's arms and told her how very much she loved her, and how she almost wished if it was n't for Herbert and Papa, that she could come back to her. And then she told her how lonely she was sometimes, and how she sighed for a mother's love. And good Betsy pressed the child closely to her heart, smoothed her hair, and told her when she was lonely to come to her, and she would try to be good and kind to her always. 
               Lily was comforted, and returned home with a cheerful heart. With many a "God bless you, kind mother," Betsy saw them leave her humble cottage by the sea-shore, for their elegant mansion in Fifth Avenue. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           The web of our life is of a mingled 
                           Yarn, good and ill together. Our virtues 
                           Would be proud, if our faults whipt them not, 
                           And our crimes would despair, if they were not 
                           Cherished by our virtues. 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
               THE eventful morning of the departure soon came. Two trunks, bearing in large letters the initials of Herbert and Lily, were strapped to a neat travelling carriage which stood in readiness before the door. 
               Herbert and Lily, after bidding their adieus to the servants, not forgetting even a large yellow cat, the joint property of the two, were ready to depart. Mama's weak nerves would only admit of an exceedingly graceful kiss, without the slightest possible emotion. 
               "Don't forget your French, Lily," she drawled out, after bidding her a cold good-by. "You know it is so necessary that a young lady should understand French well. Your other studies are useless comparatively." 
               "Did you know, George," said she turning to her husband, "that I was quite a proficient in the French Language when I was young." 
               "Oh yes, you were a great prodigy when I first knew you, Estelle. I only lament that girls are taught many things that they do not carry with them through life, and which would make them more useful as wives and mothers." 
               "Well, well, George, let us part in peace and I'll run into the house to escape a long homily upon woman's duties. Good-by," she languidly exclaimed, and kissing the tips of her fingers to her husband disappeared. 
               The party drove off in fine spirits. The morning was beautiful, for it was just that season when the loveliness of Spring seems bursting into full bloom. 
               The dew-drops upon the grass and twigs of the maple glittered in the sunlight, as the gay dreams of youth glitter in the sunlight of hope. All things seemed fresh and beautiful. Sweet odors from a thousand flowers came floating upon the breath of every zephyr. 
               As they advanced farther into the country they discovered new beauties. The grazing of the sleek, fat cattle in the fertile meadows and upon the sloping hill-sides attracted Lily's particular admiration. 
               A barn-yard full of the renowned Shanghies and other choice fowls were considered by Herbert worthy of his notice. 
               Mr. Seymour listened with some interest to the conversation of the young people, occasionally giving utterance to a sly or quick remark, which caused them much amusement, as they journeyed towards the place of their destination. 
               After a long and tedious day's ride they arrived at the little town of Reading, which was to be the residence of his children for the present. 
               The eye of Lily brightened as she marked the many peculiarities of the town. The profound stillness and repose which seemed to hang over it, like a heavy mantle, struck them with surprise. Their carriage finally halted before the country Inn, which would never have been taken for such, were it not for the old sign upon which was painted the scene of Washington taking leave of his troops; and directly beneath, the inscription "Wells' Tavern." 
               This was suspended between two posts, where it had been swinging and creaking in the wind for the last fifty years, or more. 
               Here the party passed the night. 
               The next morning Mr. Seymour proceeded to the house of Mr. Edmonds, the teacher of the Academy in Reading, who went with him to a fine looking white house where the family of Mrs. Scrubbin resided, and where arrangements had been made for the board of his children. 
               They were shown into a sitting room by the maid of all work. 
               Presently a feminine body of great rotundity of proportions clad with an evident attempt at gentility, entered the room. 
               "Mrs. Scrubbin allow me to introduce you to Mr. Seymour and his children," said Mr. Edmonds, rising, and presenting them to Mrs. Scrubbin. 
               "Ah indeed," ejaculated that lady with a smile of ineffable grace, while extending her hand she bowed and courtesied with the greatest amount of assumed dignity. 
               "I am very glad to see you, and these dear children also." Then taking the hand of Lily and imprinting a kiss upon her cheek she said: 
               "My dear, you are a Lily indeed, so pale; but I presume our clear country air will soon bring the roses again to your cheek." 
               "That is what I hope for Mrs. Scrubbin," said Mr. Seymour. 
               "She is paler than usual now, however, I think from the fatigue of riding yesterday." 
               "Very likely," replied Mrs. Scrubbin seating herself. 
               "And so you think of placing these young people under my charge, Mr. Edmonds tells me," continued she with a patronizing air. 
               "Yes, for a time, as you have so kindly consented to take them." 
               "Oh really it's a great pleasure to me to have children of this age; much pleasanter than if they were younger, or were older. We shall get along delightfully," said she, bestowing a sweet smile upon Lily and Herbert, who did not know what to think of the woman at times so very patronizing and smiling and then again so dignified. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh had some Power the giftie gie us 
                           To see ourselves as others see us! 
                           It had frae mong a blunder free us, 
                           An' foolish notion: 
                           What airs in dress an' gait, had lea'e us, 
                           And ev'n Devotion! 
                        
                      
                     ROBERT BURNS. 
                   
                
               "ALL the worlds' a stage and all the men and women are players." Life is the drama; strong intellectual men, beautiful and accomplished women, giddy, inexperienced youths all find their place in the great living drama of the world. Vice in its worst deformities is every day enacted, while on the other hand goodness, sterling merit and holy deeds of love and charity all in due time are found occupying the place assigned them. The grosser passions of earth are well defined, strongly delineated. By turns, the occupants of the stage laugh and sing, the merry jest is passed around, and hilarious conviviality predominates. 
               The scene changes, and the gay and joyous ones now weep, and tear their hair and groan in very agony of soul. If their laughter was before contagious, much more so is their grief, and your own heart seems bursting with an echo of their wailing sorrows. Happy are you, if an echo only finds a place within your bosom. A few more scenes of joyousness, a few more rending of hearts, and whether we will or not, Death, the drop scene, unrolls before us and closes the scene. Bliss unspeakable remains for those only who have performed their role honestly, bravely, and well. 
               In that world to which we are all hastening, frail man is not to be the judge; an infinitude of justice and majesty presides, and rules over the destinies of his immortal children. *  *  * 
               
                  Mrs. Scrubbin, how shall I describe her? Was she not like the Chameleon forever changing, and when you flattered yourself that you had certainly discovered a new phase in human nature, before one could really know what to make of it, did she not present another side, leading you into an endless wonderment as to what would come next? 
               One thing however was plainly evident, that every act and word and thought, contained in large quantities the double distilled essence of self interest. 
               But the means by which she accomplished her ends were new and varied. 
               The spring and summer of her life were spent in single blessedness, but by the rule, there's never a Jack without its Jill, so in due time the day of Miss Dulcina Higgins' wedded life came. 
               At the time this maiden lady had arrived at a very questionable age (although she stoutly asserted she had never seen twenty seven, still the Town Records prove to the contrary; and more than this the old inhabitants who remembered the precise date of every birth for fifty years past maintained that Dulcina never would see thirty five again.) 
               At this particular time, Mr. Justice Scrubbin, a most worthy man, had been inveigled into offering his heart and fortunes, not all golden however, to Miss Higgins. 
                
               From the moment she bore the euphonious name of Scrubbin, her star was evidently in the ascendant, but unfortunately she was not able to wear her honors well. She became grievously worldly. 
               Her heart was filled with an avaricious pride which knew no bounds. Her nature, which in her maidenly days had been somewhat susceptible, became suddenly transformed, after a little wedded experience, into the hardness of iron. 
               She always insisted upon having her rights, and more too, if she could get the surplus, without incurring blame; but for what she claimed as her right, her real right, all the men in Creation, and a few women thrown in, could not wrest from her. No one was ever known to stand long before her volley of words; for she understood so well the tactics necessary in a battle with her tongue, always bringing her force to bear upon the right point at just the right time. 
               She did not believe there was any goodness in the world save in her own heart, but supposed that others like herself were ever on the lookout for interest; therefore she trusted no one but Mr. Scrubbin and of course his interest was hers. She had a great respect for the proprieties, and ordinances of the church; every Sabbath her face was elongated as the village urchins expressed it, "full two inches." Invariably habited on Sabbath in her "go to meeting," garments, with her Testament in her hand, she retired to the privacy of her own room; dismissing as she said, every care of a worldly nature. 
               Here she would remain looking over and counting her huge piles of table linen to satisfy herself that nothing had been taken or removed from its place. In this employment she was engaged until the bell tolled for church, when she walked out and to church with a sanctimonious air and staid gait, always being sure to get there before any other person of the congregation, that when the pastor and the people entered they should notice how intently she was absorbed in reading Watts' Psalms and Hymns. 
               People who had no dealings with her thought her a most devout Christian, and as for her own opinion she was clothed from head to foot with the Pharisaical robe of self Righteousness and consequently supposed herself immaculate. 
               It would have been impossible to have convinced her that she had even committed a single sin. Her daily prayer was "Oh, Lord, I thank thee I am not like other men." 
               She never visited any church but her own, deeming all other Christian denominations as being upon the broad road to ruin. 
               Every person who did not subscribe to her articles of faith was branded an infidel. She believed that all children who died one day over the age of seven years unless they had met with an experimental change of heart, (which must be an exact counterpart of her own experience) was doomed to eternal destruction. She rejoiced she said "to have all manner of iniquities brought to light and punished, even if the offender were a youth of tender years and the offence the stealing of the value of three cents." "Put him in jail," she would say "as an example to prove that the way of transgressors is hard." 
               She had no belief in moral suasion, and Mr. Scrubbin, poor soul, was fast becoming metamorphosed from the man he formerly was, into a veritable nonentity. She had broken him in decidedly. 
               He was very seldom now-a-day, troubled with generous impulses, or if so, for the sake of praise, he was obliged to do his deed of charity under cover. Nightly was he feasted (a la' caudle) until he was to all appearances a perfect pattern of submission. 
               Miss Burns says every person has their own little meanness; one person is saving in pins, another in pens and paper, and a third in old linen; but she does not say that some people are completely composed posed of little meannesses. But all of these points, and every other point of "stinginess" or parsimony, seemed to meet in Mrs. Dulcina Scrubbin. 
               For some years she had been accustomed to board as many of the scholars of Mr. Edmonds' school as she could accommodate, and by dint of pulling the meat by main force from the children's mouths, she had made a good amount of clear, cash profits. But in all her manuverings she displayed a good deal of cunning, inasmuch as she singled out for her victims to profit, those persons who were too gentle to resist and whom she could handle as she chose. 
               These she trained to such a degree of perfection, that at meals one look from her eagle eye served as a touch-me-not warning to many a hungry little urchin, whose wants were not half satisfied, but who never dared touch a single morsel after the aforesaid look. The result was, the poor children, half starved, went around begging of the neighbors, and many a benevolent woman, knowing which way the tide ran at the old boarding-house, sent over occasionally a nicely filled basket to relieve the half-iamishing ones. 
               She watched every new comer at meal times as narrowly as a cat watehes a mouse. If a large quantity of food was necessary to satisfy his bodily wants, it was immediately recorded, such an one is not profitable; eats too much butter, or some other choice article. 
               In her diary was the following record: "Lorenzo Davis not profitable; took butter three times at tea; can't mend him; too independent. Harry Hildreth unprofitable; took two pieces of cheese, slice and a half of bread; guess in time I can break him in. Samuel Wilson, perfect gentleman; does'nt eat any cake; profitable in other respects. Julia Casey, jewel; always refuses pie at dinner, profitable boarder, small eater, has wealthy parents. Johnny Gillis; have got him pretty well broken in; does'nt venture to take cake, cheese or butter when I'm looking. Consider it necessary for me thus to restrict him on account of his poor parents, who will never be able to afford him the luxuries of life." 
               With such entries as these Mrs. Scrubbin had filled a large journal during her experiences in boarding-house life. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           A little learning is a dang 'rous thing; 
                           Drink deep or taste not the Piersian spring; 
                           These shallow draughts intoxicate the brain, 
                           And drinking largely sobers us again. 
                        
                      
                     POPE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        Error is worse than ignorance.
                      
                     BAILEY'S FESTUS. 
                   
                
               IT was with such a family that Lily and Herbert Seymour were for the present placed, still they were not likely to suffer, for rumors of Mr. Seymour's wealth had, before their arrival, reached Mrs. Scrubbing ear, and the payment of the quarter's board in advance served much to conciliate that lady's, not always very agreeable, humor; on this occasion, however, they were favored with the utmost politeness in her power to bestow. 
               Lily was delighted with her new home. Mrs. Scrubbin, as she thought, was very kind and motherly, and Mr. Edmonds was so pleasant, it was really a pleasure to recite to him, and then the country was beautiful to live in, so new; no bird ever sang his morning hymn more joyously than did the child of Nature warble forth by herself her little impromptu lay. Nor were they songs only; they were the unrestrained outpourings of a pure and loving heart. 
               Early every morning, before the sun had wooed the pearly dew-drops from its bed, Herbert and Lily started off in merry glee upon their "exploring expeditions," as they called them. They roamed over banks and braes, now stopping by the wayside to admire the pale-faced anemones, sprinkled like so many little stars, strewed profusely over the beautiful landscape. They plucked the humble daisy and disturbed the dew-drops sleeping in its bosom. 
               They listened to the low murmuring of the brook, whose music had lulled the flowers upon its borders into a sleep from which they had not yet awakened. They whistled good morning to the birds, and the feathery songsters returned their greetings in the clear strains of morning melody. They climbed the hills and from their summits witnessed the rising of the sun in all its morning glory. 
               The golden clouds lay broadly scattered over the eastern sky, reflecting from every point innumerable rays of golden light. All around them floated little fleecy clouds, seemingly too modest to approach within close proximity of the rising glory, although apparently unwilling to leave the attraction of his golden light. The sun at length arose above his mountain shield, when, like some fabled giant of old, cast away the drapery of clouds with which he was surrounded and appeared in full majesty and beauty. 
               Well might Lily and Herbert have felt that the wand of an enchantress had been waved over this beautiful landscape; the gor-geousness of the scene was unequalled and transcendantly grand. The keen, bracing air of the morning had given them good appetites, and they made sad inroads upon their breakfast, much to the dismay of Mrs. Scrubbin, who had vainly hoped that some of the breakfast viands might be made to grace the board at the "hour of tea," as she pleasantly called the ceremonial which came off every evening. Lily and Herbert had been members of Mrs. Scrubbin's family for a short time only when the following entry was made upon the day-book of Mrs. Scrubbins; "Master and Miss Seymour, immense eaters; dainty; don't eat hash, or bread-pudding; am obliged to cook something else for them; they are rich; have a right to be dainty, notice they're pretty generous, shall gain something by them in that way." 
               The air of the country agreed well with Lily, the morbid sensitiveness which had before characterized her was entirely gone. Her pale, thin face was fast becoming round and plump, although no rosy bloom was visible. Her step became quick and elastic, her blue eyes had lost much of their sad expression, and shone forth clear and bright as the crystal. Invigorated both physically and mentally with the restoratives of the natural world, as found in true country life. She enjoyed one little morning trip into the fields, with Herbert at her side, more than all the gay elegancies of city life she had ever experienced. She had never before studied with such avidity. 
               Mr. Edmonds was, as Lily had often told her brother, a kind, fatherly man and particularly suited to his profession, that of a teacher, who had followed very successfully for more than twenty years his avocation; but latterly, unfortunately for his pupils, had fallen into something of a laxity of religious principle, which rendered him a dangerous teacher of the young. 
               He took Lily under his special charge, selecting for her those studies which were the exact counterpart of his own peculiar views. 
               He attacked that corner-stone of all true goodness, the Bible; teaching her to consider the Old Testament as merely the record of historical events which transpired in the olden times, while he ridiculed the idea of its being given by divine inspiration. 
                
               The New Testament was to him the testimony of good and pious men, but neither infallible nor inspired, any more than any other good book written at the present day. 
               He believed in final rewards and punishments, supposing life to be a probationary state of progression. If true to God (another name for Nature in his vocabulary) the mind would naturally develop and progress in all that was good and pure forever, while if untrue to the same great source, the mind would fall from its original holiness and become vitiated and impure. The life hereafter to the good, was a continuation, methodically carried on, of the progression commenced on earth, while the punishment of those who had not advanced in holiness here, would consist in the disadvantages they must experience in shaking off the shackles of a worldly life. 
               He went still farther, and rejected all idea of special Providences, that source of past comfort to true Christians, and maintained that when the world was created, certain natural laws existed by which all nature was regulated; that those laws were inevitable, and any deviation from them, was a miracle, which at the present time is not performed. 
               I cannot better illustrate his belief upon this point, than by a dialogue which he held with Lily one morning at the close of a recitation, from Combes' Constitution of Man, treating of the physical laws. 
               "What do we learn from our lesson to-day, Lily?" enquired Mr. Edmonds. 
               "We learn that there are certain rules of health by which man is inevitably governed." 
               "What if any of these rules are broken?" 
               "Then the penalty ensues and the offender is punished by sickness." 
               "Is there no way by which he can escape the punishment?" 
                
               "None; he must endure sickness until the equality of the law, which he has broken can be restored." 
               "And if the equality may not be restored?" 
               "Death follows." 
               "And in such a case would the prayers of the child's parents, or friends be of any avail?" 
               "I should think not." 
               "Certainly not, my child; vain, feeble man must not expect to arrest the inevitable decrees of nature by prayer; a natural law has been broken; this law must be restored that all things may go on harmoniously as before. You see then the infatuation those people labor under who suppose they are able by prayers to turn the arm of the Almighty Father and with it the hundred laws which govern the universe. Do not understand that I by any means discountenance prayer. It is a duty we owe God, at the same time we must not expect that God will at present work any miracles." 
               There was a mistiness hanging over these great sophistries which she resolved to penetrate. She could have no better guide in her undertaking than Mr. Edmonds. She therefore advanced rapidly in the knowledge of her teacher's sentiments, becoming more and more captivated by them, little dreaming that she was standing upon the brink of an abyss into which she was at any moment liable to be engulphed. Still the true light was fast passing away from her view and in its place were gathering vapory clouds obscuring its rays as with a thin, fine mist. 
               What wonder, poor child, that under the influences of those older than yourself, you imbibed principles which may yet cause you to stumble in the journey of life? Will the sin be laid at your door? Or will those teachers of false light be responsible? 
               Is it not the strict duty of every parent to look well to the principles ciples instilled within the minds of their children by those teachers under whose charge they have placed them? 
               Will your thoughtlessness be a sufficient excuse for the neglect of so grave a duty,-a duty which involves the eternal interest of an immortal being? 
               Alas! that intellect and genius should be extended upon volumes of demoralizing and infidel works, which writ upon the whole mental, as well as moral community, a thraldom infinitely more severe than the condition of the poor slave. 
               Do these Spiritual Philanthropists wish to engage in a great work? Was there ever a greater work committed to man than the mission of developing aught the powers of an immortal soul, and preparing it for its immortal destiny, rendering it like a fit temple for the indwelling of the Holy Spirit? 
               If this is not a great, a noble work, then raise your voice feeble though it may be to stop the mighty tide of sophistry and infidelity which is every day pouring in like a flood upon you. God forbid that we should desire to bind in closer bonds the suffering slave; yet there is a slavery of soul when struggling for light and liberty you will gladly heed, gladly as you will hail the day when the work of emancipation shall have commenced. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           What woman in the city do I name, 
                           When that I say-the city woman bears 
                           The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders? 
                           Who can come in, and say that I mean her, 
                           When such a one as she, such is her neighbor? 
                           Or what is he of basest function, 
                           That says his bravery is not on my cost, 
                           (Thinking that I mean him) but therein suits 
                           His folly to the mettle of my speech? 
                           There then; How, what then? Let me see wherein 
                           My tongue hath wronged himself; if he be free, 
                           Why then, my taxing like a wild goose flies, 
                           Unclaim'd of any man. 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE'S AS YOU LIKE IT. 
                   
                
               IF the mental cultivation of the mind of Lily had not been such as we should have desired, still her physical strength and health was rapidly improving, and as for Herbert, good Isaack Walton never had a more enthusiastic disciple; all his anticipations of going fishing and bringing home long strings of beautiful speckled trout, all of a different size, strung by the gills upon a little willow bough, were more than realized. He also assisted the farmers to get in their hay and was never more happy than when habited in his shirt and trowsers, with a broad-brimmed hat upon his head, he followed with his rake behind the hay-cart, collecting the stray locks together, or with the merry hay-makers, seated under a shady willow tree by the side of a clear, sparkling brook, he partook of his rural luncheon, consisting of a generous slice of raised cake, a slice of cheese, and a drink from the old junk bottle or little wooden keg, as the case might be, filled with nothing stronger than good, clear, cold waiter. 
               Lily and Herbert were not destined to remain long in ignorance of Mrs. Scrubbin's character; her acts were too open to admit of but one construction. At first their indignation rose to the bursting point, when they saw her little orphan nephew, James Kennedy, fed for weeks upon skim-milk and hasty-pudding. 
               But Lily, finding that her indignation was of no avail, except through satire and ridicule; from the moment she adopted this novel weapon, many were the pranks played off upon the unsuspecting lady. 
               She mimicked Mrs. Scrubbing manner, her patronizing air; like that woman she went around among her young companions, mumbling over to herself undistinguishable sentences, always accompanying the same with sundry gestures of her head which spoke volumes. 
               The little children soon learned to look to Lily as their defender; for although in reality she could effect nothing, still her sympathy was a great consolation to them, and they had found some one who could turn all their grievances into amusement, which was at least a fulfilling of the old adage, "No loss without some gain." Sundry compositions were forthcoming from the pen of Lily which were read by her at school, describing the many ills done by Dulcina Scrubbin, and as if she could not give vent enough to her overbur-burdened mind through this source, she collected a few of the scholars in her own room, and there entertained them with little family scenes exactly as they had occurred. For the amusement of my readers I will give one of Lily's sketches, which she called a dinner scene at Mrs. Scrubbins. 
               PERSONS REPRESENTED-Mr. Scrubbin, the host. Mrs. Scrubbin, wife of Mr. Scrubbin, and sole proprietor of the table. Several boys and girls who resided with Mr. and Mrs. Scrubbin. 
               SCENE-In a large dining-room, floor bare, smoky walls, long table in the centre of the room, covered with a rather discolored table-cloth, with plates placed methodically upon it. 
               Dinner smoking upon the table, side dishes, huge nappies of hash well prepared, centre dish, platter of codfish, a plate containing one slice and a half of bread, cut immensely thin, a quantity of crumbs upon the side of the plate. 
               
                  Scene 1.-Enter Mr. and Mrs. Scrubbin at one door, seat themselves upon opposite sides of the table. At another door, eight children, some wearing thin, pale faces and subdued looks, others apparently very well fed and independent, enter the room and range themselves in their appropriate places round the family board. 
                
                  Mr. Scrubbin. 
                  Let me give you a piece of codfish, Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                
                
                  Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                  Just the smallest piece in the world, my dear; only a little. 
                
                
                  Mr. Scrubbin. 
                  John will you have some of the hash or codfish? 
                
                
                  John. 
                  (Looks first at Mrs. Scrubbin; she says hash, with a shake of the head. He replies:) 
                  I'll take some of the hash, if you please (then casts a melancholy look at the fish.) 
                
                
                  Mr. Scrubbin. 
                  Henry, what will you have? 
                
                
                  Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                  Don't ask them; of course they'll take hash. 
                
                
                  Henry. 
                  No, sir, I'll take fish this time. 
                   
                  A look black as thunder darts from Mrs. Scrubbin's eye upon the offender. Thus he proceeded around. 
                
                
                  Mr. Scrubbin. 
                  Will you pass the bread, my dear? 
                
                
                  Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                  Take a piece of bread, Johnny. (A sweet smile envelopes her face as she shakes a few crumbs on his plate and passes by him.) 
                
                
                  John. 
                  (submissively). Thank you. 
                
                
                  Mr. Scrubbin. 
                  I'll take a piece, my dear; is'nt there any more in the house? 
                
                
                  Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                  (face covered with frowns, tugs at a bell violently.) 
                
               Enter, Jane. 
                
                  i Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                  (face still in frowns; speaks crossly.) Cut half a slice of bread, Jane. 
                
                
                  Jane. 
                  Yes 'm. (Exit.) 
                
               
                  Scene 2.-Enter Jane, bearing a huge bread pudding and a pie; deposits them before Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                
                  Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                  Samuel, will you have a piece of pie or pudding? 
                
                
                  Samuel. 
                  A piece of pudding, if you please. 
                
               (Mrs. Scrubbin smiles upon him and in other ways shows evident symptoms of delight.) 
                
                  Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                  John, a piece of pudding or pie? (Treads on his toes under the table.) 
                
                
                  John. 
                  A piece of pudding, if you please. 
                
                
                  Mrs. Scrubbin. 
                  Will you have a piece of pudding, Henry? (is going to punish him for taking fish against her wishes.) 
                
                
                  Henry. 
                  No ma'am, thank you; I'll take a piece of pie. 
                
               (Mrs. Scrubbin's face again grows black, she almost throws the pie at him, proceeds around in the same way; all eat, rise from the table and make their exit.) 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           O you most partial gods! 
                           Why gave ye men affections, and not power 
                           To govern them? What I by fate should shun, 
                           I most affect. 
                        
                      
                     LODOVICK. BANEY. 
                   
                
               "IS N'thermometer this a perfect fac-simile of one of Mrs. Scrubbing dinners, Herbert?" enquired Lily as she had been reading it over to him, the dinner scene, before showing it to her companions. 
               "Yes, but one thing you've omitted Lily." 
               "What is it?" 
               "Why you have not put in the long homilies she delivers every day at the dinner table, about children's always telling the truth, and then to enforce her pious principles closer, by telling a good "bumping lie " herself." 
               "Oh, Herbert," replied Lily, "it would have taken me so long, I only did it for a little fun." 
               "Well, it will answer for the purpose it was intended," said Herbert, with a patronizing air. 
               And a good amount of fun it did make, I assure you, although the children might have been to blame for their life-like and amusing caricatures, still those persons only who furnished the material by their duplicity and examples should suffer ridicule as they are the true culprits. 
               It is an old adage that "children and fools will tell the truth." 
               But I fear I weary you, kind reader, with fuller details of Mrs. Scrubbins and her "wonderful doings." I add a single incident and there leave her to repose alone in her glory amid the dignity of her august house of Scrubbins. 
               Fortunately, or unfortunately, the Lord had never blessed Dulcnia Scrubbins with any "little Scrubbin's." She had in her younger days adopted a small Spanish poodle dog, which she christened Fidelle, and bestowed upon it for the space of ten years the warmest devotion and love. At the end of which time the "hand of sickness prostratad" her favorite Poodle, and soon death ended all its little woes. One curly lock of hair was clipped from its mortal remains, and with many tears he was consigned to the cold earth. 
               But this was not all the respect destined to be shown the remains of the dead puppy. The large family Bible, in which had been chronicled from time to time the death of father, mother, sister, and brother, was now also called into requisition and upon the very page which 'contained the names of her relatives gone before, was duly registered the following death, "Fidelle Scrubbin, born July 6th, 1830. Died April 4th, 1841." 
               Below the obituary notice of her favorite, she had from time to time kept a sort of journal. The Bible containing this record came into the hands of Lily one day, and her quick eye ever upon the look-out for the ludicrous, caught sight of the name of Fidelle, of which she had often heard Mrs. Scrubbin speak. She read on through the page which contained this curious journal, and producing a piece of paper and pencil she copied it entire, to add to her store of Mrs. Scrubbin's ridiculous performances. I give it verbatim as it was recorded. 
               May 4th.-Just one month since my Fidelle breathed his last, oh! what agony was mine, words are inadequate to express my feelings. 
               July 4th.-One year ago to-day Fidelle was remarkably well and accompanied me upon a ride, now he sleeps the sleep that knows no awakening, so it ever is with the beautiful things of earth, they blossom before our pathway, for a short time only, and then fade and die. 
               Oct. 10th.-Dear Fidelle, still remembered art thou, most interesting of little Dogs. 
               Jan. 8th.-I cannot bear to think my darling Fidelle that the cold winds whistle above your grave, and the frozen snow rests upon your bosom, you who was so cherished in life, so tenderly cared for and so well fed, O Fidelle, Fidelle. 
               Nothing could exceed Herbert's shouts of laughter as Lily with becoming gravity read this menlacholy tribute of affection. 
               "Nothing but a little poodle dog" said he contemptuously. 
               "Now I tell you Lily, if it had been a real, fine Newfoundland, 'twould have been a different matter, and then with all that fol-de-rol it would have been ludicrous enough. 
               "Don't the woman know yet that a man and dog are two different things? And if a dog is intelligent, they at least are not blessed with a soul." 
               "Oh, I suppose, Herbert, she didn't stop to think whether it had a soul or not, she was so absorbed in her affliction. By the way, have you ever noticed how she speaks of it; even now, she sheds tears for his memory." 
               "O pooh, Lily, the woman's a downright fool." 
                
               "How can you think so when she told you only yesterday that you were the finest young man she ever saw, because you gave her that nice plate of oranges. If you'd believe it, I trembled for fear she was going to kiss you, she whispered so confidentially in your ear." 
               "Fie upon you, Lily, she never would have kissed me but once." 
               "Ah, indeed," replied Lily, "you never would have been able to extricate yourself from her huge arms." 
               "Well, well, I don 't care for Mrs. Scrubbin just now. I can tell you what I'll do for next composition day. I'll just write a dirge as a companion to the journal." 
               "Oh do, Herbert, we'll have rare sport over it." 
               Agreeably to his promises, Herbert produced on the next composition day, the following dirge, which was read amidst much applause. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           A DIRGE: 
                           Or a "doleful ditty upon a dead dog" By a "Lapdog loving lady." 
                            
                              Alas!! alas!! poor, dear Fidelle!!- 
                              Ah, who the agony can tell 
                              That chills the heart and fills the eyes, 
                              When one's Immortal I'uppy dies? 
                              Ah, who can tell? 
                            
                            
                              Ah, dead! Thy open grave, O earth, 
                              Takes more than all of living worth. 
                              No more shall he my bosom grace, 
                              Or I exult in his embrace!-- 
                              O grave! O earth! 
                            
                            
                              Ah well! dear, dear Fidelle-good-by; 
                              But ne 'er shall thy sweet memory die. 
                               
                              I'll plant for thee the evergreen, 
                              Thou "Prince of Puppies," I the Queen. 
                              Poor Fi! Good-by! 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Sic transit gloria mundi." 
               "Well, Lily, how did I acquit myself to-day in composition?" enquired Herbert the first opportunity he had of speaking to her. 
               "Finely, Herbert; that was a very witty, sarcastic thing. Mr Edmonds enquired of me if you had any one in particular in view." 
               "Did he? What did you reply?" 
               "I stammered forth some excuse; you know I did not care to be questioned very closely respecting it." 
               "And I don't know as I care to have him know I wrote it either; it would soon get around to 'Marm Scrubbin's' ears, and she might possibly give me walking orders." 
               "I guess she wouldn 't like it." 
               "Pretty cutting, wasn't it?" 
               "Cutting? I shouldn't care to have been your heroine, Herbert.' 
               "Ha, ha," laughed Herbert, rubbing his hands in glee. 
               I might fill a volume of the ditties which followed in rapid succession, containing like sharp hits and inuendoes, but I promised only one more, and my word must not be violated. I will only add that I hope Mrs. Dulcina Scrubbin's character underwent a thorough reformation, and that this little phase of human nature for which she furnished the material, may not be lost upon many others who little dream they belong to the class of Scrubbins'. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Let wealth come in by comely thrift, 
                           And not by any sordid shift: 
                           'Tis haste 
                           Makes waste: 
                           Extremes have still their fault. 
                           Who gripes too hard the dry and slippery sand, 
                           Holds none at all, or little, in his hand. 
                        
                      
                     HERRICK. 
                   
                
               TIME, fortune and success, are variable. To-day the wealthy merchant is literally rolling in sumptuous luxury, to-morrow by some unforseen agency he is turned like a wanderer from his home, to beg his bread perhaps, in the streets. There is in this change from wealth to want, a melancholy reality, but so long as the wild, busy schemes of speculation enter the heart of man, so long the gross extravagances of the age pass on unheeded. 
               So long as the insatiable love "of the Almighty dollar" hardens, and fills man's heart, as long as his business can be conducted in such a manner as to bring the greatest amount of shining gold into his coffers, all is well and good; no matter how many hair breadth escapes from bankruptcy he makes, no risks are too great to increase his hoard of gold; if he is fortunate enough to escape loss he retires from business, at middle age, chuckling over his fortune and considering himself at last a lucky man. 
                
               Others unfortunately proceed just one step too far and ruin surely follows. Such was the case with Mr. Seymour. 
               He had always been successful in his speculations he therefore saw no reason why he should not continue them. He was ambitious, he had an exceedingly expensive family upon his hands, and, in fact he could not wait for the slow turnings of the wheels of time to amass a still larger fortune. Regardless of the advice of older and more clearer-sighted men, he still rushed on at a rapid rate in the course of his wild speculation. 
               Lookers on called him an enthusiast, on the very brink of ruin. Speculating largely in lands, and soon discovering that his claim had not been fully substantiated, in a moment his fine fortune was swept almost entirely away. 
               It would be impossible to describe his agony as he received the intelligence of his misfortune. 
               His bowed form swelling with emotion, and the low groans that ever and anon escaped him, bespoke the keenness of his anguish. But he was a man of nerve, and would not easily break down under his load of sorrow. He did not care for himself, but his credit was dearer to him than the apple of his eye, and over the loss of that he mourned. 
               He thought of his children who had never wanted for the luxuries of life, and his wife unprepared as she was to bear this severe trial. 
               He realized then for almost the first time in his life, the want of the loving sympathy of a true woman's heart. But if Mr. Seymour felt the need of sympathy, infinitely more did Mrs. Seymour, she who was neither fitted by nature, nor education, to bear the stern realities of life. How could she be deprived of all the luxuries of her home? Her's was a lamentable condition, a condition of the most abject helplessness. In her younger years, like many others, she had never been taught the great lesson of self-reliance. Her heart struggles had been few, or none, her education had been fashionable and superficial. 
               The luxuries of life had been lavished upon her with an unsparing hand, she had never expected such a change, and until she was overwhelmed with the calamity and loss of fortune, she did not know that life was so severe a school, or that the great Teacher ofttimes in his wisdom purifies and elevates the character by the severest of discipline. 
               Oh, it is a serious mistake (if I may call so great a wrong by so mild a name) that girl are not taught in early life those things first that shall make them true, and noble women, that shall qualify them for any station in life they may be called to assume, that shall enable them to surmount all obstacles, and reverses of fortune, and teach them to sustain their true relation to man; that of a companion as well as help-meet. I would not have them forward assuming rights never intended for them by Heaven, but strong, strong enough to stand alone, looking upward and within for assistance. Even though the lowering clouds of adversity, aye of deepest poverty should hang over her, let her never give up, but with a firm hand and undaunted heart lift up her soul in silent prayer for Divine assistance; and then work, work, if needs be all the day long endeavoring to overcome all obstacles, and although the heavens look like brass, let her toil on with patience, for God those who try to help themselves. 
               Mrs. Seymour was plunged in the direct distress. As her husband informed her of his loss, she could only weep, and wring her hands in agony, exclaiming severely against the decrees of Providence. She begged her husband to carry her immediately to her father, who resided about sixty miles from New York, without so much as allowing herself to think of her children or the misery of Mr. Seymour. 
               At her urgent request, her husband carried her to her father's and returned to his city home. He turned over various plans in his mind as to what was the best course for him to pursue respecting his children. One thing was certain, his handsome dwelling with its magnificent furniture and retinue of servants must speedily be disposed of. All expenses not actually necessary to sustain life, must be dispensed with. 
               "I must begin the world anew" said he. "I can bear it," he said to himself as he walked to and fro though his elegant suite of rooms. 
               "Yes, I can bear it, but poor Herbert and Lily." And the strong man wept aloud. After careful consideration, and reconsideration, Mr. Seymour determined to send for his children immediately, and upon ascertaining their feelings, they could together make arrangements for future action. 
               Therefore, that very day he wrote and despatched a letter, stating the circumstances of his reversed fortune and also requesting them to come immediately to the city. 
               The poor children read the contents of their father's letter with sad hearts, they did not care or think of themselves, but Herbert's heart bled for his father whom he had always loved with great intensity, and Lily knew no difference in her love for Mr. Seymour than if he had indeed been her own parent. He had always been kind and affectionate to her, indulging her most simple wish; and now while both thought of him as full of care and trouble, their mother gone, with no one to comfort him, they shed bitter tears. 
               "Lily," said Herbert, "I can never go back, and be a burden upon papa at my age, I am in every respect fitted for the situation of a clerk, and in advance of the usual run of clerks too, and you know in New York a good clerk can get a large salary, I can at least support myself, and help father too I think." 
               "Yes Herbert, I think it will be your duty to do so, and I can easily obtain a situation as a teacher, although I am young, you know I'm advanced in my studies." 
               "Well we can think of that Lily, but one thing, I must sit right down and write a cheering letter to poor papa, you can't think how I feel for him Lily," and a tear trembled in the eyes of the manly little fellow. 
               Herbert seated himself and wrote the following letter to his father: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              MY DEAR FATHER.
                            
                           I cannot describe to you my grief at your loss, I do not care for myself, but for you, especially at your time of life. But do not be discouraged my dear papa, I am young and well, can and will work for you. I never cared much for money, you know. 
                           Dear papa, how thankful we ought to be that we are not taken away from each other by death, oh I do not see as a great deal is lost, can we not still be happy? Do be cheerful, Father, we will do all we can for you, and that will be something I hope. 
                           Little Jemmie Brown used to tell his mother to "trust in the Lord." Oh papa would it not be a consolation to you? 
                           We shall come home as soon as possible. 
                           
                              Ever your affectionate son, 
                              HERBERT SEYMOUR.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Mr. Seymour was sitting in his study absorbed in deep thought upon the evening of the day in which the above letter was written, when his servant Patrick gently tapped at the door. 
               "Come in," said Mr. Seymour without raising his head. In walked Pat bearing a letter. 
                
               "An sure Misthur Seymour here's a letter which they tould me to be afther giving you in haste." 
               "Ah," and Mr. Seymour reached out his hand for the letter, and looking carelessly at the superscription, he recognized the well known hand-writing. 
               "From Herbert" he said aloud. 
               "Bless the lads sowl," said Pat who had been standing by anxiously, "and abit of a heart may it give ye Sir, that ha'nt smiled for this long while." 
               Mr. Seymour eagerly perused the contents, his lips quivered and the tears flowed freely. These were the first words of real consolation he had yet received, save from his servants, it was too much for him. 
               "Holy Mother, if it does'nt cut the heart of me to see ye in such a poor way," said Pat compassionately. 
               "Its too bad, too bad intirely." 
               "Ah Pat," replied Mr. Seymour smiling, "I feel better, the dear children have done me good." 
               "An sure Sir I hope ye'll kape feelen better till ye feel as well as ever ye did, and its Pat O'Donehue that'll be afther working his fingers to the bone for ye." 
               Mr. Seymour shook his servant's hand affectionately, and Pat left, the room the large tears coursing down his hard cheeks. 
               If there is any one thing for which the heart of man is forever grateful it is the words of sympathy, offered when the heart is crushed and bleeding. No matter whence it comes, though in a worldly point of view, the giver is far below you, you can shake off all feeling of pride and reserve, and take the person by the hand and call him brother. Sorrow is a great leveller of all wordly distinctions. 
                
               Mr. Seymour's heart was cheered by this token of affection from his children, and by the warm devotion of faithful Pat. He arose from his seat and paced the room, breathing more freely, and was in truth a happier man." 
               "Trust in the Lord" Herbert says, would that I could. I believe there is such a thing as religion, and that it brings true happiness, for if ever a human being was comforted in misfortune by God's promises my mother assuredly was, and that too, when oceans of trouble overwhelmed her, and as Herbert says, Jemmie Brown was as true a little Christian as ever lived. Yes, the religion of the Bible must be comforting. 
               But how are we to obtain it? Poor man, how was he to obtain it? Did he not know the command given from the beginning "search the Scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life and they are they, which testify of me." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           And her against sweet cheerfulness was placed, 
                           Whose eyes like twinkling stars in evening clear, 
                           Were deck'd with smyles, that all sad humors chased, 
                           And darted forth delights, the which her goodly graced. 
                        
                      
                     SPENCER'S FAIRY QUEEN. 
                   
                
               A FEW puffs and groans of the old "Iron King," brought Lily and Herbert within sight of their home. 
               They found their father's carriage awaiting their arrival, and faithful Pat standing by the horses, endeavoring to quiet their fiery prancings. He saw the pleasant face of Lily flit by him, as a beam of sunshine, and eagerly called after her. 
               "An sure, Miss, here's your father's carriage and Pat waiting for ye." 
               Lily turned round and met the full, good-natured face of Pat, She seized his hand, and her demonstrations of joy upon seeing him, brought the large tears to his eyes, while he returned the hearty pressure of her hand. Soon Herbert, who had been looking after the baggage, came up, and they entered the carriage. A turn through a few streets brought them at length to their father's door. 
               Mr. Seymour stood ready to welcome them, and for a few moments his happiness, at seeing his children, was undisturbed by thoughts of his reduced fortunes and his desolate condition. 
               "Well, Herbert, my boy, you're almost a man," said he, laying his hand affectionately upon his son's shoulder, and exhibiting much paternal pride at the sight of his manly countenance, and fine form; and placing the other hand upon the head of the blue-eyed Lily, he said: 
               "Where has that little thin, pale face of yours gone, Lily?" 
               "Ah, papa," replied Lily, laughing, "the bright, pure country air has robbed me of my paleness. Don't you think it a loss?" 
               "Not I, indeed, child. I'm rejoiced to see you so healthy, and am sorry indeed, my dear children, that my altered circumstances will not admit of your longer remaining at school for the present." 
               "And to tell you the plain truth, father, I'm glad that I'm away from Reading," replied Herbert. 
               "Were you not pleasantly situated, my son?" 
               "Yes, sir; but I'm fully satisfied that the close confinement of study doesn't agree with me, and besides, I was very much dissatisfied with my boarding place." 
               "What, with Mrs. Scrubbin, Herbert?" 
               "Ah, indeed! Mrs. Scrubbin! Wasn't she a scrubber, Lily?" 
               "Yes, a scrubber and gleaner; everything but a pickpocket." 
               "Why, Lily, you're rather severe, I'm afraid." 
               "You wouldn't think so, papa, if you lived in her house a fortnight." 
               "I surmised as much when I left you with her; but I saw she would be a good friend so long as the money was forthcoming." 
               "That's true, father," said Herbert, "and the very moment we told her we were going to leave school because you had failed in your business, she said she was afraid she shouldn't get the five dollars you owed her on our washing bill." 
               "Well, how did you quiet her?" 
               "By paying her. Money's the only thing that ever stopped mouth. She's as ferocious as a tiger." 
                
               "Why, Herbert, you are rather too severe upon the poor woman. You were her especial favorite, Herbert," said Lily. 
               "Don't torment me about that, Lily; we're both away from her now, and we ought to be thankful." 
               "But then, my son, it has always been a favorite wish of mine that you should receive a collegiate education. Have you thought much of it?" 
               "No, papa; in fact, I don't want to think of it, for I'm sure it would never suit my turn of mind." 
               "What would suit you then, Herbert?" 
               "Oh, I've set my mind upon being a clerk somewhere here." 
               "Oh, a counter jumper," interposed his father, evidently troubled. 
               "Papa, Herbert has always had an exalted idea of dealing out a yard of tape, a paper of pins, &c. I think he would be happy with a real Yankee peddler's cart, stocked with all manner of notions, driving around the country," playfully retorted Lily. 
               "I think I should be happy in any honorable pursuit; for my part, I'm determined to do something to support myself and help you too." 
               "It may be the best thing for you, Herbert. I've heard men of good judgment say that those young men who were obliged to depend entirely upon their own resources, always came out best in the end. Still, I have had a secret dread of your being obliged to go ont into the world without money. You know that as society is now constituted, money is of great service to help one to a position at once which it will take years to gain by hard labor. 
               "That is true, papa," replied Lily. "But at the close of the hard years' labor, how much better off is the person who has obtained the position by his own industry. He not only has his position, but his character has become folly developed, and his latent energies brought forward which might otherwise have remained forever hidden." 
                
               "Why, you little philosopher, when did you learn all this," said Mr. Seymour, looking at Lily with a show of surprise. "Didn't you know that some people never learn that lesson through a long life-time?" 
               "Don't they?" replied Lily, blushing. "Mr. Edmonds has given me many a lesson upon self-reliance, therefore my knowledge has not been taught me by experience." 
               "And you liked Mr. Edmonds pretty well as a teacher, did you?" 
               "Yes, ineeed, papa, he was so kind, and has taught me so many things beside book knowledge that will prove useful to me." 
               "I'm glad to hear it; to learn, is the great object here you know, Lily. 
               "Yes, to learn and to teach." 
               "To teach? What put that into your head, my child?" 
               "I've had it in my head this long time," replied the young girl. 
               "This long time! Pray, what do you call a long time? Ever since you learned I had foiled? and you want to do something to help poor papa. Was that it, darling?" 
               "I can reply better than she, papa," said Herbert, stepping to his father's side. 
               "From the very moment she heard of your loss she has insisted upon teaching." 
               "I shall not agree to that, Herbert. Come to me, Lily; tell me, if father can place you in a pleasant situation, without the slightest inconvenience to himself, will you not accept it?" 
               "But I might help you so much, and it would really be a disappointment for me to live without some object in life, and above all be a burden upon others." 
               "Why, how old are you, my dear?" questioned Mr. Seymour, with a comical air. 
                
               "Has your residence for a short time in Reading caused ten years of experience to roll over your head, or has some hob-goblin transformed my little Lily into a stately, antiquated maiden?" 
               "Oh, papa," replied Lily laughing, "how funny you are." 
               "There, that seems natural, Lily; I'm glad you're coming back to your senses; you hav'nt lost all of your childish expressions." 
               "And never shall lose that one until you cease being so comical; but in sober earnest, papa, I did'nt mean I was old, only that I knew enough to keep a small school and take care of myself." 
               "But you would not wish to interfere with my plans, provided I had made any, would you?" 
               "No, papa." 
               "Well, then, for the present, we will talk no more of this, but instead will walk into the dining-room and have our dinner. You doubtless want some by this time." 
               "I am hungry; you cannot imagine what an appetite I have had lately." 
               "Lately!" repeated Herbert, laughing. 
               "I should think your good appetite might be dated from the time you first went to Reading." 
               "Yes, somehow the country air agrees with me. I do so love the country, with its beautiful trees, singing birds, and bright green lawns. Oh, papa, you cannot think how delightful it is, compared with this dry, dusty city, with its continual din and dusty streets." 
               "Your plump cheeks tell the story, Lily; but how strangely you are changed! When I proposed that you should leave your city home for the country, you resolutely opposed me, and now you come here filled with beautiful visions of a country life." 
               "And these lessons, papa, I've learned by experience." 
               "Then you have learned one lesson in your life by experience; but come, child, dinner now." And with this Mr. Seymour caught Lily and almost bore her to the dining-room, seating her opposite himself. 
               "And I'm expected to do the honors of the table. Well, as you placed me at school to learn, I'll give you an example of my proficiency as a scholar; this department, you know, was under the direct supervision of Mrs. Scrubbin." 
               "Do, Lily, let father see with what ineffable grace Mrs. Scrubbin acquitted herself," said Herbert. 
               Lily, much to her father's merriment, performed Mrs. Scrubbin's part to perfection. After dinner Herbert went with his father to his store and Lily retired to her room. 
               She was to occupy the same pretty apartment which had for years been hers; the little room that Herbert had so generously given up in his zeal for her comfort. She seated herself upon a chair before a pleasant window, and for the first time fully realized the change that had so suddenly been brought around. She thought of kind Mr. Edmonds, who had always been to her almost a father; of her school friends, whom she had left perhaps forever; of the wondrous delight she had experienced while revelling in the bounties of Nature; she seemed for the moment to live over the full richness of her country life. All the little annoyances she had borne under the strict regimen of Madam Scrubbin seemed softened, now that she knew she should no longer be called to endure them. A mantle of roseate hue was gently thrown over the past few months' experience. Will that bright mantle be rudely torn from its resting-place, when, in her future life, Lily shall have discovered that under a fair exterior was secreted the deadly stings of error? Poor child! God's grace alone can "pluck you as a brand from the burning." Will he not, in his own good time and way, accomplish the work? We will still hope. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           The book of Nature, and the print 
                           Of beauty on the whispering sea, 
                           Give aye to me of some lineament 
                           Of what I have been taught to be. 
                           My heart is harder, and perhaps 
                           My manliness hath drunk up tears; 
                           And there's a mildew in the lapse 
                           Of a few swift and chequer'd years- 
                           But Nature's book is even yet 
                           With all my mother's lessons writ. 
                        
                      
                     N. P. WILLIS. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           They that do 
                           An act that does deserve requital, 
                           Pay first themselves the stock of such content. 
                        
                      
                     SIR ROBERT HOWARD. 
                   
                
               DEAR New England! Sunny New England! Shame rest upon those who dare call it a "hard-favored Fatherland!" It is the home alike of grace, beauty, plenty, and sterling merit. It is the home, aye, the very cradle, of glorious Liberty. It is the home and patron of all useful arts and sciences, elegant and refined literature. 
               In our loved New England, the honest man who, by the sweat of his brow, earns his daily bread, is duly appreciated, and this renders it none the less capable of appreciating the man of letters, or him who makes the study of the Arts a soul-absorbing passion, until he even loses sight of the asperities Real, and lives in the beautiful Ideal. It has been the birthplace of majestic men and beautiful women. Time-honored and God-sustained institutions have everywhere arisen in this happy land. 
               Nature, too, has been beneficent, and still New England is called by many "a hard-favored Fatherland." 
               Look upon her noble mountains, whose hoary heads almost reach the heavens, and seemingly embrace the beautiful purple and golden clouds that are seen nestling around their summits, as though they might rest in the security and protection of their gigantic power. Behold her many graceful rivers, of which the Connecticut is the queen, running sparkling along like "threads of molten silver." Look at her lovely bays, whose laughing waves lovingly kiss the snowy beach. Are not those beautiful, indeed? 
               Go with me into the deep, wild forests of Vermont. Like forest organs, Nature's own musical instruments, upon whose branches the Wind-God plays the spiritual airs in plaintive songs; sweet as the notes of an olian Harp are these deep breathings of the forest Lyre. Here falls upon the ear in solemn cadence the notes of a grand melodious anthem, which sweeps and swells along until it dies away in the far-off distance. The anthem ceases and is succeeded by a deep sobbing wail, so sad, so piercing, that we weep in sympathy. The grand change comes. It seems as though Nature, in sympathy with grief, was pouring into her music the mourning wail of a broken heart. Anon there bursts forth a note of exultant joy; a seraph seems to touch the strings, and all nature rejoices. Listen to the sweet music of the early dawn. 
                
               Behold her beautiful lakes and lakelets, everywhere interspersed and glowing with a silver light in the presence of the rising sun. 
               I can think of no town in New England that is not radiant with some natural beauty, from the most meagre, barren spot in the wilds of Maine, to the most magnificent place imaginable, where Art has joined hand in hand with Nature, to enhance its loveliness. Each alike have their beautiful foliage, their mountains and plains, their little streams and rivulets, their lovely native falls, all things teem with the richest beauty. 
               Let me again introduce you, gentle reader, to one of these lovely New England towns, S--. We left Joseph Arnold just wedded to the Widow Bell. She had removed to his happy home, and peace and quietness crowned then daily life. Occasionally, bitter thoughts of her lost children filled with deep anguish her maternal bosom, and were it not for her faith in the promises of the great God above her, she would have been a broken reed. 
               One winter had passed over her second wedded life; the bright and cheerful spring-time had again returned and passed. The autumn weeks came in rapid succession, with their yellow sheaves, and cleanly shorn fields; with their orchards groaning beneath their heavy load of many-hued fruit; the golden apple, the purple plum, which fell nestling amid the dying grass, the soft mellow peach, with its blushing cheek, in contrast with its opposite neighbors of a sunny hue, still hung upon the parent stem, a temptation to little boys, and sometimes even to older persons, whose mouths watered, as thoughts of their deliciousness flitted through their imagination. 
               The sturdy old forests were now changing the "fashion of their garments." The hitherto universal green was beginning to be sadly checkered by here and there a yellow leaf. The asters and salvias bloomed gorgeously. Innumerable little purple violets opened their meek eyes to the morning sun. The flaming lobelia looked upon her beauties in the neighboring streamlet, and the waning year was becoming far more beautiful than its birth. 
               A week or two rolled by, and Mr. Arnold's barns were filled to overflowing. The year had been unusually productive, and he saw in prospect large "heaps of gold," the reward of his patient and persevering industry. 
               It was in this happy frame of mind (for wealth you know sometimes adds to a man's happiness,) that Uncle Joseph rode over in a large lumber wagon to the next town, a distance of four miles, to procure a few household articles, in exchange for a load of potatoes. As he was returning home, he drew up before a little, old, crazy building which meekly bore the sign of "Post Office," and after receiving his portion of the daily mail, proceeded upon his journey. After looking over his papers, he produced from his pocket a large sized letter mailed from "New York." 
               "What's this?" said he to himself, turning the letter over several times, and examining the superscription carefully before he opened it. 
               "'T aint often such a letter finds its way up here, by Jemmy!" exclaimed he, starting as if a strange thought had seized him. 
               "Can't be this letter's anything to do with my wife's children." Then hastily tearing off the seal he glanced over the contents. 
               "Humph! I declare! Well, it's too bad," were the sundry ejaculations that escaped him as he perused the letter. Then carefully folding it, replaced it in the envelope, and dashing a tear from his eye muttered: 
               "Poor fellow; good hearted, he was, too. I'm sorry, I say, for't." Whipping up his horse, and clearing his throat by several repetitions of "go lang," he soon reached his house. 
               "Here, Jim," said he to his man, "put my horse up, will you? Give him a couple quarts of oats this time; I've drove him like Jehu. See the sweat on him, I declare. The fact was, I didn't think what I was about." 
               He entered his house, ate his supper, and seated himself upon a comfortable lounge, that his wife had drawn before the cheerful wood fire from an old-fashioned, open fireplace, which threw a ruddy glow over the apartment. 
               Mr. Arnold seemed unusually thoughtful, Mrs. Arnold imagined, as she made several unsuccessful attempts to draw him into conversation. Finally, with a wife's solicitude, she enquired: 
               "You don't feel sick to-night, do you, Deacon?" 
               "No, Ellen; but you see I'm thinking." 
               "And you won't tell me your thoughts," inquisitively remarked his wife, seating herself beside him. 
               "Won't I? Well, let's see. I didn't know as you'd care to know them." 
               "Why, deacon, what now? No bad news, I hope!" and her face grew anxious. 
               "Nothing that concerns us perhaps, much, only as the misfortunes of all of God's creatures concern us." 
               "Yes, we must necessarily sympathize with other's woes." 
               "Well, then," commenced Mr. Arnold, and after spreading his red silk handkerchief across his knees, he looked steadily into the fire while he narrated the contents of his letter. 
               "You see, Ellen, I've got a cousin in New York-George Seymour-he used to visit here at my father's, years ago, when we were boys; he was as good a fellow as ever lived. I ha'nt heard much about him for years past, only that he had got to be a rich man; but to-day, I received a letter in which he says he has failed in his business. His wife never was a help-meet; people did say she was dreadful extravagant; don't know about that, though. Well, he's failed, and he's got two children; one, a boy, is going into a store there; but he wants his daughter to come here and stay, at least until he can settle his business, and find how his affairs turn out. I should like to help him, for if he ha'nt lost his boyish heart, he's a noble fellow." 
               "And why don't you take his daughter, Mr. Arnold?" enquired his wife. 
               "That's just the thing I want to do, but it'll bring more care upon you, Ellen." 
               "And that will do me no harm. I am really growing lazy. How old is the child?" 
               "About sixteeen, Mr. Seymour writes." 
               "Just about the age my own daughter Lily would have been," sadly replied Mrs. Arnold, a tear starting to her eye. 
               "Would have been you say, my dear wife, perhaps she is now." 
               "Oh dear, I can only hope for the best, all means of knowing whether she lives or where she is, are taken from me; may the Lord in his goodness yet spare my child to me," and the poor mother wept bitterly. 
               "Amen," responded Mr. Arnold heartily, while a tear found its way down his cheek. 
               "And yet cheerful resignation is our duty, my husband, although sometimes my heart seems almost broken," said Mrs. Arnold, wiping away her tears. 
               "Yes, Ellen, dark days don't always last, let me, rough as I am, comfort you, brighter times may come." 
               "And I feel only too thankful, that the Lord has sent me such a strong comforter, for without you my path would have been dark indeed." 
               "Pooh, pooh, Ellen, don't flatter me that I've done any good in the world," replied Uncle Joseph, wiping the tears from his eyes, at the same time he felt within his heart an inward smile of satisfaction at this honest confession of her affection for him. 
               "You're full of good, Deacon." 
               "Ellen?" and the happy man caught the little woman in his arms and kissed her. But Mrs. Pry did'nt hear it that time. 
               "But about Mr. Seymour's child, Ellen?" 
               "Why, write to Mr. Seymour by all means, and have her come as soon as he likes, she will be a great deal of company." 
               "Ain't it strange," slowly observed Mr. Arnold, as he re-perused his cousin's letter. 
               "Ain't it strange that the girl's name should happen to be Lily?" 
               "Lily?" almost gasped Mrs. Arnold. 
               "Yes, Lily Seymour." 
               "My own child's name, but that isn't so very strange either Mr. Arnold, you know you'll very often find a person with your own name." 
               "Sure enough, but I could'nt help thinking you was going to have a girl with you, just the age of your own daughter, and with her name too." 
               "It is a strange coincidence," quietly remarked Mrs. Arnold. 
               "I presume we shall set a great deal by the child if she stays long; somehow a young person in the house brings happiness, you live your childhood over again," remarked Mr. Arnold. 
               "Yes, a loving child brings great comfort," replied his wife. 
               "There is just one thing Ellen, George Seymour is proud as he can be, ef I had a plenty of reddy money, I'd jest send a good lump of it to help him out of his snarl, but you know a fortin in the country don't amount to much in the city." 
               "That's true Deacon, but do in all things as you think best." 
                
               "Well you're a nice wife as ever I had." 
               "Perhaps you won't say so one of these days, after the honeymoon's past." 
               "Honey-moon, bless my soul, I mean our life shall be all honeymoon," replied Uncle Joseph, laughing. 
               Uncle Joseph's heart was less troubled when he found that his wife co-operated so heartily with him; he had feared that she might think the care of a young girl too much for her, and that although he strongly desired to assist his relative, it would not lie in his power. He therefore joyfully and speedily despatched a letter to Mr. Seymour expressive of the greatest sympathy for his condition, cordially inviting Lily to visit them for any length of time she might choose to remain with them. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           I have no parting sigh to give, 
                           So take my parting smile. 
                        
                      
                     MISS LANDON. 
                   
                
               MR. SEYMOUR received Uncle Joseph's letter with joyful feelings; his children were now cared for, his wife preferred to remain at his father's, and he was left free to make another effort to rebuild his broken fortunes; although he felt the world had used him sadly, still he could not but recognize the hand of a Divine Providence in these opportune provisions for those most dear to him. 
               Lily was buoyant with the anticipations of her visit to Vermont. 
               "Oh," said she to Herbert, "won't it be funny to be clear up there, under the shade of the North Pole? Just imagine me standing beside a large, open fireplace, trying to drink a tumbler of water, while the water continually freezes to my lips. When I step out, I'll have to envelope myself in furs, leaving one eye and my mouth uncovered,-so cold it will be, I've no doubt." 
               "Well, be careful to coyer yourself up well, or you'll be frozen, sure as fate." 
               "I'll suit myself to circumstances, never fear;" and the merry girl shook her head playfully at Herbert. 
                
               "Yes, you'll take care of yourself, but you'll forget all those who love you best." 
               "Shall I?" said Lily, archly. "Time proves all things; I shan't attempt to deny your assertions." 
               "Ah, Lily, you may be gay, if you can, but for my part, it doesn't seem as if you would go." The youth spoke seriously, almost sadly. 
               "Why Herbert!" cried the affectionate girl, entwining her arms around her brother's neck. "I'll love you just as well in Vermont, as if I were here; in truth, I believe I shall love you better, for I shall miss you so much." 
               "Perhaps the weather will be so cold there, Lily, that your heart'll freeze up," replied Herbert, softened by her assurance of love. 
               "The impulses of my heart will never remain still long enough to allow them to freeze, Herbert." 
               "Well, to tell you the plain truth, Lily, I'm a little bit jealous of you; you know I love you better than all the world besides, and you must not let any one else think as much of you as I do." 
               "Well, I declare, Herbert, you're realty commanding me." 
               "No, no Lily, said the youth gently, "not commanding; do you then wish to love anyone more than me?" and Herbert left his place by her side, and stood apart, with folded arms, and an injured look. 
               Lily did not reply; she had the least spicing of coquetry in her nature, and while she derived much pleasure in Herbert's devotion, she meant he should know nothing of it. They both stood in silence for some moments, acting out one of those little episodes which often occur, once certainly, in the life of almost every young lady and gentleman. Herbert finally turned to leave the room. 
               "Why Herbert," said Lily, "I shouldn't think you would get angry with me, just as I'm going to leave you." 
                
               This tender speech brought the young man to her side; she knew he was not angry with her, but she did not mean to let him go then. 
               "Lily, I'm never angry with you," replied Herbert, tenderly. The tear stood in his eye as he spoke. 
               Lily did not mean to injure his feelings, and she quickly sought to reconcile him to her. 
               "Dear Herbert, I'm really cruel; do forgive me, and I'll love you better than everything." 
               "Ah, now I'm happy again; that was said just like your own dear self." 
               But Lily did not know that within Herbert's heart, unknown yet, even to himself, was the germ of a love which could hardly be called brotherly. 
               A few days sufficed to prepare Lily for her long journey to her northern home. Betsy Brown had been to New York and spent the day with her dear child as she called her, and, with many blessings upon her, the good old woman returned to her home to pray for her welfare. 
               As the time drew near for Lily's departure, she instinctively felt a dread at going among strangers. She knew it was best for her and as she had outgrown her childish timidity and bashfulness, she fancied she should get along nicely, and she felt sure she should like Mr. Arnold, for he had written to her father such a funny, laughable letter that she already felt assured he at least; would be no stranger to her. 
               "I can tell you just how Mr. Arnold looks, papa," said Lily one day as she was talking with her father about her new prospective home. 
               "Let me think now, I'll see how well my memory serves me," returned Mr. Seymour. 
                
               "I hav'nt seen him for twenty years, but I remember him as a lively and remarkably good-hearted man, rather rough in his manners, perhaps. Let me hear how you think he looks and I can remember enough to correct you if you are wrong." 
               "Well, then, papa, I imagine him to resemble Mr. Edmonds; dark hair and eyes, rather slender, always smiling and very fatherly." 
               "Ha! ha!" laughed Mr. Seymour. "You have not guessed right in one particular. He has light hair, blue eyes, middling height, weighs full two hundred and fifty pounds, uses very questionable grammar, will keep you laughing nine minutes out of ten, and is as good a Christian as ever lived, would give his soul away if he thought any one else needed it more than himself. 
               "He lives in his father's house, a substantial old building, situated upon a gentle rise of ground. This house has a small porch as an entrance, with a seat upon each side. Directly in front are two immense sugar-maples, and directly in the rear of the house is a running brook, where we boys used to go fishing. I remember catching thirty-nine trout there in one afternoon. Things may look very differently now, but I'll warrant Joseph Arnold will never pull down the old house his father built. See if I hav'nt given you a good description and let me know." 
               "Is he rich, papa?" 
               "Well, yes, for that section of the country; he must own landed property to the amount of thirty or forty thousand dollars." 
               "But you said he was a bachelor." 
               "So I supposed, until this last letter, which informs me that he has been married nearly a year. Formerly, his house was kept by his maiden sister Tempy. She was rather crabbed to be sure, but I imagine she will not disturb you much." 
                
               "I really want to go, papa, one learns so much by living among all kinds of people." 
               "I'm afraid you'll have learned too much if you're not careful, my little Lily." 
               "No danger of that, papa," replied Lily, laughing, "But do you suppose I shall be lonely so far from you, up in Vermont?" 
               "I hope not, my darling. As soon as my business arrangements render it advisable I trust we shall be re-united." The father gazed affectionately upon his adopted child. No one would have been able to discover in his love for Lily a different affection from that bestowed upon his own son. 
               Two days after the above conversation Lily, in company with Mr. Seymour, took her departure for Vermont. Mr. Seymour was to proceed as far as Springfield, Massachusetts, and after accompanying her as far as the Vermont Valley Road, as she would not be obliged to change cars again until she should have arrived at the place where Mr. Arnold was to meet her. 
               With a sad heart, Lily bade her father good-by. For the second time in her life, that desolate feeling of deep loneliness swept over her soul, which she had felt when she was a little child, standing alone without father, mother, or home. She knew that within her heart was a deep fountain of love never yet called into action. Oh, thought she, if there were only some being in whom her whole existence might be centered; whose life might be her life; whose hopes might be shared with hers; a true friend, who would take her by the hand and lead her along, step by step, until she should come into the glorious light of Truth. She thought that by such a course her life would be perfectly happy. Truth was to her mind the carrying out of her former favorite teacher's sentiments. She sought Mr. Edmond's truth, rather than God's truth. Many and tumultuous were the thoughts that crowded into her mind as she sat alone amid the din and rattling of the railway car, and happy was she when the conductor, in a monotonous tone, sung out by name the town of W--. She had now arrived at her destination, but how was she to discover Mr. Arnold. 
               "Oh," said she to herself, "I can tell him as far as I can see him, papa says he's so large. I'll look out for a good sized man." She soon stepped from the car, and in her confusion almost stumbled over a man immense enough she thought to be the Mr. Arnold she was looking for; therefore, addressing him, she said: 
               "Is this gentleman, Mr. Joseph Arnold?" 
               "No, I reckon not, young woman; I'm Ichabod Graves." 
               Soon, another large man stepped up to her, and calling her attention, said: 
               "Was'nt you enquiring for Joseph Arnold?" 
               "Yes, sir; can you direct me to him?" 
               "I am the man, and you are Miss Lily Seymour?" said he, enquiringly. 
               "Yes, sir, and as she glanced into his broad, good humored face, she felt sure she should like him. 
               Mr. Arnold led the way to the ladies' sitting-room, requesting her to sit down and warm herself, while he should get his carriage, preparatory to a start. 
               He took her trunk, strapped it to the carriage, and buttoning his over-coat up closely to his chin, for it was a chilly, raw day, entered the ladies' room for Lily, bearing a shawl that Mrs. Arnold had thoughtfully placed in the carriage, fearful, lest Lily should not have sufficiently provided against the cool weather. 
               "Well, Miss Seymour, I'm almost ready for a start, only you must have this thick shawl around you, or you will freeze this raw evening;' and with his large hands he attempted to assist Lily in habiting herself comfortably for her ride, saying: 
               "My wife was dreadful afraid I'd let you take cold." 
               "Oh, I shall be as warm as toast with this nice shawl, Mr. Arnold. How kind it was of your wife to think of it." 
               "Well, on the whole, I suppose she is a kind woman." 
               Lily laughed, and Mr. Arnold smiled, as if already there was a good understanding between them. He lifted her into the carriage, and after seating himself by her side drove off at a furious rate. 
               Mr. Arnold was charmed with the lively Lily, and Lily, in her turn, was delighted with Uncle Joseph's ready wit and good nature; therefore as the carriage drove into the wide gateway and up the avenue to Mr. Arnold's house, Lily felt that she had one friend more in the world, and that she was not by any means alone in a strange place. 
               Mrs. Arnold, the dear woman, met her at the door, shook her kindly by the hand, led the way to the pleasant sitting-room, assisted her to lay aside her outer garments, and imprinted a motherly kiss upon the child's delicate cheek, saying at the same time, 
               "I'm thankful your've reached here my dear, without any accident." 
               "I never fell afraid in the cars, Mrs. Arnold." 
               "Young folks ain't apt to Miss Seymour, but when they're old like my wife and I, they look out for such things," said Mr. Arnold. 
               Tea was soon prepared and Lily ate heartily, for her hard day's journey had considerably sharpened a good appetite. 
               Soon after tea Mrs. Arnold accompanied her to her room, assisted her to undress, smoothed her hair back from her forehead, and kissing her affectionately, bade her good-night. 
               Lily was happy, her little room was neat as wax, and bore an air of comfort she had never seen before, and then no one can describe her feelings as she thought of Mrs. Arnold's motherly care, her sweet good-night kiss, here was comfort she thought to herself, and a long train of olden memories were reawakened. She seemed to have an indistinct remembrance of her own Mother, of a pale, sweet face that nightly bent over her in blessings, and she remembered part of the Lord's prayer in verse, taught her so long a time ago, that she had nearly forgotten it Many sweet, delightful memories crowded upon her, and when she slept it was only to dream again, that her own dear Mother was hovering near her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           And many more such pious scraps 
                           To prove (what we've long prov'd perhaps) 
                           That mad as Christians used to be 
                           About the thirteenth century, 
                           There's lots of Christians to be had 
                           In this the nineteenth just as mad. 
                            
                           Yet spite of tenets so flagitious 
                           (Which must at bottom be seditious; 
                           As no man living would refuse 
                           Green slippers, but from treasonous views; 
                           Nor wash his toes but with intent 
                           To overturn the government)! 
                        
                      
                     MOORE'S TWOPENNY POST BAG. 
                   
                
               LILY arose the next morning refreshed and happy, she found the hour late and after a hasty toilet hastened down stairs where she found Mrs. Arnold alone, Mr. Arnold having breakfasted long before. 
               "Good morning, my dear," said Mrs. Arnold, as Lily entered the room. 
               "I hope you rested nicely last night." 
               "Oh beautifully, Mrs. Arnold, I was so tired, I feel like a new creature this morning." 
                
               "I'm glad to hear it, but you'll need a little breakfast I think by this time, my dear." 
               Lily seated herself at the table and after completing her morning meal proceeded to look around her. 
               "Do you think you'll be contented here Miss Seymour," enquired Mrs. Arnold. 
               "Oh I shall be delighted," replied Lily, with enthusiasm. 
               "But I shall object to your calling me Miss Seymour; it seems so cold as if you cared nothing for me." 
               "Well, dear child, Lily, you shall be called," and as she repeated the name after the young girl, her lips quivered. 
               "I had an inward dread of speaking the word Lily my child," continued Mrs. Arnold, and then she added, "I lost a little girl by that name." 
               "Dear Mrs. Arnold," said Lily, with much sympathy. She was an impulsive child whose heart rushed out like the rushing of many waters towards any one who seemed to need her sympathy. She drew closely to her and placing her own hand within that of Mrs. Arnold's said, "I will be your little girl if you will only let me love you." 
               "Darling child," replied Mrs. Arnold, pressing her closely to her heart, you shall be my little girl indeed, and love me all you can." 
               From that moment the two were united in heart, and Lily was infinitely more happy than she had ever been before. 
               Who does not feel deep sympathy for the little "waif child" sent out upon life's tempestuous ocean, without the protection of a mother's love. 
               A mother's love, oh! how those words make the lonely heart ache; give me a mother's love next to my God's love, and deny me all other friendships and I would be contented all the days of my life. 
                
               Lily occupied herself during the forenoon in writing a long letter to her father and Herbert, informing them of her safe arrival, the warm welcome she had received, and also giving a description of the house that corresponded almost perfectly with the account Mr. Seymour had given Lily before she left home. She told her father she was delighted with Mr. Arnold, he was so good and kind, and as for his odd, rough manner, it was just the thing, for it made him an original, a rare thing to be found now-a-days die added. Mrs. Arnold she already loved dearly she was so gentle, affectionate, and really refined. 
               "I am fairly provoked with Lily, father," said Herbert, after perusing her first epistle home. 
               "Just see how readily she attaches herself to strangers and seems to forget her old, true friends." 
               "Why Herbert, I do not see any indication of her forgetting her old friends in that letter; it is'nt every young girl that would have been considerate enough to have written so soon as she has done." 
               "That's true; but I've noticed it before, papa. When at Reading she was taken up entirely with Mr. Edmonds." 
               "Not because she cared more for him than for her friends probably, but because he instructed her in her studies and her active mind needed some one to direct and lead her along." 
               "Perhaps so," replied Herbert. 
               "I hope it is so, for I love her dearly. 
               "And she is a very affectionate child and loves us both. I love her as deeply as if she were your sister in reality, her lively, happy heart has often chilled me, and I shall miss her sadly, but depend upon it she'll be appreciated in uncle Joseph's family and be happy too." 
               Mr. Seymour's prophecy proved true, Lily was appreciated and loved in Mr. Arnold's family, and even the cold, stern heart of Tempy melted the least grain in the world as she saw the child dispensing happiness to all and flitting around like a joyous sunbeam. To be sure Miss Dobson and her particular friends had their malicious propensities to gratify, and Miss Dobson could not satisfy herself in regard to Lily, until she had availed herself of the information drawn from several tte-a-ttes with Tempy, at which times she proposed to Miss Arnold the propriety of making some alterations in the girl's manner of dressing, saying' that for her part, "she and Miss Pry and all Christian people thought it wasn't very becoming to see them great long ribbons dangling from her hair like so many streamers, and it was a great waste of money that by good right ought to be saved and given to the heathin." 
               But the "ribbons" were allowed to dangle as usual much against poor Sally Dobson's convictions of right, who could she have had her own way, would have combed and brushed every little graceful wave from Lily's hair, until it had assumed the straight, stiff, and unattractive style she required. 
               But Miss Dobson happened not to have the managing of affairs just as she desired. Still in any way she could vent her indignation she was determined to do so. She was never known to speak a good word of the child from the day she first saw her; and for this reason "she wore long ribbons in her hair." 
               There are some people in the world (have you ever seen them?) who really believe the uglier they make themselves look, the more Christian-like they appear; therefore every particle of grace and beauty is vanished from their attire; a stray curl is never allowed; in truth, their hair would never allowed to curl, but every individual hair seemingly should be fully impressed with the rigid notions of its possessor, and lie perfectly flat. 
               There are Christians in the world who add to these notions a stern, unyielding heart; whose bosoms seem never to have glowed with holy, pure love for anything; who judge all but themselves harshly. I say there are such Christians in the world; they, however, are the exception rather than the rule. Is it well to condemn Christianity because its followers err? 
               One act of Lily's caused both Mr. and Mrs. Arnold great pain. They could not convince her that it was right and proper to attend divine service upon the Sabbath. Mr. Arnold, in one of his conversations with his wife, made the following remark: 
               "I'll tell you, Ellen, I don't like to urge the child against her inclinations, for I remember years ago, my father, who was somewhat of a severe man, sometimes made up his mind that we children should learn the Westminster Assembly Catechism; and every Sabbath, seated by the great fireplace, perfectly still, holding our catechisms in our hands, making dog's ears of the corners of the leaves, and doing everything but learn our lessons. Well, I never from that day to this can bear the sight of a catechism, and I can't help it for the life of me." 
               "Yes, deacon, we must be judicious with Lily; you have noticed she is a remarkably sensitive child, and needs to be governed by love and mild measures." 
               "She's a pretty creature, anyhow," said the deacon; "and for my part, I like to see her dressed neat as a pink, and that one little curl falling down upon her shoulder." 
               "Why, yes," said Mrs. Arnold, smiling. "I don't suppose it's particularly sinful for her hair to be allowed to curl." 
               "Sinful! Oh, Ellen, I could never feel with those that denied any one professing religion a good hearty laugh now and then; and if you've ever noticed it, you had better look out for your prim, precise people." 
                
               "Don't you think, deacon, if we should cultivate the acquaintance of Lydia White for Lily, she might exert a good influence over her?' 
               "Very likely, Ellen, very likely; it's a good thought." 
               "Lily is naturally a good, beautiful child; but I think, Mr. Arnold, from her strange speeches sometimes, that her education has been injudiciously carried on." 
               "That Mr. Edmonds wa'nt the man to teach her, I know," interposed Mr. Arnold. "But she thinks he was perfect. I am afraid it will take a long time to do away with the notions put into her head by him." 
               "I hope it will come out right," said the ever hopeful wife. 
               "And I guess it will, Ellen." 
               Lydia White was the daughter of Pastor White, and a perfect pattern of a true woman. In her early life she had been left motherless, and her education had devolved almost entirely upon her father, who had faithfully performed his part. Her face was beautifully sweet, and her long, black hair was allowed to flow in wavy ringlets over her shoulders. She exercised the most perfect charity toward every one, even though they differed from herself in a religious point of view; and she was not obtrusive in her conceptions of religion; seeming to live, rather than preach, a holy, Christ-like life. Following the example of the blessed Saviour, she went about doing good; she visited the sick, comforted the broken hearted, took the fallen one by the hand and led her back to virtue and to God. She sighed for no greater work, content to labor within her own sphere, which was extended enough to occupy all of her time and thoughts. Possessed of a mild, amiable disposition, and an affectionate heart, she gained a great amount of influence over all who were brought in contact with her. It was with this young lady that Mrs. Arnold wished Lily to become acquainted, hoping that she might exert a salutary influence upon her. 
               An opportunity soon favored the desired introduction. Lily had persuaded Mrs. Arnold to accompany her upon a beech-nut expedition, and while they were hunting for these very diminutive nuts, Miss White, leading a little child by the hand, passed near them. 
               "How do you do, Miss White?" enquired Mrs. Arnold, as she observed her. 
               "Very well, Mrs. Arnold, I'm very happy to see you out; a nice fresh walk in the woods does one so much good." 
               "That's true, Miss White; but I imagine I should n't have thought it possible to come to-day, if my young friend here had not fairly enticed me by her glowing descriptions of the lovely day." Here Mrs Arnold introduced Lily to Miss White, inviting her at the same time to call upon them, which she with a sweet smile promised to do, and at an early period. The smile had found its way to the heart of Lily, who was wondrously susceptible of kindness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Methinks it is not strange then, that I fled 
                           The house of prayer, and made the lonely grove 
                           My temple, at the foot of some old oak, 
                           Watching the little tribes that had their world 
                           Within its mossy bark: or laid me down 
                           Beside the rivulet, whose murmuring 
                           Was silence to my soul, and mark'd the swarm, 
                           Whose light-edged shadows on the bedded sand 
                           Mirror'd their many sports: the insect hum, 
                           The flow of waters, and the song of birds, 
                           Making a holy music to mine ear: 
                           Oh! was it strange, if for such scenes as those, 
                           Such deep devoutness, such intense delight 
                           Of quiet adoration, I forsook 
                           The house of worship? 
                        
                      
                     SOUTHY'S JOAN OF ARC. 
                   
                
               MISS WHITE, agreeably to her promise of an early call upon Lily, walked over the next day to Deacon Arnold's. Lily had gone out for a few moments, and Mrs. Arnold availed herself of the opportunity to inform Miss White of the peculiar religious views the young girl had somewhere contracted. 
               "Mr. Arnold and I feel very anxious about Lily; she is a lovely child, but her character is fast becoming matured. It gives me much uneasiness to see erroneous sentiments thus early established. At her early age I cannot but regard them as serious errors." 
               "She is not wilful, I infer from her countenance," said Miss White. 
               "Quite the reverse; but she needs some one capable of removing, with a careful hand, the strange doctrines she advances, and will, at the same time, maintain the most perfect kindness. 
               "And yet you would not approve of controversy with her, Mrs. Arnold. I have seen many plunged deeper and deeper into a course of error by the very means resorted to to remove their errors; but little argument will prevail with a young person, while at the same time, if specious, they dazzle the young head and lead it to search for, and find other and new ideas, different phases in their speculations, which otherwise might never present themselves to their minds." 
               "That seems very likely, if one will only be guided by their own judgment. I am sure you will not wander from the right." 
               Shortly after this conversation Lily received an invitation from Miss White, which she gladly accepted. Upon calling upon her she found Lydia seated in a tastefully furnished room, sewing. She led Lily into a little room, connected by a door with the one in which she was seated, and assisted her in laying off her garments, and again re-entered the pretty sewing-room. A large willow basket occupied one corner of the room, filled to the brim with work, cut and fitted for sewing. 
               "I hope, Miss White, you do not contemplate making up that whole basketful of work alone," said Lily, as Lydia re-seated herself. 
               "It seems large to you, my dear, does it not? and yet I presume I shall accomplish this and much more. I am making garments for a poor family a short distance out of town, in order that the children may come in to church." 
               "There is but one church in the village, I believe, Miss White." 
               "Only one settled church, but a few Methodists occasionally meet together at a private house or the schoolhouse, I believe." 
               "And your father is the only minister?" 
               "Yes." 
               "I never have met your father," remarked Lily, very coolly. 
               "Ah, my dear, then you have not been to church since you came here?" enquired Lydia. 
               "Oh, no," replied Lily, smiling, "I never go to church." 
               "Never go to church, my child!" repeated Lydia, kindly. "You must have some good reason for not doing so." 
               "I think I have the best of reasons." 
               "And still do you not think we are oftentimes liable to be mistaken." 
               "Yes," replied Lily, thoughtfully. 
               "It would be hardly possible, however, that I should err, as my reasons were conclusively proved to me by Mr. Edmonds, my former teacher, whom every one called a paragon of perfection." 
               "And do you believe that one can be perfect here, my dear?" 
               "Not exactly perfect; still one person can be more perfect than another, and Mr. Edmonds is one of the most perfect." 
               Lydia smiled; she perceived from Lily's enthusiastic manner that it would be impossible to convince her of Mr. Edmond's liability to err, therefore she quietly enquired: 
               "Will you not tell me your reasons for not attending public worship, dear?" 
               "Oh, certainly," replied Lily, drawing her rocking-chair closely to Lydia's side, and settling herself as if for a long discussion, she said: 
                
               "My direct reason for not attending public service is, because I think I can worship God more acceptably at home and alone." 
               "And in what manner would you worship him at home and alone, Lily?" 
               "Oh, in various ways, my dear Miss White. I have no prescribed forms, but engage in such devotional duties as my heart, at the time, dictates. Perhaps I will take a book full of beautiful and holy thoughts, and my soul ascends while I am reading, in thankful adoration, to the Father of all good. Sometimes I take a walk through the woods; the bright birds are my choir, Nature my teacher, and my soul is lifted nearer and nearer to God's throne, and it seems as if my spirit was bathed in whole floods of light. This truly is worship." The child's blue eyes glowed with a brilliant light as she ceased speaking, and Lydia looked upon her with admiration. 
               "You are true my child, this is worship; so far as it goes, it is a pure, lovely, beautiful adoration. Our Father created the natural world, without doubt, to bring us nearer to him who is a God of beauty. I have often experienced the same feeling of which you speak, that of being drawn nearer and nearer to God through the works of Nature. Often upon a quiet, pleasant Sabbath have my father and myself after Church taken a long walk through the lovely fields, and while in communion with nature, my heart has experienced the purest aspirations I have ever known." 
               "Do you and your father walk in the fields Sundays?" enquired Lily, with surprise. 
               "Yes, why not Lily?" 
               "Then he isn't an Orthodox minister?" enquired Lily. 
               "Why yes, my dear, I never heard any one dispute his Orthodoxy," replied Lydia, smiling. 
               "And does he think it right?" 
                
               "Certainly, I never recollect hearing him express any such thought, but why are you so surprised?" 
               "Only because Mrs. Scrubbin, the lady with whom I boarded, and who is a member of an Orthodox Church said, Mr. Edmonds was making a little Infidel of me by letting me walk in the woods Sundays, and that for her part she should think I'd better be in the house learning the "chief end of man." 
               "But every one does not think alike, Lily." 
               "No, and yet I have received many of my ideas of Orthodoxy from Mrs. Scrubbin's life, Miss White, and she was a great hypocrite." 
               "We should carefully judge of a persons motives by their actions, my dear." 
               "Not when their motives are unmistakable. Mrs. Scrubbin used every Sabbath to put on a long sanctimonious face, and make us think she was devotedly pious, she pretended she wouldn't work for her life, and many a Sunday, we girl's have peeped into the key-hole of her room and found her hard at work; and beside all of this, she kept her two Irish girl's constantly at work, so that the Sabbath was no day of rest for them." 
               "But Lily, it would be unjust to judge the whole body of good people called Christians, by the acts of unfaithful ones. Was there not in the little band of disciples collected by Christ, a wicked man? And thus there will ever be, until Christ shall gather his Church to himself, a Judas, who shall betray its interests; this should serve as a warning, rather than a reproach." 
               "I have not thought of that Miss White, but had supposed that the whole body of orthodox Christians, were fac-similes of Mrs. Scrubbin." 
               "And in that supposition you, like many others, simply erred, Lily; but we have digressed somewhat from our original starting point, my dear; which was the wish I expressed of knowing your reason for not going to Church?" 
               "And I, Miss White, have told you that I felt more heart worship at home, than I ever could feel in hearing a long dry sermon savoring of fire and brimstone." 
               A painful shadow flitted over Lydia's gentle face as she thought of the erroneous doctrines and opinions Lily entertained of true Christians. 
               "But is there any necessity of a sermon's savoring of fire and brimstone," she quietly replied. 
               "No, I don't think there is any necessity; but I think they usually do." 
               "And this is your reason for staying from any place of worship?" 
               "One reason, and another is, if we were going to have a church at all, I should say why not have one every day. Ought we not to live as holily one day as another?" 
               "We ought to do so, Lily; but God in his Word has set apart one day above all others in which we are to rest from every worldly care. This is an act of kindness and consideration; for if we continue to labor without cessation, our physical and mental systems would soon wear out; and as it is a day of rest and quiet, it is peculiarly fitted for us to lift our minds from the world to heaven." 
               "Will you please tell me then, Miss White, whom you would call a Christian?" 
               "One, my dear child, who lives in peace with all men; whose charity endureth all things, suffereth all things; whose heart is broad and large, and reaches out in useful sympathy and love towards suffering humanity, of whatever sect they may be, be they black or white, bond or free; one who walks humbly and faithfully with his God, on earth, and yet ever aspires after a more noble and holy life than the present; God giving him grace to enable him to do the entire will of his Divine Father, striving ever after a life at once Christ-like and beautiful." 
               "Who, who can ever hope to attain to such a state?" said Lily, despondingly. 
               "The way is open to every one, dear Lily; all may hope, and try, and if they do aright, they will most surely succeed." 
               At this moment Mr. White entered the room. His pleasant and agreeable manner, not unlike Mr. Edmonds, charmed Lily, and they conversed upon general topics until tea was announced. Before Lily had taken her departure, Lydia White gently enquired of her if she would not attend church the following Sabbath, and if she found it impossible to reconcile her father's preaching to her own convictions of right she would not urge her again. 
               Lily promised, at the same time, adding, as she stood upon the piazza, about to bid Miss White "good night": 
               "You must remember I don't go to church from the highest motive, that of pleasing God, but for the sake of pleasing you." 
               "Well, you may attend once to please me, and perhaps, in time, you'll learn to go for the higher motive." 
               Lily bade her good-night, and took her departure. She was pleased with Miss White, and there was nothing in her religion which she could for a moment condemn. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Her precious pearl, in sorrow's cup, 
                           Unmelted at the bottom lay, 
                           To shine again, when all drunk up, 
                           The bitterness should pass away. 
                        
                      
                     MOORE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Life, like a dome of many-color'd glass, 
                           Stains the white radiance of eternity. 
                        
                      
                     SHELLY. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Life hath but shadows, save a promise given, 
                           Which lights the future with a fadeles ray; 
                           O touch the sceptre! win a hope in heaven; 
                           Come, turn thy spirit from the world away! 
                        
                      
                     WILLIS G. CLARK. 
                   
                
               LIFE is all one changing scene, from the cradle to the grave. We love, and are loved in return; we hope all things for the future, and live to see our loves and hopes vanish, as doth the morning dew before the bright rays of the sun. Happy are we, if our youthful cares and follies make us wiser and better. These sad experiences are our discipline in life's school, to develop and chasten our characters, to refine and elevate our hearts. Mourn not, then, too much, when wild, bitter sorrows, seem deluging your soul; and although your heart may ever again refuse to warble the wild, exuberant, joyful melody it has formerly poured forth, depend upon it, my friends, your soul's music will be more sweet, more gentle, more holy, aye, angelic, if you have profited aright by your heart sorrows. Never despair then, oh, sorrowing brother and sister in humanity; take up your heart's lyre, and although but one string remains unbroken, like Paganini, draw from that one string delicious sounds, that shall astonish thousands. Jean Paul says, "Life is a beautiful night, in which not one star goes down, but another rises in its place." 
               The next Sabbath found Lily seated in the little village church, between Deacon Arnold and his wife, very much to their satisfaction and joy. She listened earnestly to Pastor White's sermon, drawn from the following text: "If ye love me, keep my commandments." 
               Through his whole discourse, no threatening expostulations were used, no vivid, exciting portraitures of hell were drawn, and not even were the glories of heaven expatiated upon. In a clear, concise, loving manner, he endeavored to lay before his people their whole duty to their great Creator; showing them kindly, yet firmly, that in no other way could they display their love, devotion, and allegiance to their Father in Heaven, than by walking in the paths of blessedness revealed in his word, the Bible. Although the good Pastor insisted upon the final punishment of those who did not lead a life according to God's laws, still, he did not attempt to explain in what manner that punishment should be effected. 
               Lily listened to him with much surprise, and as she left the church, at the close of worship, she found herself enquiring, "Is this, then, one of the Orthodox sermons I have so much dreaded? Surely, there is nothing here to condemn." 
               From that moment, she began to realize a great truth; that because cause she had heard sermons savoring of fire and brimstone from Orthodox ministers, it would, nevertheless, be wrong in her to judge the whole body by the mistakes and bad tastes of others. Still, Lily was not yet converted-to Mr. White's way of thinking. 
               The winter was fast coming on, and Lily was most comfortably situated in her new home. She had formed an affection for Lydia White, and many hours of her time were occupied with her, which would otherwise have hung heavily upon her hands. 
               One morning, very late in November, upon awaking, she found the ground covered with a beautiful carpet of snow. Every branch and little twig of the maple trees in the yard were filled to their utmost capacity with a downy cushion. She longed to throw open the window and press her little, warm hand upon the fleecy flakes; but a biting sensation from a keen breath of air passed over her, and she repented of her sudden impulse. Dressing herself hurriedly, she scampered down stairs, where a warm fire was awaiting her in the cosy sitting-room. 
               "Oh, Uncle Joseph," said she, bursting into the room, full of animal spirits, "my fingers are almost frozen." 
               "Poor little pussy," replied Mr. Arnold, compassionately, "such tender Lily blossoms can't stand the cold weather; come here, and let me warm them for you;" and as she approached him, he placed her delicate hand between his two palms, and commenced a vigorous rubbing, which soon warmed them nicely. 
               "Isn't this snow beautiful, Uncle Joseph? I never saw a quarter as much before. How I should like to run out and lie down in it." 
               "That you can do very easily, but I reckon you'd be glad to get back into the house again." 
               "Well, won't you come and play snow ball with me? I'll put on a shawl and hood, and Aunty's mittens." 
                
               "Won't I come and play snowball with you?" repeated Uncle Joseph. 
               "Well, let's see who'll get out first." A great noise and scampering here ensued, and Lily, bonnet and shawl in hand, jumped down three steps at once to gain the piazza before Mr. Arnold. 
               "Here I am Uncle Joseph." 
               "And here I am too," said a voice behind her, while at the same time a huge snowball came right against her warm neck. 
               "Oh, do stop one moment," cried a little half smothered voice, "I," a quick breath stopped her proceeding, "I can't get my breath it's so cold." 
               Mr. Arnold desisted, and helped Lily to rid herself of the snow which was fast melting upon her neck, and while he was engaged in this benevolent act a huge snowball, that Lily had helped herself to unperceived, was thrown full in his face. Now was Uncle Joseph obliged to sue for mercy, and amid much merriment he rushed into the house saying: 
               "Come pussy, ain't those little fingers cold?" 
               Breakfast followed, and Miss Tempy, who had returned from her visit, took the liberty to remark, that she thought "'twan't no ways becoming for a man most fifty years old to play children's plays and make such a racket." But brother Joseph didn't mind the remark, for a sweet approving smile from his wife more than recompensed him. After breakfast, prayers followed, after which Mrs. Arnold busied herself in her household duties, while Lily betook herself to her piano, playing first the sweet little song of the snow-bird, so appropriate for the morning, and then practising upon a most exquisite piece of composition, "Shubert's Serenade." Ever and anon Mrs. Arnold, while occupied in her work, peeped through a crack in the door bestowing glances of love upon Lily. Truly, "a child in the house is a wellspring of joy." 
               In a couple of hours Mrs. Arnold's work was all accomplished, and she was seated in her sewing chair with Lily by her side, both engaged with their needles and in conversation. 
               "I'm afraid I shan't be able to go out to-day Aunty," said Lily. 
               "I think you had better not go to-day my dear, the snow is light and you have a slight cold, can't you amuse yourself in the house." 
               "Oh yes indeed, I'm never at a loss for amusement, with plenty of good reading and you for company." 
               "Well, we're going to have other company to-day," said Mrs. Arnold, glancing out of the window. "There's Aunt Hitty Dodge making her way through the snow." 
               "Who is she," enquired Lily, as she looked from the window upon the most unique specimen of humanity she had ever seen. 
               "Well, she's Mrs. Mehitable Dodge who lives two doors from Mr. White's in that little apology for a cottage at the end of the lane, she has been absent upon a visit to her son for a short time, and that accounts for your not having seen her, as she regularly spends a day with me every week." 
               "Is she agreeable, Aunty?" 
               "She is amusing enough, as you may judge from her appearance. Poor woman, she is a little odd, but then she was never known to do any one harm that I know of." 
               Lily smiled, for she saw that Mrs. Arnold had not told her half as much in words as her manner implied. The entrance of the old lady terminated the conversation. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh, wreathe the ribbon lightly round, 
                           And tie it' neath your chin; 
                           And do not let its folds be bound 
                           By needle or by pin! 
                           It is unworthy, lady dear, 
                           Your dignity of mind, 
                           To take such trouble with your gear. 
                        
                      
                     MRS. FRANCES S. OSGOOD. 
                   
                
               "AH, how do you do, Aunt Hitty?" enquired Mrs. Arnold, as she met her at the door, and shaking her cordially by the hand said, "I'm glad to see you again." 
               "How d 'ye do, Miss Arnold?" said she, in a little squeaking voice, which seemed to come from an innumerable quantity of shawls and cloaks which protected her from the cold. 
               "You've really managed to get out this blowy day. Was'nt it rather tedious?" enquired Mrs. Arnold, assisting her to disrobe. 
               "Oh, no," squeaked the same voice; "bad weather don't keep me in you know; it's healthy to go out if you only put enough on." 
               Lily thought she had certainly put enough on as she saw her disrobe; first she took off a large black broadcloath cloak, with five successive capes falling over it; then came a heavy Rob Roy shawl, a tippet of old fashioned yellow fur, a black merino cape, and a small woollen shawl, pinned tightly down to her dress. 
               By the time these various trappings had been removed, a slim, tall body was brought to light, whose head was still undistinguishable in the mass that enveloped it. First off came a crazy-looking black veil, then a quilted black hood, under which was pinned closely around her face a small piece of scarlet flannel. 
               "You know, Miss Arnold, I've just come from the city; been to see Zekiel. Rimbolets are dreadful modern just now," she remarked, pointing significantly to the bit of red flannel she had worn over her head. 
               Lily's good breeding prevented her laughing outright; still she doubted if that piece of flannel was worthy of being called a riggolette. 
               The head was soon disencumbered of its covering, and a thin visage, with small grey eyes, not unpleasing were visible. Aunt Hitty proceeded very deliberately to take off a pair of old stockings which were drawn over her moccasons; then her moccasons, and seating herself near the stove, placed her feet upon the hearth, and without speaking, drew from her reticule a pair of half-worn-out shoes, which she proceeded to warm and place upon her feet; a collar which she pinned around her neck, a black silk cravat which she carefully folded and placed above the collar, a little box, from which she drew forth two immense rings and polishing them with a corner of her red silk handkerchief, deposited upon the middle finger of her left hand. Lily sat lost in wonderment as to the further capacity of the bag, but her astonishment was not lessened when she took from her silk apron, which she had just tied around her, a snuffbox and some knitting-work. 
               After fully arranging her toilet, Aunt Hitty stepped to the looking ing glass, gave a finishing touch by pulling the false curls that graced her wrinkled face, smoothing down her cap and reseating herself, said: 
               "'Taint because I'm proud that I take so much pains with myself Miss Arnold, oh no, I ain't a vain woman, but Zekiel, dear boy, takes pride in seein me look modern." 
               "Well, that's a fine thing Aunt Hitty, every person ought to pay a proper respect to their dress." 
               "Jes so," she replied, then glancing at Lily and again enquiringly at Mrs. Arnold, she said in an under tone: 
               "Why don't you introduce me to that young lady?" 
               Mrs. Arnold had observed Lily's mirth, and feared an introduction might end in a roar of laughter which would discompose the old lady's temper, but taking a favorable moment, said: 
               "This is Mrs. Dodge, Miss Lily Seymour." 
               "And how d'ye dew Miss Seymour," enquired Aunt Hitty, rising and making a slight courtesy, in a reverential manner, for her quick eye had perceived that Lily had the appearance of being "modern," a fact of much consequence to her. 
               "I never like to speak to people now-a-days without an introduction, or else I should 'a spoken to you afore," she added by way of apology; then turning to Mrs. Arnold, she said: 
               "I used to have a way of speaking to every one, whether I knew them or not, didn't make no differ, but Zekiel broke me of it." 
               Putting on her spectacles and viewing Lily over the tops of them, she commenced her attack upon the poor child, who sat ready for a good hearty laugh at every word addressed her. 
               "Come from the City?" she enquired. 
               "Yes ma'am, from New York." 
                
               "New York," repeated Aunt Hitty, "from the City I mean?" she added. 
               "Yes ma'am, from the city of New York," replied Lily. 
               "City New York," she repeated, musingly and slowly. "Don't know nothing 'bout that, Zekiel don't live there. I mean the city Bosting." 
               "You know there are two cities," said Mrs. Arnold, by way of explanation. 
               "Oh yes, yes," replied Aunt Hitty. "New York's further off, 'taint so large as Bosting though by a long run, so Zekiel says, and he ought tew know." 
               Lily and Mrs. Arnold interchanged comical glances. 
               "She's a relative o' yourn?" enquired Aunt Hitty, showing that Lily was meant by a nod of the head. 
               "A relative of my husband." 
               "A niece perhaps." 
               "Oh! no; Mr. Arnold has but one sister, and that's Tempy." 
               "Yes, yes, perhaps she might be a cousin?" 
               "Her father is a cousin of Mr. Arnold's." 
               "A second cousin, ah ah," and Hitty seemed satisfied, then added: 
               "I should a known she was from some city, if it warn't so big as Bosting. Carn't every one expect to have the privilege of a Bosting life, you see she's modern, I knew it the minute I sot eyes on her. Zekiel says I've got great perpetration." 
               She smoothed down her silk apron with a complacent air, took a pinch of snuff, and continued: 
               "Couldn't you come here a minute dear, I should really like to look at your gown, I've got a gown to hum I'm going to make, perhaps I won't like your pattern. I'm one o' those that don't think there ought to be much differ between young and old folk's clothes, jes think, my Zekiel says that his master's wife wears low necked gowns and short sleeves like any gal, and she's ee'n a most seventy. I don't quite like that though." 
               Lily walked to the old lady's side, who subjected her to an examination from every point, after which she favored her with the following remarks: 
               "Um! um! Your waist, that's modern is it? big sleeves like meal bags, open at the wrist, is that modern, Miss Seymour?" 
               Lily replied in the affirmative. 
               After having turned her around very much after the fashion of a wax figure in a shopman's window, she passed upon her the following enconium: 
               "You're a pretty gal, seein' you're so modern, a person can't be thankful enough to think they've been to the city, it puts on the finishin, you've never been Miss Arnold?" and she glanced sympathizingly towards her. 
               "No, Aunt Hitty, I have never been; it has somehow not been convenient." 
               "Oh, it's a great thing a' havin' part of your family livin' there like my Zekiel; it rather lifts you up above your neighbors, though I ain't proud 'bout it at all as you mout think I'd be. Now, ef it had'nt a 'ben for my son's going to Bosting, I should a 'lived right on making sights of blunders and never a'known it. There, I was always calling hin's nests, kin's nsts, till my Zekiel said one day, 'Why, mother, 'taint hin's nsts, it's hin's nests. Now, you see, I must have lived, and died, and not a'known how to call hin's nests." 
               Lily could contain herself no longer, and a hearty peal of laughter followed Aunt Hitty's narration, the timely manner in which she was saved from dying, without knowing that "hin's nsts" was "hin's nests." 
               "Laugh away, Miss Seymour; I don't wonder at it, 'twas an orful mistake. I can't help laughing myself sometimes, but then I feel thankful that I don't say sich things now. You know any one mout as well be out of the world as out of the fashion." 
               Lily assented by a bow; the old lady's loquacity rendered it almost impossible at any time to interpose a word. 
               Uncle Joseph entered the room at this moment, and Mrs. Arnold, taking advantage of the opportunity, excused herself in order to prepare dinner. 
               "Well, Aunt Hitty, how goes the world with you?" said Mr. Arnold, as soon as he was comfortably seated. 
               "Oh, well, well, you mout know I've been to Bosting, Deacon." 
               "Yes, to see your son?" 
               "Yes, and I've had an invite to come again and see the people where he boards." 
               "How does he employ himself now, Mrs. Dodge?" 
               "Well, his last employment was putting up advertisements in the streets for pattern medicine men." 
               "Patent you mean." 
               "La, yes, pattern. I'm apt to make slips of the tongue." 
               "Does he git good wages, Hitty?" 
               "I guess he does; much as a dollar a day." 
               "Well, I'm glad to hear it; you staid several Sundays. Did you go to church?" 
               "Yes, one't. I meant to have gone agin, but Zekiel was busy. I overheerd some one say he felt too big to go with his old mother, but I did'nt believe that of my Zekiel." 
               "I hope not, I'm sure, Hitty, though young people at the present day have a strange notion of disowning their own kith and kin if they git a little up in the world." 
               "Well, the more my Zekiel gits up, the more he respects his mother," stoutly answered Hitty. 
                
               "I am glad to hear it." 
               "As I was goin to tell you, Deacon, I went to church and heard Mr. Smoothtongue preach; he's one of the dreadfulest modern men you ever see'd; he preaches up a new doctrine how all can git to heaven without tryin to be good on earth. I like anything modern I dew, but this modern preachin I can't get along with." 
               "And I should'nt want to git along with it, Hitty." 
               The conversation was continued briskly, dinner was eaten, and about three o'clock in the afternoon Hitty returned home, begging Lily to come and see her, adding, that she should like her modern ways much better than the coarse manners of her neighbors. 
               Here was an original for Lily, a new character, and she was greatly amused with her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh, what a tangled web we weave, 
                           When first we practise to deceive! 
                        
                      
                     SCOTT'S MARMION. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Every man in this age has not a soul 
                           Of crystal, for all men to read their actions 
                           Through; men's hearts and faces are so far asunder 
                           That they hold no intelligence. 
                        
                      
                     BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER'S PHILASTER. 
                   
                
               THE warm, summer months had come, and men, women and children in groups, were hurrying from the dry, dusty city, to enjoy, if possible, a little pure, country air. Boston Common was literally alive with people; bevies here and there of young ladies collected together, under every tree that bore the semblance of relief, or which afforded the slightest shade, was eagerly sought, to cool their fevered brows with the gentle breezes that are almost always found floating about this great public resort. 
               Upon the steps of quite a number of the hotels, were groups of men, incapacitated by the warmth of the weather, for their various employments, and here, in conversation, they were endeavoring to while away their time. The steps of the Revere House was the favorite resort of would-be genteel loungers; and upon a sultry day in the latter part of the month of July, there were collected at this place, a number of gentlemen, who, judging from their fashionable swagger, it was easy to perceive, must have immense wealth, or live in some manner entirely unknown to the public. Two persons of whom I am about to speak, stood somewhat aside from the rest of the group, carelessly engaged in conversation. 
               "By Jove, Harry," said one of the gentlemen, whose name was William Emerson, addressing his companion, "I'm off for the country, to-morrow. Boston is'nt endurable longer." 
               "And where do you propose going, Will?" enquired the other. 
               "Oh, anywhere, nowhere, or I don't care where," replied Emerson. 
               "And what do you seek?" 
               "Trout, and love in a cottage." 
               "Very much alike, Will, and hard to be found; but success go with you." 
               "Probably they may be, Harry. I've been a successful man, havn't I?" 
               "Heavens, yes; wouldn't I have danced with joy at half your luck?" 
               "Ah, ha," replied Emerson, laughing; "I possess the true Philosopher's stone." 
               "And you won't impart your secret?" 
               "Not before my hair grows white with age, or I get tired of my course." 
               "Zounds! you're a selfish fellow, and a happy dog, too." 
               "That's true enough." 
               "Seems to me, you must have several of the fail sex already on hand, to dispose of, young man." 
               "Yes," replied Emerson, laughing; "but no one can come the smooth side over them better than I. These women are wonderfully fully confiding; you know the old song, "Faultless, immortal, till they change or die;" that's the way the poor creatures look upon the masculine portion of the community." 
               "Yet I believe you've sold yourself to the devil, if he did not assist you, you could never run the deuced rig you do." 
               "I've entered into no league with anything worse than my own heart" 
               "Hang it, if I believe you need to," replied the other, as if he were imparting a good joke. You've cunning enough aboard to keep half the devil's machines in motion, without being discovered." 
               "I imagine so. Six years experience in the business has made me an adept." 
               "And where do you expect to bring up at last, Will?" 
               "That's a tough question, Harry. Father Taylor would probably say that I'd go plump against one of the gate-posts of hell, and enter with a bound: but I hope better things myself. I shall probably manage to hit heaven." 
               "Well, you've fairly made up your mind to go into the country this summer?" 
               "To-morrow, I'm off with my fishing-tackle for some place or other.' 
               "Let me hear from you, Will, wherever you are, and if you find business accumulating you'll know where to send for assistance." This last sentence was accompanied with a knowing wink and smile. 
               Here the conversation ceased; the gentlemen shook hands and parted. 
               The winter had passed pleasantly with Lily in her quiet country home, the somewhat dull monotony being often broken by sundry apple-parings, huskings, and the regular sewing societies. Uncle Joseph and Mrs. Arnold faithfully supplied the place of parents to tae otherwise orphan child. Herbert's letters came thick and fast, breathing the most earnest love for his foster-sister, which he supposed was fully reeiprocated. Dear child, she little knew the meaning of love, such as Herbert's. 
               The bright Spring-time at length came with its pretty flowers, singing birds, budding trees and springing grass. Lily had just completed her eighteenth year, and began to feel a burning within her soul, an ardent desire for earnest, useful action. 
               "Uncle Joseph," said she one day to Mr. Arnold, as he was seated in his large arm-chair before the kitchen door, "pray why won't you let me teach school this summer? Come, now, there's a dear, good uncle; you are one of the committee men. Here I am without any object in life, fairly languishing away, when all of the time I feel as if it were far better to wear out in a good cause than to rust out doing nothing." 
               "Oh, ho, pussy! you going to teach school are you? Well, Mrs. School Marm, if I'm Committee I shall be so hard on you that you'll never pass muster." 
               "But would'nt you let me teach?" 
               "Would'nt I?" repeated Mr. Arnold, "Why, yes, I don't know but I would. But to speak plainly upon the subject, puss, I think you'd better be contented to stay at home and be company for Aunty and Uncle Joe; could'nt you?" and the kind old man looked lovingly upon the child and smoothed his hand over her sunny ringlets. 
               "If you desire it, Uncle Joseph; yet sometimes I fear I shall get to be a burden." 
               "A burden!" said Mr. Arnold, laughing heartily. "About as much of a burden as a grasshopper on an elephant's back, jest none at all, and that's what you mean, is it, you sly puss, going to crawl off because you thought your old uncle would be tired of you? No, I've got plenty of this world's goods, thank God, and I'm glad enough if any of it can do such a nice little girl as you are some good. Be content, Lily, to live a life of ease during the hot summer months and when fall comes, if you ain't contented at home, we'll see what we can do for you." 
               Thus Lily was obliged to give up the plan of teaching, which she had secretly nursed during the winter, as being the only means at hand by which to gratify her desire for action. She commenced her studies anew under the supervision of Pastor White and his daughter Lydia. 
               Mr. Edmonds was still cherished as a demi-god, and his teachings were destined to flourish in spite of the contrary instruction she had subsequently received. Many of her old prejudices were removed, inasmuch as she now willingly attended church, not from any convictions of duty, but because she found nothing positively disagreeable in the act. Still she obstinately persisted that no such thing as a church or Sabbath ought to exist,-using by way of argument that Nature did not cease its workings upon that day; the birds sang as joyously as ever, and she saw no reason why man should be tied down to worshipping God in a manner not congenial. 
               She did not see the end from the beginning, and therefore she did not believe. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh, blame her not! when zephyrs wake, 
                           The aspen's trembling leaves must shake; 
                           When beams the sun through April's shower, 
                           It needs must bloom, the violet flower; 
                           And love, howe'er the maiden strive, 
                           Must with reviving hope revive. 
                        
                      
                     SCOTT. 
                   
                
               THE life of Lily Seymour up to the present time had been marked with but little change or variety. The true impulses of her heart still slumbered. She had no settled character, save that she was a sweet, loving girl, as free, wild, and joyous as the little yellow breasts that twittered away in melodious strains upon the maple boughs before the window. 
               Her absorbing passion had ever been to find some one upon whom she could lavish the almost boundless wealth of her nature, and receive in return an intensity of affection nearly amounting to idolatry. At times, it seemed to be the rich devoted love of a mother for which she sighed, and the faint memory of a gentle affection bestowed upon her childhood's days, seemed to fan into existence a knowledge of the full capabilities of her soul, which for years had remained dormant. And now at the age of eighteen her inner self had found no fitting companion; loved and loving, she was all unknown known; she felt what none else knew, that written upon her heart were enshrined those deep affections which only awaited a sympathetic chord, the knowledge of a kindred spirit to enkindle the pure holy light of love within, whether her heart which should change her whole being and reveal to herself the entire depths of her nature. 
               The dry, warm days of August had come, and Lily, as was her custom, wandered down by the side of a little brook a few rods back of Mr. Arnold's house, to woo the cool breezes to herself, if perchance any might be found, and gather the little daisies and violets by which the borders of the rippling stream were variegated. 
               Her white dress fluttered in here and there among the green bushes, as with her sweet voice she hummed the following words: 
                      
                        "I've been roaming, I've been roaming 
                        When the meadow dew is sweet, 
                        And I'm coming, and I'm coming 
                        "With its pearls upon my feet." 
                     
                  
                
               A slight rustle caused her to stop; and turning suddenly around she dropped the violets she had been gathering, and found herself vis-a-vis with a pair of black eyes which were peering at her through some neighboring bushes. 
               Her first impulse was to laugh outright at the comical manner in which she was brought in contact with a pair of eyes, the possessor of which she was unable to see, and turning around, she was about to move away, when a tall, manly form sprang from the bushes directly in her pathway, and gathering up the flowers she had dropped, handed them to her with a respectful bow, saying, in a low winning voice: 
               "Pardon me, lady, for my careless intrusion. When I ventured to these woods for game, I did not suppose I was trespassing upon fairy land." 
               "No apology is necessary, sir," replied Lily good-humoredly, "It is so rare to find any human being but myself enjoying these woods, that at first I was somewhat startled." 
               "From which you have recovered I trust, and surely you will not allow me to disturb you," he added, smiling, as he saw Lily about to return home. 
               "I, truly, as the trespasser, am the one to leave." 
               "But there is no necessity for your leaving, as you came for some object, and I merely sought a cool breeze, which I can now obtain at home I presume." 
               Lily noticed his fishing tackle and knew that he was probably wishing to fish in the brook close by. 
               "And I too, came to get a little cool breeze and fish for trout, if such a thing were to be found," replied the stranger, with a winning smile. 
               "But if you persist in leaving, I shall feel that I have been the means of driving you away, not a very pleasant reflection." 
               There was an intensity in the gaze of those deep, black eyes, that partly enchained Lily to the spot, much against her innate sense of propriety; but she excused herself in thinking it would be rudeness, indeed, to be the means of driving the handsome stranger away, when she might just as well stay in her seat, upon a green, mossy log, and allow him quietly to proceed with his fishing; therefore carelessly seating herself, she commenced arranging her flowers. The stranger, however, had no idea of leaving the fairy who had so suddenly greeted his surprised gaze, and he remained standing at a respectful distance, evidently engaged in thought. Looking around him he turned to Lily, and enquired: 
                
               "This is the town of W--, is it not?" 
               "Yes," she replied. 
               "Then I must have wandered four miles, through the woods," he continued; as if to himself. 
               "You came from Jackson, did you not?" innocently enquired Lily. 
               "Yes, I think it is called four miles from here." 
               "It is," she replied. 
               "The delicious shade and quiet of the woods, tempted me to a much greater distance from home than I was aware," remarked the stranger, with that same smile that had before fascinated the susceptible Lily. 
               "Then you love the woods, perhaps, as much as I do," said Lily, with a charming freshness, which captivated the stranger. 
               "Yes, lady," replied the stranger, respectfully; "I love the woods; I might add, everything in nature, that wears the impress of the great Creator's skill and goodness." 
               "And I, too, love all nature," replied Lily, inspired with confidence by the respectful manner of the speaker. 
               "These trees and rocks, this little rippling stream, and these laughing flowers, speak eloquently to my soul, and here, every afternoon, I come to hold communion with God through his Word as revealed in nature." 
               Lily suddenly ceased speaking; a deep blush suffused her snowy cheek, as she feared she had communicated already too much of her heart to a stranger. He gazed upon Lily, while she was speaking, with a look of undisguised admiration. That glance seemed to have transformed the soul of Lily; it appeared to her that the secret fountains of her heart were unlocked by a key in the possession of the stranger. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Within the sun-lit forest. 
                           Our roof the bright blue sky, 
                           Where streamlets flow and wild flowers blow, 
                           We lift our hearts on high. 
                        
                      
                     EBENEZER ELLIOTT. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           In contemplation of created things, 
                           By steps we may ascend to God. 
                        
                      
                     MILTON'S PARADISE LOST. 
                   
                
               THE stranger seated himself upon a mossy rock by the side of Lily and commenced an animated conversation upon the beauties around them. "You spoke, lady, of the pleasure you take in communing with Nature. You believe, perhaps, that God has given to those trees, this rock, these flowers, a voice which speaks directly from his soul to your soul, and perhaps you believe that the whole revealed Word, which some consider as given by inspiration, is contained in the created Universe." 
               "I do, most certainly," replied Lily, "and every day I am more and more confirmed in this belief. My soul seems in perfect sympathy with Nature, and at times I almost imagine that I am borne so closely to the bosom of the Almighty Father of love and goodness, that I can hear and feel the throbbings of his great heart." 
                
               "And this is the foundation for a most glorious existence. When we are sufficiently developed to realize this beautiful truth, we have sundered many of the trammellings which must ever bind our souls to the earth, instead of allowing them to aspire heaven-wards. You then have taken many steps in the pathway that shall eventually lead your soul, even on earth, to revel in broad, green fields, whose pervading atmosphere and sun shall be God's perfect truth and love." 
               "Sir, as you say, this is a beautiful truth, inasmuch as it is the perfection of all truth. Which is, then, the better interpreter of God, Nature, his own handiwork, with its thousand laws in perfect harmony with each other, or the Bible, of doubtful authority, whose precepts are constantly conflicting with the great principles which govern the whole Universe?" 
               "Upon this one doint, lady, hangs an important query-Whether the mind of man must be bound down to a belief at once repulsive and degrading to all his innate feelings of moral and religious liberty?" 
               "I should think not," replied Lily, unhesitatingly. "If we maintain that this is a land of freedom, each individual then has a right to exercise his reason in guiding his own course of action." 
               "And still, my friend, I dare say you are not aware of the broad grounds you are taking. These very ideas you have advanced would bring down upon your head the unmitigated censure of nearly the whole civilized world. Still," he added, musingly, "there are a few earnest souls who have joined together, bearing the terrors of public opinion, in a soul-absorbing endeavor after truth; not Bible truth, but God's truth. These few of whom I speak have come out from under a load of wretched erros-I might add, heathenish follies- and are striving after a true nobility of soul, aside from the influences of church priestcraft and musty tomes." 
               "And in their endeavor may God bless and prosper them," added Lily, earnestly. 
               "God will bless them. Every day these truths are gaining a stronger foothold; even now they are too securely based ever to be demolished. It must be allowed that every individual has within himself a little kingdom, upon whose throne reason reigns supreme, and that no other individual has the right to dictate or carry into effect any law which shall at all infringe upon personal rights, inclinations and liberties." 
               "And who can object to such a law?" enquired Lily. 
               "Truly, who can object to a law, the fulfilment of which brings every feeling of our natures into perfect harmony with the natural law? Still, strange as it may appear, there are those who hoot at, even denounce as Infidels, all believers in this beautiful truth. But are we not allowing ourselves to become too deeply interested in a subject fraught with so much that shall call down upon us the censure of the world?" 
               "This is a glorious morning to my soul," said Lily, with enthusiasm. "To penetrate the film of error and live in the full and glorious light of truth, I would willingly toil for years, if needs be, if at last I might be repaid with one sight of that Eden my fancy has pictured." 
               Lily had been led along imperceptibly by the delicate, winning manner of the stranger, and had not observed that the sun was far on its way towards the western horizon. Slowly rising, she said: 
               "I fear, sir, our interesting conversation must be disturbed; it is time I was returning homeward." 
                
               "And will you not allow me to enquire whom have I to thank for an hour of the most pleasant conversation I ever enjoyed?" 
               Lily could not be offended at the request. The manner was so respectful, evidently so earnest, that she replied: 
               "You flatter me by allowing me to suppose that my conversation could afford you any pleasure; nevertheless I will introduce myself to you as Lily Seymour." 
               "The lovely lilies of the field might with reason envy you," he replied, gracefully bowing, "and may I hope, Miss Seymour, that you will allow me to continue an acquaintance thus happily commenced?" 
               Lily blushed, but recovering herself, replied politely, yet innocently: "I should be most happy to see you at my uncle's at any time. He lives but a few steps from here, in yonder yellow house." 
               "I shall do myself the pleasure of an early call, Miss Seymour, and trust that you will excuse any seeming rudeness in detaining you so long in a conversation very agreeable to me at least." 
               "And equally agreeable to me," added Lily. 
               "You flatter me," he replied, smiling, "and yet I trust you will never regret the little interview you have had with Allain Eustace." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Look how the blue-eyed violets 
                           Glance love to one another! 
                           Their little leaves are whispering, 
                           The vows they may not smother. 
                           The birds are pouring passion forth, 
                           In every blossoming tree- 
                           If flowers and birds talk love, lady, 
                           Why not we? 
                        
                         
                           And over all the happy earth, 
                           Love floweth like a river- 
                           True love, whose glory fills the skies 
                           Forever and forever. 
                           The pale hearts of the silver stars, 
                           Throb too, as mine to thee; 
                           All things delight in love, lady, 
                           Why not we? 
                        
                      
                     T. B. READ. 
                   
                
               THE conversation of the preceding afternoon had revealed a new life to Lily. She inwardly dreaded speaking of her new acquaintance to Uncle Joseph and Aunty, fearing they might not approve of it; and still she was led the next day, by a strange fascination, to the same lovely seat by the brook, only to find Mr. Eustace awaiting her arrival. It seemed as if there were a tacit agreement between them to meet in this spot. At length, as if urged by a sense of propriety, rather than inclination, Lily led the way to her uncle's, followed by Mr. Eustace. The formalities of an introduction were concluded, and generous hospitalities extended by the kind-hearted Mr. Arnold, were most favorable to the prosecution of an acquaintanceship, which Mr. Eustace was not remiss in accepting. His visits were frequent. Mr. Arnold, good soul, was pleased with his conversational powers, and thought it very kind in the gentleman, to take so much interest in his farming affairs; and Mrs. Arnold could see no reason why Lily should be deprived of the benefit of his well stored mind; therefore matters progressed much to the satisfaction of Lily and Mr. Eustace. 
               There had sprung up within Lily's bosom, the first wild delights of a pure, delicious love, all unuttered yet, save by quick, hurried glances, and the ever tell tale flush; still, the lovers knew the precise state of the other's heart. How, pray? 
               One afternoon, Lily sought her usual place, just by the edge of the woods, evidently awaiting the arrival of some person. Her delicately slippered foot rested upon a beautiful, mossy, green carpet, her straw hat was thrown carelessly back, her thin blue dress fluttered gaily in the soft breeze, and a thoughtful expression was spread over her features, as she sat holding in one hand a tiny flower, while with the other she tore off the delicate petals, repeating to herself, alternately, the words, (as if it were a spell upon which hung her future destiny,) "He loves me," "He loves me not;" then as the leaves failed at "He loves me not," she brushed the petals nervously from her lap, repeating mournfully, "No, he loves me not" 
               "But he does love you, better than life," repeated a low voice near her. 
               A blush overspread the face of Lily, while a thrill of delight darted through her soul, like the first sweet strains of exquisite music, and looking around, she beheld Eustace by her side, his face radiant with unutterable love and joy. 
               "Ah Lily, dear Lily, I do love, worship, adore you, my beautiful angel," said he, fervently; "and can you, will you, in return, bestow upon me the love of the only heart for which I ever truly sighed?" 
               This was no hour for dissimulation with Lily. It was the moment for which, through years, she had longed, and in a simple, childlike manner she told Eustace of her love. 
               One little hand was placed within his own, her fair cheek rested upon his shoulder, his arm was thrown lightly around her as if for support, and with tears of joy suffusing her eyes, she told him her heart was all his own. 
                      
                        "Oh there's nothing half so sweet in life, 
                        "As love's young dream." 
                     
                  
                
               "Ah, my angel," said he at length, "life is now all bright to me. I have hitherto lived unloving and unloved; but now that the glorious sun of a deep affection has arisen within my heart, its rays are only the more cheering from the clouds that have before obscured it. Ah, Lily, God will bless you for consenting to bestow your heart upon one so lonely as I have been, darling, precious one;" and as he spoke, he smoothed the hair from her brow, and soothed the wild beatings of her heart, as if she were a child. 
               For some time, the two sat in a deep reverie, as if fearful of disturbing the most delightful dream they had ever experienced. 
               Finally, Eustace said, "And Lily, may I hope that you will be mine, through the joys and ills of life; that I may be allowed to comfort your heart when sorrow sweeps over it, if perchance sorrow comes, that I may ever guard, watch over, and protect you, my beloved." 
                
               Lily spoke no word, but Eustace read consent in the bewildered depths of those dark blue eyes. 
               "God grant that I may fulfil my trust," he said fervently. 
               "And you will," said Lily, "you are so good, so noble, and I am only too thankful for your love." 
               "Ah, dearest, I am, in imagination, looking through the magic glass which reveals the workings of time, and I see in our future, an amount of happiness that seldom blesses mortals. Our life shall be one constant gushing forth of love, that shall meet and ascend in a psalm of Thanksgiving to the great Author of all love. Oh, Lily, will this be happiness to you?" 
               "The perfection of happiness, the happiness for which I have prayed, and which now seems a direct gift from God." 
               In the first warm gush of love, no vision of sorrow ever haunts the imagination. The heavens assume a deeper cerulean, the trees are brighter, the birds sing more joyously, and the future seems gilded with golden hopes, and hung with a drapery of roseate hue. 
               The calls of Nature, however, are imperative; and the falling dew, together with the jingle of the tea-bell, warned the lovers to postpone further love-making until a more convenient season. Therefore they hastened to the house, where they found a nice supper awaiting them; for, although they were lovers, and new lovers, still they did not suppose themselves capable of existing upon shadows, and, unromantic as it may seem, they ate their suppers like other sensible people. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           We look before and after, 
                           And pine for what is not; 
                           Our sincerest laughter, 
                           With some pain is fraught. 
                        
                      
                     SHELLY. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Thine is a grief that wastes the heart, 
                           Like mildew on a tulip's dies- 
                           When hope deferr'd but to depart, 
                           Loses its smiles, but keeps its sighs. 
                        
                      
                     MISS LANDON. 
                   
                
               SOON after tea, Mr. Eustace took his departure, and Lily, retiring to her room, informed Herbert of her new and beautiful existence. 
               "Oh, Herbert, how can I describe to you this new and delightful sensation of love that has taken possession of my hitherto untenanted heart. It seems like the glorious bursting forth of the joyous spring-time; aye, more, like the clear sunshine of life without-its clouds, like smiles without tears, the crowding of years of ecstatic bliss into the space of a moment; it is but the earnest of a perpetual song, that shall give me strength and heart to live on. Oh, Herbert I am lost in oceans of bliss; words fail to express this love which entrances me; and you, my dear Herbert, will be so anxious to know the object of my affections. One of the noblest of God's creatures, whose whole heart is fully occupied in doing good to his fellow-men, and in bringing out those first great principles, that shall make life so desirable here and hereafter. Rejoice with me, will you not, dear Herbert, in this new light of my being?" 
               Let us leave Lily for a few moments, and mark the effect the contents of this epistle had upon Herbert. 
               "Rejoice with her," he cried bitterly, crushing the letter in his hand. "Oh, my God, is this, then, the consummation of all my dreams of love? Cruel Lily, to taunt me thus, by her new-found happiness. I loved her! Yes, I loved her; loved her, did I say? I love her now, wildly, madly, Father in Heaven, how truly, and she loves another. Oh, cruel fate, that rudely severs me from my heart companion. Did she not know I loved her? Has she not often given me assurances of her entire devotion to me? Oh, the fickleness and faithlessness of woman's love." 
               The proud youth paused; his soul seemed rent in twain, and bowing his head upon his hand, he groaned aloud, in the bitterness of his first heart sorrow. 
               "My poor boy," said his father, entering the room, and perceiving the anguish of his son, "What sorrow so completely overwhelms you?" 
               "Oh, father," sobbed the youth, "all is gone now." 
               "Gone, my boy," repeated Mr. Seymour, startled by the mournfulness in which these words were uttered, "surely, no death has occurred?" 
               "Only death to my hopes; read this;" and he handed his father Lily's recent letter. Mr. Seymour perused its contents in silence; he comprehended all. "Poor boy, poor boy," repeated he, "thus early you are called to suffer disappointment. I would that God had spared you; but, my son," he added, laying his hand upon Herbert's bert's head, "your father can sympathize with you. In my early clays, I loved an angel woman, and by my own course lost her love." A tear stood in Mr. Seymour's eye, as he spoke. The memory of that old love had still the power to move his heart. 
               "Come and sit by me, my son, and I will tell you the substance of my misfortune. Misfortune, I say, for, had I united her destiny with mine, I should have been a different man. 
               Years ago, before I married your mother, while on a visit to Cousin Joseph Arnold's, I saw and loved as pure and gentle a being as ever graced the earth. Her name was Lydia White. She was the daughter of the village pastor, and a perfect pattern of a truly noble woman. My whole being seemed merged in her being; for her I lived, and my love was reciprocated to the fullest extent; our dreams of the future were bright; her father sanctioned our love. In time, I came to the city; I led a dissipated life. Reports of it reached her father's ear, and after satisfying himself as to the truth, he caused the engagement to be broken. With tears in his eyes, he told me he could never consent to my seeing his daughter again, until I had reformed. My pride was wounded. Instead of reforming and rendering myself fit to become the companion of an angel, I went downward, step by step, and thus rendered the barrier more impenetrable. 
               "Finally, after I had sown my wild oats to my heart's content, I turned around, and became quite steady." 
               "And Miss White?" enquired Herbert. 
               "Was lost to me then: I married your mother soon after; and even now I feel that had I been allowed the mild influences of Lydia White, I should have been a good man." 
               "And where is she now, father?" 
               "I do not know, and I must say, do not wish to know. I am now a married man, and any acquaintance would lead to the most unhappy results upon my part, although not to her, for she is governed and guided strictly, by principles as immutable as God himself. 
               Herbert's heart was soothed for the time, by his father's narration of his own griefs, but not healed. For many days he tried hard to sustain himself under this first sorrow of his life; but his sensitive nature had received a severe shock, and ill health soon followed. 
               "My son, would you not like to go to Cuba for the coming winter? You 're wearing out here," said his father to him, one day. "Besides, I've business to be attended to, all along the way, which it will be necessary for some one to transact." 
               Herbert consented to go; he cared not now whither he went, so that he could drown all remembrances of the past; but visions of a little, sunny-haired girl, whom in his younger years he had loved only with a brother's love, but which had ripened into a deeper affection, as time rolled along, ever flitted before him, causing a cloud to be thrown over his once cheerful heart. Thus the tidings that filled the heart of Lily with joy, plunged the soul of Herbert into deepest misery. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XL. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Lulled in the countless chambers of the brain, 
                           Our thoughts are linked by many a hidden chain; 
                           Awake but one, and lo! what myriads rise! 
                           Each stamps its image as the other flies! 
                        
                      
                     ROGERS. 
                   
                
               THE next morning was bright and beautiful, and Eustace, upon his gray pony, betook himself to the house of Mr. Arnold. He rode up the grassy lane leading to the house, and dismounting, tied his pony to a post, and approached Uncle Joseph, who had come up from the field, and was sitting under the shade of a fine maple tree, his large palm-leaf hat in hand, enjoying the cool breezes that floated through the boughs. 
               "How dye do, how dye do, Mr. Eustace," enquired he, rising, and shaking him by the hand. 
               "I'm very well, deacon Arnold; delightful weather we're having." 
               "Yes, so we are; there's going to be a storm, though; such a clear day as we had yesterday, is a sure weather-breeder." 
               "You think so, Mr. Arnold?" 
               "'Tis sartain; sha'nt mor'n git my cut grass in." 
               "You have a large farm, sir." 
               "Yes, pretty large for these parts; falls a leetle short of 600 acres." 
                
               "Is much of it cultivated?" 
               "Let me see; I hain't got much out the way of a hundred acres woodland, a hundred and fifty or sixty meadow land, then my sugar lot, orchards, and I should think I ploughed hard to a hundred acres." 
               "And you call your land good, do you not, sir?" 
               "Some of it's prime; can't find no better land nowhere than my meadow on the Connecticut. There is some of the richest soil that ever was tilled." 
               "Your crops, in a good season, must be enormous, deacon." 
               "Purty fair, purty fair; supposin you jest take a look with me, around, you'll git a better idee." 
               Mr. Arnold led the way, and Mr. Eustace followed, to take a survey of the broad fields and fine orchards of the wealthy farmer. But Lily appeared not to relish the idea of her uncle's appropriating her guest, and she seated herself somewhat moodily in the sitting-room. 
               "What's the matter?" enquired Mrs. Arnold, as she noticed her woebegone countenance. 
               "O nothing, Aunty," replied Lily, almost pettishly. Mrs. Arnold looked with surprise at her, and Lily blushed deeply, while a tear stole to her eye." 
               "You're not sick, are you, my dear?" 
               "No, Aunty, but I'm disappointed because Uncle Joseph has taken away Mr. Eustace, when I have been anticipating such a pleasant conversation with him this morning." 
               "Is, then, Mr. Eustace's society of so much consequence to you, darling?" 
               "Why, I didn't say so," said Lily, quickly, as if to evade a direct reply. "But you know we're invited out to Mr. White's to dinner ner, and I shall have no opportunity of having a nice long talk with him, which I enjoy so much." 
               "And he is particularly interesting in conversation, is he not?" 
               "I think so Aunty, he at least sympathizes very fully in all my peculiar views that other people say are so strange and wrong." 
               "And consequently, my dear child, is strengthening all those principles which must finally be uprooted if you attain to any goodness in the true way." 
               "Oh! Aunty, you and I look at things differently, you accept the Bible as the inspired word of God, as the only way by which man can be saved, and you believe that all those who do not conform to the rules therein laid down are in the broad way to destruction." 
               "Certainly I do, my child." 
               "And I accept a broader and more liberal view, and reject the Bible when it conflicts with natural laws, and believe that every individual should have the power of regulating his own course of action." 
               "Does Mr. Eustace encourage you in these beliefs?" enquired Mrs. Arnold, her face wearing a most saddened expression. 
               "Certainly," replied Lily in a very calm manner. "He believes as I do, only he has progressed much farther than I." 
               "Oh Lily, Lily, had I known this, I should not have rested securely, my dear child; how I tremble for your future happiness. How frail and weak are you in your own strength, and still you rely upon yourself and Mr. Eustace, who is far more dangerous than yourself if he accepts these principles." 
               "But you do not know him intimately yourself, or you would see how good and noble he is, how willing to sacrifice himself to the advancement of what he believes to be truth." 
               "I do not doubt you my child, still if he is in error, the wrong is as dangerous as if he erred willingly and knowingly." 
                
               "Oh Aunty, you pain me much more than you are aware of. Aside from any personal feeling that I may have, I would not that he should be persecuted for truth's sake." 
               "Ah Lily, I fear your heart is interested in this man, if so, depend upon it you are not capable of judging what is for your best good. Say, my child, will you not confide all to your Aunty?" And as Mrs. Arnold spoke, she seated herself by Lily's side, and taking one of her hands within her own, she tenderly and affectionately smoothed her hair. Lily hesitated; she felt that this beautiful love of her soul was all too sacred to be breathed to any one but Herbert. 
               "My child," continued Mrs. Arnold, as she noticed her hesitancy, "Why fear to tell me? do I not deserve your confidence, believe me, it is no idle curiosity that prompts me to make these enquiries, but a prudent lookout for your good, will you not tell me then if you love this man?" 
               "I do love him Aunty," replied Lily, confusedly. 
               "And I feared as much." 
               "Why do you speak so?" said Lily. 
               "I can only say you are hazarding your own happiness in allowing yourself to love one you are so little acquainted with." 
               "Allowing myself to love him," repeated Lily, "Surely, this love was sent into my heart by God, it was not of my seeking, neither could I prevent it. I found a person possessed of a high, noble nature, I found in him sentiments corresponding to my own, we could sympathize upon many points which the world at large could not, or at least chose not to understand; by these means we became in a great measure assimilated, our separate beings were merged into one, and not only our intellects, but our hearts became united." 
               "And he loves you as deeply as you love him?" enquired Mrs. Arnold. 
                
               "Far better Aunty," replied Lily, "better than I ever dreamed any one could love me." 
               "I will hope all things, my child." 
               "And why do you look always on the dark side, Aunt Ellen? Why not believe that true love, such as ours, will be blessed." 
               "You are young, my dear, and have never seen your bright hopes dashed to the ground, when everything seemed to promise happiness. The sunny side of life has been yours, but if ever you live to experience one crushing sorrow, your views of life will be colored darkly as if in mourning for the past." 
               "Lily looked with compassion upon Mrs. Arnold. Her heart told her that she, at some time in her life, had experienced this deep sorrow, but of the circumstances she was ignorant. She thought too of her own griefs. "Is it not enough to have lost a mother's care and love, to have lost dear 'Jemmie?" she enquired of herself, and following up this train of thought, her whole frame seemed convulsed as visions of the death of a dreadful wicked man, whom she had been taught to call father, flitted through her mind. To be sure this was long ago, when she was a child, but from that time to the present she had never thought of it without chilling, and at times it seemed to her as if her heart would break when she thought of the mystery which hung over her former life. At times, when conflicting doubts and fears almost crazed her, she pressed her hand passionately to her forehead, as if to clear up the dreadful mystery, but never one word was she known to speak upon the subject. There was a native pride which withheld her from acknowledging that she was not as people supposed, the child of Mr. Seymour, for she could not endure the mortification of feeling that the world knew not to whom she belonged. 
               Many of these thoughts passed through the mind of Lily at the present moment, and leaning her head upon her hand she wept bitterly. 
                
               "Poor child," said Mrs. Arnold, soothingly, "Forgive me; surely I did not intend to cause you all of this pain." 
               "You were not the cause of it, Aunty," sobbed Lily, "Oh dear, dear," and the child, who was but a child in sorrow, wrung her hands in agony. 
               "Dear child," continued her Aunt, "There, there, don't cry so passionately, you'll make yourself sick, darling." 
               "Oh dear, dear," was all the reply she could make, and Mrs. Arnold seemea frightened at the wildness of her grief. These paroxysms either of joy or grief had always been natural to her, and were never alleviated by sympathy until her heart was fully relieved. 
               But Mrs. Arnold fancied she could soothe the deep throbbings of her poor heart, therefore she continued sympathizing words. 
               "There, I wouldn't cry any more, Uncle Joseph and Mr. Eustace will be coming in soon, and you wouldn't like them to see you in tears." 
               "I can't help it," again sobbed the child. 
               "But let us reason, deary. You've everything heart could wish, father and mother, and a great many dear friends who love you, and will do everything they can for you, ought you not to be very thankful?" 
               "Father and mother, did you say?" almost shrieked Lily; then, as if suddenly calmed, she said most mournfully: 
               "Yes, yes, I've good, kind friends, but, oh! my father and mother, where are they?" 
               "Poor little dear," said Mrs. Arnold, the tears starting to her eyes, for by this time she was thoroughly frightened. 
               "Lie down on the lounge, and I'll run about my work and you'll get over this soon." 
               In a short time Mrs. Arnold returned, to find Lily very calm, but very sad. Mr. Arnold soon entered the room followed by Mr. Eustace. Seating themselves, Mr. Arnold took off his coarse straw hat, and with his handkerchief, wiped the perspiration from his forehead, at the same time saying: 
               "What do you say to going with us to Pastor White's and taking dinner, Mr. Eustace; we're all invited, as it's Miss Liddy's birthday, and her father means to have a leetle celebration of it." 
               "I should be most happy to do so, Mr. Arnold, unless I shall trespass too much upon his hospitality." 
               "Don't be afraid of that, sir, if ever people are heartily glad to see any one, it is the pastor's folks. I should like to have you become acquainted with Mr. White, he's one of the salt of the earth, Mr. Eustace, one of those few that God would save the world for, if it was like Sodom and Gomorrah." 
               "He's an orthodox minister, is he not?" enquired Mr. Eustace. 
               "If orthodox means full of sound faith and doctrine, why then, Mr. White's as good an orthodox as I know of. One thing's sartain, he's a christian, full of kindness and charity for all of God's creeters." 
               "I should like to make his acquaintance," continued Mr. Eustace, glancing significantly towards Lily. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Innocent maid, and snow-white flower, 
                           Well are ye pair'd in your opening hour; 
                           Thus should the pure and lovely meet, 
                           Stainless with stainless, and sweet with sweet; 
                           Throw it aside in thy weary hour, 
                           Throw to the ground thy fair, white flower; 
                           Yet as thy smiling years depart, 
                           Keep that white and innocent heart. 
                        
                      
                     W. C. BRYANT. 
                   
                
               MR. ARNOLD at this moment left the room to give some directions to Jim, and Mrs. Arnold followed him, whether to engage in her household duties, or for the purpose of leaving the lovers to themselves, I cannot tell. Be that as it may, both Mr. Eustace and Lily appeared greatly relieved at the departure of this worthy couple. 
               "Dear Lily," said Eustace, seating himself near the young girl, "why do you look so sad? Have you repented of the love you have given me?" 
               "Oh, no," replied the young girl, earnestly. "This love is the light of my being and will soon dispel any little clouds that may arise within my heart." 
               Eustace, for a moment, turned aside as if his heart were too full for utterance 
                
               "Why do you turn from me?" enquired Lily, placing her hand gently upon his arm. 
               "Lest I should become dazzled by the radiance of your countenance," he replied, recovering himself. 
               Lily blushed, and archly replied, "But that radiance was never discovered before; it must be borrowed." 
               "It is the love of the soul beaming through the eyes, that gives an expression at once beautiful and holy. But you hav'nt yet told me why you were sad. Will you not give me your confidence?" 
               Lily fixed her large blue eyes wonderingly upon him, as if she would search him through, and satisfied by the returned look, she seated herself upon an ottoman by his side. 
               Her beautiful eyes were upturned to meet the gaze of and she looked as innocently pure and fair, as if a bright-winged angel had borne her from some happier clime, and in parting, cast upon her head a reflection from his golden wings, which ever remained as a "forget-me-not," forming the sunny hue of her clustering curls. 
               In a few words she told him the mysterious history of her life, that she was but the adopted child of Mr. Seymour, although Mr. and Mrs. Arnold supposed her to be in reality his child." 
               "And are not Mr. and Mrs. Arnold relatives of yours, Lily?" enquired Mr. Eustace. 
               "They are cousins of Papa Seymour's, but not related to me." 
               "Yet you call them Uncle and Aunt, do you not?" 
               "Yes, they are so good and kind to me, and I love to imagine I have some relatives in the world." 
               If Mr. Eustace was distressed by the story Lily had narrated him, he at least though it best not to pain her with a knowledge of his own feelings, and he sought only to dissipate her sadness by words of the deepest devotion and love. 
               Soon, unfortunately or otherwise, Mrs. Arnold entered. "Lily, my dear," said she, "it is nearly time for us to go to Mr. White's, is it not?" 
               "Oh, yes, Aunty," replied Lily, rising, "I'd almost forgotten it, and I'm not prepared yet. "And the now happy girl left the room. 
               Mr. Arnold and his wife, Mr. Eustace and Lily were soon upon their way to Pastor White's, which was nearly a quarter of a mile from the Deacon's house. The road lead through a delightful pathway, shaded by tall rows of sturdy maples, upon whose boughs many a robin red-breast had built her nest, and which now seemed literally alive with the chirpings and singing of the little ones. 
               The party soon reached the Pastor's and were ushered into a neat sitting-room, where Miss Lydia awaited them. 
               "I reckon I did'nt step fur out of the way, Miss Liddy, when I invited our friend, Mr. Eustace, to come with us," remarked Mr. Arnold, bluntly, after introducing the two parties. 
               "That was just right, Deacon; I'm very glad to see him, and my father will be delighted," replied Lydia, with a grace calculated to set them all at ease. Then turning to Mr. Eustace, she said, with a smile, "You must have discovered before this time, Sir, that country people are no sticklers for the nice points of etiquette." 
               "And I find, consequently, that a country life is true and beautitiful, inasmuch as it is so free from artificial surroundings," returned Mr. Eustace, with a smile. 
               Lily watched the effect that smile should have upon Miss Lydia, but, to her astonishment, it passed unobserved. 
               Miss Lydia had passed that peculiar age that brands all of its victims old maids; but if real, true old maids must have wrinkled faces and withered hearts, she would never come under that head, for her heart was as warm, fresh and loving as when she was a maiden of sweet sixteen. 
               It would not be charitable to judge the entire class of good maiden ladies by one specimen I have given you, viz.: Sally Dobson. She, poor creature, never had anything to prevent her soul from withering. 
               In early life, no pretty gray kitten was ever known to rub its sleek sides against her dress, as if seeking an affectionate return, and if by chance one ventured near her, a warning "scat" was its sure welcome. In later life, the same motive that governed the kitten entered the hearts of many a village swain, who was meditating an attack upon some fair damsel, hut an instinctive dread prevented their venturing within gunshot of Sally. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Sure this gay, fresh suit, as seems to me, 
                           Hangs like green ivy on a rotten tree. 
                        
                      
                     DANIEL'S HYMEN'S TRIUMPH. 
                   
                
               WE left our little party making their entree into Mr. White's parlor. No sooner were they comfortably seated, than in walked Aunt Hitty Dodge, dressed very elaborately, to her own mind, but in such a manner as to excite a universal smile. An old-fashioned buff muslin, whose scanty skirt had never been supplied with an overabundance of starch, clung closely to her lank person. Therefore with a scanty dress, and flimsy withal, she had the appearance of being long drawn out. Three capes, one above the other, each bordered with a deep ruffle of the same material with heir dress, covered her shoulders, while a large dimity collar, with a muslin border completed her neck attire. Upon her head rested a jaunty little cap profusely trimmed with pink ribbon, a present from "Zekiel" and consequently her crowning glory. 
               She advanced slowly into the room, as if leisurely to view the occupants, then courtesying to Mrs. Arnold and Lily, she squeaked forth: 
               "How d'ye do, dear Miss Arnold, you've really had an invite to Mr. White's, hai'nt you." 
                
               Mrs. Arnold replied in the affirmative, and Aunt Hitty proceeded: 
               "And there is that dear child, Lily. La sakes, how 'mazin pretty she looks in that white goun of hern, made baby waist. I'm very fond of dress, I am," and she glanced complacently at her own muslin. 
               "Seems to me you've got company with you Lily," she half enquired, pointing towards Mr. Eustace. 
               "Ah, yes, Aunt Hitty," replied Lily, "Allow me to introduce you to Mrs. Dodge, Mr. Eustace." 
               "Oh, Mr. Eustace is it?" said Aunt Hitty, as she rose and offered her hand to the gentleman. 
               "I'm glad to see you, Mr. Eustace, your sojournin' 'mong us for a little while p'raps?" 
               "Yes madam," he replied, "I have been spending the Summer in the country, and find this place in particular very delightful." 
               "P'raps you mout be a brother of Lily?" 
               "Oh, no, not so near as that," replied Mr. Eustace, evidently with the intention of misleading the old lady. 
               "A cousin, or an uncle then?" 
               "I am no relative." 
               "You mout be a lover then, p'raps." 
               Poor Lily blushed deeply, while Mr. Eustace and Mrs. Arnold laughed heartily at Aunt Hitty's inquisitiveness. 
               "Well, well," continued she, "Taint no manner of use to hide sich things, gals in my day war'nt so bashful, every gal's got to have her beau sooner or later, it was later though when I had mine, for Kiah Dodge wa'nt caught by any manuvering." Here Aunt Hitty would have discussed with the greatest volubility for an hour upon her deceased husband's manner of courting, had not Lily, in order to turn the conversation, remarked: 
                
               "But Aunt Hitty, you do'nt know Mr. Eustace comes from Boston?" 
               "From Bosting, did you say?" cried the lady, starting from her chair, then settling herself again, she continued, "La, well, I mout have known he come from the city by the cut of his pantaloons they're tight as his skin, jest like my Zekiel's." 
               A low laugh followed this announcement, but Aunt Hitty had only commenced her remarks. Seating herself by the side of Mr. Eustace, she commenced her volley: 
               "If you comes from Bosting, p'raps you mout tell me something 'bout my Zekiel?" 
               "I don't think I'm honored with his acquaintance, Mrs. Dodge," replied Mr. Eustace." 
               "What, come from Bosting and not know my Zekiel?" enquired Aunt Hitty, with surprise. 
               "Reckon you don't live in the heart of the City, then?" 
               "I am usually in the very centre," replied Eustace. 
               Wal, you must a seen him then without knowing it, most every one notices him though; he 's a fine, modern looking fellow, wears large plaid pantaloons, tight, jest like them o' yourn, one of the handsomest vests ever you seed; with great gilt buttons on it een-a-most as big as a tea plate; p'raps you don't like them kind of buttons?" said she, glancing at Mr. Eustace's vest, and noticing that the buttons were small. 
               "It's only very modern people that gets them, so Zeke says, but he's one of them people that will cut a dash, and I like tew see it if I am old, ain't so very old neether, when I gets dressed up I'm 'bout as young looking as other folks," by other folks she evidently meant Mrs. Arnold. 
               "There 's one thing though 'bout my son I never liked, he will wear a mouse-touch over his lip, I tell him I shouldn't think he could eat very well, la sakes, I don't know but he'd go without eatin' for the sake of fashion. He allers says: 
               "Why mother, all the boys wear such things." 
               "And I tell him, if he wants to make a monkey of hisself I hav'nt nothing agin it." 
               "Here the old lady paused to gain her breath and take a pinch of snuff, while Mr. Eustace, flattering himself that she had concluded her attack upon him, commenced conversation with Miss Lydia who had been engaged with Mrs. Arnold, while Lily remained casting sly glances at Mr. Eustace, who was being victimized by Aunt Hitty. But Mrs. Dodge was n't going to let him off so, and gently pulling him by the coat sleeve, she enquired: 
               "You've been to the Bosting Musum, I suppose?" 
               "Yes, madam, I have," replied Eustace, half provoked at being disturbed. 
               "It's beautiful ain't it?" she enquired. 
               "To want do you refer, madam?" 
               "Why Bosting Musum; it's a pretty sight, ain't it, all those curiosities. 
               "Then you were not there during a play?" enquired Eustace, urged on by a sly look from Lily. 
               "Wasn't there, I guess I was there. My Zekiel took his gal, and she was dressed up, I can tell you, with a red and yaller goun, the skirt was all covered with furbelous, and then her bonnet, la sakes, it was kivered with black, blue, green, red and yaller folwers, I felt pretty grand settin' side of her, I can tell you. Then a lot of strange people came out on a place that Zeke said was a stage, but it didn't look a bit like our old-fashioned country stages, that used to run to Jackson. Wall, as I was going to tell you, those people came out and they danced and sung, suds alive, ef ever I heerd sich music afore, it tied all my brains up in a knot, I thought every minute the gal 'd bust her windpipe, I caught hold of Zeke's arm, and siz I, Zeke, tell her to hold on, she can't git down from that great high place she's got up to, but la, she slid right down and come out of it slick as a whistle." 
               "Did she appear well after she had concluded her song?" enquired Lily, in order to keep the old lady upon the right track. 
               "Yes, nimble as a cricket, she made two or three courtesys, and went off. But this wa'nt a beginnin of what I seed there. Purty soon a great curtain came up and two women and a man were settin in the pootiest room ever you sot eyes on, and they begun to talk this thing and that, but for the life of me I could'nt hear a word they said; then some more come on the stage, and they'd laugh so hard that I laughed too; and then they'd cry and one gal pulled her hair, till I thought my soul it must be e'en a'most all pulled out; then the women'd run and put their hands on the men's shoulders and look so putty at em; then they'd cry agin and jump around, and then one of them fainted clear away. I was skeart and I jest sez to Zeke, 'Some one ought to separate them folks,' and sez he, 'Mother, do'nt make a fool of yourself; they're only actors and actresses playin.' 
               "Wall, I sat down agin, and sez I, 'I should think they were actors and actresses; they're the actingest people that ever I sot eyes on.' Bimeby they at it agin, and everybody leaned forward to look and the women cried, and some of the men cried tew, and one of the actors or actresses screamed out, 'I don't love him and I won't marry him,' and then I see the gist of it; they was forcin a gal to marry a man she did'nt want tew, and I caught hold of Zeke, and sez I, 'Do you go and get that gal out o'that man's clutches,' and my head began to swim and I thought they were all turned crazy; when all to onc't Zeke jest put tew fingers in his mouth and gave the loudest whistle that ever you heerd; and sez I agin, 'Zeke, are you crazy tew?' I felt afeared that in such a bedlam he must be a little turned, you know, and he jest sez to me: 
               "'Mother, all the boys do so at the theatre.' 
               "And I knew then he was right, but I tell you it was dreadful to go to the Musum after all." 
               Utter exhaustion upon the part of Aunt Hitty and her hearers followed this outburst, and a calm pervaded the whole circle. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again; 
                           The eternal years of God are hers; 
                           While Error, wounded, writhes in pain, 
                           And dies amidst her worshippers. 
                        
                      
                     W. C. BRYANT. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        It is not thou that art to give laws to the world: thy part is to submit to them as thou findest them; if they distress thee, thy lamenting is but adding to thy torment.
                      
                     ECONOMY OF LIFE. (A. D. 1800.) 
                   
                
               THE entrance of Mr. White and Mr. Arnold somewhat changed the tone of conversation. And Mr. White, seating himself by Mr. Eustace, with graceful ease, commenced a conversation as follows: 
               "Mrs. Arnold tells me you have been spending some time here, though I do not recollect meeting you before." 
               "I have been staying chiefly in Jackson, Mr. White, but an accidental acquaintance with the family of Mr. Arnold, has brought me frequently to this lovely village." 
               "And you find, I think, this place, particularly at this season of the year, a pleasant exchange for Boston?" 
               "Ah, yes Sir; yes Sir; I find I have entertained a mistaken idea of Vermont, never having ventured to spend any time within its borders before." 
                
               "I flatter myself that our State is one of the finest," replied Mr. White. "Surely, in beauty and variety of natural scenery, we have no rival, hardly an equal." 
               "One thing I always observe in the few Vermonters with whom I am thrown in contact, an unusual amount of pride for their State. I like it, Mr. White, the people of your State have true hearts and stout muscles. I account for it partly from the fact that they are not bound down by the shackles of worldliness in so great degree as in many sister States, That is, they live free and easy, natural lives. Is it not so?" 
               "Undoubtedly, Mr. Eustace, most of the people of our State are plain, honest people, although you will find some places even around us where the etiquette of fashionable life is duly observed. At this day, while so many opportunities of free communication exist throughout the world, no town can be exempt. A little of this life is good for us, Mr. Eustace, do you not think so?" 
               "I dare hardly reply, Mr. White," said Eustace, hesitatingly; "Though were I to express my true feelings, I should say the more natural or pastoral our lives, the more beautiful, the more God-like; in other words, true to Nature, true to God, contains nearly the whole of my belief." 
               "A creed which I must take the liberty to combat, Mr. Eustace, as not only being erroneous in itself, but if carried out practically, resulting in the most abject misery to man, if not here, at least hereafter." 
               "You, Sir, must occupy an entirely different stand-point from myself, as I understand you are an Orthodox clergyman," replied Mr. Eustace. 
               "And you, Sir?" enquired Mr. White. 
               "It will be difficult for me to reply, Mr. White. My creed, if I have ever accepted one, is not fully enough defined to allow me to reply to your enquiry. I have launched my bark upon the wide sea of speculation. I seek truth. Here and there I find stray flowers floating upon its bosom, like water-lilies upon the surface of the natural sea. These I pluck and draw into my boat, reaching ever after more. When I shall have gathered in the full treasures of God's truth, I may be better capable of stating definitely my creed, unless I progress so rapidly as never to be fully decided myself." 
               "You say, Sir, you have launched your bark upon this sea. Remember, it is broad and dangerous; many a strong ship has foundered upon the shoals everywhere present. Surely, my friend, you have not been unwise enough to set sail without a compass, chart, and rudder?" 
               "No, Sir," replied Eustace. "I have within me, burning dimly, perhaps, a little lamp, given and supplied daily by God. If I follow the light of this lamp, I shall eventually find myself basking in the full and glorious sunshine of perfect Truth." 
               "This lamp of which you speak, is the light of reason, I fancy?" 
               "Certainly, Sir. What beside, was ever given to man, save this and the light revealed by Nature?" 
               "To my mind, Mr. Eustace, the only true light is the Bible, that Word which proceeded directly from the mouth of Him who created the world. This is given to man by inspiration; in it is contained the only way to direct us how to live and how to die." 
               "You believe, Sir, that God is a God of mercy and love, who looks down lovingly arid pityingly upon the creatures he has created?" 
               "Certainly, Mr. Eustace, a God of mercy, love, justice and truth, whose heart sympathizes with all of His created beings." 
               "How, then, can you believe in that Bible, which not only allows but justifies all crimes upon earth, which teaches that God first caused sin to enter the world, then sent his Son to die, by whose death a few are to be pardoned, and the rest to be lost eternally." 
               Mr. White hesitated a moment as if pained, but continued: 
               "Is, then, the creature greater than the Creator? If God has for his own good pleasure created a plan so vast and limitless in its extent, that your finite mind, which is but an infinitesimal speck of the great mind which spake and it was done; if, I say, your mind cannot grasp this immense plan, have you the right, aye, more, is it not the grossest blasphemy for you to rise and dispute this plan?" 
               "I fear you do not understand me aright, Mr. White; I do not dispute or argue against the Divine plan; I only urge that this plan is not contained in the Bible, but in the whole universe, with its thousands of laws, by which all things are governed in such perfect harmony. It would be impossible for me to believe in the never-ending torments of a hell, created by God, in which to chain his creatures, the work of his own hands. Or, if I do believe, God would to my mind be divested of all those attributes which render him so high above every created thing." 
               "If God had ordained that a hell should be created, and if in that hell I was enchained for countless ages, if the agonies of Prometheus and the torments of Tantalus were but one drop in the great ocean of anguish which should overwhelm my soul, still God would be just, and every man a liar." 
               "Surely, this is not a very consoling thought, Mr. White," replied Eustace. 
               Mr. White appeared to take no notice of the remark, but continued: 
               "If you would judge of the principles of the Bible, practically, look around you upon this great American nation, a land of peace, prosperity and happiness. All of her laws are founded upon principles ciples supported in the Gospel. Contrast her position with that of pagan or heathen nations, who have had only this inner light of which you have spoken, to guide them, and see how immeasurably we are in advance of them. The happy contrast to the above nations, presented to our enlightened view by our own favored country, where the genial light of the Gospel shines full in the paths of children, youth and mature age, enlightening the eyes, purifying the heart, and lifting the hopes and affections of the soul to a higher life, dwelling in and emenating from the infinite source of all knowledge, wisdom, power, justice, goodness and truth. The great I AM, whose all surrounding presence, and our true knowledge of it, quickens us, teaching us to call no man Master, that all, all are equal before God, to whom alone we owe obedience, and to those human laws and customs which they, thus enlightened, participate equally in the making of. 
               Here we find the field, climate and atmosphere, where the seeds of human freedom are sown, vivified and tempered by the light and sunshine of the Gospel of the Son of God, and watered by the dews of heavenly grace. Here true civil liberty and liberty of conscience take vigorous root, spring up and flourish together in peace and harmony. Here the tree of Liberty, planted in congenial soil, shall flourish on and extend its welcome branches over all lands, provided the same intelligent, vigorous spirit, integrity and piety which first planted it, be and abide in the great body of the people. I have spoken my views more fully than I intended, Mr. Eustace. You'll pardon me for obliging you to listen to them, and still, I anticipate they will do you no harm." 
               "No apology is necessary, Sir; I am a learner, and wish to consider all sides impartially." If I understood you aright, you said this land was a land of equal rights and liberties." 
               "So I said," replied Mr. White. 
                
               "And also, that all participate in the making of the laws of our land." 
               "Yes." 
               "You must, then, have forgotten the thousands of poor slaves who are chained down to a life of the deepest degradation, in this so-called land of Freedom. What are their rights, pray? The right of seeing their offspring, dear to them as the apple of their eye, torn from their bosoms; the right of leading lives so miserably cruel that the hearts of cold, stern men bleed for them? This is a glorious land of liberty, indeed. There is, however, no necessity for going among the slaves. Look in our very midst. Here is a poor frail woman, united, tied legally to a man whose tastes and manners are as uncongenial to her, as the climate around the North Pole would be to a son of the tropics; nay, more than this; her life may be one of legalized slavery, to say the least, from which there is no reprieve. Ought not the laws of her country to be such that she might escape from a bondage worse than death?" 
               "Just let me ask of you, Mr. Eustace, how came she united to this man? Had the laws of the State any part in this? Was she not allowed full choice of her affections?" 
               "That may be true; no law supervised the disposal of her affections. It may be a youthful fancy, or her parents for certain reasons may urge her into a marriage which eventually proves unhappy for both; but for either of these reasons ought she to suffer a life of misery?" 
               "Mr. Eustace, she is but suffering the natural consequences of an imprudent act upon her part, or through the short-sightedness of her parents; are the laws of her country amenable for this?" 
               "The laws of her country should in such a case provide for her protection," replied Eustace. 
                
               "In no other country are women so truly protected as in our own; a great deal more can and is being done for her comfort and happiness. But in the case you mentioned, as the first cause of trouble originated with the woman or her friends, therefore, she alone is in fault, and not the laws of her country, or the precepts of the Bible. In regard to southern slavery, of which you have spoken, I can only say that it is a deadly evil, and one I much deplore; but when the teachings of our Divine Master shall have fully entered the hearts of men, then will these bands be broken, and the oppressed go free. 
               "Do the extremes which many have recently taken effect anything but disaffection, and an attempt to dissolve the glorious Union, every inch of whose ground should be sacred in the sight of her children. Let mild and gentle influences be used, and not the fierce, angry discussions which justly excite our southern brethren, and steel their hearts against us. We should beware of one thing. Before we attempt to put aside the laws of our country, let us be fully satisfied that we can rear others in their place equally as good. I recollect a remark made to me by one of the most ultra radical reformers of the day. 'Mr. White,' said he, 'it is easy to throw aside the old Bible philosophy, but more difficult to raise a new theory that shall work as well.' I replied I thought very probable." 
               "Then, Mr. White, the laws of our country are in every respect as they should be, you say." 
               "I think you misunderstood me, my friend. I did not say there was no room for improvement; but I could not see at present when they could be bettered. As we become more and more cultivated, improvements may be made; but we should beware embracing new laws, unless we are certain of their effect; experiments are hazardous." 
               The conversation might have continued much longer had not dinner been announced, and which ended the conversation. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           We must part awhile; 
                           A few short months, though short, they must be long 
                           Without thy dear society; but yet 
                           We must endure it, and our love will be 
                           The fonder after parting; it will grow 
                           Intenser in our absence, and again 
                           Burn with a tender glow when I return. 
                        
                      
                     PERCIVAL. 
                   
                
               "YOU think the laws are jest right, don't you, Mr. White?" enquired Aunt Hitty, as they were seated around the table. The company looked up in astonishment. Surely, thought Miss Lydia, Aunt Hitty never was known to enter into any learned discussion. 
               "Why yes, Aunt Hitty," replied Mr. White, smiling. 
               "Wal then, I don't; if they had a ben, Kiah Blood never'd got into the Correcting House." 
               "Ah," said Mr. White, "What charge did they bring against him?" 
               "They said he'd been stealin; but I told Zeke it was the most onchristian thing I ever heerd on. He steal! he'd sooner lost his hand. You know he's a friend of Zeke's; came here last summer, at my house." 
               "I recollect him; he was a professor of religion, wasn't he?" 
                
               "I guess he was, and a possessor tew; sich prayers as he prayed, his heart was all with Zion. He used to go on benders with my Zeke, and them's religious meetins, so Zeke said. I know onct he borrowed some muney to put in the contributing-box." 
               Mr. White thought it best, however, not to initiate the innocent old creature into the mysteries of the case. The day passed away pleasantly with all parties, and Mt. White, at parting with Mr. Eustace, pressed him long and tenderly by the hand, tears filling his eyes, as he said, solemnly: 
               "My son, hearken unto the words of my mouth. Be not deceived. God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." 
               Good Mr. Arnold brushed his hard hand hastily across his eyes, as he heard the faithful pastor's warning, and even Lily, disbeliever as she professed to be, could not but admire the fatherly kindness of the dear old man. 
               "Poor child," said Mr. White to Lydia, as the party left them and proceeded upon their way homeward. "The little good that we might do our dear Lily, will be overbalanced by the error this man will teach her. Why is it, that he has been thrown in her pathway?" 
               Then recollecting himself, he added, "But God's ways are not as our ways. Out of this darkness may yet come light. Did you know, Lydia, that Lily is engaged to Mr. Eustace?" 
               "Yes, father, Mrs. Arnold told me so; and I was sadly pained at the views he advanced to-day, and in her presence, too; you know she catches at everything of the kind." 
               "Yes, I noticed her eagerness to-day to hear every word, and for that reason I discoursed at greater length than I should have otherwise deemed advisable. Depend upon it, my daughter, she is already greatly under his influence." 
                
               "We can only hope and pray for the best, papa. Do you think arguing the matter will do good?" 
               "There is no ground for argument, Lydia. Mr. Eustace only pulls down old theories, he doesn't attempt building new; yet he seems so zealous and earnest in his search for truth, that perhaps in time he may be convinced of his error. Did you not observe his deferential respect for all of the opinions I advanced? That speaks well for him; he at least is not a bigot." 
               The love affairs of the two parties progressed for some time, to their entire satisfaction, when one morning Lily received a letter in the early mail, stating that the most urgent business unexpectedly called Mr. Eustace to Boston, for an indefinite time, but that he should hope to see her soon again. 
               Lily perused and re-perused the fond missive, with feelings of mingled joy and pain. Joy, because of the devotion of the letter, every word of which seemed to echo "darling, I love thee," and pained because of the departure. 
               "It would have been so pleasant, if he could only have come over and seen me for a few moments," said Lily, to Mrs. Arnold, folding the letter, and placing it within the envelope. 
               "But you know he was called away unexpectedly, my dear, and that is sufficient reason for his not coming. You must be hopeful." 
               "Yes," replied Lily, 'If it wasn't for hope, the heart would break.'" 
               "Oh, my child, a life-long experience has taught me that," replied Mrs. Arnold, with a sigh. Lily had a heart always alive to the sorrows of others, therefore she did not pursue the conversation farther, for fear of giving her Aunt pain; but rising, she said: 
               "I believe I'll run and see Lydia White for a little while; I hav'nt seen her for a long time." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           A boat at midnight sent alone, 
                           To drift upon the moonless sea, 
                           A lute, whose leading chord is gone, 
                           A wounded bird, that hath but one 
                           Imperfect wing to soar upon, 
                           Are like what I am without thee! 
                        
                      
                     MOORE. 
                   
                
               HASTILY throwing on a little straw hat, she wended her steps towards Mr. White's. She found Lydia, as usual, busily employed but very glad to see her. 
               "How do you do to-day, little one?" said she, affectionately, drawing Lily to her side and kissing her. 
               "Very well, Miss Lydia," replied Lily, "only I'm so lonely." 
               "Lonely, my dear, and such a beautiful day as we're having; the birds singing, the sun shining, everything bright and happy around you. Oh, you should'nt be lonely; it is not a pleasant feeling." 
               "Perhaps you do not know from experience, Miss Lydia, you are always so cheerful," said Lily, with a face so remarkably woebegone that one was led to imagine some dreadful loss had befallen her. 
               A slight shade of sadness flitted over the calm, sweet face of Miss Lydia, as she replied: "Oh, yes, Lily, I have felt lonely in my life; every one must have their lonely moments. But are we not often disturbed by imaginary sorrows?" 
               "Very likely; still, I think my sorrows are far too real to be trifled with," replied Lily, almost vexed by Miss Lydia's calmness. She did not see why she could not be allowed an opportunity of unburdening her soul. 
               "Will you not tell me the cause of your loneliness, my child?" at length enquired Lydia. 
               "In the first place, I hav'nt had a letter from Herbert for a long time, and the last letter papa wrote, he said Herbert, was going to Cuba for the winter." This was said by way of introduction. 
               "And secondly?" cheerfully chimed in Lydia, as she observed Lily hesitate. 
               "Well, secondly," replied Lily, blushing, "I've just received a letter from Mr. Eustace, stating that he has been unexpectedly called to Boston for a short time." 
               "And consequently you cannot see him every day as usual, and you do not feel like reconciling yourself to his absence," added Lydia. 
               "Yes, that is it," continued Lily. "Do you call these imaginary sorrows?" 
               "Yes, and no," replied Lydia, smiling. "I should call not hearing from Herbert the most serious trial. You know, Lily, it is impossible to prevent separations, and we should reason ourselves into thinking it for the best." 
               "And I must think it for the best, then, that Mr. Eustace is not here, and we can have no nice walks, and rides, and talks. I'm sure, I could'nt. A cold person, who is never disturbed, might very easily reason themselves into anything," replied Lily, evidently astonished that Miss Lydia should suppose such a thing possible of her. 
                
               "Well, then, if I cannot lead you by reason, deary, I must endeavor to divert you; and, by the way, did you know I was going to have a lovely girl, about your age, visit me?" 
               "Are you?" enquired Lily, carelessly. 
               "Yes; father is going to meet her at the noon train." 
               "What is her name, and is she pretty, and do you think I shall like her?" said Lily, with a little of her usual eagerness. 
               "Three questions at once! Her name is Alice Harrington, She's as pretty as a pink, and if your heart is not entirely occupied, she will have a corner of it before you are aware," replied Lydia. 
               "Ah! well, then, if she's so pretty you'll care more for her than you do for me," said Lily, despondingly. 
               "Are you sure of it, little lady?" said Lydia, archly. "Do you not suppose my heart is large enough to love two such wee creatures? You must never let that animal described as having green eyes, come near you." 
               "I'm not jealous, dear Miss Lydia, but I wish to be loved a great deal, not half-way." 
               "You may set your heart at ease upon that point, for I love you so very much I cannot endure the thought, that possibly you may be in the way of unhappiness." 
               "Pray what do you mean?" enquired Lily, evidently startled. 
               "And you will promise not to be angry with me when I tell you?" continued Lydia. 
               "I should not be angry with you," replied Lily, "for I know you would not speak of anything unpleasant, if it were not for my good." 
               "To be very frank with you, I think this Mr. Eustace, whose present loss you so much deplore, is a very dangerous companion." 
               "And why do you think so?" calmly enquired Lily. 
                
               "It would be impossible for me to think otherwise, after listening to his conversation with father, yesterday afternoon, and also from much I gathered from Mrs. Arnold." 
               "And I think him one of the noblest men alive," replied Lily, with a show of spirit. 
               "But, my dear, you promised not to be angry with me." 
               "I am not angry, Miss Lydia," said Lily, sadly, "but I am pained that you should misunderstand so worthy a man." 
               "I do not doubt his worthiness, my child, neither do I misjudge him. My opinion is formed from his own words. He may be a very zealous man in the way he supposes right. What, if a man should argue himself into the belief that stealing was not only right, but a duty, would that make stealing a virtue, and if he persisted in his course would not his influence be likely to do harm?" 
               "This is not a parallel case; no person could believe stealing a virtue." 
               "Does not the Bible say, that some, in the hardness of their hearts, are given over to believe a lie?" returned Lydia. 
               "Of one thing, however, I am sure," replied Lily. "Mr. Eustace is not leading me astray, for did I not believe all that he does, so far as I was capable, before I ever saw him?" 
               "You had erroneous views of the Bible, which in time might have been eradicated. Now, however, they are only fostered and kept alive. I lament this sadly, my dear child, for I fear you will suffer many things before you are led to see your error." 
               "And wherein has Mr. Eustace led me along, Miss Lydia?" 
               "You had sown within you, Lily, the elements of all his views, inasmuch as you rejected the Bible, which being done, all evils and wrongs inevitably follow." 
               "But I cannot see, dear Miss Lydia." 
                
               "Oh, my child, do you remember a beautiful sentence we read the other day? "It is not always the dark place that hinders, but sometimes the dim eye!' May this not be the case now?" 
               "Possibly it may, and still will you not have confidence in me and feel that I am striving after truth?" 
               "My child," replied Lydia, solemnly, "your intentions are good, but if you go not forth in the strength of the Lord, what promise have you that the light will shine upon your pathway, ennabling you to distinguish good from evil; and can Mr. Eustace lead you, rejecting, as he does, the source of all good? As well might the blind be leaders of the blind." 
               "But, surely, if Mr. Eustace can do me no good, neither can he do me harm," replied the young girl. 
               "We are not sure of that, my dear. Do you recollect what the author of 'Proverbial Philosophy' writes? 
                      
                        For character groweth day by day, and all things aid it in unfolding; 
                        And the best unto good or evil may be given in the hours of infancy. 
                        Scratch the green rind of the sapling, or wantonly twist it in the soil, 
                        The scarred and crooked oak will tell of thee, for centuries to come. 
                     
                  
                
               Does not this teach us great care in the formation of our characters? The influence of one person may be felt by, us, although we may not be aware of it, throughout eternity. Oh, my child, then beware of an unfit companion." 
               "And would you, that I should give up a love dearer to my soul than my own being?" 
               "I did not say that, Lily, and yet no earthly love should ever be allowed to interfere with your love for your Saviour." 
               "Miss Lydia, I cannot say to myself, 'Lily, you are wrong in loving Mr. Eustace, and must cease doing so,' even though I felt it wrong, my heart must love on. I will not talk thus gloomily," continued Lily, "but cherish this bright, beautiful, pure love, trusting that God will bless it." 
               There was no use in conversing upon the subject with Lily. "The course of love never did," and probably never will, "run smooth." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           The hours are viewless angels, 
                           That still go gliding by, 
                           And bear each minute's record up 
                           To Him who sits on high. 
                        
                      
                     C. P. CRANCH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh, never chide the wing of time, 
                           Or say 'tis tardy in its flight: 
                           You'll find the days speed quick enough, 
                           If you but husband them aright. 
                        
                      
                     MISS COOK. 
                   
                
               WEEKS flew on apace, and the Autumn was fast waning away. Already were the buds and tender leaves of the flowers writhing beneath the bitter night-frosts. The little brooks still coursed along through meadows, over their rocky beds, but the motion was sluggish, and their waters appeared as though chilled by the autumnal blasts. The merry, rippling songs of Summer had departed, and a low, hollow, gurgling sound was the only music that greeted the ear. The life blood circulated slowly in the veins of the noble monarchs of the forests, whose branches had been robbed of their foliage by the "gusty thieves." But the leaves, although withered, still remained nestling around the trunks of the old oaks, and at the sighing of every breeze, a mournfully, rustling music arose, as withered hopes nestling closely to the heart, ever send forth sweet, sad strains when moved by the gentle breezes of memory. 
               The grass upon the road-sides was sere and yellow. Here and there a purple aster, that had not fallen a victim to the frost, meekly raised its mild eye, but it looked lonely and desolate, as if with the departing season, the summer's hopes were fast passing away. Tall bunches of the golden rod still nodded gracefully by the way-sides, but the light of their countenances was slowly, though surely fading. The grains were garnered, the sheep and lambs which had been left roaming wild and free upon the hill-sides during the summer months, were gathered by the good and careful shepherd into the fold in anticipation of a long and dreary winter. The stars, those "forget-me-nots of the angels," had become more brilliant and beautiful, and the merry sounds of festivities, common to a country life, had begun. 
               During all this time, Lily had not seen her departed lover, yet her heart was made glad by a frequent and voluminous correspondence. She had not learned to reconcile herself to his long absence, yet she had so far recovered from the entire abandonment of her first morbid sorrow, as to be willing to extract whatever happiness she could from the hours as they swiftly passed. She loved the country and country sports, and even the awkwardness of the youths, who seemed to have exercised only their nomadic propensities, and were blessed with a painful consciousness of the possession of hands and feet, contributed not a little to her amusement and pleasure. 
               Quiltings and sewing societies, huskings and cider parties, rapidly succeeded each other, until one day, Uncle Joseph came blustering into the house, declaring that he was going to stir them and have an apple-paring. Mrs. Arnold quietly smiled, while Lily clapped her hands in ecstasies, exclaiming: 
                
               "Oh, dear Uncle Joseph, do have an apple-paring, and we will have such nice times, and invite every one." 
               "Invite every one, Lily; bless your little heart, the house would have to be spliced, at that rate." 
               "But will they have to pare apples all of the evening?" enquired Lily. 
               "No, no, child; we'll have as much fun as you like; play button, go to Rome, and anything else. By Jemmy, we'll have some fun. I'll manage it so that Sally Dobson shall fell to my lot, if we have any forfeits to pay." 
               "Oh, Uncle Joseph," suddenly exclaimed Lily, as if a sudden thought had seized her, "may we decorate the rooms with evergreen, and have a little dance at the close?" 
               "A little dance, child; where'll you get your music?" 
               "Why, hav'nt you a fiddler in town?" 
               "We have Mr Abbott, who plays the bass viol at church, that's all." 
               "And that would never answer," replied Lily. 
               "Although I presume most of the people in town are so religious that they would think it no sin to dance by church music, while if there should be a fiddle, all the town would be in an uproar." 
               "I think it hardly advisable to have dancing, Lily dear," quietly remarked Mrs. Arnold; "not that I think there would be any harm in your dancing a little while for amusement, but a great many who would be likely to come, might very seriously object, and as we are entertainers, we should do nothing to offend our guests." 
               Lily glanced disappointedly upon the floor. 
               "Don't look so sober, Lily," said Uncle Joseph; "perhaps we can manage it, yet." 
                
               Lily looked up smilingly at Uncle Joseph, and being assured by his good-natured smile, she said: 
               "I would certainly do nothing to offend any one." 
               "It can't hurt any one's feelings, if you take a separate room and allow only those in it who approve of a little exercise in this way, can it, wife?" enquired he of Mrs. Arnold. 
               "No, I don't know as it would; if Lily and you can contrive a good way, I'll not object," replied the kind woman. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "This must be the music," said he, "of the spears, 
                           For I 'm blest if each note of it doesn't run through one!" 
                        
                      
                     MOORE'S FUDGE FAMILY. 
                   
                
               "I'VE thought of a nice plan, Uncle Joseph," cried Lily one day, as Mr. Arnold entered the house from his work. 
               "And what is it, child?" 
               "Let us clear away the middle of the barn, and have it trimmed with evergreens and lighted, for us to dance in." 
               "That would be pretty, Lily," said Uncle Joseph, entering into the spirit of the work. 
               "Oh, it would be so beautiful, and so picturesque and novel. How I wish Herbert was here to help, he is so convenient at such times." 
               "Would n't you like it better if some one else was here too, Lily; for instance, Mr. Eustace-though I suppose you've forgotten him by this time," said Mr. Arnold, with a tantalizing smile. Lily's fair face was momentarily suffused with a crimson blush, but she replied archly: 
               "Don't flatter yourself that this is the case, Uncle Joseph; my heart never plays truant." 
               "What, not after this long absence Lily? don't you know the old saying is, out of sight, out of mind." 
                
               "I would never care to be loved if I could never be remembered," replied Lily. 
               "When you grow old like me, child, you'll want love any way, whether it endures or not; you won't stick for the romance of undying affection then," said Mr. Arnold, glancing comically at his wife. 
               "It ought to be reality, not romance," continued Lily, rather seriously for the occasion. 
               "Bah!" said Uncle Joseph, "how sober you look; la, I could frighten you to death in a few minutes-love's a new thing to you, ain't it?" 
               The crimson tide again flowed over Lily's face, but quickly receding, she said beseechingly: 
               "Do not torment me as you usually do, but instead, let us make arrangements for our great fte." 
               "Arrangements! why, we have done that; your Aunt and I are going to have an apple-paring in the house, and you 're going to have a dance in the barn, what more?" 
               "And I suppose you would sit and fold your hands, expecting some fairy to do the work. I never knew a man who had the slightest idea of any work's being done upon such an occasion. They imagine they can speak the thing into existence, having the embellishments thrown in." 
               "Don't be so hard, Lily; I'm ready to work if you'll only set me at it." 
               "I set you at it, indeed, who knows nothing about working. But who can we have for a fiddler in my department?" 
               "You're foundered at the outset young lady; not a fiddler in town." 
               "Not one?" enquired Lily. 
                
               "No, not one; though, by the way, seems to me I've heard Jim trying to scrape away on an old violin." 
               "Do let us bring him in then, and discover how well he can perform." 
               Jim was duly summoned. He entered, clad in a coarse, homespun, blue woollen frock, belted down at the waist. 
               His boots lay in folds upon his feet, like the skin of a rhinoceros upon its back-every fold was filled with the soil in which he had been working. 
               He had evidently endeavored to improve his long, lank locks, which were in their native color a-la-tow, by an over-abundance of grease, in which small lumps of tallow candle were singularly prominent, and which caused his hair to hang in collective bunches adown his long neck. 
               He entered the room with an awkward gait. In one hand he held an unvarnished, worn-out violin, crossed by a bow, while with the other he appeared to be paddling the air as if it obstructed his motion. His countenance was a vacuity, lighted by a broad grin. 
               "Well, James," said Lily, addressing him, "we think of having a little dancing here, and would like to see if you can play a few dancing tunes." 
               "What'll you have, Miss?" enquired James, with an unmistakable nasal twang, at the same time flourishing his bow, and drawing it several times over the apology for an instrument, with an air worthy of a professor in the art. 
               "Well, can you play the Tempest?" enquired Lily, determining to suit her selection to the capacities of her performer. 
               "Reckon not," he laconically replied. 
               "Chorus Jig?" 
               "I reckon." 
                
               "And will you play it then?" said Lily. 
               "Wal, yes," replied he, evidently delighted at an opportunity of displaying his wonderful talent. After elaborately tuning his instrument, he placed one end below his chin, and extending his feet, boots and all, commenced a series of the most discordant notes which were ever drawn from anything bearing the name of violin. 
               Lily perceived that such a noise would never answer, but wishing to give him a fair trial, she proposed another and simpler tune, in the performance of which he succeeded more acceptably. 
               Jim seemed to be in the spirit of music, for tune after tune were thrown off in rapid succession. Finally Lily told him She had heard enough to satisfy herself of his capabilities, and engaging his services for the eventful evening, dismissed him. 
               A suppressed laugh followed his exit from the room, until the stifled titter of Uncle Joseph deepened into a loud roar. 
               "Well, what do you think of that, Lily?" enquired he. 
               "It is not to be laughed at," replied Lily, ironically. 
               "Will it answer?" 
               "I think I can train him so as to get along nicely; we must throw aside for the evening our refined musical ear and be willing to hear anything one can possibly keep step with." 
               "Well, manage as you please Lily; in your part, you can call upon Jim for evergreen and help when you want it, and on your old Uncle Joe too." 
               "How kind and good you are to me," said Lily, her ever varying face assuming a grateful expression. 
               "La, that sounds like my wife's talk for all the world." Mrs. Arnold glanced up from her sewing and smiled; Uncle Joseph returned the smile, and the reflection rested and lingered upon the countenance of the fair Lily. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           What though the sea be calm? trust to the shore; 
                           Ships have been drowned, where late they danc'd before. 
                        
                      
                     HERRICK. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Too happy were men if they understood; 
                           There is no safety, but in doing good. 
                        
                      
                     FOUNTAIN. 
                   
                
               "FILL up again," said the younger of two gentlemen who were seated before a small table, upon which were standing half a dozen empty champagne bottles, while as many more well filled with old Renish wine, indicated that the gentlemen had not yet reached the climax of their convivialities. 
               "What's in you to-night Bell, you're ducedly dry?" said the elder, at the same time refilling his glass. 
               "I must have something to look upon Emerson." 
               "You cannot think of trying your hand again to-night?" 
               "And why not? bad luck can't follow me much longer," replied Bell, with an oath. 
               "You'll have no better luck than you've had, everything is against you. Be reasonable, and let the playing, alone." 
               "Are you a fool, Emerson?" said Bell, fiercely. 
               "I must win, or I'm a lost man." 
                
               "You're a lost man then. I would'nt bet a cent upon your head. Sullivan is tricky. 
               A half suppressed oath escaped Bell, as he tossed down glass after glass of that liquid, which not only maketh the heart of man glad, but if indulged in too freely maketh it sad. Presently Bell left his companion, and entering a small room, seated himself before a long narrow table, covered with green baize. 
               Opposite him, sat a comparatively old man, sharp, keen eyed, apparently eager to continue the game of Faro, which had been suspended by the absence of the younger man. Not a syllable escaped either during the dealing of the cards, and the silence extended over the many little parties here and there playing. Ever and anon, an exultant "Win," or a soul-sickening, desperate "Lost," fell upon the ear. And in these several groups, were weary hearts, silently breaking. The cold, beaded sweat of intense excitement and agonizing desperation, stood upon the hardened brow of many an accomplished gamester, who had staked largely in the fluctuating game. 
               Bell and his partner commenced their hands. At first he was inspired with fresh courage by the evident carelessness of his opponent; but after a short time the struggle became fierce. Upon one side, was seated a man of about fifty, with a keen countenance, calm, cool and collected, yet desperate manner. Opposite to him, sat Bell, his youthful face expressive of terrible emotions. The game advanced rapidly, the intense agony of each party plainly increasing, until a monotonous voice sang out, "King wins," "Ten loses." 
               "Lost," despairingly burst from the lips of Bell, with a horrible oath. 
               "Lost," exultantly cried the evil genius, that had prompted him to the deed. 
               "Lost," sorrowfully murmured the right-hand angel; and leaning over him, she wept. That word sunk like moulten lead into the heart of Bell, it seemed to be the death knell of all his hopes, and although he had become in a measure accustomed to vice, he had gone one step farther than he ever intended. He had not learned to bear losses with that desperate calmness, which characterized an old and hardened gamester, and bowing his head upon his hand, he repeated slowly and bitterly to himself, "Lost, Lost, Lost." At this moment Emerson coming up, familiarly patted him upon the back, saying: 
               "What's the trouble George? Lost, eh! did'nt I tell you so?" 
               "It would have been better if you had told me before you taught me this soul-destroying business," replied Bell, hoarsely. 
               "Come, come, George," said Emerson, wincing beneath this just rebuke: 
               "I know it's deucedly uncomfortable to loose, but, hang me, I'm in a worse fix than you are, and what's more, I want a little of your help." 
               Bell was slightly pacified, and he said surlily: 
               "What the devil have you tumbled into now?" 
               "Hush, not so loud, come one side and I'll let you know." The two drew off to an unoccupied corner of the room. 
               "Bell," said Emerson, gazing him earnestly in the face: 
               "You're true to me?" 
               "I should think you might know by this time," replied the other. 
               "And you're ready for anything, no matter what it may be?" 
               "Ready for anything, by Heavens, yes; murder, the bloodier the better, anything to fill up the measure of my iniquity." 
               "Don't be despairing my boy. Zounds, what care have you, in comparison with the pack of sins belonging to fifty devils that I have, resting upon my shoulders? In the first place, George, I'm on the very verge of bankruptcy, which is'nt pleasant, you know, for a man in my position; and then I have another smaller affair, that will need careful management, which is the least pleasant of the two." 
               "You're always in trouble; well, but I'm the man for you, though don't I wish I'd never seen you, or been led by you into this cursed trade. 
               "Keep up a good heart, my boy." 
               "I may as well, I suppose," replied George Bell. The two entered into a low, earnest conversation, in which they were engaged for some time. At length, having arranged matters to their apparent satisfaction, they rose, and shaking hands, parted. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           My dark-eyed darling, don't you know, 
                           If you were homely, cold and stupid, 
                           Unbent for you were Slander's bow? 
                           
                              Her shafts but follow those of Cupid. 
                           Dear child of Genius, strike the lyre, 
                           And drown with melody delicious, 
                           Soft answering to your touch of fire, 
                           The envious hint-the sneer malicious. 
                        
                         
                           Remember it is music's law, 
                           Each pure, true note, though low you sound it, 
                           Is heard through Discord's wildest war 
                           Of age and madness, storming round it. 
                           Serenely go your glorious way, 
                           Secure that every footstep onward 
                           Will lead you from their parents away; 
                           Since you go up, and they go downward.
                            
                        
                      
                     MRS. FRANCES OSGOOD. 
                   
                
               A BRIGHT oak fire burned cheerily upon the polished brass andirons within Uncle Joseph's cosy sitting-room. The evening twilight had thrown its gray mantle over the earth; lengthening shadows peeped from behind the high backed oaken chairs, and played "hide and seek " within the folds of the curtains. 
                
               A couple of old ladies were seated before the fire, busily knitting, while upon a low stool at their side sat Lily, intensely gazing into the fire. Lily occupied her seat but a few moments, which seemed to have been taken as a means of temporary rest, and jumping up, said merrily: 
               "This idleness will never do for Lily Seymour, and an apple-paring, this evening, staring her in the face; although all things are in readiness, still I must stir around, and have the appearance of keeping the machinery in motion." 
               "You 're a cheerful little thing, anyhow," said Mrs. Hitty Dodge, who, with Miss Dobson, had been invited to spend the afternoon. 
               "Praise to the face, 's open disgrace," said Tempy, sharply. "It's my way never to praise any one if I ken help it; Lily's puffed up enough, any way." 
               "I think she's pretty, now; and then those modern gowns o' hers," said Hitty. 
               "I reckon the Lord'll never judge people by the gowns they wear; praised be His name for that," chimed in the much aggrieved Sally Dobson. 
               "It's the dreadfully deceitful heart, and I've seen enough of them in my day to turn me agin dress in any shape; I allers thought it was exceeding becomin' not to put on the outward adornin'; that's Scripter." 
               "Can't judge everybody by our own hearts, Miss Sally," said Aunt Hitty, "they 'd be orful creeters if we did." 
               "There's one thing sartain," said Tempy; "I tell brother Joseph every day of his life, he's spiling the child; jest to think of it, Sally; things ain't as they used to be when you and I and my good old father was livin' here. D'ye think there'd be dancing then within a mile of the house? and to think of Joseph's lettin' that child change matters so, here. Jim's been off from his work 'nough to ai'rn his food for as much as a week, helpin' her trim the barn for the dance. That's what comes of new wives; never thought we 'd fall quite so far down as we have." 
               "I told you so, didn't I?" said Sally Dobson, exultantly. "Didn't I tell you mor'n a fortnight before they were married, that there 'd be no living, and it all comes from getting folks with such high-falutin' notions." 
               "I know it," replied Tempy, her sharp, angular features beaming with ugliness; "I know'd it then as well as I do this minute, but Joseph had his way and p'raps he'll live the longer; everything's hanging at loose ends, the money flies, and it makes my heart ache to see it." 
               "You've got enough of the' tin,' as my Zekiel says, so you need not be afraid of running through with it," chimed in Aunt Hitty. 
               "That's no sign we should be wastin' all the time, and givin' it away, when you'll never get a 'thank ye' for it," replied Tempy, sharply. "It's the heathin I'm thinking on now, Hitty; If Joseph 'd do somethin' where he'd git a little credit, I shouldn't mind how much he gave away; if he'd git his name into the papers, and people'd say 'there goes Joseph Arnold, that gave so much for this and that,' and it 'd kinder lift the family up; that's what I'd call letting your light shine before men; but when he spends his money in gowns for the wife and that child, I call it foolishness, I do, and I reckon you'll say the same, Sally." 
               "I never like to say anything 'bout my neighbors, Miss Tempy, and Joseph, tew; I've had great respect for him, allers, but it's my private opinion that the wife is the one to blame; things go different with some women." 
                
               "Where there's a smoke there's always a fire, Miss Dobson," said Aunt Hitty, bluntly. 
               "And some folks did say afore the Deacon was married, that there was a little flame in your heart for him, and I reckon these un-Christian remarks must be the smoke." 
               "Some folks don't always say right," fiercely replied Sally, knitting her eyebrows and showing evident symptoms of discomforture. 
               "There's an amazing deal of scandal goin' on; I wonder the town hadn't sunk 'fore this time. As I've said, I always had great respect for the Deacon, but I shouldn't a thought of marrying the best man alive." 
               "No one said you would, Miss Dobson," continued Aunt Hitty. "I don't know of any one that ever thought the Deacon would have married you; for my part, I like his wife; she's above the rest of the people in the town, and I like her for that; I can feel for her; I've been to the city, and if I ain't proud, I allers leaned to the 'stocracy, as Zekiel calls 'em. It's natral born in some folks. I like to keep in my class, I do," and Aunt Hitty, as she concluded her speech, took a pinch of snuff with her thumb and forefinger, from an immense black snuff-box, and balancing her elbow upon the arm of her chair, in such a manner as to display the beauties of two large rings which were upon her middle finger, introduced the snuff to her nasal appendage, which recognized the introduction by a quick sneeze. 
               These ladies were interrupted in their pleasant gossip by the entrance of Lily, who announced, that finally everything was in readiness for the evening's entertainment, that the wax candles were all lighted and placed among the evergreens which decorated the barn, "And such a beautiful sight as it was,"-and she hurried off, humming a lively tune, to arrange her toilet for the evening. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER L. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           His sports were fair, his joyance innocent, 
                           Sweet without sour, and honey without gall; 
                           And he himself seem'd made for merriment, 
                           Merrily masking both in bower and hall. 
                        
                      
                     SPENCER'S ASTROPHEL. 
                   
                
               THE yellew painted floor of Mrs. Arnold's long and capacious kitchen had been washed and polished until not a single particle of dust reposed upon its surface. At either end of the room was ranged in even rows, large baskets full of pound sweetings which were destined to be robbed of their smooth, outer coating, preparatory to making cider apple-sauce. Two or three paring machines were disposed of around at proper and convenient distances, and deep chestnut troughs were placed as receptacles for the apples after they should be pared and cored. A pleasant fire crackled within the large, old-fashioned fireplace, and a yellow tabby cat lay dreaming upon the hearth-stone, while close beside her lay Rover, a glossy, black watchdog, lazily stretching himself out with his nose upon his fore-paws, and mantaining an attitude which should render it easy for him to welcome any intruder upon his kitchen privileges with a quick bark. 
               A pantry door slightly ajar revealed long rows of shelves filled with pumpkin, apple and mince pies, plates of raised cake already cut in thick squares, great platters of huge doughnuts fried to a deep, brown color, and pitchers swimming-full of nice cider, while a little to the left were deposited cold boiled hams, with plates of brown and wheaten bread for those who desired anything more substantial than pie and cake. 
               The old Dutch clock in the corner of the kitchen slowly and steadily wagged her ponderous pendulum and soon struck the hour of six. Kitty started, looked around her, and then settled herself more closely to the fire for another nap. Rover raised his nose, growled, and again became quiet. 
               Soon the noise of footsteps was heard upon the piazza, and a loud knock brought Mrs. Arnold to the door. 
               "Good evening," said she, "I 'm glad to see you; walk in this way and take off your things. It's quite chilly isn't it?" and she led the way to a room where the new comers were to deposit their outer garments. These persons when sufficiently disrobed to make themselves visible, proved to be Joe Tibbets, a young country sprig, and Hannah Leathers, a buxom lassie whom Joe had courted every Sabbath night for more than a year. 
               The guests came thronging in thick and fast, as snow flakes, but not being as easily disposed of the large kitchen was soon filled. 
               The noisy buzzing of the machines in motion, and the more boisterous noise of twenty merry voices all talking at one time, echoed and rechoed throughout the several apartments. 
               Most of the old ladies who loved quiet, spiced with a savoring of the town's scandal, assembled with one consent in the sitting-room and to the music of the knitting-needles their tongues kept time. 
               Aunt Hitty Dodge, whose blood flowed as youthfully, joyously and freely through her veins as in her younger days, chose to mingle with the young people. 
                
               One by one, mealy-cored quarters of apples fell into the Chestnut troughs, until they became nearly filled. 
               "If this 'ere ain't as nice a skin as ever I sot eyes on," cried woe Tibbets, holding up to view a thin, smooth paring, which twirled like a snake in the air. 
               "La, Joe," said Aunt Hitty, "don't you know how to tell your fortin by it. Jest whirl it round your head and throw it over your right shoulder, and let it drop on the floor, and it'll make as nice a first letter of the gal's name you 're going to marry, as ever you see." 
               Joe carelessly twirled the apple paring, letting it fall over his right shoulder upon the floor, as directed. 
               "There, did you ever! if that ain't an H, then I never sot eyes on one sartain," said Susan Crowfoot, as the paring coiled itself upon the floor. 
               "That's Hannah Leathers," cried several voices. "Hannah Leathers and Joe Tibbets-long life to them." 
               Hannah blushed and looked infinitely foolish, while Joe showed unmistakable symptoms of delight. 
               "Never mind if they do plague us, Hannah," said Joe, laying his hard hand upon her shoulder. "I reckon we've got pluck enough to face them." Hannah blushed still deeper, and pulling Joe by the coat, whispered: 
               "Oh, do keep still, Joe; you make me blush so I 'm fairly ashamed on't. Can't you jest stop?" 
               "Keep at it Joe," cried half a dozen voices. 
               "Plague the girls, they like it if they do cry whoa; they go by contraries, Joe." 
               "Of course they do," replied Joe, 
               "Jest as ef I did n't know who my gall is, and jest as ef every one else didn't know it, tew. I haven't courted for nothin' neow I ken tell you. You need n't red up so, Hannah; it'll have to come out some time." 
               Hannah cast sidelong glances at Joe, and pouting, said: 
               "I'll never speak to you, agin." 
               "Guess we'll try that; next Sunday night; be interestin' without a word. What do you say to that, Peter Rogers?" enquired Joe. 
               "I reckon she'll come round fast enough; galls never hold mad; they 're 'mazin quick over a miff." 
               "La, children," interposed Aunt Hitty. "'Tain't nothin' if you only get used to it, Hannah; I remember mor 'n twenty years ago when my man was courtin' me we had jest sich a flare up as this 'ere, and when we got over it, honey, and molasses, and none of them words wan't sweet enough to express our feelings. La," continued she, approaching Hannah, "you need n't look down-hearted you 're a nice gall as your mother ever had, and Joe's a nice young man, and it'll be a good match for both of you, and for my part I like to see young people jined together. It's right down natural and purty. Galls warn't bashful in my day as they be now." 
               Hannah shortly recovered from the great shock her feelings had received, and was laughing heartily as the merriest of them. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Methinks I've cast full twenty years aside, 
                           And am again a boy. Every breath 
                           Of air that trembles through the window, bears 
                           Unusual odor. 
                        
                      
                     PROCTOR'S MIRANDOLA. 
                   
                
               IN a short time, (for many hands make quick work,) the apple-paring was accomplished, and the troughs being set carefully away, the amusements of the evening began. 
               "What shall we play Lily?" said Uncle Joseph, Acting as chief spokesman, and occupying the centre of the room. 
               As Lily was not well enough acquainted with country sports to reply, she directed him to Susan Crowfoot. 
               "Play button, Deacon," said Susan. 
               "Play roll the platter," cried Joe Tibbets. 
               "Play Simon," cried Hannah Leathers. 
               "Simon it shall be," replied Uncle Joseph. 
               The party ranged themselves against the wall, alternately a boy and girl, while Uncle Joseph, standing before them and raising his thumb, said: 
               "Simon says, thumbs up." The company raised their thumbs. 
               "Simon says, thumbs down." All lowered their thumbs downwards. 
                
               "Simon says, thumbs this way," moving his thumb to the right, all following him. 
               "Thumbs that way." A few who understood the game did not follow, observing that the last time, he said, "thumbs that way," without Simon says. This was the catch of the game; and a few unwary ones placed their thumbs that way, when Uncle Joseph cried out: "Forfeits to pay." 
               At the conclusion of the play, in which nearly every one was finally caught, came the redeeming of forfeits, an act to which every girl stoutly objected, while secretly she would on no account have had it omitted. 
               "Whose pawn is this?" said Uncle Joseph, holding up between his thumb and forefinger a long cotton glove. 
               "Miss Dobson's, Sally Dobson's," came from a dozen mouths, accompanied with a suppressed giggling. 
               "Well, Susan Crowfoot, what shall the owner do to redeem it?" continued Mr. Arnold, holding the glove over her head. 
               "Choose a partner and go to Rome," unmercifully cried Susan. Sally's face, which in its natural state resembled roasted sweet apples, grew just a shade darker, as she spitefully said: 
               "Shan't do no such thing, nuther." 
               "Don't I hope she won't take me for a partner," whispered Joe Tibbets to his right-hand man, Pete Rogers. 
               "I'd rather by half kiss that black chimney crane, over the fire, than kiss the old maid; one thing sartin, the crane would'nt kiss back and I should'nt be so sure of Sally." 
               "I should rather be teazled twenty times than be kissed by her," replied Pete Rogers. But Sally did not seem at all disposed to redeem her forfeit, until Uncle Joseph going up to her said: "Come Sally, let's you, and I jog along over the road, 'tain't a hard one to travel." 
                
               The girls giggled, the men laughed outright. 
               "It's unbecomin' in you, Deacon, to ask a woman of my age to go round the room a kissin'. I never was kissed by a mortal man yet, and, praise the Lord, I never will be." A roar of laughter issued from all parts of the room at this announcement. 
               "It's true enough, boys; you need'nt laugh," interposed Aunt Hitty Dodge, who seemed to enter with her whole soul into the play. 
               "Never, in my day, has any man ventured within gunshot of Sally Dobson." 
               "It's no reproach to me," said Sally, fiercely, "it never was my fault, was it?" 
               "No, no," replied Aunt Hitty: 
               "No one ever thought but that you'd ben glad enough to have had things different." 
               "If there are some mean folks in the world, that put a bad instruction to every word you say, I can't help it." 
               "Never mind'em, Sally," said Uncle Joseph, good-humoredly. 
               "You never shall have it to say after to-night, that a man never kissed you. It's a disgrace to the town, that you, who have been a fixture to it for more than fifty years, was never kissed by a man." 
               "You've gone a little out of the way, Deacon," said Sally: 
               "It'll be a long run yet before I'm fifty years old,. I reckon." 
               "I'll bet my two year old heifer that she'll never see sixty agin. Look at her, as thin and dried as an old cast off snakeskin, would'nt trust her out in a gale without tying a mill-stone to to her," said Jedediah Hodges in an under-tone. 
               "Well, never mind the ago Sally, come now, and let the young men do their duty, and redeem the credit of the town, and if they don't know how, I'll set the example." Mr. Arnold nodded his head to Lily, while a merry twinkle lurked in the corner if his eye as he drew Sally towards him. Lily stood looking on, inwardly desiring and aching for a hearty laugh. 
               "You just let me alone, do, I've no notion of being kissed by you," said Sally, extending, as if to protect herself from injury, a long bony arm, at the extremity of which was five out-spread digitals. 
               "My duty must be done," cried Uncle Joseph, endeavoring to resist the opposition she was making. 
               "If you never was kissed it's high time some one should do it. I aint going to have it thrown in our faces again, so there it goes." And after a hard struggle, he succeeded in imparting a kiss upon the antiquated maiden's withheld cheek, which seemed to inspire the young men with fresh courage. 
               "Let's follow suit," said Joe Tibbets. 
               At this word, the young men seized the damsels who were seated by their sides, and apparently at the outset much against the girls will, they nevertheless, with a very good grace finally allowed themselves to be kissed. 
               "It's tew bad, sich doin's is," said Sally, pushing back her grizzly locks which had become very much disturbed during her encounter with the Deacon. "I think 'taint no ways becomin'." 
               "Never mind, Sally, no use fretting about it now; it's over with and I feel better about it." 
               Lily stood a little apart with several of her friends, who had been reserving their strength for a lively dance in the barn, amused spectators. 
               Suspending their plays, a bountiful supper was provided, after which, Lily led the way to their unique ball room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Our flooring was rugged, our sconces had rust; 
                           There was falling of grease-there was raising of dust; 
                           But Terpsichore published a Morning Post "yarn" 
                           On the Almacks we held in the noble old barn. 
                        
                      
                     MISS ELIZA COOK. 
                   
                
               UNCLE JOSEPH, seizing Lily, made his way as rapidly as possible to the large barn where they were to renew their festivities. 
               "Any one may follow," said he, by way of invitation, "that has nothing agin a little sport in the way of dancing." 
               "It's ridekelis," whispered Sally Dobson to Mrs. Pry. 
               "Guess if Tempy and I had the say here, there would'n be the sich onchristian doins as this ere. And jest think, tew, of the deacon's humorin' that gal so, and he a baptized man." 
               "I partly agree with you, Miss Dobson," replied Mrs. Arnold, who unfortunately had heard this last sentence. 
               "I told the deacon that a great many would object, and I do not think myself that it is setting a good example; but Lily seemed to have set her heart upon it so much, and she has so few sources of enjoyment here, in comparison to what she has been used, that the deacon thought it would be excusable to gratify her this once, and we removed the cause of offence as far from the guests as possible for us to do." 
                
               "Oh, never mind me," said Sally, somewhat crest-fallen. "I don't think the example'll do old Christians any harm, but there's young people that ain't Christians may be led away by the vanities of the world." 
               "But you know our town's-people are remarkably steady and sober, and I imagine this will not move them greatly from their old established way of doing things, though, as I said before, I do not approve of it." 
               "If it is a cross, we Christians had better take it up and bear it, instead of making a great fuss about it," interposed Aunt Hitty Dodge. 
               "I used to think it was dreadful wicked, but I was ignorant then. Since my Zekiel has learned to dance, I've kinder changed my opinion. If you had children grown up, you'd hev a different idee of things, Miss Dobson." 
               Miss Dobson saw fit to make no reply to this last remark, but sat nervously knitting. Uncle Joseph, with his merry troop, soon reached the barn-door, which they drew aside and entered. 
               If, as Miss Tempy complained, Jim had devoted a sufficient length of time upon the barn to earn a week's board, still its beautiful and picturesque appearance amply repaid all of the labor bestowed. Large trees of spruce were placed in the four corners, while the mows of hay were entirely hidden by gracefully intermingled festoons of the same evergreen, while here and there with great taste, were displayed small wreaths, composed of pine and the beautifully-shaped cone. Among the branches were placed small lanterns, whose golden light twinkled like stars through the twigs and sprays of evergreen, and threw a softly-tempered light throughout the room. 
               Upon one side of the hall were ranged curiously-formed stumps of old decayed trees, which formed seats for the company, while at the extreme northern end was placed a stump of larger dimensions, to be occupied by the fiddler, Jim. 
               Presently James entered, clad in his Sunday garments, being but a slight improvement upon the blue homespun frock he usually wore. A pair of pantaloons, varying in hue from a dun brown to a black, terminated just above the ankle joints, displaying an abundance of blue and white hose, while finishing these extremities were a pair of thick heavy brogans, closed with dusty strings of leather; a vest of blue homespun broadcloth was decorated with two rows of brass buttons, while a coat, corresponding in color and material, fitted tightly his bony figure, the sleeves of which, like the pantaloons, came just above the wrist joint, displaying a large bone and immense hands. His yellow locks had been especially oiled for the occasion, while his countenance still retained that vacuous expression which it had worn when he had been summoned before Lily, to give evidence of his musical abilities. 
               With all the dignity of one who feels the utmost confidence in his own talent, James, with fiddle and bow in hand, seated himself upon the large stump waiting to receive him, and after carelessly drawing his bow across the instrument a few times, struck up "Speed the Plough." 
               The little company formed themselves in order upon the floor, and with right good will, began tripping the light fantastic toe. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Whence is that knocking? 
                           How is't with me, when every noise appals me? 
                        
                      
                     MACBETH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           There's not a cloud in that blue plain, 
                           But tells of storms to come or past:- 
                           Here, flying loosely as the mane 
                           Of a young war-horse in the blast: 
                           There, rolled in masses dark and swelling, 
                           As proud to be the thunder's dwelling. 
                        
                      
                     MOORE. 
                   
                
               A CONTRA dance had just been completed, and Lily was assisting in the forming of a Virginia Reel, when a strange knock caused her to turn quickly around-a strange knock, for there is a greater difference in knocks than one might at first suppose; for instance, the low, gentle tapping at your door, saying pleasantly these words, "Please let me in;" then the uncertain rap, as if doubtful of obtaining entrance, the firm, decided, business-like knock, uttering the words "I wish to come in;" the boisterous, half-laughing rap, crying out "Hallo here, can't you let me in," and there are so-called "spiritual knockings," but of these I know nothing; but there is one appeal more beautiful than all beside. It is the Son of God knocking at the door of man's heart for admission. 
                
               But this knocking of which I have spoken, had a low, determined, almost desperate rap, that sent a thrill through Lily's soul, and caused her to turn hurriedly toward the spot from whence it proceeded. Mr. Arnold had already answered the call, and to her astonishment she perceived a tall, well dressed stranger enter. Her heart fluttered wildly; the visitor seemed to her a foreboding of evil tidings. She heard the stranger enquire for Miss Seymour, and advancing to meet Mr. Arnold, she was brought in immediate contact with the apparent intruder. 
               "This is Miss Seymour, Sir," said Mr. Arnold, presenting her. 
               "And she will pardon me, I trust, for introducing myself as Mr. George Taylor," replied the stranger, bowing gracefully. 
               Lily scanned him closely for a moment, as if she would read, at a glance, his business or intent; then addressing him, she said: 
               "I think I have never had the pleasure of meeting you before, Mr. Taylor." 
               The so-called Mr. Taylor looked long and searchingly at the fair face and into the clear depths of Lily's innocent blue eyes, and turning aside, said to himself: 
               "I can't do this job, noway; why didn't he tell me she was an angel? those eyes will haunt me eternally; by Jove, she's so deucedly innocent, looks up into my face as if she were confident I would not harm her," and for a moment Mr. Taylor staggered in his undertaking, but recovering himself, he turned toward her again and said: 
               "I am the bearer of news to you, sad news, still I hope you will be able to bear all I may have to tell you." 
               Lily, observing that Mr. Taylor hesitated, and imagining that he seemed unwilling to distress her, said: 
               "Let me know all the worst; oh dear, dear, I knew something was wrong; tell me, will you not?" 
                
               Mr. Taylor, endeavoring to soothe Lily, assured her that nothing really terrible was in store for her. 
               "Compose yourself," he said kindly. "Can we not leave this company, where we may be more retired; perhaps a turn in the cool air will do you good." 
               "You are kind, Mr. Taylor; let us walk then, anywhere, only that I may feel one little particle relieved; this oppression is suffocating," and Lily pressed her hand passionately to her forehead, as if to ease its angry throbbings, then placing it within the offered arm of Mr. Taylor, they walked into the open air. 
               Above her, the moon was silently and beautifully shining, and as she walked along, the withered leaves rustled mournfully beneath her feet. She seemed nervously sensitive to all things, and the rustling of these leaves were to her, gloomy forebodings of a mournful music which should ere long sweep over her soul. 
               They walked for some distance, both maintaining a profound silence. With Mr. Taylor, a feeling of delicacy, lest he should wound the feelings and crush the heart of the young girl, appeared to predominate; while with Lily, a fear of knowing some dreadful secret which should disturb the gentle stream of love that had glided along so gently through her heart, or a still greater fear, that perhaps she might be severed from her heart's deep affection, from one in whom she had almost lost her individuality, seemed to take possession of her soul, moving its deep fountains with feelings of supernatural horror. 
               Onward and onward they continued, without uttering a word. Taylor felt the hand of Lily nervously tremble upon his arm, he noted her quick, short breathing, and as they reached a little rural summer-house just by the edge of a large apple orchard, whither Lily had involuntarily led him, she sunk almost exhausted upon a seat close beside her. 
               "Now is my time," said Taylor. "It will never answer to put my hand to the plough and look back, though my heart does condemn me. Plague take the job; I'll run the risk, though, and put it through." He gazed upon the delicate face and form of Lily, as the rays of the moon rested lovingly upon her auburn hair, then gazing anxiously in the direction of the house which they had but just left, and satisfying himself that all was safe, he gave a low, careless whistle, and turning toward Lily, seated himself by her side, and commenced a hurried conversation. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep, 
                           And in his simple show he harbors treason. 
                           The fox barks not, when he would steal the lamb. 
                           No, no, my sovereign; Gloster is a man 
                           Unsounded yet, and full of deep deceit. 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE HENRY VI. 
                   
                
               HE had time to breathe only a few broken sentences into the listening ear of Lily, when two tall, hideous forms presented themselves before her astonished gaze. 
               "Pray, who are those terrible creatures?" cried Lily, involuntarily drawing closely to Taylor, as if sure of his protection. 
               "They will not harm you," replied Taylor, soothingly. "They are friends." 
               "Oh! let us go," entreated Lily, nervously, as they drew nearer to her, and by the light of the moon she was enabled to discover that they were strangers-and such strangers! The eye of Lily seemed riveted, as by a strange fascination, to the face of one of these new comers-who was a woman, but whose thin, sharp features were lit by a demoniac smile, as if she were upon an errand in which her whole soul was happily engaged. 
               "Let us go from here," again gasped the bewildered Lily, for the reflecting upon her unprotected situation, and turning towards the house she would have fled, were it not for a firm grasp that with held her. 
               "Not so fast, young woman," eagerly cried the old hag of whom I have spoken, and whose name was Peg Sampson. "You won't get out o' our clutches quite so easily. 
               Lily hastily glanced around her. She felt there was no hope of escaping from the hands into which she had fallen, and she knew that her cries would not be overheard in the gay festivities of the evening at Uncle Joseph's. With lips and cheeks as colorless and cold as though life had departed; with the chilling wind rudely blowing her golden ringlets in wild confusion around her; with distended eyes and outstretched arms, she begged piteously of George Taylor to protect her. 
               "By heavens!" said Taylor, his heart momentarily softened, "I'm on the point of giving up this job." 
               "Little chicken-hearted, hey?" enquired the man who had accompanied Peg, and who was moving off with Lily toward the apple orchard, which was close at hand. 
               "Let me go! Oh! for the love of Heaven, let me go!" plead the affrighted and nearly exhausted girl. "I will do anything for you," continued she, fancying one ray of pity lit up the hard features of her enemy. 
               "Why do you take me away? I have done nothing to call for such treatment. Oh, carry me back, carry me back, and God will bless you for your kindness." 
               "I should be glad to do as you say, Miss," replied the man, coldly, "but I've had different orders, and 't won't do to disobey." 
               With a despairing look, Lily sank fainting into the arms of the man who had seized her, and was borne without further difficulty to a travelling carriage that stood in readiness just by the edge of the wood. 
                
               Silently she was deposited upon a cushioned seat within the carriage, into which Peg Sampson also entered, followed by George Taylor. The man who had borne Lily to the carriage, closed the door of the vehicle, and taking the reins in his hand, jumped hastily upon the driver's box. 
               "Mind now what you're up to," cried Taylor, putting his head out of the carriage window. "If you meet any other teams, slacken your pace and drive along leisurely. Don't appear to hurry so as to excite suspicion. By Jove! this is a ticklish business any way, and I must be careful now, and carry it out, or it would have been better for us all that we had never seen the light." 
               "I'm up to snuff," was the expressive and laconic reply of the driver, as he gathered up the reins into his hands, and with a little difficulty cleared the woods and came upon the main road. The carriage rattled along slowly and cumberously over the deeply rutted and frozen ground. Lily remained for some moments lost to her situation, then, as her faintness passed away, it was succeeded by a terifically wild bewilderment, in which she seemed to awake from a troubled sleep, only to think of and recount a horrible dream. 
               The motion of the carriage surprised her, and as she more fully regained her reason, she noticed the moonbeams which now and then glanced in at the carriage window, slightly revealing the visages of her companions. 
               "Where am I? what is the matter?" she incoherently enquired, and then as if recollecting the scene in the garden, she saw, in her imagination, that same expression of satisfaction which lurked upon the countenance of Peg Sampson. She sank again into unconsciousness. 
               "She won't be much trouble at this rate," said Peg, addressing Taylor. 
                
               "That's a fact; we've made easier and quicker work of it than I expected. You're the one for such jobs, Peg, when did you get your hand in?" 
               "Git my hand in? I was born with my hand in. I've been over this road more'n once; every inch of it I know. Those were dreadful times, George. Don't hev sich jobs now-just escaped by the skin of your teeth." 
               "Can't you entertain me with one of your stories? I remember you though, myself, especially in my younger days." 
               "Yes, I've had the care of you when you was younger," replied Peg. "My man, with a good many others, your father among 'em, came near being nabbed. La, it must be near upon sixteen or seventeen years. Well, they were on their way from Canada. They commenced their trade by smuggling goods; then they took to robbin' on a small scale; it didn't take long though for them to bring their minds to taking all they could lay their hands on. Of course, they had to keep out of sight. One day, we had been trailing through the woods 'til we were 'bout tired out, and the fun of it was, we couldn't keep together for fear we should be noticed, when your father hit upon this cave. We all went to work and dug it out, and for as much as ten years we hid goods in it, and ourselves too, sometimes. You've been there, Taylor, in your younger days." 
               "Come to think of it, I may have a mother now," said Taylor. 
               "I wonder if she'd be glad to see her young hopeful. For my part I shouldn't care to make the acquaintance of any decent person. Keep in your own clan, Taylor," said the old woman, chuckling. "Your father was a trump, and you're in a fair way to beat him." 
               They continued talking as they proceeded upon their journey for some distance. 
                
               Lily still wavered between a conscious and unconscious state, when suddenly George Taylor started as if he had received a severe shock, and leaning his head from the carriage, listened eagerly. 
               "Yes," said he, "there's a wagon behind; take it easy, Peg," and setting the example, he drew his slouched hat over his ears, and settled himself as if for a nap, in a comfortable corner. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           When I awoke, and found her place devoid, 
                           And nought but pressed grass where she had lyen, 
                           I sorrow'd all so much, as erst I joyed, 
                           And washed all her place with wat'ry eyen. 
                        
                      
                     SPENCER'S FAIRY QUEEN. 
                   
                
               "Where can Lily be?" enquired Mrs. Arnold of her husband after their guests had taken their departure. "She cannot be imprudent enough to sit in the summer-house, upon such a chilly evening." 
               "Don't worry wife," replied the Deacon, "If the child once gets to talkin' she don't think of the cold. I've seen her nights, when I've ben shiverin' with the cold, out lookin' at the stars, all the time about froze." 
               "It'd a ben better for her ef she had'nt looked at the stars so much, I reckon," interrupted Tempy. "She'll be takin' French leave of you some of these nights," a mild, reproving glance from Mrs. Arnold, caused Tempy to subdue the outbursts of her malicious heart, but she grumbled to herself, "Can't help it, I never liked the gall." 
               "I'll step out and call her, wife," said Mr. Arnold. 
               "Do so," replied his wife. 
                
               Mr. Arnold stepped upon the piazza, and down a little slope of ground in the direction of the summer-house, and gently called "Lily?" No reply greeted his ear; approaching nearer he repeated the name, still no answer. He entered the summer-house, no Lily welcomed him. A chilly feeling stole over the heart of Mr. Arnold, it seemed like a foreboding of evil. He proceeded to look around him. He sought out every nook to which Lily was accustomed to resort. He pronounced her name loudly and received no reply, save now and then an echo to his own voice. 
               "This is strange," repeated he to himself "What can Lily be doing at this time o'night, away from home?" With a trembling heart he returned to the house. 
               "Can't find her no how," said he, to his wife. 
               "There is no need of any alarm," replied Mrs. Arnold, calmly. 
               "Lily has probably gone part of the way home with some of the company, and will be here soon." 
               "Wish I could think so," replied Mr. Arnold, shaking his head. 
               "When did she leave?" enquired his wife. 
               "Nearly two hours ago, with a strange gentleman." 
               "A strange gentlemen," replied Mrs. Arnold, "And what business had he with her?" 
               "He seemed to be in great haste, and said he should like to see Miss Seymour privately." 
               "Well it's my private opinion, (and my private opinion ain't every one's private opinion,) that you'll never set eyes on the child agin," said Tempy. "I'm sharp, and I've seen some things lately that looked strange. I've thought of this very thing once or twice, whether or no she would'nt take herself off one o' these days. She's read it in novels, I'll warrant, and thinks it's pretty." 
               "Don't croak, Tempy, without a good reason. Lily ain't the girl to do anything that would frighten us to death. She's one of those that thinks of other folk's feelings, beside her own. She han't gone off of her own will and accord, I'll reckon, and I guess we'll find her havin' a leetle frolic on the road." 
               "There is not a particle of danger but that we shall find her," replied Mrs. Arnold. "No one could have any motive in decoying her from home, still I cannot see why a stranger should wish to see her privately, that is the only point which cannot easily be explained." 
               "Well we won't worry. God will take care of her, wherever she is. I don't feel scary yet, but I reckon I may as well step round the village, and fetch her back. It's after twelve, we shall want to go to bed some time to-night." 
               Upon the conclusion of this remark, Mr. Arnold, after putting on his thick, shaggy overcoat, started forth again into the night. Many fears, which he would not impart to his wife, filled his breast. 
               "In the first place," said he to himself, "That feller was suspicious lookin', yes he was, I ought'er have known it, and kept my eye on him, and then, Lily never'd a staid out till this time o' night for fear we'd a worried about her; that looks dark to me." 
               Filled with gloomy soliloquies, Uncle Joseph trudged onward. Now and then he called at a house upon the way, to see if Lily had been there through the evening, or if he could gain any tidings of her. Nowhere could the slightest trace be found, or a word heard of her. 
               After going through the entire village without success, he returned home with a sad, despairing heart. 
               As he again entered the house alone, Mrs. Arnold gazed anxiously and sorrowfully upon him. 
               "What news?" she at length gained courage to enquire. 
                
               "None at all, Eliza, nobody has seen her, nor heard of her through the village. Tom Green said there was a carriage stood off agin the apple orchard, when he came round here this evening, that's all I could learn. 
               "How did the carriage get there?" enquired Mrs. Arnold, thoughtfully. 
               "I went round to see, as I came in; the bars were pulled out and about half a dozen of the young saplings were broken down flat, as if somethin' had gone over them. I reckon there's foul play, but I can't see for the life of me, what any one wants of Lily." 
               Mr. Arnold seated himself before the kitchen fireplace, and taking off his hat, wiped away the large drops of perspiration that were standing upon his forehead. He gazed steadily into the fire for some time, shaking his head often, as if ominous of evil. 
               "Bring up a child in the way it should go, and when it is old it will never depart from it," solemnly repeated Tempy. 
               "For my part, Joseph, I allers thought some great calamity 'd fall upon that child to break her down, and then you've allers indulged her and given her money that should a' gone to the heathin, and the Lord 's about to claim his own. Yes," she continued, "I can recognize the divine hand in this dispensation, but I'll use the Christian virtue, Charity, till the last minute. It's my opinion, I say agin, that it's a thing of her own makin; she's ben wantin to get away. I guess this strange young man wa'nt no stranger to her; probably he's ben here courtin private, and she's drawn the wool over your eyes. I've seen it all along and wondered how you could be so blinded. I ben a' lookin forward to this." 
               "Then, by Jemmy, why in the name of common sense, did'nt you say a word about it?" said Mr. Arnold, enraged at Tempy's endeavor to traduce Lily. 
                
               "Good reason enough. You never'd a' listened one word to me; things war'nt so once. There was a time when you'd a' taken my opinion soon as other folks, but now other folks carry the day," Tempy glanced significantly at Mrs. Arnold. 
               "Well, well, Tempy this is no time to rake up old affairs. It's a Christian virtue to be content in every situation in life, and for my cart, I try to be; but jest now I'm bothered about Lily; I can't see what this means. Guess I'll tell Jim to harness up old Zack and we'll start out to find her up; can't go to bed with sich a load as I've got here." And he pressed his hand against his heart. 
               "I do not understand it," said Mrs. Arnold, sinking into a chair, while a tear silently found its way to her mild, blue eyes. 
               "There is a mystery about it. She would have been at home before this time, or some one could tell you about her. I had my own two little children taken from me as mysteriously years ago, and I've learned not to be astonished at anything now." 
               The sad, despairing tone in which Mrs. Arnold uttered these words awoke the deepest sympathy in her husband's bosom. He approached, and drawing her tenderly to his side, endeavored to soothe and quiet her fears. 
               "I'll find her, Eliza," he said, encouragingly, If we were down by New York or Boston we might think she was kidnapped, but way up here in Vermont, such a think could'nt happen. Cheer up, wife, cheer up, and we'll have her quicker than you can say Jack Robinson." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           There is a shadow on my heart, 
                           I cannot fling aside. 
                        
                      
                     ALICE CAREY. 
                   
                
               MR. ARNOLD had the horse harnessed into the old fashioned, high-backed wagon, preparatory for their departure. Mr. Arnold stepped into the house to speak a few cheering words to his wife, and rejoining Jim, jumped into the wagon, which drove away at a good round speed. 
               "Which road shall I take?" enquired Jim, as they entered upon the main travelled path. 
               "That's the question, ain't it, now?" replied the deacon. "Suppose, though, you drive round to the apple orchard, and mark the tracks of that carriage; I reckon it'll have somethin' to do with deciding what a carriage was in there for, anyway, out of the road so far." 
               They drove to the apple orchard, and Mr. Arnold noted particularly the under brush which they had broken in endeavoring to clear the wood. 
               "You see the heads of these stalks all bend that way, don't you?" said Mr. Arnold to Jim. "Well, they must have turued right here, and probably gone that road," pointing to the main road directly before them. "Anyway, we'll jump in and ride out a leetle way, then enquire." 
               They rode along until they reached the last house in the village. 
               "I'll jest run in here, Jim, while you hold the horse; keep an eye out for any passers," said Mr. Arnold, as, jumping from the wagon, he ran to the door. A loud knock brought the owner of the house to a chamber window, which he hastily threw up, growling forth: 
               "Who's there?" 
               "It's me Captain," replied Mr. Arnold. 
               "Oh, Deacon Arnold!" said the man, somewhat mortified. 
               "I want to know whether or no you've heard a carriage go long past here to-night, say 'bout an hour and a half ago." 
               "Hain't heard none pass here, Deacon; I was out not far from an hour ago, and I met a carriage 'bout three miles beyond here on this road." 
               "Did you know the team?" 
               "Well, I was tired; jest sold off my drove, and I can't say I noticed much; what's the matter, Deacon? ain't no trouble, I hope." 
               "I hope not too; don't know, don't know; was the team going fast or slow?" 
               "Rather slow of the two; horses looked jaded; one thing sartain, they had a trunk on behind." 
               "Well, I'll be off then, Cap'n," and Mr. Arnold, seating himself by the side of Jim, seized the reins and whipping up the horse, drove furiously along. 
               "I hain't much hopes, anyhow," said Uncle Joseph, half to himself and half to Jim. "Taint likely that's the team; ef it had a been, they wouldn't drive very slow; they'd a ben bright enough to hurry up. Well, I'm nigh upon discouraged; to think of that leetle tender Lily's being out, nobody knows where; perhaps she's frightened to death; the purty creeter can't bear much; hope we'll find her afore long; she's allers been the light of my eyes, and my wife doats on her so, it'll 'bout break her down if I don't carry her back with me." 
               "Where do you suppose she's gone, then?" enquired Jim, apparently becoming a little interested in the search. 
               "That's the plague of it, don't know; I 'm looking on an uncertainty; I hain't much heart to look this way." 
               They rode along for some distance in silence; at times, the moon partially concealed herself under a fleecy cloud, then sailed forth more majestically and beautifully than if her light had not been obscured. 
               Overhead, dark, heavy clouds rose in high masses, at times parting, and displaying the glittering stars which thickly studded the azure heavens, giving one an idea of the gemmed dome of a vast temple, whose pillars were concealed by massy black drapery. 
               Every cloud which greeted the eye of Mr. Arnold, caused a shadow to pass through his frame, and when at length the moon had finished her nightly course, to him it was as if the little trap-door of his soul, through which the light of hope entered, had been suddenly closed, and universal darkness reigned within. 
               "I've no heart for anything," ever and anon repeated Mr. Arnold to himself, but a cheering word from the uncouth, though kind-hearted Jim, kept him spurring onward. 
               "Jim, didn't you hear a wagon just then?" eagerly enquired Mr. Arnold, dropping the reins and listening. 
               "Reckon not, Deacon, 'twas our own wheels." 
               "No, I ain't mistaken; I hear a wagon and no mistake;" and convulsively clutching the reins again, he redoubled his speed. In a few moments he was able to discern in the distance, a dark, moving body. 
               "I told you so," said he, still driving furiously until he came behind the moving vehicle, which proved, upon close inspection, a small, close travelling carriage, drawn by a pair of bay horses, with a rough looking driver upon the box. 
               "That's the carriage the Cap'n met, I'll venture," said Mr. Arnold, in a low voice, to Jim. "See the trunk on the back; no Lily there, purty sartain; they wouldn't be taking it so easy if they wasn't in honorable business." 
               "That's a fact," replied Jim. "'Twon't do no harm though, jest tew ask 'em ef they've seen a wagon on the road." 
               "So we will," said Mr. Arnold, cheerfully, as if in Jim's suggestion, a new ray of hope had flashed over his soul. "Halloa, there, driver, he continued, "I'd like to speak a word with you." 
               "Well, sir," replied the driver, slackening the pace of his horses. 
               "I suppose you hain't seen a team pass this way, to night, have you?" 
               "What kind of a team?" enquired the driver. 
               "A carriage," returned Mr. Arnold. 
               The driver, turning around, spoke in a low voice to some person within the carriage, and then replied: 
               "Yes, about an hour ago there was a single carriage went along with a gentleman and lady; we noticed 'em, for they drove very fast. 
               "It's them, and no mistake," said Jim. 
               "Which way did they go? can you tell me?" said Mr. Arnold, much agitated. 
               "We were a good way back on the road, then, but they went right past us, and didn't turn till they were out of our sight." 
                
               "Did you mind the lady" enquired Mr. Arnold. 
               "Didn't have a chance," replied the driver. "After they 'd got past us a little ways, my master thought he heard the lady cry out as if there was some trouble, but there wa'nt no use in our trying to ketch up to 'em." 
               "At this moment a window upon the side of the carriage was let down, and a gentleman, whom Mr. Arnold supposed the master mentioned by the driver, accosted him: 
               "Are you in trouble, my friend?" 
               "Reckon we are, a leetle grain," replied Jim. 
               "Can I be of any assistance to you?" politely enquired the stranger. 
               "I fear not," replied Mr Arnold. "If you could have told us more about that carriage that passed, I reckon we should have been able to find the child." 
               "The child!" repeated the stranger, in a surprised tone. "Are you in search of a lost child?" 
               "I'm after my Lily," replied Mr. Arnold, his emotion almost choking utterance. 
               "It might have been she who passed us; should advise you to make all possible haste onward, enquiring here and there if she has been heard of. The carriage would attract attention on account of its being driven so fast." 
               "And you said you heard her cry, did you?" 
               "I fancied I heard a shriek as she passed us; possibly it might have been only my imagination." 
               "Go on, Jim, go on," cried Mr. Arnold, impatiently. "Thank you, Sir, for your kindness," he added, as if recollecting himself, and in a few moments they were rapidly advancing on their way. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           When the sun sets, shadows that showed at noon 
                           But small, appear most long and terrible: 
                           So, when we think fate hovers o'er our heads, 
                           Our apprehensions shoot beyond all bounds; 
                           Owls, ravens, crickets, seem the watch of death: 
                           Nature's worst vermin scare her God-like sons. 
                           Echoes, the very learing of a voice, 
                           Grow bubbling ghosts, and call us to our graves. 
                           Each molehill thought swells to a huge Olympus, 
                           While we, fantastic dreamers, heave and puff, 
                           And sweat with an imagination's weight. 
                        
                      
                     LEE'S DIPUS. 
                   
                
               "HARK! there," cried Mr. Arnold, maintaining a listening attitude, "I heard a cry then, didn't I?" 
               "Reckon not, Deacon-guess 't wan't only the wind through the pines. Seems to me when I've been ridin' alone sometimes, as ef I could hear all manner of cryin' come out of the woods. Ef I'd a noticed it, my hair'd a ben white 'fore this time." 
               "I'm sure I hear a cry," persisted Mr. Arnold, "some one's calling my name." 
               They reined in their horse and listened. All was silent, save, as Jim had remarked, the sad, fitful moanings of the wind through the dark green pine forests which were upon either side of them. 
                
               "It's curious now," remarked Mr. Arnold, "that I should have thought I heard my name so plain." 
               "I'll bet my heifer the gall's dead," said Jim, bluntly, while his mind was filled with superstitious vagaries. 
               "Why?" enquired Mr. Arnold, involuntarily starting. 
               "Nobody hears those voices as plain as that for nothin'. Once, as long ago as I can remember, my mother was gone over to the neighbors one night, and jest as she stepped out of the house, there was some one called, 'Susan! Susan!' She turned around and said to me, 'Jim, did your father call me?' and says I, 'Father ain't to hum;' then she looked all over the house, but she couldn't find father, and said she to me-and her face was as pale when she said it as white ash bark, "Jim, it's a foreboding;' and sure enough, in a little while they brought in my father, almost dead. You see, a tree that he 'd been choppin', gave way 'fore he thought, and tumbled on to him. Twa'nt more'n a day or two 'fore he died, and I've allers noticed when any one hears their name and can't find any one callin' 'em, it's jest as sure as fate, there's some dreadful accident." 
               "I wish you hadn't told me the story, Jim," said Mr. Arnold. "I ain't superstitious under ordinary circumstances, but somehow, everything falls heavy on my heart to-night. It makes me groan to myself to hear those pines cry so, and when the moon went down, it seemed as if a great black pall had been thrown over me. Somehow I feel as if I was shut up in a close room, suffocated like. I ain't a coward, nor superstitious, neither, but to tell the truth, I have a little faith in forebodins, though I trust I'm willing to leave all things in the hands of the Lord. My poor wife, though,'ll feel as if her last hope was gone; but I won't give up to these gloomy feelings," he added, buttoning up his coat, and clearing his throat, "it ain't trusting Providence, who says that out of darkness he will bring forth light. It'll be a light day to Joseph Arnold, I reckon, when he sets eyes on that child again; shan't feel the loss of the sun or the moon either, then." 
               Let us leave Mr. Arnold a moment, and return to the travelling carriage, which was left far behind, slowly progressing upon its journey. No sooner had Mr. Arnold passed from their sight, than Taylor, turning to the driver, said: 
               "That was neatly done, Dick, wasn't it. Peg, smothered the girl to keep her quiet. My heart was in my mouth every minute; but then a man loves adventure. I'd carried her off myself just for the sake of experimenting; it's fun." 
               A low sob rose from the corner of the carriage. 
               "What now?" said Peg, in a low, gruff voice. 
               "I thought I heard Uncle Joseph's voice, and that he had come to save me," sobbed Lily. 
               "I guess you heard right," replied Peg, as if to wound more effectually the tender girl's sorrowing heart. 
               "Why didn't he take me home then? Oh, dear, dear!" cried Lily, "tell me, is this a dreadful dream? I used to dream such horrible things-can this be one?" 
               "I should think you'd been long enough on the road to find out it was a reality," said Peg. 
               A convulsive shadow passed over Lily, and she again sank, fainting, into the corner from which she had aroused herself. 
               "It'll kill her," replied Taylor, with a considerable show of sympathy; "for my part I can't see why Emerson didn't let her alone; she'd never made trouble for him." 
               "Well, she can't now, putty sartain," said Peg, "and it's best to be on the safe side, I suppose he thought." 
               "The fact is," replied Taylor, "he didn't stop to think. There are moments when I think Emerson is half beside himself. He isn't contented till he gets into a fuss, and when he finds himself puzzled, he meditates a great many mad schemes. I knew this was one of them, but I was in for the job-good pay, you know; it wasn't for me to question the wisdom of the act." 
               "Ha, ha," fiendishly laughed Peg Sampson. "It's many a day since I've lent my hand to such doings; but my heart's in it-it chokes out old memories." 
               "What brought you into such a desperate state?" enquired George Taylor. 
               "Jealousy, in my younger days, and a desire for revenge; and when I had once got my hand in, it was hard to get it out. Your mother was the object of my hatred, and for the sake of punishing her, I ruined myself." 
               "And wrecked her hopes," said Taylor, bitterly, as for a moment the sweet memory of a mother's love, bestowed upon him when he was pure and innocent, fanned his soul. 
               "Wrecked her hopes," repeated Peg. "It's natural for a mother to love her little ones, ain't it? Don't she watch every breath they draw from the minute they come into the world, till they go out of it? When she holds her baby in her bosom, and feels the beatings of its little heart, don't her own soul overflow with love and tenderness? Ain't this world a paradise, then? I know if I am a poor, God-forsaken wretch, a little of it, I had one pure feeling when my Maggie was a baby. It seemed then as if I was young again; all my sins were blotted out then; God sent one beam of glory flashing over my soul when He sent that child. I repented of all my evil deeds, but they came again after God took her away. Sometimes I remember good deeds that come along like sunlight, but the evil ones rise up like black clouds against me, and drive them all away." 
               The wretched woman exhibited deep emotion, and the tear-drop that glistened in the eye of Taylor, plainly indicated that his heart was susceptible of being moved by good influences. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           There are God and peace above thee; 
                           Wilt thou languish in despair? 
                           Tread thy griefs beneath thy feet, 
                           Scale the walls of heaven with prayer- 
                           'Tis the key of the apostle, 
                           That opens heaven from below; 
                           'Tis the ladder of the patriarch, 
                           Whereon angels come and go! 
                        
                      
                     MISS LYNCH. 
                   
                
               IT was very late the next morning when Uncle Joseph arrived home, having spent the entire night in his fruitless search for the lost Lily. Not a word could he gain from any person relative to her. To be sure, one or two, of whom he enquired if they had heard of any carriage driving at a furious rate, replied they thought they had, or they might have dreamed they did; which of the two they were unable to state with any certainty, and with this very indefinite intelligence he was not enabled to proceed upon his journey with any great degree of certainty. As to the result, therefore, he determined to return to his home, and after holding a conference with his wife, again start upon what seemed to him a hopeless project. 
                
               James drove immediately through the gateway up to the large barn, and Uncle Joseph, jumping from the wagon, busied himself as long as possible in endeavoring to unbuckle the harness, that he might be spared the pain of communicating the sad news to his wife, which he was sure she must in time imagine. 
               Mrs. Arnold, however, who had been watching for him throughout the night, with an overflowing heart, met him at the door. Their eyes met; and she read by Mr. Arnold's countenance more surely than she could have done in any other way, the utter hopelessness of his heart. 
               "Well, deacon?" she said, enquiringly, and sank into the nearest chair. 
               "No news, wife," he replied, as hurriedly as possible. 
               "Nothing?" she said in a trembling voice, and the long, pent-up tears began to flow in torrents. 
               "Don't take on so, wife; we must trust in Providence; it's a mystery, but the Lord'll pity and help us. Those that put their trust in the Lord shall never want any good thing. Do you suppose if we ask him to restore our lost Lily, he'll give us a stone in return? Bless his name, I've allers found him near in the time of trouble, and he won't desert me in my old age, if I stick by him." 
               "I have trusted in him these long, long years," replied the weeping woman. "I've had strength given me to live when the heavens were like brass, but oh, the heart grows sick of hopes deferred, and now when I've just learned calmly to trust my lost children in the hands of an Almighty Father, Lily, whom I loved as a child, is taken from me. Must not the heart sometimes rebel?" 
               "Oh, wife, don't talk so any more; you'll break all my faith down and I hain't got much in this dark hour. Let us look to God and not rebel yet. We've trusted him once, and bless his name, we'll trust him again. You may depend on't, my dear wife, he'll never forsake us." 
               With an aching heart, Uncle Joseph knelt and offered up a short prayer for the protection and restoration of the loved and lost one. And that simple, child-like prayer, uttered amid sobbings and heartbreaking tears, was borne by the angel of Faith through the countless throngs of congregated spirits far up to the listening ear of the Almighty Father. 
               A holy calm seemed to spread itself over the wounded heart of Mrs. Arnold, and for this prayer she was better able to enter into some plan to be used for the recovery of Lily. 
               "I don't see the first step best to be taken," said Mr. Arnold, shaking his head. 
               "Somethin' must be done immediately, or she's lost. No one would dare take her from home without a good plan, and it stands us in hand to be up and doing, before they git the start of us." 
               "Had we not better send immediately to her father and Herbert, for the first thing?" enquired his wife. 
               "Yes," replied Uncle Joseph, musingly. "It'll kill them though. Aside from the love I have for the tender leetle creeter, I would'nt a' had the thing happen here for worlds. It seems as if we must a'ben in fault." 
               "I do not think so," replied Mrs. Arnold. "We feared nothing and had no reason to fear. It is strange, and I can't account for it." 
               "Well I can, then," said Tempy, who had entered the room in time to hear Mrs. Arnold's last remark. 
               "I knew, Joseph, that the Lord would send some mighty trial on you, when I heard that you was going to have a dance in the barn. People can't go on disobeying the commands of the Bible, without havin' some calamity come on 'em, and as for the little minx a making sich trouble for us all. I'd advise you, Brother Joseph, to rest on your oars, and let the girl go to any place she chooses, the wife can go after her, but sensible people had better not interfere with the ways of the Lord, for in my 'pinion it's a judgment, because you've given so much to her, instead of making the heathin your friends. I've allers had them near my heart, I have. Those people that don't live in a civilized community with everything round 'em to keep 'em good, and when they're bad, like some people I know of, it's their own perverse hearts." 
               "You 're fairly through, are you, Tempy?" enquired Mr. Arnold, with an amount of severity unusual to him. 
               "Well, yes, I don't know as I care tew say anything more jest now." 
               "Well then," continued Mr. Arnold, who seemed boiling over with indignation, "You'll jest be kind 'nough to cast no more reflections upon that child. She's as good a girl as ever lived, and one thing 's sartin, if we never find her, not a word shall be said against her in my house, never; I set by her as I do my eyes, and so does my wife, and that ought'er keep you from saying a word, if you thought ever so much." 
               The severe manner of Uncle Joseph, stilled the tongue of Tempy, and rising with an air of injured dignity, she swept out of the room, slamming the door behind her, and muttering to herself, "There's none so blind, as those that won't see," hurried off to tell the news to her right-hand comforter, Sally Dobson. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Arnold remained for some moments in consultation, then Mr. Arnold proceeded to Pastor White's, to acquaint him with the mystery, and to advise with him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Awhile she stood 
                           Transform'd by grief to marble; and appeared 
                           Her own pale monument; but when she breath'd 
                           The secret anguish of her wounded soul, 
                           So moving were the plaints, they would have sooth'd 
                           The stooping falcon to suspend his flight, 
                           And spare his morning prey. 
                        
                      
                     FENTON'S MARIANNE. 
                   
                
               IN the southern part of the State of Vermont, is located a deep, dark ravine. It is a traditionary saying, that many years ago, this ravine was the scene of a most foul and bloody murder, from which it received the name of Murder Hollow. Be this as it may, every person for miles around, has a superstitious dread of ever approaching the spot, and Nature has rendered it so desolate and dreary, that one might well be led to avoid it, were no tradition attached thereto. 
               Upon the side of the road, huge masses of black rocks, overgrown with a shaggy, gray beard of moss, hung frowningly over the deep, hollow gulf below, while thick bushes of stunted pines fill up the chasm-like opening at their base. Here and there, a tall, naked white ash, with blasted limbs and trunk scorched by the fires that often smoulder for months in these Vermont forests, towers above the surrounding woods, seemingly a lone monument, warning the passers-by against a near approach towards wet, low, marshy ground, as a melancholy departed hope, seared by the fires and follies of youth, rises up within the soul, towering above the fresh, green herbage, which years of calm, matured experience have caused to spring up and grow luxuriantly, serving as a future memorial against the sloughs and pitfalls of the world. 
               Within these woods and a short distance from the road, is a large, rocky cavern, concealed from view by the thick, bushy pines and quantities of bush and tangle-wood intertwining and completely covering it. In the early history of Vermont, this cave, the principal room of which is about twelve feet in length and ten feet in breadth, was the hiding place of a band of smugglers, who were accustomed by great cunning and stealthiness, to pass over the Canada line into Vermont, down the Connecticut, thence to their head-quarters in New York. Oftentimes they were enabled to elude the vigilant search of their pursuers, by depositing their goods within this cavern, and remaining there themselves until a sufficient lapse of time should render their safety secure while upon the road. The path round by these forests was rarely, if ever, passed, and the green grass had sprung up thickly over it. 
               Before this cavern, as the "gray dawn was breaking," the carriage containing Lily and her cruel companions halted. Lily had been restored to consciousness, and now sat despairingly in a corner of the carriage. She offered no resistance as they bore her within the cavern. Deep, strange emotions, struggling within her bosom, appeared to paralyze her frame, and as she found herself alone with the old hag, whose diabolical grin had been so fascinating the evening before, she sank exhausted upon the mossy carpet beneath her. Peg Sampson stood for some moments curiously watching the movements of the young girl. 
               "Why don't she cry, and scream, and make a fuss about it, instead of setting there as cool as a cucumber," said Peg, to herself; but a moody silence filling the heart of the old woman, she mercifully allowed the poor, worn child, repose. At length, Lily, rousing herself, looked about her with a curious interest. Her blue eyes grew larger, as if hope had sprung up within her bosom, and rising from her seat, she approached the repulsive figure of Peg. 
               "What's in the wind now, eh?" enquired the old hag, before Lily was allowed the privilege of interrogating her. 
               "Will you tell me the object of my night's adventure?" said Lily, in so calm and collected a manner, that Peg Sampson gazed in wonderment upon her, and replied: 
               "For love, I reckon; that's usually the curse of a life." 
               "For love, indeed," replied Lily, bitterly; "and pray, who may the instigator of this deed be?" 
               "Don't know that yet, eh; well, I declare, you've been terribly taken in," said the old woman, in a cordial manner, appealing to relish the matter as though it were a good joke. "All I know is, that the young man who's been with us, made arrangements with me in the name of a Mr. Emerson." 
               "Mr. Emerson," repeated Lily, "I know of no such person." 
               "That don't make no manner of difference; 'taint noways likely that he ever gave you his true name; now I remember hearing that he called himself Eustace to you." 
               "Eustace," cried Lily, her cheeks blanching to a deathly paleness. 
               "Why, yes," replied Peg; "it strikes you as odd, perhaps, that men should be such wretches; but depend upon it, when you've seen a little of the world, you won't wonder." 
               All of this was narrated to Lily in a half swaggering tone, as if she were expected to reply to it by a laugh rather than by silent heart-breakings. But she had already endured so much of terror, that it appeared as though she could be never deeply moved again, and recovering from the heart sickness that stole over her, produced by the sudden announcement of Allain-Eustace as being the cause of her suffering, she replied, more calmly than before: 
               "And pray, what does he wish of me here?" 
               "I don't know as he wants anything; I reckon he thought you might injure him in some way." 
               "And how could I injure him? Is he not good, and pure, and noble? Wicked woman, unsay those vile words. Shame upon my own weakness in allowing one word to be said in my presence against him." 
               "Ha, ha," laughed Peg, so loudly, that it echoed and re-echoed throughout all parts of the cave. "You're innocent-like; it's your first love, perhaps, and he's all perfection; I should think you'd a found out before this time that Love was blind-no trusting to it." 
               Lily turned her face full upon Peg Sampson, who, hardened as she had become by a long course of sin, was moved. No one can describe the change which had taken place in the countenance of the fair young girl since the preceding evening. Ten years of hardships seemed to have gone over her head. Her beautiful golden hair hung in heavy damp masses upon her shoulders. There were no traces of tears to be seen, but her large blue eyes were bathed in sorrow; not a particle of color tinged her pearly cheek; the ruby of her lip was gone, and a strange, despairing firmness played round her delicate mouth. She was in truth a drooping Lily, broken by the rude blasts which had so lately swept over her. 
               She stepped to the side of the rough old woman, and laying one fair hand upon her shoulder, said, pleadingly: 
               "In kindness and mercy, tell me, do you speak the truth when you say that Allain Eustace caused me to be sent hither? and wherefore did he this wicked deed?" 
               "Child," replied the woman, almost tenderly, "Allain Eustace is a married man. He never loved you, and when his wife said she'd find you and let you know of his deeds, he had you brought here." 
               "And why did he tell me he loved me, then?" said Lily; "oh, yes, he loved me once, he did love me," she repeated, with strong emphasis; "perhaps he is changed; how could he always love such a baby girl as I was? It wasn't strange he should change, he so noble and I so weak. I am all to blame; for should I not have foreseen that I was never capable of making him happy?" 
               In this manner Lily continued talking for some time, endeavoring to exonerate Eustace from wrong. She was seemingly absorbed with thoughts of her own unworthiness. 
               "Don't run on so," at length, said Peg; 'tain't you that are to blame; he'd no business to court you with a wife on his hands." 
               In a moment the whole truth flashed upon Lily's mind. Could it be that Eustace, of whom she had made an idol, was utterly worthless? No tears bedewed her eyes; no sighs rose, swelling up from her wounded soul, but leaning her head upon her hand, in silence, her heart wept tears of bitter agony, which refused to overflow her eyes. No thoughts of her own cruel injury and sorrow filled her soul, as she cried: 
               "Oh, if he had only changed for me, I could have borne it; but that he should be unworthy, vile, this is too much of grief; and I thought him so noble. Alas, I made a god of frail man." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Thou' losses, and crosses 
                           Be lessons right severe; 
                           There's wit there, ye'll get there, 
                           Ye'll find nac other where. 
                        
                      
                     BURNS. 
                   
                
               A SHOUT time sufficed to bring Mr. Seymour and Herbert to the scene of action. 
               "Well, George, my boy, how are you?" enquired Uncle Joseph, meeting Mr. Seymour at the railway station, and shaking him heartily by the hand, while a tear trembled in his eye. 
               "Pretty well, Cousin Joseph," replied Mr. Seymour, "Pretty well. This is my son, Herbert, whom you have never seen," he continued; at the same time presenting a tall and exceedingly fine looking young man. 
               "Bless me, you don't say this is your son? why the last time I met you, you could'nt have been older than he is." 
               "Very near his age, Joseph." 
               "Well you've grown old, George, there's one or two silver hairs among your locks. I see; so there is in mine. Time plays queer pranks, with us boys; don't seem mor'n a year ago since we were trout fishing, hay-making, and getting under that old maple yonder, together talking over our plans for the future. You've seen sorrow, George, but you've got your young heart, or I reckon your eyes would'nt glisten at the mention of old times." 
               "My heart's the same old sixpence, Joe, does'nt feel a day older; but rather sorrowful at present." 
               "Poor Lily," ejaculated Uncle Joseph. Those two words seemed to tell the tale. 
               "Poor Lily, indeed," groaned Herbert, who had remained lost in silent meditation, during the above conversation. 
               "We had but just returned from the grave of my wife, when the news of my child's loss reached me." 
               "Poor George, poor George," replied Joseph Arnold, hastily brushing away a tear, with the back of his hand. 
               By this time they had reached Mr. Arnold's house, and entering, the new comers were presented to Mrs. Arnold, when the conversation immediately turned upon Lily. 
               "Who is the gentleman, who has been so deeply in love with her for some time, Cousin Joseph?" enquired Mr. Seymour. 
               "Mr. Eustace, a fine man; he has written to you I think?" 
               "Yes," replied Mr. Seymour, "he wrote me, requesting my consent to an engagement, and I referred him to you, knowing that I could trust to your judgment, and also that you would know more of him than I; but added in my letter to him, that I could not consent to any positive engagement at present, on account of the extreme youth of my daughter." 
               "I do not know as they were positively engaged," remarked Mrs. Arnold, "although they were deeply attached to each other." 
               "I expect the trouble is there, Cousin Joseph," returned Mr. Seymour, despondingly, shaking his head. 
               "Nonsense, nonsense, George," replied Mr. Arnold. Whose charity was great, and whose knowledge of the ways of the world limited. 
                
               "If the trouble is there, the accursed villain shall answer to Herbert Seymour, with his heart's blood," remarked Herbert, rising and pacing the room with folded arms, and a face breathing unutterable emotions. 
               "Let not your conduct be marked by rashness, my son," replied his father. "God is the avenger. We shall not leave one stone unturned to bring this matter right. I am strongly inclined, Joseph, notwithstanding your belief in Mr. Eustace's honor, to distrust him as the prime mover, and still I can hardly think any sane man would attempt so high-handed an act." 
               "Do not waste words," said Herbert, with rash impetuosity. "Let us immediately proceed to her rescue." 
               "Our various conjectures may put us upon the right track, my son, and we want calm deliberation first, I am as anxious as you, my son, for the safety of one, dear to me as if she were my own child; but experience has taught me calmness in weighty matters." 
               "Is she not your own child?" enquired Mr. and Mrs. Arnold, at one breath. 
               "She is my adopted child, Mrs. Arnold. I took her to my heart and home, when she was very young, from a worthy man, who labored for me. I was about to say, however, that if you and Herbert will again search the road, over which the carriage passed, I will immediately proceed to Boston, and after finding out the character of Eustace, meet him if he is to be found, and discover what can be done in that direction. Do you approve of this plan?" 
               "You know the ways of the world better than I do, George, but you can never make me believe that Mr. Eustace has a hand in this affair; why, he doats on the girl, 'taint no ways likely he would care to give her pain." 
               "I do not know about this, deacon," said Mrs. Arnold. "We have judged the matter too much by appearances, I have for some time had a slight suspicion of the man, not from any actual wrong I've seen, but from his principles." 
               "And what are they?" eagerly enquired Mr. Seymour. 
               "He does'nt believe in the Bible, and he's continually talking of this natural religion, natural rights. In short-he 's an Infidel." 
               "I see clearly now. We have such men to deal with in New York, and not one of them would I trust out of my sight, much less would I, that Lily should have fallen into such hands. I presume his natural progression will carry him to any length in vice. I'm not a Christian man, but I do believe in the Word of God." 
               "Why hain't I seen to this? I feel that I've neglected the child," said Uncle Joseph, rising, and groaning under a weight of self condemnation. "I was'nt lookin' for any bad, I'm afraid she had too much faith in the man." 
               The thought that perhaps he might have prevented so sad an occurrence by a little foresight, plunged Uncle Joseph into a most unhappy frame, which was only assuaged by the thoughts of the active methods he should take for her recovery. 
               Mr. Seymour availed himself of the first train to Boston, while Herbert and Mr. Arnold made preparations for a long ride through a woody tract of land, in the southern part of Vermont. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LXI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, 
                           Unuttered or expressed, 
                           The motion of a hidden fire, 
                           That trembles in the breast. 
                        
                         
                           Prayer is the burden of a sigh, 
                           The falling of a tear, 
                           The upward glancing of an eye, 
                           When none but God is near. 
                        
                      
                     MONTGOMERY. 
                   
                
               WITHIN the lonely cavern in the woods, cheerlessly and despondingly, sat Lily. In vain she sought to move the old woman by mingled prayers and tears, to have pity upon her, and allow her to depart. In vain she strove to learn her destiny, but by no word could she prevail upon Peg to utter a syllable in reply. With a despairing heart, she sank upon the ground, and gave herself up to the most lonely musings. 
               "Who will protect me now?" she cried, in her anguish. "No one can find me here. Oh! has God indeed forsaken me?" And then, as if a thought flashed over her mind, she said: "But what claim have I upon God; I have rejected his promises, which are contained in the Bible, and I cannot cling to them now in my sorrow, although I remember Aunty has told me they were such a comfort." 
                
               She was learning by a bitter experience, that there is but one arm mighty to save, and how could she lean upon that arm when she had never trusted the Almighty Father's word. 
               Vain, idle speculations were now of no avail; she wished for some promises upon which her faith might lay hold. At this moment, a ray of sunlight stole through a chink in the rocky wall, and rested upon the opposite side. Attracted by it she rose, and placing herself near the opening, which was only large enough to admit her hand, watched the rich autumnal sunset. The heavy, black clouds were drawn back like a curtain, as if to disclose the glorious vision beyond. The sun had sunken behind the western hills and the horrizon was dyed with the deepest orange, shaded out to the most delicate tints. There was a richness in the scene which drew the mind of Lily from her own situation. 
               "Oh!" said Lily to herself, "those blacker clouds that lower frowningly upon me, are my present sorrows. Shall the future be as calm and quiet as that beautiful, glowing picture beyond?" A small voice whispered within her heart, "God alone overrules your future." 
               With an earnest gaze, she watched the bright hues die away, and as they entirely faded from the heavens, they seemed to have left their reflection engraved upon the heart of Lily. 
               Those warm clouds were bathed in the eternal love. They drew her nearer to a being whom she felt sure had the power and willingness to protect her in her danger, and for the time she rested securely; and as the last dim ray of evening melted away, one bright star arose. Lily leaned upon her hand, gazing intently upon that star. She saw not the azure heavens around-that bright orb filled her soul with light. It was as if a shaft of glory, proceeding from the Divine throne, had pierced the sky, and shone into her heart, illuminating minating all the dark places over which she had previously stumbled. It was like a sweet voice bidding her be of good cheer in the future. As she still intently watched the star of hope which seemed to have been lit by the Great Hand to give her fresh courage, a calm, sweet prayer arose upon the evening air, and was wafted upon angel's wings above. She uttered no word, she heaved no sigh, she wept no tear; there, but alone, and with upturned eye, the murmurings of her tried spirit spoke eloquently to the pitying Father's heart. A quiet joy pervaded her whole being. The rocky cave in which she was confined, seemed to have become a temple consecrated to the Lord. The music of the wind, as now it mournfully played among the branches of the trees then softly died away in the distance, was like the voice of God speaking to her through Nature. Her heart, with no earthly hope by which to cling, caught hold as doth a drowning man a straw, of any manifestations of Divine love. 
               All things were appropriated as direct blessings bestowed upon her to soothe her troubled soul. And as the shades of night gathered around her, she sank quietly upon the bed of straw which Peg had placed for her in one corner of the cave. The low winds lulled her to sleep. He, without whose notice not a sparrow falleth to the ground, watched over her dreamy slumberings. 
               Her mind, which had been seriously overtasked, immediately sought the land of visions. It appeared to her that she had been travelling in the woods, but unfortunately, had lost her way, and as she was about despairing, a pure spirit stood beside her, and enquired: 
               "Wherefore weepest thou, Oh, child!" and she replied that she could not find her way through the thick bushes; then the spirit, taking her by the hand, led her into the beaten pathway. And immediately her eye wandered around her. She saw green and flowery meadows stretched before her. Then she entreated the spirit to walk with her there. But the spirit left her, and she went alone, and she found that those meadows were fair and inviting to the sight, but the moment she placed her foot upon them they began to sink, and as she was about to be lost, the same kind spirit was again at her side, pointing towards a rock which Lily had not observed; and the spirit said: 
               "Child, rest thee upon that rock which was placed there to save thee, and when thou art tempted to venture into fair, though untried places, be sure that in all times they are capable of sustaining thee." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LXII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Hopes, what are they?-Beads of morning, 
                           Strung on slender blades of grass, 
                           Or a spider's web adorning, 
                           In a strait and treacherous pass. 
                        
                      
                     WORDSWORTH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           'Tis the cruel artifice of fate, 
                           Thus to refine and vary on our woes, 
                           To raise us from despair and give us hopes, 
                           Only to plunge us in the gulf again, 
                           And make us doubly wretched. 
                        
                      
                     TRAP'S ABRASMULE. 
                   
                
               THE next morning, Lily awoke from her slumbers, refreshed in body and mind. She had not experienced that mysterious change which many suppose produced instantaneously by the workings of religion, but finding herself in danger, she had instinctively fled to the arms of one all-powerful to protect. Therefore, with an imaginative mind in a highly excited state, every visible manifestation spoke eloquently to her soul. A little violet, growing within a hollow in one of the old mossy rocks, she plucked, and pressing it passionately to her bosom, cried: "How true is it, that the 'darkness of night brings out the stars!' Were I happy, this violet would pass unnoticed; now it seems a companion to me in my loneliness." She pushed aside the withered leaves in a corner of the cave, and watched the tender grass which had sprouted beneath their wintry covering. It seemed as if, for the first time, little young blades of thought and reflection were springing up amid the withered hopes of her own sorrowing heart. The most common things, which had hitherto passed unobserved, became objects of interest to her. 
               "How beautiful is this world," she exclaimed; "if we but keep our eyes and hearts open to observe its beauties!" 
               At length, with an amount of curiosity mingled with her intense anxiety, she approached Peg Sampson, who lay stretched out at the extreme end of the cave, enjoying a deep lethargic sleep. For a moment hope, colored by a shading of fear, revived her soul. "Ah," thought she, "the old woman is asleep, certainly. Can it be that escape is possible?" 
               Noiselessly and breathlessly she looked around her. Where was the entrance? she enquired. She saw no opening, save the little chink in the wall, through which the star of hope had descended into her soul. She examined closely the various rocks which seemed tumbled together in rough confusion to form this cave. At length, however, she espied a large stone, which had been drawn up before the mouth of the cave, and was confined by a small padlock. Cautiously she tried this padlock, hoping, by chance, it might have been left unsecured. But no such good fortune awaited her; the vigilance of Peg had tightly secured every possible means of escape. She breathed long and hard; her heart palpitated wildly; every moment, as it flew along, left an hour's memory engraven upon her heart. She looked around her; the key was probably about the person of the sleeping woman. Could she possibly obtain it, she enquired, without awaking the sleeper? Emboldened by hopes of escape, she walked fearlessly to the side of the old woman, who was still buried in a deep slumber. Placing her hand within Peg's pocket, she convulsively grasped a key. Was it the key? she thought, and with haste she neared the door with a trembling heart, and breathlessly she applied it to the lock, and to her delight saw the bolt yield to its pressure. 
               "Thank God!" she gasped. "Am I indeed free?" and ere she had spoken, another obstacle presented itself-she could not push the heavy stone one side. After many efforts, in which hope seemed to give her new strength, she succeeded in laying it upon the ground. With a heart now frantic with delight she rushed forth into the open air. 
               She was free! Hastily glancing around her, as if to decide which course she should pursue, she was about to plunge into the deep woods, when a bony hand clutched her firmly by the shoulders, and a fiendish voice exclaimed: "Ho, ho! you young vixen, thought you'd get out of my clutches, eh? Peg sleeps with one eye open. No trusting to my snores; guess we'll walk back to our old restin place, if you've done lookin around, and when I put that key in my pocket agin perhaps you'll git it. 
               Instantly a flood of sorrow extinguished the bright spark of hope which had arisen in Lily's heart, and following the old woman, she re-entered the cave. She leaned against the rocky wall and her eye sought the only place through which the light entered. In a moment her attention seemed riveted to the spot. She thought she heard the clattering of horses approaching, and she thought she beheld through the thick brush, two figures upon horseback. At length, after careful watching, she imagined she could discern the figure of Mr. Arnold, and in an agony of alternate hope and fear, she caught her handkerchief and waved it through the crevice. She saw them halt. "Oh, they have found me at length!" she cried, as she imagined she saw their heads follow her handkerchief, and the hope which had been dashed to the ground, beat high within her bosom; but as she saw them turn away, and ride slowly onward, she placed her head to the opening, and uttered a wild shriek. 
               "They 're coming," she cried aloud, "Uncle Joseph is coming to save me;" but in vain, the clattering of the horses' hoofs had drowned her feeble cries. With an agony of despair, she uttered one deep, piercing groan, and sank fainting to the ground. 
               "That's what she's got by her row," said Peg, roughly lifting her from the ground. "In a few minutes more they'd a heard her, and I should have found myself cooking a pretty kettle of fish. That crack will be shut up in double quick time, I reckon; and if we can't have a bit of air or light, why so be it." 
               Lily opened her eyes and looked despairingly around her. 
               "You satisfied now, young 'un, or do you think you'll keep at it? got out once, found your Uncle Joseph, and after all's said and done, you're here alone with me just as you was before you begun." 
               "In mercy, spare me those cruel words," cried Lily, who was sufficiently recovered to comprehend her utter failure. 
               "It is hard, that's a fact; "but you know I'm on duty, and can't help it." 
               Lily looked beseechingly into the old hag's face, and said: 
               "For the love of Heaven, let me go; I will never injure you, only let me go to my home; they will all miss me, and even at this moment are suffering more than I." 
               "Nothing should I like better than to let you go, child," replied Peg, momentarily softened. "But if I should, I'd lose my pay, and that's what I 'm working for. They won't miss you at home, child, not without you've got a mother, and maybe, if she's anyway natural, she will-" 
                
               "But Aunty Arnold, and Uncle Joseph, and Papa Seymour, oh it'll break their hearts." 
               "Don't you fear that; mind I tell you, there's no sich thing as love, except a mother's love. Don't I ought to know? Hain't I been through life? I thought I loved, when I was young like you. I was innocent and pretty, then, so people said; but I know I never loved anything but my child Maggie; and wasn't my heart made a fool of for love of that child? When God took her, I loved her so much, that I said, with my whole heart, 'Thank God, he's never grown up in this wicked world, for I never could a brought a child up as it ought to be, with my wicked heart, and I was happy to think if I must be lost, I had a child in heaven. Oh, it's a mother's love that's the highest; God's love I could better bear to be eternally grinding into shivers, than have my Maggie lost. That's the only thing that ever makes me think I'll try to be good, and lead a new life; but I'm too old now, and God can't look with any mercy upon such a wretch." 
               This love for her child was the only tender place in the poor, hardened woman's heart, and as she concluded talking, she folded her arms, and sat swaying to and fro, an object of the deepest commiseration. 
               A new thought entered the heart of Lily, who, in spite of her own sorrows, sympathized deeply with the poor wretch' before her. 
               "And what would you have done?" she enquired, "if your Maggie had been taken from you, and borne, you knew not whither, and your heart was left to conjecture the most horrible fate concerning her?" 
               "What would I have done?" replied Peg, fiercely, "I'd a hunted the whole earth over, and if I found the one who did the deed, I'd tear their warm heart from their body, and throw their carcass to the wolves." 
                
               "Then, if you have ever felt the tenderness of a mother's love, for the sake of the sweet memory of that love, restore me to my friends; do not let them mourn longer; take me back to them, and God will bless you." 
               A tear stood in the dull, gray eye of Peg, but quickly recovering from her emotion, she coldly shook her head. 
               "I cannot let you go now, child, though I wish I never'd lent a helpin' hand; there wa'nt no manner of use in it. It was a blind, mad scheme; just what George Bell told me. What the end'll be, I don't know, but I 'm sure 'tain't no pleasure for me to be keepin' you here, 'specially if you've got any one to mourn for you. When a thing touches my heart, it touches it, and I ve done one job afore this, that I wish I never'd put my hand to." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LXIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           But be not long, for in the tedious minutes 
                           Exquisite interval, I'm on the rack; 
                           For sure the greatest evil man can know, 
                           Bears no proportion to the dread suspense. 
                        
                      
                     FROWDE'S FALL OF SAGUNTUM. 
                   
                
               THE renaming hours of that day were spent by Lily in lonely watchings for the return of her uncle. "Would he pass that way? could she possibly inform him of her condition? would not God in his mercy, direct him to her place of secretion?" were a few of the many interrogations she put to her own heart. At times, cheering hope seemed to whisper, "you will be cared for," and then as the dim, gray twilight, drew its deepening shades around her, that feeling of hope too long deferred, made her faint heart tremble for the future. She again sought the Divine protection, and throwing herself upon her straw bed, passed the night, not in sweet refreshing slumbers, but in dark forebodings, in weary sobbings, and in agonizing doubts, and fears. At length the morning light shed a few feeble rays through small apertures in the wall, it was gladly welcomed by the worn-out child. Anything was preferable to her rather than this wild, cruel suspense. True to her word, Peg Sampson had closed the only window, lest Lily should betray them, as she had nearly done the previous day. The sun had sped but a short distance upon its journey, when an offensive smoke, accompanied by a crackling of fire, found its way to the cavern. 
               "La, what's this?" enquired Peg, removing the screening from the window; and peering forth, she beheld the woods behind them in flames. The smoke, caused by the burning of the pines, was dense and offensive, and the progress but slow, although the under brush, and dried leaves sent forth a brilliant flame. Peg, satisfying herself that no harm was lively to befall them, withdrew her head and again fastened the window. For hours, Lily sat, feeling sure by the crackling of the flames, that the fire was near them, but how great her danger, she was unable to ascertain. 
               "It cannot be that I am doomed to perish here," she said, addressing Peg, "else you would not remain with me. What, Oh, tell me, what is my destiny? Am I to be frightened until my reason forsakes me? I cannot much longer endure this horrid torture? Will God indeed leave me to perish? Tell me?" she cried, rushing to Peg, and frantically seizing her by the arm. "In the name of God, tell me what is my fate?" 
               "Don't worry so child," replied Peg, frightened by the fierceness of her manner, "You won't be harmed, I don't noways think, but you may as well keep quiet." 
               "Quiet," repeated Lily, closing tightly her delicate hands and walking to and fro through the cave. "Has Heaven no mercy? is there no God who rules above, only in name? Is your heart one solid block of ice, that you can see me die, and not lift a saving hand when it all lies in your power. No poor suppliant ever plead more humbly for mercy,' she continued, kneeling at the feet of the hardhearted woman. Not a muscle moved in the face of Peg to show that she even heard the piteous pleadings of poor Lily. 
               "But I must go," she cried, filled with desperation, "The smoke and fire are choking me. See, see, even those rocky walls are heated through and through. Let me go, I command you, if not, may the curses of Heaven fall upon you." 
               At this moment, a familiar voice said, "Peg." Peg hastened to the door, and unlocking the bolt, pushed back the heavy stone, and admitted a young man, who has before been introduced to the reader, as George Bell. 
               "Well, Peg, how are you?" he enquired familiarly, "And how comes on your protege?" 
               "Well enough," replied Peg, endeavoring to replace the stone. 
               "Don't fasten up that door again, there's no danger of any escape. Zounds, what a fire this is, can't be that it'll reach us, it heats up well, though." 
               "What have you come for this time?" enquired Peg. 
               "Why, ain't you about tired of staying in this place? thought I'd give you a little ride. I reckon by this time the search is about over. I must stop and rest, for I'm deuced tired." 
               "You've ben hazin' round, I suppose," enquired Peg. 
               "Yes, I've been pretty shy of people I assure you." The two cast shy glances at Lily, who stood by the opening, gazing intently upon the burning woods. 
               This fire was one of those that often smoulder for months, and then breaking forth burn for many days, until acre upon acre of woodland is stripped entirely naked. Upon the right of Lily, the entire woods were on fire, the curling flames ascended sparklingly and cracklingly upwards, followed by a dense, black smoke, which rose above the flame in heavy clouds. The heavens above, looked red and angry, and the close, suffocating atmosphere, caused Lily to hold her breath. Upon first looking forth, step by step, she observed the fire creeping slowly along, as now it twined its fiery tongue a-around around a dry twig, devouring it, and then stealthily stole on eating up at large mouths full the dried leaves, and withered grass. All of this time, she noticed that it was approaching the cave, still she seemed fascinated by the fiery monster, and watched earnestly its progress. 
               It crept gradually along, conveyed from bush to bush of the tangled brushwood. Lily stood breathlessly, gazing, until in a short time the entire cave was enveloped in one living sheet of flame. The heat was now becoming insupportable, and the smoke suffocating. George Bell approached the door, exclaiming, "I don't know whether we shall be able to stand this, though I think it's only cobwebby stuff that's burning, making more flame than heat. It will soon be over." 
               Both Peg and George Bell retired to the farther end of the cave. "Do you know Peg, that the girl's face seems familiar to me?" enquired Bell. "It looks like my mother's face, see, bright hair, blue eyes, and such a gentle expression. It's a curse to me in lending a helping hand against her, and God above knows I've repentend of it in dust and ashes." 
               "The old boy!" cried Peg, "she does look like your mother, though I hadn't thought of it before. It would be a joke if she should be a relation of your's. Didn't you say Emerson told you she hadn't no father and mother?" 
               "Yes; it's strange I should feel as conscience stricken as I do. If she's my mother's daughter, she'd naturally be my sister, wouldn't she?" 
               "I reckon so," replied Peg-but finding the heat intolerable, they were obliged to suspend their conversation, and opening the damp leaves buried their faces within them. The flames drew nearer and nearer, the heat becoming so intense that the hand could hardly be borne upon the rocky walls, still at the open mouth of this cavern, stood Lily looking wildly into the flames which rolled in huge pillars upwards and died away, then fanned by a north wind, again rose fiercer and higher than before. 
               Her long golden hair lay damp upon her shoulders. Her face was blanched to the whiteness of marble, her blue eyes were brilliantly clear and her slight form seemed rigidly erect. She appeared only to see the flames before her. If she could endure the warmth from the walls, until, as George Bell had said, the rubbish should be consumed she was saved, at least from being burned, but did not a more, terrible fate await her he enquired of herself. She seemed to take a wild delight in the contemplation of approaching death. At times a strong desire to plunge into the flames seized her heart so strongly that she could hardly resist the call, but a love of life which clings tenaciously to the heart of man, withheld her from committing the sin. She had no hope of escape, she knew, that her fate was sealed with the entrance of the strange man. Delivering herself up to the most gloomy despair, she stood with folded arms calmly awaiting her fate. All at once her eye in following the fire, was led in the direction of the road, and through its changeful flickerings she momentarily thought she could discern a moving figure. Was it a delusion, or could she in reality see a human being. Had God at length answered her prayers? was there still mercy in those Heavens? She bent her form downwards and saw distinctly not only one, but two moving bodies. Faint at heart, by thoughts of her failure in making herself known the preceding morning, she hesitated a moment, as if she would decide upon the best method. Deep, agonizing thoughts rose in rapid succession within her bosom. Oh, if she should fail, and salvation just within her reach. She essayed to shriek, but the emotions of her heart choked her utterance. She stretched forth her hands imploringly, but the flames only danced along merrily, as if mocking her in her misery. At length, summoning all of her mental and physical strength for the act, she succeeded in uttering one deep, piercing cry, which echoed, and rechoed throughout the woods. 
               "Good Heavens," cried one of the persons whom Lily had seen. "Look there, Mr. Arnold," and he pointed to the figure of Lily, who, with out-stretched arms, seemed to rise up from the middle of the charmed circle. 
               "Who is it?" cried Mr. Arnold, "what can we do?" 
               "Save her, in the name of God save her! she's a woman," cried Herbert Seymour. 
               "But the flames form a circle, how can we get at her?" 
               "Dash through them," replied Herbert, and as he was about rashly plunging into the fire, Mr. Arnold, seizing him by the coat, cried, "Run for your life, git me that long branch there," pointing to a pole some eight or ten feet in length, "and we can clear away the brush and make a path." 
               Quicker than thought, the two men were working with all their strength; at every movement the flames gathered new fury, and they were about giving up in despair, when a fresh shriek rose upon the air. With redoubled zeal they worked on, until at length Herbert, with the courage of a young man, rushed to the mouth of the cave, and bearing the fainting girl through the path, placed her unhurt by the road-side. Uncle Joseph came to his side. 
               "Gracious Heavens! do my eyes deceive me? It's our Lily, our Lily, we've saved," and with exultant shouts of joy he clasped his hands, and falling upon his knees, poured forth a prayer to Heaven, in which were mingled, sobs, and tears, and laughter, and cheerings, and words of thanksgiving and praise. 
               Herbert's heart was too full for utterance. He bore the delicate flower to a rippling stream near by, and pressing her convulsively to his heart, as if fearful she might by some chance be wrested from him, he laved her pale brow in the cooling water. In the in-tensest agony of soul he hung over her, he called upon her name over and over again, he kissed her fair cheek, he breathed the fondest words of love into heir ear, entreated her to speak to him. 
               He watched the convulsive twitchings of the delicate blue veins which were traced upon her eyelids, and then as he saw signs of returning consciousness, he called Mr. Arnold to him and consigned Lily to his charge. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LXIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           When gratitude o'erflows the swelling heart, 
                           And breathes in free and uncorrupted praise 
                           For benefits received; propitious heaven 
                           Takes such acknowledgment as fragrant insense, 
                           And doubles all its blessings. 
                        
                      
                     SILLO'S ELMERICK. 
                   
                
               LARGE tear-drops fell in torrents from the eyes of Uncle Joseph, as he held the unconscious girl within his arms, bestowing upon her the most tender epithets, and smoothing her hair with his large, rough hand. 
               "There, there," he said, soothingly, as though Lily comprehended his words, and required sympathy. "May sleep, pretty Lily-had a hard time, poor child-won't trust her out of sight again to get run-off with. It was dreadful, wa'nt it. Seems if your little heart's about broken, else you would n't have had such an old expression come over your face in these few days." And as he saw Lily slowly unclose her eyes, he said: 
               "It's Uncle Joe, Lily, going to carry baby home to aunty, and papa Seymour, and Herbert." 
               Lily gazed vacantly around her, and reclosing her eyes, sighed wearily. After a few struggles she looked up, faintly murmuring "Uncle Joseph." 
                
               "Thank God, you can say that word again. It's the blessedest thing I've heard for many a day. Your old uncle did n't know that he'd ever set eyes on Lily again. The Lord is good. I told your Aunty he'd never forsake us if we didn't him. There, child, don't try to speak now; your'e dreadful weak; but you feel better, don't you, dear? Want a drop more water, on your forehead? It's dreadful hot, as if you'd got a raging fever-don't wonder, you've had a hard time." 
               Thus Mr. Arnold, filled with joy and sympathy, ran on for some time, while Herbert, with sensitive delicacy, withdrew from sight. 
               "Want to see Herbert, Lily?" enquired Mr. Arnold at length. 
               "Herbert! is he here?" said Lily, raising her head, which had reclined upon Mr. Arnold's shoulder. 
               "Yes, he's here. If it wan't for him, you might have been burned up in that fire yonder. Here, Herbert, Lily wants to see you." 
               Herbert approached Lily, who held out her hand to welcome him. 
               "Dear Herbert," she said, feebly pressing his hand, "I'm so faint it does n't seem as though I could speak; but how you have changed since I saw you last." And a slight blush over-spread her pale cheek, as she encountered the earnest gaze of the young man. 
               "Do not talk now, dear Lily," replied Herbert, drawing her towards him, "we are only too happy to have found you." 
               A few moments elapsed, in which arrangements were made for their departure to their home. Lily hurriedly explained the circumstances of her capture, while Herbert, summoning him who was standing by the horse, together they made their way to the cave from which the flames had by this time receded. 
               With some difficulty and not a little danger they succeeded in capturing George Bell and Peg Sampson, and with them started for their home. 
               The joy of Mrs. Arnold knew no bounds, as she saw her husband approaching the house. With overflowing eyes she ran to meet him, and folding Lily in her arms, wept tears of gladness and thanksgiving. 
               But a still greater joy was in store for her. She, who for years had submissively, aye, cheerfully, bent beneath the heavy dispensations of Providence, was about to receive her reward. 
               "Peg," said George Bell, as he dismounted from the wagon, "do you know that girl?" 
               "No. How should I?" enquired Peg. 
               "She's my sister," replied George Bell. 
               "How do you know it?" 
               "I had my suspicions in the cave, and as she just raised her arm I saw as plain as day an anchor upon her wrist, that I made years ago, when we went to school together. See," he continued, baring his own wrist, and displaying to Peg's wondering vision, a small anchor that had been prematurely dried in the skin. 
               "And that woman is your mother," cried Peg, as she had a full view of Mrs. Arnold, and hiding her face from sight, as she exclaimed, oh! why will not the rocks fall down and cover me so that I need not meet a woman I have so wronged." 
               In a moment, George Bell's decision was made, and stepping boldly before Mrs. Arnold, he said: 
               "Suppose that you should behold before you a young man, who was taken from his mother's arms in childhood. Suppose this child had been cast upon the tender mercies of a cold world, and that circumstances, rather than inclination, had compelled him to lead a sinful life. If his mother was living, would she receive him to her arms, with all his sins, if he was penitent? Could her pure heart ever acknowledge the erring one as her child?" 
               There is no sin so black that a mother's heart may not forgive and forget. My son! oh! my long lost son!" In a moment, the mother and son were clasped in each other's arms, and torrents of tears and blessings poured forth from Mrs. Arnold's heart, upon the head of her penitent son, as if she would, by the baptism of a mother's love, wash away all traces of evil from his heart. Mr. Arnold, Herbert and Lily, stood by, looking on in blank astonishment, while the thin form of Peg Sampson was bowed to the ground in anguish. 
               "Oh yes," murmured poor Peg, "it's a mother's love'll forgive everything, but who will there be to forgive me my sin? I can't meet that woman; oh, if I could only die!" 
               Over and over again Mrs. Arnold pressed her son to her heart; she wept, and laughed, and then she mingled words of praise to Heaven. "My husband," she at length said, approaching Mr. Arnold, "this is my son, my darling son." 
               "By Jimmy, is it?" he replied, without evincing any emotion of joy; adding, by way of information, "I should think better of your son, if he hadn't palmed himself off as George Taylor, and carried away my Lily." 
               "Oh, will you not forgive him?" cried Mrs. Arnold, weeping bitterly. "Did not Christ forgive the poor thief upon the cross? Does he not say, forgive seventy and seven times? Oh! a mother's love can forgive twice seventy and seven times." 
               "I was wrong, wife; my wicked heart rose up, then, in rebellion. Give me your hand, my boy, and if you'll do your duty in future, I'll be a father to you; 'let by-gones be by-gones.' Jimmy, we'll try and be haggy now, and do as they did in old Bible times,-kill the fatted calf, for this our son, who was lost, and is found. Wife, I'm rejoiced; you'll forgive my wicked heart, won't you?" and Mr. Arnold, with a tear standing in his eye, drew his wife towards him, and imprinted a kiss upon her brow. A murmured blessing rose from the heart of Mrs. Arnold upon the good man who had thus far blessed her life. 
               "And mother! mother! my sister!" said George Bell, when she had ceased speaking. 
               "What of her, my son?" cried Mrs. Arnold, eagerly; "where is she? is she dead? Oh, speak! tell me of my gentle girl!" 
               "She stands before you," replied George Bell. 
               "Where? where?" said Mrs. Arnold, whose eye for the first time caught sight of the bowed form of Peg. 
               "There!" he replied, pointing to Lily. 
               "Lily? my Lily? is this true, or am I dreaming? Oh, do not say this, if you are not very sure of it. Can it be that God is so good to one who so little deserves His mercies?" 
               Lily sank into her mother's arms. "My mother!" was all that in the fulness of her heart she could utter; but those few words were laden with delight to the hitherto lonely mother's heart. 
               "Lily, you beauty you, come to me," cried Mr. Arnold, literally dancing with joy. Lily sprang to Mr. Arnold's arms. 
               "Father!" she murmured. 
               "Bless your little heart for that; it's sweeter than Uncle Joe," sobbed Mr. Arnold, burying his huge, shiny face in the curls of her hair. "I never thought I'd live to see such a day. God bless you, my child; d'ye hear me, bless you? God's name be praised, I say, for His goodness. If He hides His smiling face behind the clouds, sometimes, it's only to shine out the brighter again. Your mother had faith that we should live to see this day; she prayed for it. Oh, don't tell me that the prayers of the righteous avail nothing; that'll do for poor, feeble man to say, but God gathers them all up, yes, he does. And all the tears your mother shed, God saw, and they were blessed. Oh, God is good, Lily. Bless His name, I say, and let every living thing bless His glorious name." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LXV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Depth of mercy! can there be 
                           Mercy still reserved for me? 
                           Can my God his wrath forbear, 
                           And the chief of sinners spare? 
                        
                      
                     CHARLES WESLEY. 
                   
                
               "Tell me, my son, how you discovered that you were my son," said Mrs. Arnold, after the first paroxysms of delight were past. 
               "This poor woman will tell you," replied George, leading Peg towards her. 
               Poor Peg stood with a bowed head and weeping eyes, before the woman she had so greatly injured. "Dear, dear," she at length said, falling upon her knees at Mrs. Arnold's feet. "I'm the greatest sinner that ever lived, and maybe, when you've heard my story you'll curse me, and then God'll curse me-and, oh, dear, I shall die and go to hell, and my poor little Maggie'll be in heaven alone, and when I see you so happy with your child, my heart's breaking. Oh! this is dreadful!" 
               "Though your sins be as scarlet, yet the blood of Christ can wash them white as snow. Poor woman, I will not curse you. Your own deeds have done that." 
               "That's true, Mrs. Arnold. Oh! I've never felt right till this day, because I lent a helpin' hand to it, and now I'd ruther tell it right out, than to die with the sin on my soul. I've got sins enough to send me to hell without that. Don't you remember me, maam?" 
               Mrs. Arnold looked earnestly into the face of the poor creature before her. 
               "I cannot call your name, though your face is familiar," she replied. 
               "I'm Margaret Clark." 
               "Margaret Clark!" cried Mrs. Arnold in astonishment, and as she repeated the name to herself, she seemed to comprehend the whole story. 
               "You know," continued Peg, "that I was thought to be putty in my day, but I was curious, and never liked you because you got Mr. Bell away from me, and married him, though you warn't to blame, and my wicked heart swore it would have revenge. And when you had one little child, unbeknown to you, I poisoned your husband's mind against you, but I thought I'd wait and get all I could from you. So after your Lily was born, and about three years old, I jest got your husband to steal the children from you, and I hid 'em for him, and he carried Lily to New York with him, and I went to Boston with George, and after awhile I had a little baby of my own, and I called it Maggie. And it pleeasd God to take my Maggie from me, and she was all I had to keep me from being a savage. Oh! I knew what a mother's love was then, and I thought what you must have felt when your children were stolen from you, and I knew that God was punishing me, and I couldn't open my mouth. Oh! those were dreadful days to me, Mrs. Arnold. My sins rose up in clouds to hide all my good feelings. I couldn't take any of the promises that God gives to his children, when I see my Maggie layin' cold and dead like waxwork before me, for I was one of the Devil's children, so I drowned my feelings in deeper sin; but there was allers a tender spot in my heart that nothin' couldn't touch except somethin' good. Mrs. Arnold, I'm a poor, miserable wretch, and you'll curse me; God has cursed me, and I'm only waiting to die and receive my reward-there'll be a pleasure in being punished, I've deserved it so." 
               The poor woman ceased speaking. A low sob came from the heart as well as lips of Peg. 
               "Poor Margaret," said Mrs. Arnold, laying her hand lovingly upon her head, instead of shrinking from her. "God will forgive you, and you may yet be fitted to go to your little Maggie in heaven." 
               "Don't say 'Poor Margaret' to me; you'll kill me. Oh, curse me for I can bear that; I'm used to it; but poor Margaret, and from one I've injured so! Why ain't you angry with me? Why don't you turn me from your door, kick me, tear my hair? but do not say 'Poor Margaret.' Oh, nobody's said such a word to me this long day." A succession of sobs caused her to cease speaking. 
               "Margaret," said Mrs. Arnold, my son came to me sinful and penitent. Could I turn him from me? Were not my arms open to receive him, even though he had injured me all of his life? Should I be following the example of my blessed Saviour, if I had not forgiven him? Oh, Margaret, I forgive and pity you, and will do anything for you to lead you back to God. Let me help you, then; let me say poor Margaret, for my heart bleeds for you." 
               "Oh, Mrs. Arnold, what kindness this is, when I've been making all of your life unhappy! Is this Christian forgiveness that I've heard so much about? If God forgives as you've forgiven, may be I'll get to heaven and Maggie yet." 
               "God's forgiveness, my poor friend, differs from our's in such a manner that we can make but slight claims to it. He will wipe away all your sins from you, and never remember, or bring them up against you again. He will forgive you; come to him, and no matter what your transgressions may have been, they will be blotted out and forever." 
               "Oh, that sounds sweet to me. Maybe I'll try, and if some one'll push me along, perhaps I'll hit heaven, and miss hell at last." 
               The poor woman buried her face in her hands and wept in the deepest 'agony, which was, however, alleviated by the kindness of Mrs. Arnold. 
               At length, Mrs. Arnold, turning to her children, said: "Oh, I cannot even now realize that these are my long-lost children. George, you could not, would not deceive me?" 
               "I think there is no doubt about Lily's being your child," said Herbert Seymour, approaching Mrs. Arnold. "Lily was adopted by my father when she was a little child. We found her in the family of John Brown, who found her alone in the streets of New York. Her name was Lily Bell, as she stated at the time, but upon my father's adopting her, she received our family name of Seymour. My father has always spoken of her as his child, and many years having passed since you saw her, it was no wonder that when she came to you that you should not recognize in her your daughter." 
               "And you, my son, where have you been all of this time?" enquired Mrs. Arnold, clasping his hand within her own. 
               "Mother," replied the poor boy, sorrowfully and feebly, "my life has been marked with deep sin, without one bright spot to take away the shame." 
               "There's no sin, my child, which may not be blotted out by true repentance and confession." 
               "Come, my boy, give me your hand," said Mr. Arnold, and tell your life. Be it ever so black, you'll find two human hearts ready to forgive, and the Great Heart on high more ready; still, you'll never be happy till there's an understanding, and there are some points I can't see through, that I want cleared up." 
               George Bell began: "As you know, I was taken from you, when very young, and carried to Boston. In the deepest haunts of vice I remained for some time, and until a benevolent man, taking pity upon me, placed me as an errand boy in a good store. I rose from this to a clerk, and was getting along well, when by chance I met William Emerson, better known to you as Allain Eustace." 
               "Good Heavens," cried Herbert, grasping the back of the speaker's chair, as if he would hurl him from it. "Were you, then, leagued against a delicate girl?" 
               "By Jimmy," said Mr. Arnold, starting; "was that our Allain Eustace? Why, I thought he was about perfect." 
               Mrs. Arnold's eyes filled with tears, while Lily sat pale and motionless as a statue. 
               "The very same Eustace," replied George Bell. "Unfortunately, I became entangled in his toils. He used me as a tool, and I, anxious for the living his employment afforded me, became too willing a subject; and, by the way, let me state that Allain Eustace is the most cunningly deceitful man I have ever met. He goes around among his own class, which is high-clothed in the robes of sanctity. He is a great reformer, one of the prime movers in Abolitionism, zealous in all moral reforms, and disbelieves the Bible. This is his one side; upon the other, he is black to the very core." 
               "That's what comes of disbelievin' the Bible," said Mr. Arnold, "though I never should 'a thought of mistrusting that man, never; I declare, it grieves me; I feel sorry for him, I do. Somehow, I never can get used to this deceivin'; the Lord have mercy upon the world, if such men are allowed to go around, free, to carry out their dreadful principles; but go on, George." 
                
               "It was at a sore time for me that Emerson found me, and gained my consent to bear Lily Seymour, as he called her, from her home. He was at the time upon the brink of bankruptcy; his evil deeds were fast finding him out, and fearing Lily's influence, together with her friends, he hit upon this plan of freeing himself. His wife, also, having found Lily's correspondence, threatened him, and in a moment of desperation, he hired me to bear her from her home. The termination, you are acquainted with. I can never hope that my sister will forgive and acknowledge me as a brother; my crime is too black." 
               Poor Lily, worn out mentally and bodily, was about to speak for herself, when a sudden dizziness seized her, and she would have fallen to the ground, had not the extended arm of Herbert prevented her. 
               "We should have foreseen this," said Herbert, impatiently; "her mind has suffered already too much to allow of farther taxation." 
               "By Jimmy," said Mr. Arnold, "why didn't we use common sense with the child; it will take her many a day to get over this." 
               "My darling child," cried Mrs. Arnold, taking her in her arms and with the assistance of Mr. Arnold, they bore her to her room. 
               During the interview, Tempy had been standing, unobserved, peering upon the group, through a partly opened door, and upon this termination of affairs, she took herself off to communicate the news to Miss Sally Dobson, while Jim, who had also been a spectator, brushed a tear from his eye with his rough knuckle, closed his mouth, which, in his eagerness and astonishment he had opened, and went off to the barn, whistling, with especial reference to the afternoon's adventure, 
                      
                        "We chased the devil out of his den, 
                        So glory, Hallelujah." 
                     
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LXVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           From the sad years of life 
                           We sometimes do short hours, yea, minutes strike, 
                           Keen, blissful, bright, never to be forgotten; 
                           Which, through the dreary gloom of time o'erpast, 
                           Shine like fair, sunny spots in a wild waste. 
                        
                      
                     JOANNA BAYLIE'S DEMONTFORD. 
                   
                
               MR. SEYMOUR returned that night, having gained no intelligence of Mr. Eustace, but in a few moments was made fully aware of the state of affairs. Mr. Arnold's dwelling was that night made the temple of devout and soul-melting prayers of thanksgiving; even Poor Peg offered, in broken language, "God be merciful to me a sinner!" 
               Herbert alone seemed sad and disconsolate. He had found Lily, but she, by a strange chance, was claimed by others, and his sensitive spirit felt that he must deliver her up to the tender care of strangers, at least to himself. 
               No one but his father dreamed of the devotion he felt for his foster-sister, and never had he felt so utterly the entire waste of his affections. 
               The morning light found Lily tossing on a bed of pain and sickness. The intense mental excitement through which she had passed induced a severe brain-fever. For days and nights, Mrs. Arnold hung, in the deepest agony, over the bedside of her newly-found child, while Herbert, with dimmed eyes, and restless steps, wandered over the house, utterly miserable, hour by hour watching by the side of her door. He asked of all who passed the probable result of her sickness. He wrung his hands in silence, but with bitter heart-groans, and at length, as the physician pronounced her free from danger, he wept scalding tears of joy. 
               Slowly, very slowly, Lily recovered. Nothing could equal the childish joy and thankfulness of Uncle Joseph, which found vent in laughs, tears, and prayers, alternately. Herbert now became her constant companion; upon him she leaned for support, as she lingered, looking upon the lovely sunset scene. 
               He read to her, conversed with her, attended to all of her wants, with almost a mother's solicitude and watchfulness, and Lily had learned to watch for his return, if he by chance was absent a moment from her side. Not a word escaped Lily in regard to Eustace. With the knowledge of his unworthiness, seemed to have passed away all her cherished hopes, and still she was not despairing; how could she be, surrounded as she was by dear, kind friends. 
               One evening, at twilight, during her convalescence, she was reclining upon a lounge, for her strength was not yet re-established. Her blue cashmere morning dress fell in graceful drapery around her, contrasting beautifully with the pearly whiteness of her complexion, and the sunny curls which shaded her brow. 
               "Come and sit beside me, dear Herbert," she said, "Let us have one of our nice little chats." 
               Herbert needed no second bidding, and hastening to her side, passed his arm gently around her, to support her in her weakness, saying sadly, "Dear Lily?" 
               "Why, Herbert, how sad you are," remarked Lily, gazing affectionately into his face. 
                
               "Why should I not be, Lily, when I must leave you on the morrow, I fear." 
               "You cannot be thinking of going to New York to-morrow?" said Lily, evidently distressed. 
               "But I must, Lily dear; you are so well that I am relieved of the anxiety I should have felt concerning you." 
               "And who shall I have to take such good care of me? Mamma is so busy now, you are my only devoted nurse. Ah, Herbert," she said, hiding her face upon his shoulder, "I can't have you go." 
               "Ah, Lily, would that I could believe what you say," replied the young man, doubtfully, shaking his head. "You will not miss me." 
               "Oh, but I shall, Herbert. I can't consent to your leaving me, and how ungallant it would be for you to run away." 
               "It would not be ungallant for me to run away from my sister; if you were my 'ladie love,' for instance, that would be a different thing." 
               Lily blushed, and Herbert, taking advantage of the head which reclined upon his shoulder, whispered into her ear a declaration which had hitherto been a profound secret save to his own heart. 
               The declaration and the reply were too sacredly confidential to be repeated to a third party. But just as Herbert was saying, "Lily, this seems to me like a lovely fairy dream," Mr. Seymour entered the room, accompanied by Miss Lydia White. 
               "My son, let me have the pleasure of introducing you to Miss White, of whom you have heard me speak." There was no necessity of adding, that this same Miss White was the first and only true love of Mr. Seymour's heart, and that they had thus been opportunely thrown together, and also that he had discerned (how such things do let themselves out,) that Lydia had preserved her young heart for him until the present time. 
                
               A happier group were never found. Lily was delighted that her dear Miss White loved her papa Seymour, and Herbert was delighted to know that Lily loved him. Mr. Seymour and Lydia White Herbert and Lily, were, in due time, united. Lydia, by her mild and lovely Christian character, through God, won Mr. Seymour to walk in the ways of Truth and the Life; while Lily, deeply impressed with the dangers of disbelieving the Word of God, sought the paths of truth, with an humble, truthful heart, and agreeably to the promise given, "that those who seek shall find," has long since found, peace in believing; and although there are many mysteries contained in the Bible, which she is unable to penetrate, she feels sure they are none the less truths. Her life is now as beautiful and happy as a lovely summer's dream, and she feels that if there was more romance in her first love, there never could have been as much real happiness as she now enjoys. 
               George Bell's repentance proved sincere, and he is now a truly useful man. He chose to remain with his parents, and labors with his father, Mr. Arnold, upon his farm. 
               Peg Sampson, impressed with the magnitude of Mrs. Arnold's forgiveness, hastened to seek pardon from on high, and has since gone, we trust, to heaven and Maggie. 
               John Brown and his wife, the first unselfish protectors of Lily in her orphanhood, were suitably rewarded by Mr. Arnold. 
               Allain Eustace, found, to his sorrow, that he who guideth not his life by the rules contained in the Holy Bible, shall be brought to naught. A few years of sin rolled ever his head, and by his own hand his miserable existence was terminated. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Arnold are in the autumn of life; peace, and plenty, and quiet happiness, crown their days. Mr. Arnold declares even now, that it was only the perfect faith of Mrs. Arnold that led that Lord to restore her lost children. 
                
               Good Pastor White's departure from the world was calm and beautiful as the sinking of the summer's sun behind the western hills, with golden promise of a glorious rising to the splendors of Eternal day. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
