
    ----CITATION----
        Huet, M. M.. Kit Clayton, or, The Hero of the Road .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6834
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Kit Clayton, or, The hero of the road
             
                T CLAYTON; OR  THE HERO OF THE ROAD.   BY THE AUTHOR OF  THE BUCCANEER; OR, THE IIISTORY OF THE FREEBOOTERS OF THE ANTILLES,"         i S, THE PIRATE; OR, THE FREEBOOTERS OF TIIE PACIFIC," "TIIE SEVEN  TIIERS OF WYOMNG; OR, THE BRIGANDS OF THE REVOLUTION,"                i "FE OF ALEXANDER TARDY, TIIE POISONER; OR, PIRATE  CHEF OF ST. \DOMNGO," "SILVER AND PEWTER; OR, THE CONTRASTS OF NEW YORK LIFE," ETC., ETC. Ventures of KIT CLAYTON, the celebrated English highwayman, now published for the first ss in interest, exciting incidents and deeds of gallant daring, those of any of his prede. use of Jack Rann-the celebrated 'Sixteen-Stringed Jack'--not excepted. All the numerous his peculiarly exciting and popular literature, who have laughed, and wept, and extolled varied fortunes of these romantic heroes of the road, will peruse the adventures of Kit th redoubled zest-for there is no doubt that he was in every respect the most gallant n of his time, and as his adventures abundantly testify, every inch the ' ladies' man.'" 2. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, 306 CHESTNUT STREET.         CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. The Swell Mobman's Crib-Sentimentality, hospitality, and joviality-A young lady's ballad, and unexpected entry ............ ............. S CHAPTER II. A Scene at the Cock and Magpie....... .....    ... **  .     10 CHAPTER III: Attempted Rescue-Kit finds that a wise head is sometimes better than a strong hand-The Fight-The Victory ..........................    1 CHAPTER IV. Our hero starts upon a pleasant journey, but in exercising a little professional eccentricity, meets with a rebuff. and an adventure upon which he had not calculated ...-.....    ......   ...   ...... ..- .  20 CHAPTER V. Kit's Plans proceed-A Robberv-Jared's Ride ........................ 33 CHAPTER VI.' Sheppard's Ride...... .....-      ........     ..'.    . 42 CHAPTER VII. A Visit-A Bit of Chat-Capture of our Hero   ,....., .............   52 CHAPTER VIII. Kit's committal for Trial-A Scene in Court-Visits in Newgate-An Escape .-  ..   .....5.......................   ........... 56 CHAPTER IX. The Lady Visitor-The Escape-The Pursuit-A Tragedy.....     ..... 6a CHAPTER X. Kit among the Gypsies-Finds a horse that compensates him for the tempo- rary loss of Old Sue-Treachery again an anecdote of what led to it -A Race for Life .............    6.......................   6 CHAPTER XI. Consultation of the Gang-the determination-the fire-the victim.....  74 CHAPTER XII. Miss Duncan finds a lover, who is nevertheless not exactly to her mind, and our hero finds an opportunity of exerting his gallantry, from the conse- quences of which he involves himself in an awkward dilemma.*..... 81 CHAPTER XIII. The escort home-Congratulations-The Surprise-The Flight-A leap into the Thames  .....................  ..             97      KIT CLAYTON: OR, THE HERO OF THE ROAD. CHAPTER I. The Swh Mobman's Crib-Sentimentality, hospitality, and joviality-A young lady's ballad, and an unexpected entry. ONE of the most noted places of resort for thieves in London, during the latter half of *the last century, was the "Cock and Magpie" tavern, with its quaint, old-fashioned gables and bay windows jutting over the pavement below,.and threatening the heads of all passers underneath with its unpleasant proximity. The sign itself-lately revived, by the way, in fresher colors-was emblematical of the high-spiced toby-men who fre- quented the place, chanticleer betokening one of the principal instruments used in burglary-the crow-bar-and the magpie indicating the freedom with which talking was indulged in by the parties present. But it is not with the exterior of the house that we have on the present occasion aught to do-our business is to glance into' the interior; and here we might find  enough to employ our pen in depicting; but not wishing to exhaust our readers' patience, or our own powers upon objects irrelevant to the interest of our tale, we shall at once introduce them to the particular apartment in which the chief characters will be found.  In the centre of a long room, illuminated by dingy oil-lamps, and shrouded in tobacco-smoke, the redolent fumes arising from which blended most unfragrantly with the reeking steam of gin and water and other liquors, stretched athwart the apartment a long greasy table, covered with broken glasses and fragmentary pipes, and surrounded by several person- ages who will hereafter have to play not unimportant parts in our history. At the further end, and officiating as chairman, was an elongated specimen of humanity, with a pipe of corresponding longitudinal dimensions inserted between his thick, lips. The real name of this singular being was un- known; but his appropriate title of "Long Jemmy" served to distinguish him from the rest of his pals. . At his side were some of the most noto.     6a            KIT CLAYTON, rios3 cracksmen of the period, busily engaged in fathoming the depth of sundry glasses of purl and tankards of hot ale that smoked along the board; nor was the presence of the weaker sex wanting to complete the social aspect of the place-for, edged in between the male portion of the visitors were some particularly sinister-looking damsels, bedecked in flaunting caps and ribbons, who accompanied the utterance of each sen- tence with an illustrative laugh or a contraction of the dexter eye-lid, which a casual visitor might have had the impoliteness to denominate--a wink. "Kim  up yer varmints," breathed forth the lanky chairman at the further end. "Stash business for the nonce; and let's have a song; I'm a sticker up for humanity, and I hates to have a man continually a talkin' of knockin' people on the head. It's uncommonly unpleasant, to say the least of it. So come, Nan, flare up and rig your roarers." After a great deal of hesitation, this polite call was responded to by one Miss Nancy Brown, a young lady, tastefully clad in a sky-blue scarf, a pink cotton dress, and with a gentleman's hat, facetiously usurping the place of her own beaver bonnet, (which, for want, doubtless, of a peg, had been hung upon the wiry head of "Long Jemmy,") " obliged " the com- pany with a song, which, as an illustration of the sentimental style of ballad-singing, then so much in vogue at that period, we have given entire. An extemporaneous prelude on the bowl of a tobacco pipe, played by the teeth of "Long Jemmy," having received the unanimous applause of the company assembled, Miss Nancy Brown warbled forth the following ditty, to a tune somewhat similar to the one so immortalized nearly a century afterwards, by Tom Moore, under the title of "The lass I've left behind me." From prigs that squabble the prancer's strong, To you of the peter-lay, O, I pray now listen awhile to my song, How my bowman he snivelled away, O, How he broke off all the dubbs in the whitt, And chivied the darbies in twain, 0; But through filing of a rumbo-kit, My lovyer is gabbled again, 0. With his ran diddle dan, oh! he was the man, With his quips and cranks so leary; And he von me o'er with his ran dan dan,  To be 1, only deary. My first love he - s a prancing cove, "And he tipped ihe ogles roundly, And a fighting chap was my second love, And he vhopped my first one soundly; My third lie vos a Beef-eater, As tough as any leather- So he set to vork and he pummelled the pair, Till he vhopped 'em both together. With his ran diddle, &c. So now I'm on the boozing rig, As I dare say you suppose it, I duzzn't mind the beaks a fig, And I duzzn't care who knows it;   THE HERO OF THE ROAD. For I am the gal for a fake and a cly, And I lush till the dew is falling; To every move on the board I'm fly, And I'm not above my calling. Singing ran diddle, Oh! Snooks voe the man, With his quips and cranks so leary; And he von me o'er with his ran dan dan, To be his only deary. Which qualification Mr. Snooks possessed, that was alluded to by Miss Nancy Brown, under the title of his "ran dan dan," we cannot possibly conjecture; and doubtless a metaphysical discussion on this subject would have immediately arisen, had not three significant knocks at that instant been given at the door; and in another instant Kit Clayton stood in the midst of the assembly. A loud shout of triumph followed our hero's recognition, for he was looked up to by his brother highwaymen like a god. The conversation from being personal became strictly of a professional nature. Speaking of the badness of trade in general- "It's perfectly heart-breaking!" said a thin gaunt-looking fellow with one eye, and who rejoiced in the appellation of "One-Peeper-Tom." "They von't give us a chance. Ve've been so long in the beat that they knows the very cut of our little fingers, and watches us like cats does warmint.' "Yes," said another, "and if we Jo get a spicy young hand to assist in reviving trade, the beaks won't give him the fair swing that was allowed to. the old 'uns of the 'way, for they ndils him at once, and gets him scragg'd as soon as possible, for the sake of his blood-money." "Ah! the hevils of havarice!" interjected One-Peeper-Tom.  "It renders people quite dishonorable. One of the old runners would have scorned such baseness, and ne'er thought o' giving a beginner less than three years, for fear of intimidating him." "Well, catch as catch can," cried a handsome and somewhat foppish member of the junta, whose singing qualities had gained for him the name of "Chirruping Charlie." "I'm a believer in fate, and will hazard all chances. He must have a tight grasp that would hold so slippery an eel as myself; and if I am to show my pluck on the scaffold, I'll die game, with the words of the old song in my mouth:- What matters a death like this to me? Luddi, fuddi! Ah, poor Luddi, heigho! What matters a death like this to me? Why, it is but a leap from a leafless tree, Luddi, fuddi! Ah, poor Luddi, heigho! "Neat ditty that, but somewhat of an unhappy theme to practice upon," said Clayton, "but, however, there is pluck at its basis. Well, Charlie, my chirruper, what are you doing?" "Just precisely nothing," answered the Chirruper; "how fares busi- ness with you, Kit," which was the technical term by which he was known to the prigs of London-     KIT CLAYTON, "Oh! bobbish-like; me and my friends have been doing pretty tidy pickings here lately; but, hallo! as I live here is my old friend Jared Steele, the gypsey-how are you, old fellow?" and Clayton advanced with outstretched palm to greet his old pal. While this pair of worthies remained in conversation, our hero, nudging One-Peeper-Tom, who sat beside him, enquired who that Jared Steele was. "A tobyman of the first water-a stunner, every inch of him-and Faithful in nature as in name-he is as true as steel itself. I'll tell you a rare anecdote of those two fellows," pointing to Clayton and Steele-  : "Let us have it. I'm all attention," said Kit.  "Here goes, then," said Tom, taking a pull at the tankard:       One evening, as those two cracksmen were taking a range, they were accosted by a country joskin of a fellow, near Pall-mall, who, taking thenm i for a pair of country nobs, thus accosted them:-  "I say, measters, ye'll excuse me, but as I always likes to ax respectable  persons about my affairs, I jist want to ax you where I can get a comfort.  able and decent lodging to-night. There be so many thieves and vaga- bonds in this ere 'nation great town, that I be afeard to ax some people, lest I be robbed. Feyther told I, when I left home, to take great care of my money, eh, eh, and so I means to; danged if any of the London sharps : will rob I; lobk'ee, gentlemen, I've just taken the liberty of popping a  guinea into my mouth, and if any of them can get that out without Bay knowing it, my name is not Simon Beanstalk, that be all." "My friend, I am very glad you spoke to us," answered. Kit Clayton, tipping Jared a wink, " as you might be imposed upon. Here is a card, and you will find an excellent night's lodging there, I can assure youi" As Kit replied, the countryman's eyes brightened up, and, bowing low,  He was about to depart. "Where have you sent him to, Kit?" whispered Jared. "Why, to the snoozing ken, in Drury-lane, to be sure; where he'll get  stripped of everything, down to his bare stockings, and he may think himself well off if he gets out alive. But I means to have that guinea i out of his mouth if I swings for it, if it's only to revenge the insult he passed upon us, by speaking so lightly of the profession." "Don't be a fool, Kit," replied Jared, whispering low, "consider the  risk we run in the job. Come along, let's leave him." "Well, gentlemen, this be my way then, so good night," said the coun  tryman to the sharpers, as he turned on his heels and left them. "Now then, here's after him, to twig that ere shiner out of his blessed jaws," said Kit, as he prepared to follow the joskin. "What are you about, Kit," said Steele, pettishy, "surely you don't  mean to endanger your own safety and mine by attempting to rob a jos. kin of a paltry guinea?" "Rob him! vy you thinks I'm a pickpocket, I suppose," replied Kit, laughing; " no, 1 means to do him out of it clean, and if you want to see the trick, come along," and away he bolted in the same direction the countryman had taken. Jared finding all remonstrance in vain, started after his companion, re- solved, at all events, to share the danger, and coming up with him was sye-witness to the following adventure: Taking a purse from his pocket,   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.  Kit swaggered nimbly past the countryman, and directly he got before him he shook his purse, and a shilling and some half-peace rattled loudly on the stone pavement. Kit started instantly, all eyes and fingers were at the spot, and the unsuspecting countryman was the first to drop on his knees, and offer to pick them up for the gentleman. "Confound the purse," exclaimed Kit in a swaggering tone, "give the coppers to the boys; where's the guinea though?" and turning his purse over in his hand, he pretended to search for it. "What! and hast lost a guinea, sir?" exclaimed the wondering chaw. bacon, staring with both his eyes open; "I'ze very sorry, sir, to be sure!" "Very sorry! why, you cheating vagabond," roared Kit, "you have the guinea in your mouth there; I suspected you was no good when you stopped me just now. Where's an officer 1 fetch a constable!" "Oh, erikey, here's a go!" shouted the boys who had gathered round. "Well, I never did!" roared out Simon Beanstalk, lifting up his hand in astonishment. "What's the row?" inquired one of the Bow-street traps, who had just before passed Kit and his companion. "What's all this shihdy about '" "Why, only look," said Kit, in corroboration of his evidence, "he has actually got my guinea between his teeth." "Give the gentleman his money directly, you thieving hound!" ex- claimed the officer, collaring him; and the shock causing -Simon to open his mouth rather wide, the guinea rolled out on the pavement, and Kit instantly catching it up, thanked the officer, and accompanied by Steele, hastily withdrew, "Come, young fellow, I shall take you along with me," said the officer, "you must be one of Toby's lot in disguise; nobody else would have the impudence to commit such a barefaced robbery in the open street; what have you got here'?" as he spoke, the officer pulled the card that Kit had just given him, out of the countryman's waistcoat pocket and read, it- 'Good accommodation at the Cock and Bottle, Drury Lane'-why now this convinces me you are one of his gang; for I know this is one of his houses." "No, I bean't, sir! I bean't indeed, sir! I be Simon Beanstalk, all the way from Somerzetshire, sir." "I don't believe you; you prigs can imitate anybody; and I believe you are only imitating now; so come along with me to the round-house," and away the poor countryman was dragged to the watch-house. "Not so bad a spree I must confess; but your friend Jared seems to have played but a minor part in it. Why, my esteemed pal, Clayton deserved all the credit for his surpassing I impudence," said one of the gang. "Ay, I agree with you, a few, in course he did; but the spree didn't end there, for Jared Steele, although he gloried in Kit Clayton for pluck- ing the countryman, did not like to see the yokel lagged on a false charge. Turning up the collar of his coat to hide his face, and pulling his hat over his eyes for ditto ditto reason, he bid Kit wait; and turning up a street that would bring him face to face with the watchman and his charge, he, as soon as he caught sight of them, assumed the swagger of a cove a few     sheets in the wind; in fact with more brandy than brains in his noddle he rup against the atchman with sich premeditated fury, that the unfor, tunate watchy was pitched backwards on his cocoa-nut. Vether the out. side shell was cracked or not I can't pertend to assert, but shiver my blinkers if he didn't lay thelre with his mouth wide open, and as silent as a jolly mummy.  As to Simon, like a Simon as he vas, he stood like a stuck pig, and it was not until Jared had requested him over and over again to bolt, to mizzle, hook it, vamhus, kut his lucky, shake his trotters, waggle his extenders, that he could see the policy of mizzling; but,vhen he did get il motion, Jared says, to see his long legs inll motion, was worth -a fortin." "If Jared Steele was not good, brave, and .true, he would not have acted so," said Kit. "Coe, Sam, I claim an introduction from you. I must make his acquaintance." His acquaintance made that night and sealed in bumpers of sherry, ormmeneed a friendship to be ended only by death; for from that time forward Kit and Jalred Steele were steadfast friends. CHIAPTER  I. A   Scene at the Cock and Ma apie. IN the hiding-place offered him by the walls of the "Cock and Magpie,"' our hero continued to lulrk for some time, until at length he became so eat up with ennui, as to beg of Jared for God's sake to find him some em- ployment. "I tell you what," sad Jared, "I have a glorious swag in my eye, that beats everythimg  ever done-even by you, captain," and he bowed re t spectfully to our hero. '  "What is it, Steele-come, curse it, man, don't hang fire-spit it out." "I have head, through the medium of a  gang of gypseys, to which I formerly had the honor of belonging, that a Frenrch marquis, excessively rich, and positively laden with jewels and gold, leaves Dover for London to-morrow. Now, if we could but waylay him, a magnificent spoil would be ours: enough, so says the hag from whom I  had the story, to make the fortune of a dozen such as US."' "It is enough, by heaven," said Kit, "I am game to try-" "If you say you'll do it, captain, it's as good as done; sav but the word--if I  raise the storming partyd as this marquis travels well guarded with armed attendants, more will be required than us three; will you be our leader?" "I should have no objection, but I aIn almost unknown to the gang here; and they, being older hands on the road, might look upon any as. sumption upon my part as an infiingement of their liberties-might look upon, me in fact with a jealous eye." "Stuff and nonsense,' said Jared. I can set that aside at once; is there not already those who ackliowledge you as their captain? There is   THE HERO OF THE ROAD. .l old Toby, Harry Sheppard, young Colledge and myself-and the rest that I shall provide will be merely supernumeraries, bound to obey you." "Sheppard and Wide Awake are not eligible, both being in the coun try, not only for a professional tour, but also to recruit their health and strength." Comb'ning pleasure with profit, I presume," said Jared. "Exactly," answered our hero. "Well, nevov mind, we can do without them. I'll find a gang, I tell you, who will obey you." "They shall," said Kit, in a determined tone, "if the command is placed into my hands." "Well they shall' then, if it likes you better," said Jared; "so, cap. tain--don't hesitate-say the word--you will head us, won't you?" "Yes, I will take the command," said Kit. *   *       * a   *   *    *   * - On the following evening Kit set out for the spot assigned by Jared Steele for the meeting. He reached it, and was soon joined by Jared, who informed our hero that half a dozen trusty fellows were lying in am- bush close at hand. He had hardly spoken before Kit, raising his hand for silence, said-"Hist, lads, I hear the sound of wheels." At these words every rein was tightened, and the cavalcade brought to as sudden a check as if a wall had risen before it-each ear was atten- tively stretched to catch the welcome sound, and a moment of the deep- est interest succeeded. Kit was right; for not only was heard the sound of carriage wheels as they grazed the heavy road, but the quick eyes of the gang even discerned the occasional jets of sparks which the hoofs of the horses drew from the flints that were strewn along the ground. "We're upon 'em, by jingo!" exclaimed Kit Clayton. "And in good time too!" remarked Jared. "We shall just meet at a spot from. whence no cry for assistance can be heard." "But, gentlemen," said Steele, "you forget that in standing here we shall expose ourselves to the view of the enemy directly; he makes the turning, a quarter of a mile beyond the sign-post yonder." "On, then," cried Kit. "Let us take them by surprise;" and he was just about to lash his steed into activity, when a sudden action of Steele arrested his arm. ' Zounds!" cried Clayton, "you would spoil everything. Don't you see that the carriage is guarded by at least a dozen lacqueys ' ,Why if they caught sight of us, they would dispatch a courier for assistance, and then, perhaps, thrash us before it arrived." "What must I do, then?" asked'Kit, "my blood is up, and I care not what danger I tempt!" "Very likely," said Toby; "consequently, there's more 'casion for the hexercise hof phylosification." "Our aids wait us behind yonder bank of furze," interposed Jared; "and as that will not only screen us from observation, but give us an op. portunity of laying our plans according to the disposition of the enemy, we had better make for it at once. The rest depends upon your discre. A     2     .       XKIT CLAYTON, tion; and, now, captain, we await your orders." So saying, the gallant fellow raised his hat to his young leader, an action that was imitated ty the rest, and awaited, a reply. "On, then, to the covert!" cried Kit. "We will there hold a council for two minutes, and then proceed to the enterprise." With these words our hero clapped spurs to his horse, and, with one leap, gained the foot of the bank to which his attention had been called, and which overhung the road. The rest followed, and away they went like squirrels up the rise, behind which was a hollow, wherein they alighted upon five or six fellows round a turf fire, most of whom Kit recognized as the worthies he had been in the habit of associating with at the "' Cock and Magpie." One stranger, however, struck him as particularly repulsive in appearance. This was a fellow known by the name of "Night-owl Oliver," and carried the character of a desperate, black-hearte villain upon his countenance. To this ruffian Charlie introduced Kit as their new leader, and the fellow, after a surly, insulting stare, exclaimed- "Things are come to a fine pass, when an old dog like me is forced to run in the same leash with a whelp that has scarcely come to his eye. sight." "None of your insults!" cried Kit, " or you will find the bull-dog a match for the mastiff! Either part company, or behave with proper re. spect to your leader!" This little conversation might have been followed by an equally inflame matory response, had not Long Jemmy and One-Peeper Tom interposed for the restoration of order, and pointed out the necessity for promptness, on account of the near approach of the carriage, which was now not half a mile off. Kit, with admirable temper, immediately turned his thoughts to the main purpose. ' Let our foot forces," he said, "throw themselves  on their faces behind any favoring tufts, which may get the road on each side; and the instant the outriders have passed, let a rope be thrown across the highway; so that, if they return to learn why the carriage stops, their horses may be flung. We shall thus divide their numbers and throw them into confusion. I myself, will have an eye everywhere, and be wherever I'm mostly wanted!" Not a word of opposition was offered to these orders, and even Night Owl Oliver drew off his gang to obey the high-spirited Captain in silence, Kit watched them till he saw that all had been attended to; and then, turning suddenly to his mounted followers, continued, "We must creep down the bank, and make our steeds crouch in the shade at the foot.- Whatever I do, stir none of you till I give the word 'advance! Let each' man, then, pick his customer, and act at discretion!" "Trust to obedience," answered Steele. "But understand this, all of ye," said Kit-" the man who presumes to discharge his piece at a fellow-creature, while I am his leader, will receive my bullet through his brain." Kit uttered these words in a tone of sternness that bespoke him to be in earnest, and as his colleagues followed him down the slope, they whis. pered to each other that they had " caught a tartar." Having reached bhe foot, they arranged themselves according to Kit's instructions, and remained lurking, in shade and silence, like the explosive elements of   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          13 a mine- -only lacking the necessary impetus to spread dismay and mis chief. 'he hollow rumbling of carriage-wheels that had hitherto rathet been feXl than heard, had by this time increased to that sharp, snapping "whizz, which forms the peculiar indication of the near approach of a vehi- cle in rapid motion. The whistles of the postillions, the cracking of their whips, the snorting of horses, and even the creaking of the crazy old carriage could be distinctly heard, while the more muffled sound of the horsemen in advance would have been almost inaudible, but for the regu- larity with which they galloped. Kit looked and listened with breathless interest. On came the cortege, and Kit's blood mounted as the advanced-guard passed close enough to fan his forehead with the commotion they raised in the air. The carriage followed closely, and he was preparing to ride forward, when he saw that, beside the postillion, there was a guard on the box with a brass-mounted implement, which the tell-tale moon revealed to be a blunderbuss. Kit's resolution was instantly taken; he knew that to ride within range of so dangerous a weapon would be madness; he, therefore, determined upon an experiment as daring as it was well-con- ceived. He drew up his feet to the saddle of his horse, and remained doubled up in readiness for a spring, like the tiger in its native jungle.-- The postillions drove by, little dreaming of what was about to happen, and the tails of the rear horses were just whisking before Kit's eyes, when, With one bound, he leaped into the air, and alighted upon the s plashing-beard, as if he had dropped from the skies. With one hand he seized the blunderbuss, and with the other grasped the throat of its owner. "Not a word, you dog, or- you are lost!" exclaimed ho, giving the fel- low a hearty shake. He then flung the weapon. at least twenty yards from him, and having thus prevented the most formidable species of resistance, he gave the longed-for signal of "Advance!" At the word, his five confederates dashed into the road. One-Peeper Tom and another checked the progress of the coach-horses, with a sud- denness that almost threw then on their haunches, and presenting a pistol at the head of each postillion, commanded them to "Halt!"Chirruping Charlie pricked round to one window of the carriage, while a fourth high. wayman, Clayton, rode up to the opposite one. Toby had assumed the charge of his leader's nag, and consequently stood in waiting for further orders. These were given almost as soon as he came up, for Clayton lost no time in thrusting his unwieldy antagonist to the ground, upon which he fell like a heavy lump of dough. "There, Jared," cried Kit, as soon as he had performed the action, " pick that bone if you like, and remem- ber you can't do him  much mischief if you thump him ever so soundly." "Cot dam! what is all dis?" exclaimed the chief occupant of the car- riage, thrusting a thin sallow visage through the window, and peering round with astonishment. "We are immortals in disguise, come from aboye to visit the earth; and we want some rhing to help us on the way," replied Kit, stretching himself at full length across the roofof the carriage, and looking down upon the face that was now upturned in astonishment at the sound of 'his voice. I      "           KIT CLAYTON, "Den, by gar, you are von dam silly nincompoop to expect it from me," said the other, who was a French marquis, notorious for the sums he won at the gaming-table. "Me no have von guinea to jingle against anoder." "I don't doubt it in the least," said Kit, "but by my magic art, 1 intend to conjure a sufficient supply for us both." So saying, he uncere- moniously caught hold of the sharp nose of the marquis, and, after giving it a dexterous tweak, used it as a handle to assist him in jumping to the ground. "Parbleu!" cried the marquis, twinging with pain. "Do you tink noses have no feeling 8" "I leave that question to be decided by yourself," said Kit, opening the carriage-door. "At present I have other matters to inquire into.7"- So saying, he stepped into the vehicle, and seated himself on the oppo- site seat to the one occupied by the marquis. He now found that the vehicle had two other inmates-one, an old harridan, shining in all the varieties of blue, red, and yellow, while the other was a pale, interesting girl, attired in a plain pelisse, that set off to advantage a form which might have tempted a less ardent eye than the one that now gazed upon it.- Our hero was received with shrieks; but, with a voice which he had the power of attuning to the sweetest tones of tenderness, he sufficiently calmed their fears to render them silent, and then betook himself to busi- ness. "Bring a carriage-lamp this way," said he to one of the gang, "and let us see how the land lies. Aha!" he added, as the order was 'obeyed, and a blaze of jewelry became revealed to his sight, "that watch, madam, has a sparkle that is irresistible. Real brilliants, as I live!- You must present me with the bauble by way of keepsake. It will enable me to keep any future assignation I may make with you. Those rings, too! Really, you ought not to travel with such valuables in your possession; nothing more tempting to a highwayman-lest, therefore, you should unfortunately be robbed, I will take charge of them myself, and you may depend upon their safe keeping." "But, sir, fellow! knave!" cried the old woman in a passion, as Kit dispossessed her of the articles in question, "you are robbing me your- self." "Oh, fie, Madam!" said Kit, "I would not do such a thing for the world! Let us consider it as a simple matter of exchange. What can I give you in return? Oh! I have it. You shall receive a salute from lips that are destined to make every hearer tremble!" He then raised his hat, and, with an air of the deepest devotion, he impressed a kiss upon a cheek that, in hue and plumpness, exactly resembled a pulpit 'ushion.  "Well, young man," said the gratified old lady, "I must confess that your manners are far better than your morals." "You make me blush, madam," returned Clayton with a bow. "But let us see what the younger fair one has to sell for a salute." "Nothing! indeed, nothing!" exclaimed the agitated girl, bursting into tears. "Although you may find me here, 1 am poor and friendless, with but one thing in the world that I prize. It is this ring," and she drew a ring from her finger, and tremblingly placed it in the hand of Kit. He took it and examined it attentively.   s?*^        THE HERO OF TnE ROAD.          15 "So, so!" said he. "A ruby, an emerald, a garnet, an amethyst, ano- ther ruby, and a diamond. Take the initial letters, and they form the word 'REGARD.     Take it back, maiden; the gift of friendship is too sacred to be profaned." So saying, he returned the ring. "She's an artful hussy, Mr. Freebooter," cried the old woman, "and has as much right to be robbed as I have. The ring is very valuable, though, to be sure; she only prizes it because she had it from some old lover, and one would think it was a bit of her own heart." "Since I cannot rob the hand without the heart," said Kit," I will remain content. . But lest you should think I show favor, I am determined to steal something-a tress of hair. It shall be woven into a chain for your watch." Suiting the action to the word, he handed a knife to the poor girl, who, sensible of the folly of resistance, and grateful for his genero- sity, proceeded to denude her brow of a rich glossy lock, black as the jettiest plume of the raven's wing. Kit took it with more real pleasure than he would have the ring, and exclaimed, "And now, sweet one, for payment." He then once more raised his hat, and bent towards the' lovely being before him. She shrank back, but he pointed impressively to the circle' 3a her finger, and he was suffered to take the kiss, although her ripe and rosy lip instinctively recoiled as he approached it. "You are a brazen-faced hussy, Madam!" exclaimed the old woman, ready to burst with envy. All this time, the little French marquis had sat paralyzed in the corner of his carriage, expecting to have his throat cut. Kit now turned to him and said, "Now, monsieur Yellow-jaundice! just let us have a shy at your rattle-traps." "Me no understand--je ne sais pas i" cried the marquis. "Don't talk to me of your pa," said Kit-"I'd serve him and your ma in the same way, were they here. Come," he said, presenting the muz- zle of the pistol at the Frenchman's head-"Deliver, or pop goes the trigger." This hint was too intelligible to be mistaken, and with a groan, a shrug, and a contortion that was meant to be a grimace of politeness, he gave up his gold snuff-box and jewelry; he next delivered his sword and an ample box, filled with hard cash, and then uttering another groan, declared that he had nothing left. Kit, however, had learnt enough at Lord Dashfield's to know the secret receptacles of a carriage, and, availing himself of this knowledge, he speedily ransacked every hole and corner, and brought to light a store of notes and acceptances to an immense amount. As soon as everything worth taking had been'thus cleared away, Kit prepared to to take his leave, when the Frenchman, with another shrug, exclaimed :- "And sal you leave me so, monsieur? Vil you no make exchange with me as vell as the ladies?" "It would give the affair a more mercantile appearance, certainly," said Kit; but I am at a loss to know what to offer. You would not have me kiss you, as I did the ladies?" "Von; noon," said the marquis: " suppose you give me your pistol. It vill remind me of dis pleasant adventure, and de acquaintance me have formed." "Oh, with all my heart," said Kit; without for a moment reflecting     16            KIT CLAYTON, upon the probable consequences of the act. "I would turn dealer in fire arms at once, if I could dispose of all weapons to equal advantage." He then laughingly gave the pistol, which was only on half-cock, to the marquis, who, cocking the piece with the speed of thought, presented it at Kit's ear, and, with desperate vehemence, exclaimed: "Now, villain! restore my property, and order your gang to disperse, or I will bespatter them with your d-d rascally brains." The moment was fraught with peril, and Kit felt himself to be on the brink of a dreadful eternity, but his presence of mind-the mightiest quality with which we are gifted-did not forsake him. The smile on his countenance remained unchanged-it even brightened, and his manners were unruffled as he replied- "Fire away, my Lord Marquis! The pistol contains nothing but a little harmless gunpowder to frighten fools and Frenchmen. I never have shed blood, upon my honor!" The ruse succeeded, and the Frenchman with a " sacre!" flung the pis. tol at his feet. Kit instantly jumped out, and, springing into his saddle, raised a cry of triumph, and exclaimed, "Farewell, your lordship; and when asked by whom you were robbed, answer 'Kit Clayton, the successor of Jack with the Sixteen Strings I'" CHAPTER ITn. Attempted Rescue-Kit finds that a wise head is sometimes better than a strong hand-The Fight-The Victory. THE events concluding our last chapter, from the stopping of the car- riage to the escape of Kit from an almost certain death, did not occupy more than five minutes, so rapidly did everything transpire. Our hero was received with a cheer by his comrades, and Kit was already felicitat- ing himself Upon having baffled the Frenchman, and escaped the slugs with which the pistol was in reality loaded, when a new call was made upon his energies. This was occasioned by the sudden return of the out-guard. They had ridden on for some minutes without missing the lumbering of the car. riage at their heels, when the shouts of the thoughtless robbers were wafted to their ears. They turned round, and the moon at that moment shining out in full splendor, beheld the true state of affairs.' "The marquis is attacked," cried the chief. "Back, lads! back to the rescue!" With one burst the whole returned, and came full swoop upon Kit and his devoted companions. The ominous clatter was heard by every member of the gang, and all looked aghast at our hero. "Oughtn't we to be off?" said Regan. "No!" replied Clayton. "Let us gain a character for high daring; and country folks will, on future occasions, be afraid to pursue us. A poor   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.   ,       I sneak is soon hunted up and caught, but men like Dick Turpin and Claude Du Val are suffered to escape through the very terror of their names."  "You are as good as a general, Kit," said Toby, "and ven you've fin- ished your freaks by dancing on the tight-rope, wot' proves so fatal to us all, them ere chaps as fills their bellies by heniptying their brains will get writing romanoes about you;' "That would be glorious!" said Kit. "And may I come to the tree before my time, if 1 don't prove a hero of the first water!" "Then you won't leave much to their hinwentive faculties!" returned Toby. "No, the numsculls," cried Kit, "they'd only spoil the work. Let 'erm stick to the truth, and I'll furnish 'etn with incidents for the best romance ever written. But, see! the horsemen are within three hundred -'&ds of our ambush. When I give the signal, fire into such steeds as may not have fallen, but take care you don't hit the riders. My lord marquis," he e continued, elevating his voice so as to be heard by those occupying the carriage, "remain passive, and you are safe; stir, and you are a dead man I The post boys '" exclaimed Regan in a breathless tone of inquiry. L Let One-Peeper Tom knock 'em gently on the head, to keep 'em from mischief," cried Kit; then turding suddenly to Toby, he added, "What have you done with the fat fellow who sat on the coach-box?" "Oh, he was the most obstinate hanimal I ever seed!" said Toby. "I hargued vith him and I valloped him; but wisdom and walor was alike thrown away upon him. I even gived him a kick or two; but the more 1 kicked him, the more dissatisfied he was, so, at last, I vos obliged to-" Here a stop was put to Toby's story by a loud shout that burst from the cavalcade in pursuit, as the infuriated men swept like wolves round a projecting bank, and dashed up to the gang. In mid career, however, the picquets, under Night Owl Oliver, elevated the rope that had been stretched across the road, and the legs of the three foremost horses were instantaneously tripped, and the animals thrown. The shock jerked the holders of the rope into the middle of the highway, and their sudden appearance had the effect of so completely stunning the faculties of the remaining nine horsemen, that they rode without precaution against the fallen steeds of their companions, and four men were precipitated to the ground. "On to 'em, lads. Fire!" cried Kit, galloping forward2. The rest obeyed, and such was the nicety with which the five weapons were aimed, that each brought a horse with its rider to the ground. Not a moment was now lost. Every member of the gang pounced upon its prey, accord- ing to previous orders, and a struggle took place, in which each man fought for his life. Kit encountered a fellow who was built like a bull, but the thews and sinews of our hero had been too much hardened by country exercise to render him an easy conquest; his activity also was such, that he was enabled to elude the dangerous hugs of his antagonist like a will-o'-the-wisp, and though they repeatedly rolled over and over upon the earth, locked in each other's arms, Kit always managed to slip like an eel from the embrace, and then to renew the struggle with fresh advantage. Ia a few moments he had beaten the fellow to submission, 2     1i            KIT CLAYTON, and starting up for fresh employment, he beheld Toby flying for his life, followed by a man who had picked up the blunderbuss that Kit had thrown from the coach-box. No sooner had the pursuer got within range of the fugitive than he raised the weapon and fired; but Kit, although on foot, had got up to him in time to dash it aside, and consequently the cr"ge rattled harmlessly over the earth, with the exception of one shot, V glanced more than skin deep across the temple of our hero, and suflusex his features with blood. The undaunted h:ghwayman repaid the wound with a blow that filled the man to the dust. "Very good, master Kit!" exclaimed Jared, who had turned to face his assailants directly the blunderbuss had been discharged. "I am not much of a scholar, but whenever I looks at the scar of that gash, I. shall read a better sermon about gratitude than ever was spun by our parson." "Pish, man!" said Kit, "you would have done as mruch for me." So saying, he immediately turned upon his heel, and once more made for the field of action. He there found that the fight had been brought to a close, by the capture of the enemy, who were all tied back to back, in as woful a plight as black eyes and bloody noses could reduce them to. The vic- tors met Kit with congratulations, which he modestly acknowledged, and then gave orders for the disposal of 'the vanquished. These were simple and to the purpose: the poor devils were first rifled of everything they possessed in the shape of money or valuables, and then fastened to the splinter-bar of the carriage, from which the horses had been previously removed. The fat occupant of the coach-box was also sought, and found in a shallow pit of sand, into which Toby had kicked him, and he was once more elevated in shackles, to the post he had occupied. This done, our hero remounted his horse, and riding up to the carriage-window, ex- claimed, "Your lordship must pardon the substitution of a team of bipeds for the prancers by which you were drawn hither; but if I did not take that precaution, you might probably return with a fresh force more speed- ily than was convenient to me. And now, may I intrude upon your politeness for the pistol which you dropped a few minutes back?" The marquis, who, as well as the females, was almost dead with terror, complied. Kit. thanked him, and added, "And now, my lord, take a word of advice; when next you are told that a pistol is unloaded, pull the trig ger and try." With that he slightly touched the quadruped on which he was mounted with the sptir, and coming up to the foremost of the domes- tics, gave him a smart swish with his riding whip, and ordered him to proceed. The poor fellow, with his companions, strained every nerve, and commenced toiling along the road in prosecution of their laborious journey, amid the jeers and shouts of all the robbers. Jack now turned to the posthoys, and said, pointing to the beasts that had been detached from the carriage-"To whom do these cattle belong?" "To Giles Doubledo, of the Little Bush Inn, on the borders of the heath yonder," answered the head postillion, in anticipation of another crack on his sconce. "Very well," said our hero; "give my compliments to Mr. Giles Doubledo, and tell him that I return him his animals unhurt, as I am de- termined that no innkeeper on any road in England shall ever suffer a loss at my hands, unless he first provokes me. Tell him, also, that in return,   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.   ,        9 hall expect him never to refuse shelter to one who asks it in my name. S hould he think it worth while to turn informer, and send the hounds of the law in pursuit of me, he will provoke my revenge, and lose his labor; for I defy every constable in the land to take me alive, and the keenest nose to scent out my retreat. Your master may repeat this to whoever he pleases, for I wish the country to understand that a man has at length arisen to rescue the Fancy from its present downfallen condition, and to tread in the footsteps of DICK TURPIN!" Kit uttered all this fustian in a theatrical tone, so as to produce an im- pression; and, having concluded this harangue, he gave the posthoys a guinea each, and bade them mount and depart. Thus ended an exploit which rung through all England for many a day afterwards. The gang, careless of pursuit, now retired to the hollow behind the hill which had formed their rendezvous. A fire was speedily lit-flasks of spirits were produced, and all gave loose to jest, glee, and encomiums upon Kit. Chirruping-Charhe was in ecstacies, and vowed that he de- served to be immortalized. "You have done more," said he to our hero, "than the oldest man on the highway would have dared to attempt, and the message you sent to old Doubledo will prove as serviceable as if you had given each of us a three years lease of our lives." "I acted upon an idea that the Bow-street officers generally spare the most notorious offenders longest," said Kit. "And ,you were right," said One-Peeper Tom. "They's got their own interests to look arter, as well as we has, and, in course, if our trade was to fail, theirs would also." ' "To be sure it would," said Charlie-" just the same as the parson's would drop, if the devil was got under. Our only plan now is to follow up to-night's work, and. make ourselves worth being spared. Just get a name, and half the robberies will be laid to your charge." "That's an odd sort of an inducement to hold out to a fellow," said Kit, passing a flask of brandy to his associate. "But a very valuable one, for all that," said the other. "Look here. Whenever a man now loses his purse, off he goes to Bow street, and tells the beaks that he has been robbed by Kit Clayton." "Well!" said Kit. "Well," returned Charlie. "Don't you see that the trap will then receive a fee to look after Kit Clayton; and these fees will keep tumbling in as long as he is at large; whereas, if Clayton got lagged there would no longer be a mark to point at, so that when a man lost his rhing, he would hold his tongue, thinking that his stuff had been stolen by some obscure nobody, whom it would be useless to look after. The officer would thus remain unemployed; the magistraies would shut up shop, and all would go to wreck and ruin, until some new Tobyman of spirit started up to revive the game." "Such was my own view on the subject," returned Kit. "I have heard that, on the same principle, the life of a brave general is never sought by the enemy, lest his death should put an end to the war, and reduce the army to half-pav." "Veil, I ilust say," said Toby, "that this sort of logic makes a man's neck sit unkimmon easy upon his shoulders. But take care, Kit how     20            KIT CLAYTON, you trusts yourself too near them, for though they has a capital knack of shutting their eyes at times, it don't do to run under their very noses." "I'll do that, and they shant smell me," said Kit. "But fear not, as long as a guinea is to be got by chasing me, I shall alway have a headway. "You are born to restore to us the golden age," cried Charlie. "Come, lads!" he continued with enthusiasm, "Let us proceed to elect him our chief at once!" To this they all unanimously agreed, and our hero having been elected with bumpers round, and with cheers, nine times nine, they arose for home where their jolifications were continued until a streak of light in the distant horizon announced the approach of day. CHAPTER   IV. Our hero starts upon a quiet journey, but in exercising a little professional eccentricity, meets with a rebuff and an adventure upon which he had net calculated. The day after the robbery of the marquis was spent in carouse by Kit and the whole party engaged in the enterprise; and what added to their merriment, was the fact that the marquis had laid immediate complaints of his robbery, and the consequences resulting from this information, were, that every dead wall and boarding throughout London, was literally covered with bills offering rewards for the apprehension of Kit Clayton and his audacious gang. Tired and, perhaps beaten by the reckless revelry, Kit parted from the crew assembled, and started as he expressed himself, for a ride in the country. "He then started for the coach-office, but recollecting that the stage did not start till later in the evening, he changed his mind, and being fond of a walk, determined to foot it as far as the "Pack-horse," at Turnham green, and there wait its arrival. He had taken care to consign the pro duce of his robbery, to the custody of his comrades, so that he had nothing to encumber him but his cloak. Kit, however, had miscalculated the hour-for the coach overtook him before he had walked a mile. He hailed it, and got in without another word, and as the night was dark, unrecognized. There were only two passengers besides himself--an old militia cap- tain and a quaker. The conversation speedily turned upon the great high- wayman. "He beats Turpin by chalks, and leaves him nothing to brag of," said the captain. "By heavens, I never heard or read of such an audacious scoundrel, such a daring devil, in the whole course of my existence. But his repeated robberies have finished him; his robbery of the marquis has completely put his neck in the halter; why, the Frenchman-and, damme, as an Englishman, I hate all the accursed crew, and yet as an honest man, I must glory in his perseverance-has set such measures on   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          21 foot, that the capture of Kit Clayton is inevitable. His own guilty con. science has given him warning of it, too; for he has flown from London, as he would from Tyburn Tree." Kit muffled his face in his cloak, and contrived to fix on his mask as he said, "It's my belief that he cares no more for the gallows than I do," he exclaimed, disguising his voice. "Let him come and prove it," said the militia-man; "but it's more than he dare do." "There you are mistaken," said Kit; "I know for a fact that he is back already." "Pooh! what's the use of telling lies like that? Can you prove it l'  "Yes!" "How?" "Thus!" cried Kit, suddenly dropping his cloak, and collaring the qua. ker with his left hand, he presented a pistol with his right, to the captain, and cried, "Deliver, on your lives! deliver to Kit Clayton!" The travellers started back,and it is impossible to say whether doubt, astonishment, or dismay, was predominant in the expression of their looks. Their first impression was, that the young man was playing off some practical joke in revenge for being disbelieved; but his determined manner rendered them dubious on the point. Kit on his part, had no sooner uttered the words than he repented them. He had been piqued at their incredulity, and acted more in revenge of the slight cast upon his reputation than from any other impulse. Had he given a single moment to reflection, the impolicy of his rashness would have struck him; for it was certainly an unwise action th give intimation of his return to the metropolis. Kit, however, unlike the majority of those who gh slap-dash to work, as the maggot bites, never flinched from consequences; and when once he began a thing, went through with it. Would that his habit was more prevalent. The pause succeeding his attack lasted hardly two seconds, and the 'first to break silence was the captain of militia:- "Why, you audacious young scoundrel," exclaimed he, blinking like an owl at sunshine, as the muzzle of Kit's pistol peeped into his eye- "How dare you behave in this, manner to strangers and gentlemen?- Take that d-d thing away, sirrah; it may go off! Take it away, I say,' I'll indict you!" "Verily, friend, the man of war adviseth well," said the quaker, now beginneth to turn black in the face, from the effects of Kit's grip. "This is a foolish jest, and if-" "Peace!" roared Kit, cutting short the quaker's speech without cere- mony; "I mean what I say, and stand no parleying. It is Kit Clayton who speaks, and unless you obey me, I'll blow the brains out of both of you with one shot." "Of a verity they will be useful to thee: for they are a commodity thou seemest to lack, young springald," exclaimed the quaker, who still conceived that our hero merely intended to frighten them. Kit, who grew more anxious each moment, fancying, though not fear. ing, that the coach night stop to take up other passengers, now tightened his hid on the throat of the poor quaker, and with an imprecation that     22            KIT CLAYTON, betrayed much ferocity, again swore, that if they did nct deliver or the instant, he would fire; and to enforce his demland, he struck the captain of the militia a smart blow on the temple with his pistol, not sufficient to do him any damage, but still with enough force to draw blood. It was now evident that no child's play was going forward, and the travellers, with an expression of reluctance that would have been ludicrous under less serious circumstances, drew forth their watches, purses and rings. Kit eyed the booty, and received it with glistening eyes; but even while thrusting it into his pockets, his mind was diverted by con- sideratiohs for his own safety. This mad-headed act had got himn into a scrape, and the question was how he was to get out of it. To quit the coach would be dangerous-to stay still more so. Little time, however, was given him for reflection; for in an unguarded moment, when the ne- cessity for using both hands, obliged him to lower his pistol, the quaker suddenly dealt him a buffet under the ear, that struck fire from his eyes, and made his brain reel like a top. "Now, friend, do thy part," exclaimed the disciple of the broadcloth; and, in no wise behind-hand, the captain followed his example with inter- est, giving Kit a fisty-cuff under the other ear, in the throat, and in the region of the stomach. Kit was doubled up by these inflictions, and his assailants took advantage of his momentary weakness, by dashing the pistol from his hand, and seizing him on each side by the arm and throat. Kit gave all up for lost. He struggled violently, but could not release himself, nor, from his arms being pinioned to his sides, by the grasp of his assailants, could he even repay the blows which they continued to deal him with their unoccupied hands. "Gentlementlemen,ntlemen!" at length he exclaimed, "Quit your hold-- I did but jest!"  "You carried that jest too far," cried the militia officer, "and it's our intention to pursue it in earnest now. Tear off his mask, friend Peacea- ble, and assist me to raise an alarm. 1-allo! iHallo, here! We've the highwayman, in the coach!" The quaker joined in the outcry, and matters assumed a terrible ap- pearance. The scene was altogether as singular as it was terrific. Here were three men cooped up in the narrowest possible limits, and engaged in hostile encounter; while the cramped apartment in which they main- tained their deadly strife, was being whirled along a dark road with unceasing motion, as if to debar all parties from the possibility of escape, Infuriated with his own folly, and desperate at the consequences, Kit struggled like a madman-for fight he could not; he kicked, he plunged, he butted his head like a wild bull against his assailants; but all he had power to effect, was to prevent the mask from being torn from his face.- eanwhile, the quaker had managed to get one of the windows down, and, thrusting out his head, shouted for assistance as loud as possible. It was a considerable time before he could make himself heard; but, at length, one cry louder than the rest, attracted the dull ear of the drive:, and he pulled up. "Now, then, what's the matter 2' inquired coachy-not exactly in the tones in which he would have made love, or asked credit for a pint f purl   THE HERO OF TIE ROAD.           23 "We have gotten the man of abomination.-the man of the highway- within," returned the quaker, "and crave thine assistance to help us out of peril." Eh! what!-speak English. Are you murdering each other, or only , q!arrelling?" "I charge you, come down directly," cried he of the militia, delighted at his conquest. "I have apprehended Kit, the highwayman." !   "Sessions!" shouted the coachman, and down he jumped in a moment, as did also the outside passengers, and the guard. But notwithstanding their numbers, they huddled together like children, when a strange dog invades their circles, and moved as if about to attack a giant. "Now, then, show him to us-let's see him!" vociferated the passen- gers, brandishing their sticks and umbrellas in readiness for defence. "Not so fast," cried the guard "he goes armed to the teeth, and he can hit the eye of a needle with his own ey -shut." 'i'   "Never fear," called out the captain; we have taken his artillery, to   and secured a whole waggon-load of ammunition." "Thai alters the case," returned the guard. "Then you may open the door and turn him out--and if he don't nap it, my name ain't Ben Bingo. I've got a blunderbuss here, charged to the muzzle, and the moment I get a peep at Kit's sconce, pop she goes." ("Hurra!" shouted the rest. "Turn him out-turn him out." "Hold your noise!" cried the captain; "and you, master guard, keep your d-d blunderbuss quiet, unless you wish to hit friends as well as foes." "But what's to be done?" said the quaker. "I like not the looks of the robber well enough to remain with him, and it would not be safe to leave him in the coach alone." X"If I might put in my verdict," exclaimed the coachman, "I'd sarve i him out as we did the Jew crimps at Portsmouth, when I was a publican there." "And how was that, Samivel?" asked Ben Bingo. "Vy, we used to gather a mob round the door of the offender, and have his wile carcase pitched out amongst 'em, to be beaten into decorum. Every man as hadn't a stick had his fists, and we continued to larrup away with these natural and artificial veapons until he consented to valk quietly and be ducked." "Ca-pi-tal " shouted a tailor's shopman, in shrill tones. "Commit the horwible barbawian to our wengeance. We'll teach him how to go about picking pockets and cutting children's thwoats." "Ayel!" responded the coachman. "Men as don't leave travellers enough to pay their coachman's fees, don't deserve no mercy." "Turn him out, turn him out," again burst from every lip, and 'the quaker, though inwardly pitying the offender for the fate that awaited him, threw open the coach door. "Now then, my old 'un," cried the captain to his sullen prisoner, "put your springs into action, and let us see how far you can jump!" As he said this, with the spitefulness of a coward, he gave Kit a kick, and struck him also on the side of the head. The indignity caused a flow of blood to Kit's heart which renewed all his wonted spirit; he shook him.     24            KIT CLAYTON, self furiously, and dashed his head with such violence into the captain'a face as to flatten his nose, ram four front teeth down his throat, and bathe every feature in blood. '"Take that, you ruffianly cur," he shouted, fol- lowing up his attack with a blow that freed him from the other's hold, and .with a third desperate efbfrt he pitched the unfortunate captain out of the coach. In an instant all were upon the prostrate man-coachy, guard, tailor's shopman, male and female passengers-even the quaker, who in the confusion could not recognize the right man from the wrong- and amid yells and shouts of triumph the unfortunate captain was bela- bored within an inch of his life. As for Kit he was too much excited at the peril in which he stood, to be conscious of the advantage he had gain- ed; and as the furious cries of those outside met his ears, he fancied they were rushing into the coach to tear him to piece-meals; he, therefore, started instinctively back, and whether the opposite door had been inse- curely fastened, or whether the mortice of the lock was decayed, we know not, but it flew open as he struck against it, and he fell into the road. It was "' touch earth and up again!"The next instant saw him on his feet and in flight through the darkness; but not heeding his way, he went violently against the hedge that girted the wayside, and fell with his head and shoulders on the top. In boyhood he had often done a similar thing in sport,- and by throwing up his heels, contrived to roll himself from one field into another, so that it was a natural impulse to do so now, and a very slight exertion of his former dexterity was sufficient to lay him safely on the other side of the hedge. "St. Nichols be praised!" he exclaimed, stopping for breath, "how the dogs keep on shouting; they'll attract every cottager within a mile of the place. Ten minutes of old Sue's company would now be worth her weight in gold." The words were scarcely out of his mouth before his quick ear was at- tracted by a low neigh within a yard of where he was resting. He raised his hands and caught hold of a pair of long ears, which he knew to belong to a horse of some sort, that bent its head close by him, for the purpose of cropping a mouthful of clover. Kit joyfully sprung to his feet. "May your shadow never be less, old chap!" he exclaimed; "I bear a charmed life. Come along, my unknown friend; I'll make free to borrow you of your owner." He took off his neckerchief, and twisting it as tightly as he possibly could, without letting the horse go, slipt it into the animal's mouth as a substitute for bit and bridle, and then vaulted upon his back. "Huzza!" he exclaimed; "If I keep due east on this side of the hedge, I shall get safely to the Old Pack Horse before the coach; and now, gentlem, . owners of parks, plantations, and gardens, have the goodness to allow Kit Clayton, the highwayman, to make a path across your private property." So saying, he struck the horse with his switch, who, administering a hearty kick or two, bounded off in the direction he wished. Fortunately tor Kit, the animal was a pet pony, accustomed to the rough usage of a parcel of school-boys, so that his present usage was nothing new to him, and he gambolled along with a notion that he was engaged in one of his accustomed frolics. Kit had some difficulty in keeping his seat, and was ,obliged to hold on by mane and handkerchief, while the back bone of the   s" - 0THE HERO OF THE ROAD.                25 animal gallfd him not a little; but he treated these inconveniences with indifference: every yard he gained gave him a wider scope of liberty, and had he bestrode the edge of a saw, he would have deemed the seat an easy one. Never had he felt more light-hearted. The peril he had been in was forgotten and he only remembered the humors of the scene; he thought of the dismay of the Quaker and the captain, and chuckled as he fancied how the latter might still be receiving the drubbing intended for his own hide: he would have given a guinea for a peep, and was so elated at the retaliation he had been enabled to procure for his enemy, that he thumped his courser at the idea, and made him gallop along like wildfire. His flight was a headlong one; he made no attempt to avoid flower beds, cucumber frames, or other choice places; but dashed sturdily through them all, without remorse at the damage he might inflict. At length, a faint reflection of light against the sky, informed him that he was in the vicinity of Turnham-green, and having gained a convenieut spot for alight- ing, he reined up his steed. "Thank you, old fellow!" he exclaimed gaily, as he quitted his steed: "if ever you and I meet again, and you tell me of this, I will pay you for it. Stop! stop! give me back my handkerchief! There-that will do- now then, you may find your way home again!" He gave the animal a hearty lash as he spoke, and, finding itself freed from restraint, it pointed its nose towards its own paddock, and set off at full speed. " i owe a good turn to the owner," said Kit, and then regain- ing the high road, he made as fast as he could for the hostel of the Old Pack House. Of old Enoch Finings, the landlord, Kit had some knowledge, from having met him on various occasions at Richmond. He was one of those quaint, old-fashioned characters who are generally to be found conspicuous in similar localities. He was a tall, solemn-looking man, with a grave squint, and an oracular mouth twisted a little on one side. He was the repository and dispenser of all the news in the neighborhood, and was not t. little looked up to by those of the village. Maugre his importance, he was one of the most inoffensive men alive, and as innocent as a sucking pig. He swallowed everything that was offered. him, from the thimble- full of "daffy" to the flagon of " stingo"-from the dish of harmless gos- sip to-the most outrageous Munchausen ever invented; yet was he never intoxicated, either with drink, or the magnitude of his exclusive intelli- gence. Folks, however, gave him credit for knowing more than he really did; but this may be attributed to the sagacious expression his counte- nance maintained, for even when totally ignorant of a subject that was broached, he would wink with his squinting eye, and nod his head, as much as to say, "I know all about it." He was leaning against his sign-post, with a short pipe in his mouth, when our hero approached; but the appearance of one whom he knew to maintain an important position amid the councils of the great, caused him to assume a more erect attitude. He had formerly been a military man, and could stand as upright as a monument, when in the presence of a sur perior; and this, by the bye, is the only redeeming feature in the slavish- ness of the army. Civilians bend the body, and cringe before the great -but the soldier holds up his head, even in the presence of royalty.     28            KIT CLAYTON, "Good evening, Mr. Finings," said Kit, as he caine up. "Has the 'Regulator' passed yet?" "No, your honor-not yet," replied the host. "Then 1 am in time. When do you expect it up?" "Can'k say. The 'Regulator' is the most irregular coach going. It should have been here bh this time." "Well, the sooner the better, for I have walked from Richmond, and am tired. What have you in the house?" "Everything, sir, from an elephant's tusk to a horse-shoe." "These are rather indigestible matters," said Kit, with a smile. "Could you not furnish something in the shape of a round of beef?" "I might, your honor," said Enoch, with a wink and a gricn, "but I am afraid you would spoil its shape for me." "Well, if I spoil the round, I'll make all square in return," exclaimed Kit. The landlord gave a broader grin than before, and with another wink marshalled his customer into the best parlor. This was already occupied by a young man of gentlemanly appearance, who was enjoying a Weloh rabbit and a small tankard of mulled sack. The usual salutation passed between the travellers; and when the landlord retired to execute Jack's order about the beef, they speedily fell into a sociable chat. Finings soon returned with as glorious a buttock as ever tempted the grinders of a hungry man, and a measure of the best ale in his cellar. Kit fell to with a good appetite, but could not help remarking that the host kept popping in and out of the room, as if anxious for an opportunity of ad- dressing him; he therefore, when pushing his plate from before him, after its third replenishment, said, "Now, then, old friend, what is it!" "' I beg pardon, your honor," returned Finings, stooping towards Kit's ear, and speaking in a mysterious whisper, " have you heard anythink ot that terrible willain ." "Of what villain do you speak?" exclaimed Kit, leaning back and picking his teeth. "You know there are more villains than one in the world." "Aye, aye; you may well say that," returned the host; " but I am speaking of the willain who has stepped into the shoes of Jack with the sixteen halters round his throat." "What, the famous highwayman!" said Kit. "Oh, yes; I hear that he has returned towards town, and intends to give this neighborhood the benefit of his abilities." "No," exclaimed'the landlord, "and have you really heard such a thing?" Kit's object was to set a rumor afloat that might draw the attention of justice from London; he therefore repeated his assertion, and added a pretended conviction that the robber might make an appearance in the adjacent towns and villages, but would not dare to show his face in town for several months to come. The landlord gave one of his wise looks, and bringing his mouth still closer to Kit's ear, and taking hold of his arm, whispered:- "You are right; but he is nearer than he would like it to be known, Nay, he is not many inches distant this moment."   I          -   THE HERO OF TlE ROAD.          27 Kit started to his feet, instinctively feeling in his breast for the pistol of which he had been deprived during the striggle in the coach, cried, "How know you that-what do you suspect?" The solemn host uttered no reply, but nodding significantly towards fie stranger, he tucked the table-cloth under his arm, and made his retreat with the remains of the round of beef, leaving Kit to draw his own con- clusions. Our hero sank into his seat again, and burst into a fit of loud lautghter. "May I ask the occasion of your merriment?" inquired the stranger, who had been occupying himself with a newspaper while Kit was at X  supper. "You have a right," exclaimed Clayton hardly able to speak for the excess of his laughter; " why, who do you suppose you are taken to be by our wise landlord?" "I cannot imagine-an honest man, I hope." "Quite the reverse. He thinks you are none other than the famous Kit Clayton }" "Preposterous!" cried the stranger. "Yet now I think of it--ha! ha! ha!-the good man is not without cause for his suspicions." "Indeed!" said Kit, "you excite my curiosity." "It shall be gratified," returned the other. "You must know that I am contemplating a trip with a fair lady to Gretna, and, as I expect a hot pursuit and powerful opposition, I have been making arrangements with my servant, such as the providing of pistols, relays and so forth-- which have, no doubt, spunded suspiciously in our host's ears. Egad, I've a good mind to carry on the joke, and adopt the highwayman's name for an hour or two." "Take my advice, and do nothing of the sort," said Kit. "You don't know what trouble it may get you into; and, besides, it might hinder you from carrying on the design you were speaking of with your cher amie." "True," said the stranger, " and I thank you for the hint; but what a noise this fellow has been making in the world." "He must be a consummate rascal," said Kit. "I cannot think so," observed Captain Heyman, which was the name of the gentleman. "He seems to soar above the common run of thieves, and has a dash of geniuq and enterprise in his character that fit him for better things." "But his talents, whatever they may be, are no vouchers for his morality," said Kit, not displeased to hear Heyman's opinion. "1I have my own sentiments on that point," resumed Heyman. "It may be presumed that men of ability know right from wrong better than the rest of the world, and I cannot help thinking they would, in most instances, prefer the safer and more honorable path, if the injustice of others did not drive them into vicious practices." "Never did man speak truer," said Kit; " what a mournful thing it is to see abilities perverted." * "It is, indeed. This highwayman now-what a head for scheming; what power to execute he has displayed. Such a man would be invalua. ble at the head of a regiment; and if I would go a mile to see him     2* -68 KIT CLAYTON, hanged, I would walk fifty to see him placed in that position, for which nature has evidently qualified him." "I admire the liberality of your disposition," said Kit, "but do you think he might be trusted?" "And why not? any man who is clever would rather shine in a just than an unjust cause. You may depend upon it, that if the rulers of a country made an invariable practice of promoting every man according to the peculiar gifts with which he was endowed, we should have few living on their wits in a roguish course." "But the best of man's powers are not always to be discovered," remarked Kit, who felt a deep interest in the conversation. "There are many in obscurity who do not know themselves until some accident calls into display the darling passions of their souls. Kit Clayton for instance, may have contentedly passed his early years in some hu'mdrum occupa- tion, and never thought of change, until some peculiar event sent him on the highway. Now had you a voice in the government of things, what would you advise to be done in his case, seeing that he had never given an intimation of talent before going wrong?" "You will think me singular when I say I would send to him with an offer of honorable employment. I would say, Kit, my boy, you are a clever fellow, but are turning your talents to a bad purpose. Now if you like to annoy our enemies instead of our own countrymen, I'll give you an opportunity of distinguishing yourself-deny me and I'll have you hanged." "He would jump at the offer," said Kit. "To be sure he would, and I should thus reclaim a lost man, give society a new member, save the hangman's fee, and enable travellers to *pursue their routes in security." "Would to heaven you were prime minister," exclaimed Kit, grasping Heyman's hand with much emotion. The conversation was prevented from proceeding further by the sudden arrival of the Richmond coach, and in another moment a confusion of tongues outside announced that the passengers were making their way into the Pack-horse. The door burst open, and Samuel, the coachman, and Ben Bingo made their appearance, bearing between them the redoubtable captain, with his head bound up. They were followed by Zachary Smith, the quaker, and the remainder of the travellers, male and female, who all appeared to be eager to be first to communicate what had occurred. "What can have happened " exclaimed the landlord, as they burst in. A dozen voices were raised to unfold the new outrage of Kit Clayton. The men swore that they had all been murdered, and the women that they had been ravished; and it was with the utmost difficulty those pres- ent could gather what had really occurred. Kit was almost ready to betray himself with laughter, at some of the embellishments which the story received; but the impulse grew still stronger when le learnt'that the poor captain had been mistaken for him, and in consequence been pummelled within an inch of his life the instant he was thrown from the coach to the ground. He, however, could not help pitying the deplorable condition to which the unfortunate militia-man had been reduced, and on   '4!  THB HERO OF THE ROAD.                2 hearing that he had not a coin left to pay his expenses to Ltn"ion, Kit very generously presented him with a couple of guineas. Mine host stood confounded. He had expected to have sren Heryman draw forth a couple of horse pistols, and rush through th. party as it entered, instead of which, the young man preserved the utmost compo- H,  sure, and appeared more amused than alarmed at what was passing.- Human nature could endure this no longer, and Findings, exasperated beyond all human forbearance, seized Heyman by the throat, and shaking him as a mastiff would a young kitten, exclaimed:- "E'nt you ready to drop into the very earth, you brazen sinner you  or do you think that all these smooth looks will have any effect upon an old soldier like me " "Come, I say, hands off, old chap!" exclaimed the young man, turning almost black in the face. "Who the deuce do you take me for?" "Why, for Kit Clayton himself, and claim the reward for apprehend ig you." "Pooh!" said our hero, knocking the landlord aside; "how could that gentleman be the highwayman, when I found him here on my arrival, which must have been about the very moment at which the robber made his assault upon the company; and by the bye," he continued turning to Samuel, which was the name of the Jarvey, " how came he in your coach? It is a very suspicious circumstance, Mr. Samuel, and as one determined to investigate the affair, it is right I should learn how your acquaintance with so bad a character commenced." I  "Vy," said Sam, " he made his appearance afore the drag all of a sud. den, like a Will o' the Wisp, and said three times, Samivel, Samivel, Samivel!" "Here am I, your honor," siz I; "guv us a lift," siz he, "and I pulls up, and lets him in, for seeing as how he looked most indi catively sowspicious, it occurred to me that it might be as veil to secure X    him." : "Then you had some idea of what sort of a character you were har. boring," interrupted our hero. "To be sure I had! Vy, as soon as I seed his cocked hat,and whis- kers, I said to myself, as sure as osses is osses, that e're covey is the great highwayman himself." "Then I think, friend," exclaimed the quaker, with great indignation, "thou didst not act like a faithful shepherd to the coach, in thus turning the wolf amid the sheep which were fn fold." "Vy you sees," says Jarvey, a little perplexed, "I seed nuffen of his pistols-so I didn't apprehend no danger; but ven I heerd 'em fired off, I says to a gemman as sot on the box, I says to him, says I, that means mischief." "Oh!-he fired, did he 2" said Kit. "Either he or his comrades did-that I'll be sworn upon my oath." "I thought you said he entered the coach alone." ".Vell, so he did, but he was surrounded by the rest of his Sixteenere ven he first Ar from the ground; and I'll be upon my davy that they had at least sixteen six-pounders, all loaded and pointed at the drag, ready to blow me and it into small pieces, in the event of our refusing to give Kit a lift."     80           KIT CLAYTON, This was too much for our hero, and but for the impolicy of the act, he must have forgotten his gravity, had he not put a stop to the exaggera- tions of the worthy coachman. He, however, pretended to believe all, though with some difficulty, and suggested that special messengers should be dispatched on horseback, to scour the intervening grounds between the Pack-horse and Richmond. By this measure, he knew that the ground would get sufficiently trampled up, to obliterate all trace that might have been afforded by the foot-marks of the beast he had so unceremoniously borrowed to convey him to his present resting-place. "1 sanctions and approves of all you have suggested, sur," exclaimed the coachman; "and it only sho6ws that them as set you to sift these here sort of matters knowd vot they vos about; and now I considers as how ve hbd better think of going to go." "Prythee don't think of stirring," groaned the captain of the militia, trenbling at the bare chance of again encountering the highwayman. "AMy bones are in such a condition that I shall not be able to move for a month." "In that ease you had better be put to bed, while we proceed to town, and spread the intelligence," returned Clayton. Then addressing Hey- man, he added, "Do you go to town, or do your arrangements force you to remain where you are?' "My arrangements force me to ride with you," replied the young man, "and I shall be happy to travel in such good company." "Then let's be off," cried Kit; " but in the first place, let me have the highwayman's pistol; it will not only be of service should we again be attacked, but must be preserved as evidence against the rascal when he is taken."  "Here it is," said Ben Bingo, and he forthwith again put Kit in the possession of that weapon which had so often served him without shedding blood. Kit welcomed it in his own heart as he would have done the presence of an old friend; then thrusting it once more into his breast pocket, he exclaimed, "Now, I have nothing to fear. Let's be off as soon as you like, Master Sam." "Doesn't you think as how a drop within would fortify us agin all without, prowided we had the precaution to take it afore we wentured into the open air?" said Samuel, with that bland, insinuating smile, with which a clown is seen to ogle Columrbine in a pantomime. "You may do as yodl like," exclaimed -Kit, "only make haste." The grog was called for and despatched. A pause then ensued, during which the landlord was seen to scratch his head. "Why are we waiting?" said Kit, now growing impatient; "Are we to reach London to-night?" "As soon as your honor pleases; I'm ready to take the ribands this very instant," returned Sam. "Then pay for what you have had, and lose no time," said our hero. "Pay!' said Sam; then smacking his lips, he shook his'head with an expression that seemed to make payment a doubtful matter. Ben Bingo, who had partaken of the liquor, shook his head also, and then both looked as gy'ave as undertakers.   I4 X         THE HERO OP THE ROAD.        81 "Why, is there any objection to paying?" asked Kit, not fathoming  tiir meaning. "A very great deal," said Sam, with solemnity. "It vos I as started the notion, and no man should pay for his own ideas." "Stuff!" exclaimed Clay ton. "It vos stuff!!-It vos the stuff, and glorious stuff it vos." "No doubt; consequently there should be no hesitation about paying for it." "None, sur, none; did you ever read or hear tell of a poem called M Milton's loss of a pair o' dice?" H     "Something of the kind," replied Clayton, with a smile. "Veil, and who found the tin to publish it, do you suppose? Vy, the bookseller who approved of the work, of course. Milton guved the hidea, and the 'tother tipped the browns; and by a logical coincidence of co0m- parative hargument, if I vos the hauthor of the hidea about the grog, you as the encourager of the hidea is bound in common justice to tip for the samie.' "Oh! is that what you are driving at?" said Clayton. "Why didn't you say so at once? There, master landlord, take your charges; and now, farewell. * Do not be under any apprehensions concerning Kit Clayton, for, depend on it, he'll now not dare to show his face before you see me again." With these words he departed, and the rest of the company followed. Clayton rode in the basket, and young Heyman placed himself by his side. They were soon in full motion, and, as is generally the case with travellers, their tongues were equally soon in full wag. "It somewhat puzzles me," exclaimed Clayton, "what can be your business in town, when your arrangements at the Pack Horse would ap- pear to render your presence so necessary!" "I wish to be seen there as little as possible until the proper time," replied the young stranger. "I shall, however, return in the morning, and hope by this time two days to have crossed the borders." "' I suppose, from what you tell me, that your courtship would form quite a romance." "It is one often told in real life. I love the daughter of a rich man; but although I sprang from a good family, my whole fortune is limited to my commission in his majesty's service--no crime is so heinous as poverty in his eyes; and, therefore, my application to be accepted as a suitor was rejected by him with scorn." "And the lady?" queried Kit. "Heaven bless her!" said the young soldier, fervently; " the impedi- ment thus raised to bar our road to happiness served only to awaken in her heart, as in my own, the desire to cast aside the fetters her sire would weave about us, and to show our independence of the world by following our own inclinations." "Of course without the knowledge of her father," said Kit. "I need not say yes," replied Heyman. "The old man, who is an usurer and a misery was all along too deeply engaged in his devotions to Plutus, to detect the entrance of Cupid into his house, so that I made ad vancos to his daughter- as it were under his very nose, without detectioa     32            KIT- CLAYTON, Neither of us had, however, made up our minds to anything decisive, when a crony and schoolfellow of the old dad made his appearance in the character of a suitor." "Which circumstance made you begin to think of looking about you." "It did; for the old fellow knowing the uncertainty of life, insisted upon having the ceremony performed forthwith. They would have had a special license, but for the cost; and, in order to save that expense, it was agreed that the ceremony should take place by banns. This was sal vation to us, as it gave us three weeks to make our arrangements in." "Has the young lady any tin? I beg pardon, I mean is she possessed of any fortune?" inquired Clayton. "Thirty thousand pounds in her own right, my boy," exclaimed the lover, with elation. Kit gave a long whistle .at hearing this, and exclaimed, "Why, if old mother Shipton was to come to life, and possessed of such a fortune, I would marry her." "How much stronger would be the incentive were you tempted as I am, by loveliness, virtue, and accomplishments?" said Heyman. "But I can scarcely dream of success. It appears a piece of fortune too glori ous for a mortal in my position to achieve!" "Never despair," said Clayton, "all things are possible to the adven- turous; and he who plays the most desperate game is generally the win- ner; but how is it that you are not now with your lady-love?" "For this reason; it is proposed that the parties should be married in London, and they will put up at the old 'Pack Horse,' on their way there. I have prepared post-horses, and everything requisite, so that when the young lady retires to her chamber in the evening, she will be enabled to slip down to me, and start with me in the chaise at once." "Then you will gain a night in advance of them. Why that will be glorious," said Kit. In conversation of this nature, the pair whiled away the time, until the crazy vehicle on which they rode made its way without further adventure to the old "White Horse" cellar in Piccadilly. As it drove up, Clayton's Attention was arrested by an appearance, of great confusion amid a crowd :hat had congregated near the door of the inn, while loud clamors of con- tention were plainly to be heard. He would have thought little of an occurrence so common, had he not heard amidst the confusion of sounds a voice that sounded familiar to his ears; He strained his eyes to recognize the party, and at once beheld an old friend in the hands of constables, from whom he was striving to escape. Kit leaped to the ground in an instant, and knocking aside all who impeded him, he jostled his way into the heart of the crowd, and striking down the captors, released his friend with scarcely an effort. The difficulty now was to get him clear of the crowd; but this he might have effected with ease, had not the officers been too quick for him. They regained their feet without loss of time, and calling on the bystanders in the king's name to assist, they fell upon Kit, and a regular battle royal took place. Twice was our hero knocked down, and twice he sprung up as undaunted as ever, and returned to the scratch. At length a blow on the back of the head not only felled, but stunned him ; and his assailants were dragging him along the ground in   THE HERJ OF THE ROAD.          83 triumph, whnen young Ileyman, who had conceived an extraordinary llk. ing for Kit, resolving that his new friend should not suffer in his attempt to serve a f iiend in distress, flung a portmanteau at the head of one of the officers, and then seizing the coachman's whip, jumped into the midst of the throng, and laid about him so effectually, that he cleared a tolerably wide space. By this time Clayton had again come to himself, and seizing the rescued man's arm, exclaimed to his preserver, "Now then, my boy, let's make a bolt of it." So saying, he darted forward, and was followed by his ally. In the present time the bude lights and gas give little chance for escape unseen down so crowded a thoroughfare as Piccadilly; but in the night of which we write, the most illumined part of London was too dark to enable one to see a yard beyond his nose; it was therefore no difficult matter for Kit to penetrate the gloom, and get out of sight of his pursuers. He made his way to the park, and when there, threw himself upon the sward, and in- vited his companions to do the same. l/eyman declined, as his business was too urgent to admit of a moment' delay; and he apologised for leav. ing so abruptly. "You have served one," said Kit, grasping his hand, "who never for. gets a kindness, and who may have it in his power to serve you more deeply than you imagine." "I hope in a few days to be placed beyond the need of aid," exclaimed Heyman; " however, I appreciate your expressions of gratitude, and trust that we shall meet again." So saying, he shook hands with Kit, and de. parted. CHAPTER V. 'ITTS PLANS PROCEED--A ROBBERY--CJARND'S RIDE. Now Kit, pursuing the plans on which his heart and mind were bent, and which, from experience, he felt fully assured would set the wonder. mongers on the qui vive, and would gain him a notoriety time could neve efface, despatched his'comrade, Sheppard, to pursue his journeys to th appointed stations, and then and there, simultaneously, to rob his man as had already been proposed. After Sheppard's departure, the time speedily arrived for Kit and Jared to fiulfil the mission they had themselves appointed, which was, that Kit should travel on foot some distance down the road-should commit a rob- bery sufficiently daring to arouse for the pursuit-that he should return quietly to town on foot, as he had left it, and that Jared, being enabled to place sufficient reliance on the steed he bestrode, to laugh at any attempt that could be made to capture him. Kit started a few hours before Jared, and being overtaken by the latter, they, under cover of the twilight, proceeded on their journeys, Kit ocea. sionally hiding in the hedge as passengers approached, that they might not be seen in company. "Why, captain," said Jared, "on leaving town to-night, I'll be hanged 3     34            KIT CLAYTON, if you were not .Ae theme of every tongue. What hadst thou been doing '" "Doing!" cried Kit, with a hearty laugh, " that which will set a whole posse staring, and set every constable in London on the alert, and hang them for sleepy fools, or they'd have nabbed me ere this. Well, Jared, to shorten a long tale, I came to an inn, before which a few farmers were sitting, talking of my promised ride to Newcastle. 'Ie must pass by this way if he does ride,' said one, 'butlhang me, I arn't seen him yet.' 'He won't ride,' said another. 'Damme, it be more than his neck's worth; why, arter the long notice my Lord Mayor's had, d'ye think he'll be such a tarnation fool not to post men all down the roadl' 'Hang'd if it don't 'pear like it anyhow,' quoth another; 'for sorry a tipstaff ha' we got this end o' town, save and 'cepting old Stocks, and a rare cove he'd be to catch Clayton, wouldn't he-why, he's blind of one eye, and can't see out of t'other.' Now, I listened to all this conversation until an old farmer came up, well mounted, and swore his horse could do any mortal thing that beast could do, but damme, if it could manage London to Newcastle, not a bit on it, nor more couldn't any other creater in the world.' And the old infidel, warmed up by expressing his opinion, the 'magistrate would be mad to take any notice of such a werry ridiculous hidea.' "Unbuttoning my long outer coat, excepting the two top buttons, so that I could, in an instant, tear it open, and show them my habiliments with pistols in belt, and all the formidable concomitants attending me, I advanced to the horse the farmer had just left--for he had dismounted, and patting the noble animal, I said quietly, she is a noble horse, and shall this night do a deed for herself that shall earn her a noble name.- In an instant I was in the saddle, and tearing open my coat, shouted,- Kit will ride to Newcastle, and that, too, on the back of a borrowed horse!-and striking the animal with my spurs, she was off like the wind. Looking back, I had the pleasure of seeing the old farmer, amidst the laughter and jeers of the populace, hurry off towards London as fast as his legs could carry him, in search of assistance." "A laughable freak, I confess, captain, but one calculated to bring an hornet's nest about your friend's ears. I value not my own safety one jot, Captain Clayton; but, nevertheless, you might still have borne in mind. Jared Steele was flesh and blood as well as yourself." "And think you I could forget you, Jared? no, by heaven," said Kit, indignantly. "And if you think I am forcing you into any danger, return at once; I abandon the expedition." Jared shook his head dissentingly. But explain, Kit, explain-I am quite content with 'the danger likely to be incurred in my part of the firce, so proceed." "I galloped on half a mile, not further, and here I paused, bethinking me what was to be done. I was quickly decided. Springing from the mare's back, I hid myself in the clustering branches of a thick oak adjoining, whence I could see the- road without fear of being detected from it. In a short time I had the pleasure of seeing the old farmer and a troop of horsemen ride up to the spot, where, instead of Kit, pistol in hand, awaiting their advance, they found the farmer's horse quietly nip-   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          3 ping the grass by the road-side. Fancying some wag or other had been playing a practical joke with the farmer, they retraced their steps, laughing right heartily. The travellers had now come to the walls of a large mansion. ' "Hush!" said Jared, "I hear voices, and by heavens, that of our old friend the Marquis de'Vauxrien." "So it is, by jingo!" said Kit, quietly, yet gleefully. "I promised the old swell we should meet again, and here's a glorious opportunity!- Take your horse to the end of the shrubbery, and stir not from thence, hand or foot, till you have my bidding." "Let me accompany you, Kit," said Jared. "I cannot bear you to run singly into danger, unless I accompany you." $  "Silence, Steele, my brave friend; I run no risk-that is all reserved for you; my share will be only sport. So, so, where are the stablest'. "By the side of the house; but what want you there?" "You'll find out anon; I've a scheme in my head," and with bent back and stealthy footsteps, he advanced towards the range of stabling. The door stood slightly opened, sufficiently to show Kit, by the light of a lan- tern, which hung from the ceiling, that save and excepting several horses, the place was tenantless. Kit entered, and finding a box of farrier's tools, he speedily removed a shoe from each of the horses. This done, he withdrew from the stable as noiselessly as he had entered it, and picking his way, he carefully but fearlessly entered the house. Here he came at once full butt upon the company in the drawing-room, for they had returned from the garden to that apartment. Kit mixed with them, but for several minutes, so numerous was the party, not one of them noticed there was a stranger in the room. The few minutes so occupied, was not spent idly by Kit. Several watches, purses, and snuff-boxes found their way, by some magic process, into his pocket. He was in the act of trans. planting a snuff-box, when the owner, feeling it in a most insinuating manner taking French leave of him, suddenly placed his hand upon it, and exclaimed, "after me is manners, if you please." This exclamation, as may be imagined, drew all eyes upon our hero, who bore the gaze undauntedly. "Why, who have we here?" said the marquis, scanning the intruder from head to toe, and from toe to head again; " who are you, sare, I say, that you dare intrude yourself here, in my house ';' "Who and what I am," said Kit, throwing open his coat, and pulling his mask lower down (it being at the time partly lowered), "you cannot, perhaps, my lord marquis, determine." "Sare dieu! I have no recollection of your cursed face, before, but you be one thief, dat be certain, and dat be quite enough; I shall arrest you on suspicion." "Perhaps he is Kit ClaytonJ of whom we have heard you talk," said one, "I am Kit," said Clayton, drawing himself to his full height, and levelling his pistols as he spoke-a proceeding whereat the men started, and the women screamed; " and in duty bound to express my gratitude for the marquis's late act of generosity to myself and companions, I have deviated from my journey to Newcastle to pay this visit, and having     38            KIT CLAYTON, gleaned sufficient in this assembly to pay my expenses to that town, I have the honor of wishing you a very good night, marquis. I am your most obedient, madam,"'-to the old lady-" yours ever, whilst you weal such lovely watches. Kit Clayton bids each and all a fair good night.'" "Forward, and seize the scoundrel!" shouted several, simultaneously, but none advanced one step. "If there is a man among you fancies himself capable of arresting me, let him now do it;" and Kit with a firm step, returned* from the glass door to which he had flown, into the centre of the room. The men fell back, the women's shrieks echoed again and again. "By the noose! this will never do; they will alarm the household,' thought Kit, then springing forward, he seized a bottle, and pouring him self out a goblet, he exclaimed, "Health to all-I'm now for Newcastle; follow me who dares, who can, and will!" And, saying these words, he sprang through the glass door, clearing the terrace parapet at one bound, and was lost to sight. Kit ran along with unabated swiftness, until he reached the ambusl in which his gipsey assistant was hidden, and as this was a portion of the par that lay concealed in the shade of several ancient chesnuts which stretche( their gnarled limbs across the cultivated grounds, Jared then rode for ward in the open moonlight, at a gentle pace, to attract the attention of the visitors, while Kit skulked secretly round to the back of the house and having given Jared his directions, made his way across the countr: towards London. In a moment all the servants were aroused by the confusion that brok out above, and communicated itself like wild-fire, through the house, a soon as the first stupor of astonishment had given way to more activ feelings. The cry of "To horse, to horse!" now became general. Th "--summons dread brooks no delay; Stretch to the race-away, away!" Excitement often supplies the place of courage, and thus may b accounted for the fact that, after the word to mount had been given, nc five minutes elapsed before every male in the place, from the foot-boy t the marquis, was in his saddle. He who could not get a hunter, mounte a coach-horse, and those who could not procure either, were content wit mules or asses. "Off!" was the word in the following moment, an away started the squadron in pursuit of Steele. The gipsey, in his disguise as Kit, made direct for the great Nort Road, and was followed with "many a whoop and wild halloo!" unt the effects of Kit's foresight in removing a shoe from each of the horse became manifest. First one stumbled, and then another, until the hut became fairly up; the party of pursuers dead beaten, and Jared Steel was left to pursue his route without further molestation. "Alone, but with unabated zeal, That horseman plied the scourge and steel All jaded now, and spent with toil, Embossed with foam, and dark with soil, While every grasp with sobs he drew, The laboring steed strained full in view."   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          37 Not long, however, did he remain "full in view;" for his pursuers having dropped off, one by one, he was completely out of sight. Having thus pleasantly accomplished the hazardous beginning of his adventure, he struck into an easy trot, and pursued his way to its accomplishment. Outstripped and foiled, the party of pursuers breathed nothing but imprecations on the head of Clayton, and were put to the most laughable shifts to make their way back to the chateau. In some places there were no horses, and in others no blacksmiths, so that, eventually, the greater portion of the pursuers were obliged to return on foot. Meanwhile, Jared pursued his way alone, until after several hours' hard riding, he reached the point of road which had been mentioned by one of the magistracy, Mr. Tykespeech, at a meeting, as the place passed by him on horseback every day at a certain hour. The gipsey felt no hesitation about the matter, for his wandering life had rendered him so familiar with the country, that he knew every highway and byeway of the nation, as well as a schoolboy does the lanes and alleys about his own parish.- Having thrown a precautionary glance around him, he once more adjusted the mask to his face, and resuming the rest of the disguise, he rode anxiously forward, burning for the coming adventure-yet almost fearing that something would happen to disarrange it. "We have got on gloriously thus far," thought he," and it would indeed be a pity if the devil were now to put in his hoof, and spoil sport. But the devil is too fond of his own." As he thus soliloquized, the prevailing stillness became suddenly interrupted by a loud, but not unmusical voice, which, in tones more remarkable for energy than intonation, time, or key, sang the following chorus to an old song, of the coarse description with which the Bacchantees of modern times are wont to illuminate the hours devoted to carousal:- "Beans, peas, and cabbages, Beans, peas, and cabbages, "Oh, the old day when we frolicked away Over beans, peas, and cabbages!" "This is my man, for a thousand pounds," exclaimed Jared, with delight, and he gave the representation of"Old Sue," an immediate hint to resemble the mare it imitated in celerity. The animal was neither a dullard nor a laggard; it took the hint like a well-bred creature, and obeyed it like an obedient one. The sound of her hoofs, as they now clang briskly along the road, evidently attracted the notice of the approach- ing stranger. He paused for a moment, and Jared did the same; upon which the former, under the impression that he had only heard the echo of his own trot, resumed his journey, and singing as follows:- "A Flea, a Fly, and a Flitch, Be Yorkshiteman's heraldry, And he's a son of a bitch Who knows not the reason why- Your Flea bites all he comes nigh, A Yorkshiremal does the same Sup wi' all will the fly ;- And Yorkshire lads follow the game. Too ral, ]oo ral, loo, Too ral, loo ral, lay."     38        HZKIT CLAYTON, At this point of his most exquisite distich, the horseman turned a clump of trees which had hitherto concealed him, and Jared became enabled to take a view of him as he approached. His burly figure was not to be mistaken; it was Martin Tykespeech himself. He wore a stout broad- brimmed hat, with a low crown, possessing the strength of a helmet. His frame was enveloped in an ample gray coat, with mother-o'-pearl buttons, and enough capes to form a bulwark for Cape Horn. Jared did not much relish the stalwart appearance of his adversary, but he resolved to trust to his own activity, and abide the result. Tykespeech had evidently been imbibing more of the juice of the grape than was alto- gether prudent, but still he was quite sensible enough to know what he was about. He came on singing the conclusion of the song he had already commenced:- "But the Filtch it comes closer home, And to guess why needs no wizard  -Though when abroad we roam, The fact speaks in each gizzard, The heralds they been't mistaken, Although they deserve to be hanged, For neither us nor the bacon Are fit for a fig-tree, we're all hanged. Too ral, loo ral, loo, Too ral, loo ral, lay." In concluding his chorus, our merry Yorkshireman was disturbed by Jared, who spurring suddenly in front, clapped his pistol to the ear of Tykespeech, and sternly asked the way to York. "Thee meens't York Castle," exclaimed the Yorkshireman, moved, but not disconcerted, by this unexpected salutation :-"Why, thee'lt find the way easily enow, if thee repeats thy present action, when thee gets within limits o' the county." "You are as fond of jokes as ever, Tykespeech," said Steele, still hold- ing his weapon within ear-shot of the oracular organs of his friend. "And how the dickens dost thee know that my name be Tykespeech, measter  Aye, and what hast thee sootened thy face foor t Art thee a chimney-sweep 2" "All in good time," said Jared. "Are you married?" "What's that to thee?" exclaimed the honest grazier. " Not much; only if you possessed a wife and children, I might be merciful, and not shoot the whole of your brains out." "Ecod, thee bee'st a funny chap, howsumdever. But, before I an- swer any o' the questions, let me ax two or three of thee. I' the first place, what be thy name?" "Kit Clayton, the highwayman." "What-say that again-do; but dom thee, if it's a lee, I'll knock thee doon arterards." "I repeat it," said the gypsey. "I am Kit Clayton." "Tal lal de riddle iddle!" sung the Yorkshireman. I tell'd 'em it would be so-I kenned it would, Lord love thee, man, how is't thee?" So saying, he grasped the gipsey's hand, and shook it with an earnestness that proved the cordiality with which the action was performed.   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          3 Steele, who had a kindly nature, felt considerable compunction at the idea of rifling the pockets of a man whose heart and hand were so open, and he would have at once abandoned his purpose could he have done so with- out demolishing a scheme which had cost so much to set a foot; and as this consideration crossed his mind, he steeled himself against his own feelings, and once more presenting his pistol, he exclaimed : "Your shake of the hand is ill-bestowed. I am here to bid thee stand and deliver." "I ken that weel enuf," exclaimed Tykespeech in return. "To be sure thee ort! I tell'd all the chaps within ten miles of Stilton to expect thee, and I han't missed a night this fortnight to cum in expectation o' meeting thee." "Nonsense!" cried Steele, who could not believe his own ears. "Im- possible!" "But I tell thee -we have, mun. And what be mair than that, here be a purse well filled wi' brass, which I ha' brought wi' me on purpose for thee to steal." "Oh! you are fooling me!" cried the fictitious Kit, enraged. "You are creating time for the arrival of assistance." "If I be, I'm dom'd," said Tykespeech, " no, ino; we lads o' the north like a chap o' spirit, and as soon as I tell'd 'em how you promised to beat Dick Turpin, and ride from Lonnon to Newcastle, they all tuk a liking to thee. We agreed to wait a month-if tlee failed, we could na' help it, but if thee com'd, as thee hast, we agreed to gie thee a jolly good wel- come, and make thee empty a bottle on the road. So cum along, lad; thvy're at aL inn hvad by, and will be as glad to see thee as if thee wert their ain brather." "You must be mad, or take me to be so," cried Jared, who, however, could not help laughing at the whimsicality of the proposal. "I suppose the first of your friends to whom I should be introduced would be the parish beadle!" "Hum," said Tykespeech, scratching his shaggy head. "It be natteral enuf that thee should think so, but I did hope that Kit Clayton wur a chap o' too much pluck himself to suspect such a cowardly act in another. But see here, mun; I'll get off my beast and walk a foot. Thee shan't be asked to alight unless thee first likest thy company, an' if thou seest v symptom o' foul play, thee can'st ride off afore hand o' man can be raised against thee." The gipsy could hardly credit the evidence of his senses, and he tossed, jingled, and weighed the purse in his hand, to satisfy himself that it really was what it appeared. The grazier, fancying that he was discontented with the amount, exclaimed--"Thee will get more at York. Brother is on the look out for thee there, the same as I was here; but thee won't get a brass farden out of him unless thee showest him a certificate from me, that I ha' been robbed in the same night, and that thee committed a robbery in Lunnon aforehand." "I have not only committed a robbery in London, but at the chateau of the Marquis de Vauxrein," was Jarcd's reply. "Better and better!" cried Tykespeech. "Give us thy fist again, mun. And so thee robbed the old markiss's Well, that were dom'd clever. Ha, ha, ha-aa!"     40            KIT CLAYTON, In this sort of conversation the pair proceeded nearly tfohundred yards along the road towards Yorkshire; at the termination of which-they came to an ale-house. Jared was not altogether devoid of uneasiness, as he saw his conductor knock at the door, and he looked around to see if all was clear for escape. There was no visible obstacle, and he now directed his attention towards the door. This was opened by a runt square built fellow, with as much hair on his face as on the top of his head. Tyke- speech addressed something to him in a whisper. The man appeared thunderstruck, and gazed upon the gipsy as if he saw a spectre; then sud- denly retreating, slammed the door with a violence that made every beam of the house vibrate. A confused sound of human voices now ema- nated from within, and Steele distinctly heard the words-"Kit Clayton" repeated by twenty different tongues. Before he had time to draw any conclusion from this, the door was again opened, and out burst a whole crowd of men, of all grades and ages, who immediately surrounded the gipsy and made captive of his horse in a moment, a loud hurrah testify- ing their delight as they did so. He now thought it high time to use his weapons; but a glance at the looks of admiration which were cast upon him from every eye at once removed his fears, and returning the pistol to its holster, he raised his plumed hat, and courteously bowed an acknowledgment of the friendly greeting he had received. A second cheer announced the satisfaction this occasioned, and an honest Huntingdonshire farmer rushed forward with the utmost enthusiasm, and exclaimed: "I shall boast of this honor when I am an old man. Pray come in, my hearty. There is no one here who would raise a finger to do you harm, and we will not even ask you to unmask." "I would not hesitate a moment," said Steele, "but unless I reach York immediately I shall forfeit my pledge." "And dost thou really affirm that thou hast ridden from Richmond in Surrey within the last eight hours?" said the farmer. "Her e is my voucher," replied Steele, displaying the certificate that had been'already prepared. "And what is more, I will not dismount til I have gone two hundred miles further." "The beast will never stand it," exclaimed Tykespeech, viewing the exhausted condition of Jared's mare with real concern. "The mare never failed me yet 1" returned Jared gaily, " and I'm de termined not to lose faith in her. Come, gentlemen, as you would scofr to detain me against my will, do not do so against my interest. Time wears-and-"9 "Brother waits for thee, I know that," exclaimed Tykespeech. "Let me sign the certificate, and while I do, drink the health of all of us." "Right willingly," said Jared, and he handed the paper to his eccentric friend. A howl of hot punch was now brought out, and speedily drank to the toast proposed. Meanwhile the pretended mare was honored with the caresses and compliments of all who could get near her; but not pos messing the docility of her prototype, she unceremoniously shied and be stowed sundry kicks upon those around her. This was construed into the evidence of X spirit unfinished by her long run, and new encomiums w   her ing pov.-ed vlu uet- ir consequence, when Tykespeech approached   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          41  and desired them to listen while he read the certificate he had signed be. neath that borne by Steele. He then read-"I, the undersigned, do hereby certify that I was stopped on the king's highway by Kit Clayton, who, having put me in great bodily fear-" here he interrupted himself with a loud laughter in which his friends, and even Jared, joined, and then concluded by reading how he had been " robbed and plundered by force of arms, of a certain sum," &c. "There, friend Kit," said he, when he had concluded, "show this in York, in eight hours, and they'll mortalize thee." Steele thrust the paper in his bosom, and throwing down ten guineas, from the purse of which Tykespeech had so willingly allowed himself to be robbed, and having taken a farewell draught, he rode off on the road to York, followed by hurrahs that make the welkin ring again. No sooner, however, was he enabled to avail himself of a turn in the road, than he selected the first thicket he came near to enter. Being satisfied that he was concealed from all eyes, he divested himself of his disguise, and thrusting it into a wallet which he had provided, buried. it beneath the root of a tree. He then aciusted his own attire, and, by rubbing down his mare with some grass ,nd leaves, he deprived some portions of her body of certain patches of slor with which he had plastered several white spots on her skin, to render it marked as the mare was. Horse and rider being thus transformed, Jared, turning towards Lon- don, took a sweep that compassed the rear of the inn, and brought him once more into the high-road. He then turned northward, and in a few minutes stopped at the very inn he had just quitted, and so completely was he altered, that not a soul knew him. He found the entire conversation engrossed by the recent adventure and bets were being laid on all sides as to the result. It was a great puzzler to the knowing in horse flesh. Their wishes and love of the mar- vellous inclined them to encourage the notion that the famous highway- man would accomplish his feat, and yet their practical knowledge con- vinced them that no powers of endurance could carry a horse through a single ride of nearly three hundred miles; and the mote the subject was canvassed, the greater was the interest it excited. Jared was eagerly questioned which road he had come, and whether he had witnessed anything remarkable on the way. "Not very," said he, "I started from Eaton-Socon about three hours since, and when I had got about a mile this side of Weston, I was passed by a chap with a black face, and a bunch of strings at each knee, and who galloped more like the devil in a high wind than any human being." When they acquainted him, in return for his information, that the per- son encountered was the robber whose name filled every mouth, the gipsy of course joined in the general expression of astonishment, and then pro- posed a bumper to the achievement of the feat. This was drank with a heartiness that proved the popularity of Kit, and many a bowl was drained to the same toast, until the morning had far advanced. The gipsy, finding himself so completely unsuspected, thought that he could not do better than take up his quarters at the inn which bore the sensible sign of the "' Cat and Candlestick," until he received further orders from his captain.     42            KIT CLAYTON, Pretending, therefore, to have an appointment with some one frcm Berwick-upon-Tweed, he engaged a bed for the period of his expected stay, and then composed himself in the chimney coiner, well pleased with what he had done, and in anticipation of what was to follow. CHAPTER VI. w Sheppard's Ride. HARRY SHEPPARD was equally successful in accomplishing his part. Disguised as a trinket-maker, he had taken lodging in York, and regularly ridden out by break of day, as if to dispose of his wares-and he even took the precaution of calling at the shops of many country dealers with some specimens of his art, in order that no suspicion might afterwards arise. His evenings were spent at the different taverns in the city, so that he might gather from the prevailing gossip everything affecting the cause in which he was engaged. This was a fortunate stroke of policy, for he thereby became acquainted with the elder Tykespeech, and soon ferretted out the feelings that existed in favor of Kit, and the determina- tion that had been made to aid his exploit as much as possible. To carry the joke to the utmost extent, he would sometimes ride out with the Yorkshireman, and by this means acquired a knowledge of the exact locality traversed by Tykespeech, which generally terminated near an enclosure on which the Dring-houses are now standing, about two miles from York, and where an alehouse then stood, to turn the thirsty travel- ler from the high road. In the meantime he wrote to Toby to put him on his guard, and Harry judged that the same feeling would prevail in favor of Kit, along the entire line of road. The intimation was a timely one, as will be seen anon. As the night of action approached, Harry discontinued his usual trip with his new friend-giving as a reason, the probability of Kit's being deterred from attacking Tykespeech at all, were another in his company. "Ecod, mon," said the Yorkshireman, "that wouldn't do at any price. I wouldn't miss him for a ten pound note-so thee see'st, lad, I had better ride alone, and then if he comes past, he may be tempted to bite a bit, and have a chat wi' me along the road. I know that the Lord Mayor be hatching nischief against the poor lad, and I'd rather lose a year's income than a chap wi' so much pluck in him should come to harm." Harry of course acquiesced, as he had himself originated the suggestion, and the twain separated, well pleased with each other. But a scene awaited Harry which he had not anticipated--a scene of powerful excitement, and one which might have tried the intrepidity of even Kit himself. Mr. Richard Tykespeech, or, as he was commonly de- nominated, Dick Tyke, entrusted his intentions to so many persons, that, as the day drew near, the city each day seemed to empty itself of half its contents, while the roadside was thronged with whole multitudes of eager expectants, all desirous of catching a glimpse of the redoubtable Kit. But the affair got further wind than was intended; and amongst the most inte-   THE HERO OF THE IOAD.          43 rested of the spectators was a large body of the constabulary forch in its guise, the members of which received from the Lord Mayor crdcrs to lay -hands upon the first suspicious looking personage who might appear. At length the appointed hour arrived. As the announcement published con- cerning the ride had made no intimation, on the highwaylman's part, to commit any robberies as he rode, the preparations made by Dick Tyke, to be voluntarily robbed, might have confounded Harry, and rendered him fearful of perplexing the operations of the whole scheme, had he not learned that Martin Tykespeech intended, as well as his brother, to insist upon having the honor of being robbed by Kit Clayton. From this circumn stance, Harry inferred that the certificate which Jared procured would ba couched in some whimsical terms. In preparing the counter pair, there- fore, our shrewd knave endeavored to anticipate, as nearly as possible, the language he expected to be employed, and happily hit upon a sufficient degree of similarity to give it an air of genuineness. The hour being at hand, and all ready, Harry rode quietly out of York with his pack behind him-not, as usual, filled with trinkets for sale, but stuffed with his disguise. As 'he pursued his road at an easy amble, he could not but reflect on the danger he was about to incur, ior, though he did not dream of its extent, he telt that it must prove gieat. To have executed their manoeuvre, and then have boasted of it afterwards, would have been a certain mode of securing safety; but having so publicly an- nounced what was to take place, the contrary had been endered as cer- tain, and Harry felt that the only loophole for safety existed in the igno- rance of the people, of the hour and day to be selected for the enterprise. "However," said he to himself, " come what, come may, I'll not dis- grace Kit while representing him." He was by this time pretty close upon Tadcaster, and he sought a shel- tered spot where he might disguise himself unobserved. To the right he saw a dressing room of nature's own building; furnished, too, with a mirror fit for use. It was a small dell, of about twenty feet in depth, overhung with willows, so thickly planted that their branches interlaced, and formed an almost impenetrable screen from the eye of the observer. A glassy stream, that ran to the edge of one of the surrounding hills, took an uninterrupted leap to a cavity below, and presented a surface so smooth and unbroken, that no cheval glass could have been better suited for the purposes of the toilette. Down the slopes of this charming place there grew a quantity of nuts and wild fruits, so that Harry, as he descended, could not help exclaiming -"Board, washing, and lodging, gratuitously." He was soon equipped. He then stuck the certificate conspicuously in front of his cap, and having peeped forth to ascertain that no one was nigh, he galloped fearlessly into the road, pistol in hand. In about half a mile in advance of him he descried two horsemen proceeding at an easy trot towards York. He sgw that they were not to be apprehended, being plain country gentlemen nn their appearance, so he resolved to secure their testimony that he had passed along the road; and to direct their attention, he raised his pistol and fired. They looked round immediately, and he galloped furiously up. '     "          KIT CLAYTON, "Make way, make way!" he cried; "Kit Clayton is on his way through York to Newcastle!" So saying, he dashed between his astonished hearers, and was almost out of sight before they could recover themselves. When, however, they did regain the senses which had been thus steeped in astonishment, they put spurs to their steeds, and galloped off 'in pursuit. Harry was now "in for it ;" he had nothing now to depend upon but luck, courage, dexterity, and a brilliant impression upon the people. His animal, fresh and in high spirits, flew along the ground like a cricket ball, and though the horsemen behind were enabled to keep him in view, they had no chance of gaining upon him. In a very short time he was within the vicinity of York, and his heart beat high as he saw Mr. Dick Tyke riding along in pursuance of his daily quest for adventures. The clatter- ing of hoofs aroused the Yorkshireman immediately, and he waked up with as much eagerness as if he had expected to meet an old and long absent friend. "Heigh, man-heigh!" he shouted, the instant he beheld Charley. "Bide a bit. Hollo! Clayton! stop!" "Stop you!" shouted Sheppard, presenting an empty pistol, for he knew that he had nothing to fear. "Stand and deliver, or you are a dead man." "Doan't ye, Kit, doan't! theeqll brusten I wi' laughter. Ecod, I shall get a foine neame i' the history books when thee art hanged, and they print all about thy famous ride, and how thee robbed I as thee went." "Silence, miscreant!" roared Sheppard, as much to smother his laughter as anything else. "Deliver immediately!" "Dinna be in such a dom'd hurry, Kit, I'm all ready for thee, lad. Hast thou cried ' deliver' to any one else on the road?" "Aye, or I should not have been able to have proved my ride. See here," added Harry, pointing to the paper in his hat-" within the last eighteen hours I have rifled one man in London, one man at Richmond in Surrey, and another at Stilton in Huntingdon."       x "And here thee art, where Turpin finished his journey," cried Tyke, hauling out a purse, and presenting it. "Whilst I have a hundred miles further to go," returned Harry, giving Dick the certificate to sign. "Fal lal de lal!" sung Dick, as soon as he recognized the pretended signature of Martin. "This be brother's writing, sure enuf. Ha, ha, ha! We shall cut a fine figure in company wi' a markiss. But gies thy pen. There, R. O. B., with a little t at the top. Capital T. and a Y, K. E.- S. P. E. E. C. H.; Robert Tykespeech. The signature be known to half Northumberland; and if thee send it to the Mayor of Newcassel, he'll make an affidavit of the fact. Which road dost thee take there?" "Through Pickering to Whithy; thence to Durham, and so on to Gateshead," replied Sheppard. "It's an open road, and may expose thee to danger; but I'll not detain thee. Long life to thee and thy canny mare; and if thee shouldst be hanged in these parts, Kit, I'll come and shake hands with thee on the scaffold, 'hough I miss a day's market through it. But I say, lad, dinna thee go   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          4 spreading abroad that I aided and abetted a thief on his journey, instead of apprehending him, as is the duty of a liege subject." "I leave you to betray your own secret," said Sheppard; and so saying ne made the air crack with his whipcord, and started off. he was already congratulating himself upon having a clear field for escape, when, turning an angle of the road, he reined up with positive terror, at seeing the way. side lined with thousands of people. A shout-loud, hearty and prolonged-rent the very skies the instant ne was seen; for the good people of York had so completely made up their minds to witness the feat of horsemanship which had been promised them, that they had assembled in multitudes, day by day, to give the modern Turpin a welcome as he passed; and were naturally impressed with the conviction that a masked horseman, wearing so remarkable a dress as that assumed by Harry, must be The object they had come to greet. Their shouts reassured the highwayman, and with graceful action he waved his plumed hat to the crowd, and, urging his courser into a gentle amble, he proceeded through the midst, bowing on each side, as if he had been a prince receiving the homage of his subjects. "Huzza', huzza!" was the cry that again broke the still heavens, and the popular feeling became roused to positive enthusiasm. "Look at 'un! look at 'un! look at tid mare," cried several. "She looks as fresh as if she had just left the stable." This called forth new encomiums from other lips, and Harry's own appearance, as well as that of his steed, came in for its share of praise. He, however, rode on warily and watchfully; he felt that there was danger, and he knew that nothing but the most consura. mate nerve and address could carry him through. Without betraying, therefore, the slightest mark of fear, he now coolly reloaded his pistol- looked well to the priming, and placed it in the holster, where another weapon of the same description was awaiting, like a good soldier, to be ordered into action. This evidence of determined daring produced an effect that saved him. The constables, who were mostly raw young men of little practice, were thunderstruck at beholding it. Amazement, admiration, and some por- tion of fear, tended to paralyze them, as Harry passed within very arm's length of them, and they allowed him to gain an advance of some yards before they sufficiently recovered from their astonishment to make attempts at apprehending him. Another feeling operated also in his favor: in their hearts they hoped that he WOULD accomplish his purpose, and felt as if it would be a crime to prevent the fulfilment of an exploit which might prove the boast of Yorkshire for the next hundred years to come; for, as OLD SUE, like BLACK BEss, had been foaled in that county, they imagined that their supremacy in horseflesh would be established by the result. It was thus that the entire progress of this far-famed hoax became marked with incidents, which attached to it a deserved celebrity, that would scarcely have been exceeded by the actual execution of an uninterrupted ride from London to Newcastle.           Sheppard now quickened his pace; but things were not destined to go so smoothly and uninterruptedly as they had done. The favorable senti- ments of the constables were as transient as the passage of the individual wno had excited them, and scarcely had he got ahead of these men, before     "           KIT CLAYTON, they were recalled to a sense of duty, and shouted to him to surrender The summons, of course, produced an opposite effect to that intended; the robber spurred his mare to the top of her speed, and flew off like some projectile armed with superior powers of swiftness; but his pursuers were well mounted also, and he soon found that, when the strength of his steed was exhausted, he should stand every chance of being taken. "But my steed shall drop dead before that happens," he exclaimed, gnashing his teeth as the conviction struck him; then once more applyirg cord and steel, he took a detour, and urged his flying pace across a track of country to the right of the city, and which he thought would be less dangerous than pursuing a route where every man he passed might prove a foe. The officers followed, and in a short time the pursuers and the pursued had left the hallooing mob some miles behind them. Harry cast an eagle's glance around. There was not a single rider before him to impede his progress, and those behind were raw countrymen, whom he had no doubt of intimidating. He thought, therefore, there was no dan- ger in a momentary pause, and that it might prove good policy to endeavor to operate upon the fears of the constables before his mare was thoroughly blown, than leave himself at their mercy afterwards. Acting upon this decision, he reined up, and turning round in his saddle, he shouted " a parley." The men instinctively reined up also; for the force of example was stronger than their presence of mind, which should at that moment have urged them to dash on, and effect his capture at once. No sooner did he see them at a stand, than he drew forth both pistols. "Now, my merry men," said he, "in the first place, let me know what you mean by running after me in this manner?" "Whoy, that be clear enuf, lad," said the chief of the constables. "We want to make thee our prisoner." "And what for? Cannot a man ride along the highway without being deprived of his liberty?" "Ees, ees, when he be riding in an honest way," returned the con- stable. "And am I pursuing an unlawful ride? What have I done, sirrahs . What crime committed?" "Eh!-thees't done summat, I know, but I cannot exactly tell what." "Here's a pretty fellow," cried Harry. "And so you would lay a man by the heels without cause! Perhaps there is something in my name that has offended the laws. Who were you desired to apprehend 2" "Eh!-dom'd if I know. They call thee Kit Clayton." "But that won't do for an indictment. Have the goodness to ride singly up, Mr. Constable, and let me see how the warrant is worded, by which you are empowered to take me." "Eh! I have no warrant: his lordship forgot that; he only bid us to take up the first suspicious character we met wi'." "Very well, then, gentlemen," returned Sheppard; I needn't now tell you that you are in the wrong box, and that unless you have a properly signed warrant, Kit Clayton has a right to pursue his little trip to the colleries without molestation "   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          47 "The constables looked at each other with a stupid expression of ind cision. Each "Scratch'd his ear ;-the infallible resource To which embarrassed people have recourse." "Robert," said the head constable, to the man that was nearest him. "Tummas!" exclaimed the other. "I thinks as how 'tid honest chap be roight. We must'nt do anything contrary to law." Tummas again scratched his head, and then brightening up, exclaimed, "but it rests wi' his right worshipful lordship to say what be law, and what be not. So don't let us bide any longer. Grip him, lads." "Hold!" shouted Harry. "I'm on the king's highway, and will resist all efforts to arrest me without a cause. Approach, and I fire." At this moment the animal bestrode by Harry made a sudden curvet, as if the bridle had been roughly seized, and he felt his coat grasped by a hand equally muscular, while a hoarse voice exultingly exclaimed;- "Forward, men, to your duty-Kit Clayton is captured!" Harry turned round without loss of time, and to his indignation beheld in the speaker no other person than Luke Jones, who, on meeting the eyes that glanced fiercely at him through the mask, exclaimed:-- "You are pinned at last; and now, friend Kit, we shall soon be quits." "Traitor!" shouted Sheppard, and raising his pistol, lodged its con- tents in the miscreant's shoulder. With a cry of pain, the villain dropped immediately, and the constables, though aghast at the scene, rode promptly up.        % "I warn ye back," cried the representative of our hero. "Back, or I will not swear for your lives!" "They still, however, approached; for the sight of blood only served to exasperate them, and Harry was reluctantly compelled to level his remaining weapons at the foremost man. He fired, but the ball only inflicted a slight wound. It however sufficed to thrdw the enemy into confusion, and the gallant young man once more resumed his terrible flight. The natural feelings of .humanity prompted the constables to surround their wounded brother; for they were too unaccustomed to scenes such as this, not to be horror-stricken at his disaster; but he motioned them back. "Never mind I," he exclaimed: "I'm not much hurt, and have strength enuf to 'tid poor chap as is. ' Do thee take the command, Robie, and revenge what has been done to us. Not another moment. Away!" Stimulated by these words, they started anew, and many who witnessed the race that followed, were reminded of the glories of Newmarket and Doncaster; while the scene before them possessed a superior interest through the nature of the prizet!at was sought to be won. Harry kept up manfully, and now pushed for the high-road. Having gained this, he still kept a northerly course; for he did not once entertain a thought of abandoning his design. But there are limits to the endurance of beast, as well as men; his mare became now embossed with foam; her sides trickled with blood; her foot was tremulous when it touched the ground;     48            KIT CLAYTON, her withers shrunk with every motion, and her eyes became fiery, and her tongue parched. "This will neyer do," thought Harry. "One effort, and I must take shelter, though it be like king Charles, in the branches of an oak." While he was yet speaking, he descried an inn. Iis pursuers were about three miles behind him; and had his beast been as well calculated for speed as she was for distance, he would endeavored to have outridden them; but he felt that a pause was necessary, and was debating within himself whether to take it where he stood, or risk it at the inn, when he perceived a posse of mounted men before him, who were conveying a number of criminals to York Castle. This decided him; he knew that they would not suffer a man, whose dress announced the highway-robber, to pass unquestioned, and he was not yet sufficiently near for them to distinguish anything remarkable. The inn, also, was close by, and thus everything favored the plan of seeking concealment, which he now fol- lowed, without further loss of time. He turned so suddenly into the stable that those in the distance did not at first notice his disappearance; and as a posthoy happened to be going the same road, some yards beyond its first curvature, they kept their eyes fixed upon him, thinking that it was Kit, who was momentarily lost to sight through the aforesaid curve. In this delusion they passed the inn, and were delighted to find that they gained considerably upon the horse- man in advance. A mad career along a dusty road does not greatly clear the eyesight, and it is not to be wondered at that their mistake continued for some time; and such was the speed at which they now rushed tc con- summate their victory, that the javelin men and their prisoners, whom Sheppard had noticed, were obliged to make way for them to avoid being ridden down. "Now, my lad," cried Robert, Mnuch elated, " one more push, and we've jone for him." The one more push was made, and great indeed was the disappointment which all felt, when, on making a simultaneous sally to surround their victim, they discovered that the man whom they had been following was an honest, inoffensive character, whom they all knew. "Hallo! Hallo!" cried he, on being surrounded, and called upon to surrender; "ha' ye been dining off March hares, ye fools'? Who the devil do you take me for?" This was the first intimation they had of their blunder, and their con- sternation may easily be imagined. Each jaw dropped, and each eye rolled. For an instant they fancied that Kit had by some inconceivable dexterity, disguised his person; but the features of little Joe Robson, the elderly posthoy, were not to be mistaken; and Rob Copping, the consta ble, with awe as well as wonder, said:- "What has thee done wi' him, Joe? hast thee giren him in tid custody of'Old Nick?" "Why, L-d deliver us, thee art drunk, maon," said the elderly pos. boy. "Oh, Robie, Robie, what'll thy mother say ." "Never mind t'ould woman. What'll the Lord Mayor say   We wruldn't ha' let him slip for ever so much." Let who slip, Rob?" said the elderly posthoy.   THE HERO OF THE RC iD.          49 Copping, in reply, contrived to make Robson understand what had occurred, and his awe increased to terror when the little man assured him most solemnly that he had not been passed in that direction by a creature during the last half hour.  "Then take my word for it, Joe," said Robin, his very teeth chattering with affright, "that half his journey will be taken under ground, and that he can mak' earth swallow him up whenever he pleases." "Be there no possibility of his having turned back?" inquired one of the constables, who was rather sceptical on matters of witchcraft. "Eh, by gum!" exclaimed the little elderly posthoy, slapping tho polished surface of his leather un-breathables; " 1 ken all about it noo. I seed Jack Pritchard, and three or four other chaps belonging 'tid Castle just noo, and in passing, they said they had got some prisoners in charge." "Then Kit be among 'em," said Rob Copping. "Dang it, lads; let's claim him afore they reach York, or we shall lose the prize." Turning their horses' heads, they now retraced their steps, and after once more passing the inn which Harry had entered, they came in sight of their brother functionaries of the law; but wishing to spare their horses, which now had been on full gallop for some hours, they bawled lustily for the officers to stop. A new and ridiculous blunder, however, now arose; for it having been intimated that it was probable an attempt at rescue would be made, the man with the prisoners fancied that it was now about to be realized. They had wondered at the uncommon speed with which the horsemen, whom they had not time to recognise, had passed thnem a short while previous; and thinking that the parties were now about to make up for having let them go by unmolested, they galloped off, in order to avoid an attack. This increased the clamor and speed of those behind, and the faster the first party of constables went, the faster they were fol. lowed by the second; so that, in a short time, a convenient distance became placed between Harry and his enemies. Not until they had reached York gates did the two parties of officers discover their egregious blunder. Jack Pritchard, the man who was con- ducting the convoy of prisoners to the castle, no sooner found himself in the neighborhood of succor, than he waxed valiant, and ordered his as- sistants to look to their carbines and face the enemy. He was obeyed, but the prisoners grumbled terribly. They had been jolted along at this rapid rate till they were chafed and galled in all directions. "I'll complaim to'd governor," said one of the fellows, who had long been infesting the country as a poacher. Dost think we wear cast-iron breeches, that thee jogs us against the saddles at such an infernal rate?" Pritchard had no time for reply, for the pursuing party was now hard upon them. He looked to his priming, and had already raised his piece to his shoulder, with the intention of firing, when he heard his own name shouted by Rob Copping. "Hoy, hoy," cried the police officer. "Only a single word." "Dang it all!" said Pritchard to his brother constable, "we ha' been riding at this rate for nought. What be it, lad i" he added, as the other came up. "I only put it to thee in common fairness. It was we runned game 4     60            KIT CLAYTON, down, and if thee picked him up without trouble, thee hast no claim to him." "No claim to a man whose mittamus were put into my own hands I  Go and hang thyself, Rob." "Mittamus? Kit Clayton's mittamus?" An explanation now followed, and great was the laughter of the by- standers, who had been attracted by the rencontre. "Why, thee born fool, thee!" exclaimed Pritchard, in a passion. ' Why didn't thee shoot oot ." "Shoot!" repeated Bob, " so I did, till my lungs were sore; but the more I shooted, the more thee wouldn't hear." "Then thee should'st have run faster," said Pritchard. "Odd's daisy, mon," said the other, " the more faster I runned, the more thee wouldn't stop." Finding that the progress of the argument only amused the spectators, the,officers very prudently reserved their further discussion for a more private moment. A hasty parley sufficed to show how matters stood; the highwayman had contrived to slip all parties, and was now, as they imagined, on his road to Newcastle. With this intelligence they pro- ceeded, with elongated faces, to the authorities, whose indignation at being thus outdone, vented itself in thunders of threats towards the offender, whom they now vowed to hang, draw, and quarter, if they could catch him. Meanwhile, the adventurous Harry was undergoing as many hair. breadth escapes as Charles II. No sooner had he entered the stable than he leaped from his mare, and crouched beneath a heap of straw. So sud- den had been his entrance, that no one belonging to the establishment had noticed him. The stable was entirely empty, and from all appear- ances was seldom used; Sheppard, therefore, lay without interruption. His quick ear caught the sound of the pursuing horsemen as they passed the inn, and he was already congratulating himself upon his escape, when the clatter of the returning hoofs struck consternation to his heart. He thought that they had, of course, learned the place of his concealment, and were coming to put an inglorious termination to his career. Fired with. desperation, he sprung from his concealment, and drew forth his pistols, forgetting that they had already been discharged-his determination being to sell his life as dearly as possible. To his utter astonishment the cavalcade galloped past, and he cautiously crept to an open chink in the building, which enabled him to observe what was passing without. Iie there beheld the constables following the body of horsemen he had seen advancing towards him, and for a moment was puzzled to guess what the meaning of the scene could possibly be. The loud shouts, however, of those in the rear, and the consequent quickening of the pace of the party in advance, let him at once into the secret, and he burst into a hearty fit of laughter. Determined to profit by the mistake, while there was yet time, he divested himself with the utmost celerity, of all the outward habiliments and trap- pings, which had given him the requisite appearance for playing his part in character, and he now once more stood, the quiet trader, for which he had passed in York. He then deprived his mare of everything that gave   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          51 her a suspicious look; and. having made the whole up into a bundle, he hid it in the most obscure part of the stable. This done, he loaded his pistols and concealed them about his person. He now again peeped through the chink, and to his satisfaction found that not a being was in view. The house, in fact, was a little better than a hedge ale tap, and at the time Harry had sought the friendly shelter of its walls, there was literally not a single person in it. The landlord and his man, who acted in the triple capacity of waiter, ostler, and chambermaid, were engaged in a solemn game of skittles in the back-grounds. The landlady and her two daughters were out on a visit, and thus the entire establishment were as conveniently disposed of as if Harry himself had the whole arrange- ment of the matter. Our adventurer, however, was not himself aware of this favorable disposition of matters; it was, therefore, with no small de- gree of anxiety that he crept forth, leading his courser again into the open air, as he knew, that to be seen, would subject him to some awkward questioning. Emboldened by the reigning solitude, he mounted his mare, and then began to bawl most lustily for the ostler, as it was not his intention to proceed one way or the other until his animal had been well rested. It was some minutes ere his summons Was obeyed, and even then both landlord and waiter seemed to growl at having their game interrupted. Harry's gay and pleasant manners, however, speedily restored them to good humor, especially when he offered to groom his own horse, in order to give them an opportunity of finishing their game, and to join himself in the pastime when he had done. This was giving them a treat, and paying them for accepting it. It will not, therefore, be doubted that they gave a most gracious acquiescence. Accordingly, Sheppard re-entered &ihe stable, and the host returned to his game with the ostler. Soon afteiwards Harry joined them; and though he played with spirit, he still could not entirely quell his anxiety to hear news from York, for the complete silence which had succeeded the excitement of the morning, H serned as if it augured secret mischief. In the afternoon the landlady and her daughter returned, and then for the first time did the apathetic host learn the great event of Bhe day. His grief at the tidings were mighty; he exclaimed that he should never sleep easy for the reflection that Kit Clayton had ridden past his house without stopping to drink, and, in order to console himself, he swal!owed a full goblet of brandy and water without drawing a breath. The afternoon customers brought new additions to the tidings, and Harry Sheppard had soon the satisfaction of learning that all was safe, and that his portion of the exploit had been performed with the fullest success. In the evening he returned to York, where he met Dick Tyke, who favored him with an account of his adventure, and occupied nearly two hours in the relation. He then invited Harry to accompany him next day on a visit to his brother at Stilton, that he might learn every particular connected with the affair. Our hilhwaymann  accepted the invitation, and putting up at the "Cat and Candlestick," encountered Steele. They however betrayed not the slightet, symptoms of recognition; and thus, by an odd conjunction of events, the two conspirators were once more thrown into a position for conmuiDicaution with each other.     Ut            KIT CLAYTON, CHAPTER VII. A Visit-A Bit of Chat-Capture of sur Hero. KIx hadi no sooner got his brave pals once more around him. by which 'time throughout the whole of Great Britain nothing was talked iff but the supposed wonderful ride, than he set his wits to w&rk how he was to re. plenish the exchequer, which, by heavy expenses of late, had been consi. derably reduced. For a time he sat, head upon elbow, pondering deeply, for, hemmed in as he was on all sides, every avenue hitherto opened to him was closed, his increasing popularity having in fact rendered every step he might take fraught with perils and dangers. Even whilst pondering, the door was thrown open, and Toby, the im. mortal landlord, stepped before him. "Toby, my stunner!" Kit, my tulip!" Was all that passed between them for a few seconds, for so absorbed were both in the delight of again meeting, that neither could utter a word for a few minutes. "Well, my true-hearted friend, my own blue-bell," said Kit, at length, "what's in the wind             . V "Danger!" answered Toby, seriously and earnestly. "Oh, that all," said Kit, with a laugh, free-and easy, if not entirely nearty; "why, damme, I've had that fellow for breakfast, lunch, dinner, tea, and supper, for God only knows how many. months past. Methought you might have brought me better news-something stirring, I mean- something that my heart could leap at, and my mare jump at; that's all I wished." "Kit!" exclaimed Toby, " what do you think has happened 8?" "Can't tell," said Kit, carelessly. "Nor guess ." queried Toby. "No, nor guess," responded Kit. "Then, Kit-it cuts me to the blessed witals to reweal it, but you are peached upon-sold-betrayed." "Betrayed!" exclaimed Kit, starting to his feet, and instinctively feel. ing for hls weapon, "by whom?" "By one who, clever as he thinks himself, will never live to spend the blood-money he has reaped by the peach-never!- we have all sworn upon our solemn davies." "But who is the man?" questioned Kit, almost frenzied from impa- tience; " tell me his name." "By vun, Kit, as ve have all on us alvays known him as a black-heart. ed scoundrel, but never had no idea that he vas such a notorious villain as to go and peach. Vy, blessed if it aint Night owl Oliver what's been and gone and done it." "Ha!" exclaimed Kit, "I never liked that fellow from the first. Ile carries scoundrel in his face. At the first robbery of the marquis he en-   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          53 vied me the command, which the unanimous vote of the gang conferred upon me."              \ "I knows he did," said Toby, " and 'twas like his precious impudence, for--he lead a band like that! vy, bless my stars, I might as reasonably expect to put out the moon with a pair of snuffers ! It vorn't to be done, my out-and-outer, 'xcept by you; and when you took it in hand, vy, blow me! 'twas done to perfection ! Now, blow me, ve're done, and all thro' that atrocious villin.' " Done! may Old Nick admire me if I am! no, no, trust me; Kit Clayton is not the man to say die till he's dead. I've bffled them before, old fellow, and I will again; and mark me, if I fail not in my aim, I will bitterly revenge the treachery of Night-owl Oliver." " By all means do, and sleep me, he'd be better in the hangman's hands than in ours. But, so help me Newgate, Kit, what noise is that ?" " There is some one at the door," said Kit. "L Hist! and, by our Lady, they are endeavoring to force an entrance." " Oh, Kit !" exclaimed Toby, in sincere grief, "in endeavoring to save you, I have scragged you-fool that I was to come-they must have traced me here." "Never mind, old fellow," said Kit, " if it turns out for the worst, it was still done for the best; let that be your consolation. Quiet a mo. ment, I will open the casement and reconnoitre." "Not so," said Toby, seizing a nightcap that happened to be at hand, and drawing it upon his head, " I'll just shove my pimple out, and see what they are arter."  Toby did so, and listened attentively. He suddenly withdrew his head, exclaiming, as he did so- "Can you climb up a chimney ." Spite of the danger by which he was surrounded, Kit could not forbear a smile. " Why, damme, Toby, what do you take me for; do you think I am a sweep ?" " No, Kit, I doesn't, but if there ain't any other outlet, why, I very much fears it's your only chance for life." "Then I must give it up; for, tolerably expert at most things, I am sadly deficient in the art of chimney-sweeping. But hark at those fellows outside; hang me if they are not battering the door in." " So they are, the precious lambs," said Toby, "bless their precious hearts, nothing would afford me such exquisite happiness as seeing on 'em all hanging in -a,string, lilie a rope of inguns. That's right, hammer away-that cove knocking now is old Badger, Sir John Fielding's head tipstaff; I know. the ring of the blessed metal. Well, they'll certainly batter in the blessed door; so perhaps I'd better speak to them." And, acting upon this suggestion, Toby thrust his cap-covered head outside of the window, and, in a particularly bland tone of voice, inquired if there was anybody there. " Yes!" was the reply thundered forth by the head constable, "and I command you to open the door." What, at this time of night," said Toby. "Go away with you, do, or I'll calj the watch."    54        EtKIT CLAYTON, "Open your door, I say!" again shouted the officer. "It gives me pain, my wenerable, to refuse such a respectable eldelly gent, but I really must decline. This is a well-conducted establishment, and we don't do it; besides, there arn't nobody up; we're all on us snug in bed a snoring." "I charge you, in the king's name, to open the door." majeOh, i the king's name, does ye! Well, how is his most gracious "I'll have no evasion," said the officer, losing all patience at the delay. "No ewasion! I really should think you wouldn't, for it's a commodity as we don't sell here, at any price." "Cease your foolery. We have a warrant for the apprehension of one Kit Clayton, for felony, and, unless ou instantly open your doors-"  "Don't put yourself in passion, my good fellow, I can't think of such a thin. Felony? why, whatever does it mean? Clayton-crickey, what a funy name! I wish you was gone away, and not here, disturbing re spectable people from their first sleep." Force the door," said the officer to his men; " we may stand parley ing with this fool until our prisoner escapes." In obedience to their superior's orders, the constables set to work, and, having obtained possession of a log of wood, they commenced using it as a battering-ram, to break down the door  Oh, if that's what you mean, I'd better come down at once; but I must confess it is the most ungentlemanly conduct as ever I heard on." Toby looked at Kit with an inquiring glance, as if anxious to know what was to be done. Open the door," said our hero, "for it is certain, unless we do, the aey ad mostin to esape. They rus  hed up s rtair, iand fm the dstaish into the room wshere our hero wais waiting their approach, I wish to heaveng aw n him, my men," shouted the constable; but the bravest held backt aweapn-d by Kit's intimiday now look out for a broken scnce. "Ah, ht's ight, said Kit, with a sneer of significatt and scornful nToby deed, am waiting your assault."s and 'Kit Clayton,"said the constalle, "win the king's name I oommand you ro surrender. Resistance can avail you nothingo so, for your own good, rop thattweapon. Wehave comThey rushed up stairs and from    eyes and most threatening asaect te           yhflazar o    effect your ca ; ad oute d  succumb not to the i vght had majest f the law, I must do my dinty by main force, for dead o alive-so goes my landate'I must lodge you in the g"al of Ne wgnate."' is clenched teeth. vToby, my friaend, where are you "n Here," responded Tby, entering the room    a fryingpan i hi Here," responded Toby, entering the room with a frying-pa ill his   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.           55 hand, with which he facetiously tapped the heads of the constarle's assis- tants that chanced to come too near him ; "here I is, ready and villing to cook the goose of any single von on 'em-now come on ;" and Toby flourished the frying-pan in the most threatening manner, and, in his flourishing, gave the unhappy constable such accidentally-done-for-the. purpose knocks, that our hero, forgetting his danger, laughed outright; which peal of merriment causing Toby to turn his head, he was instaitly seized, and his weapon wrested from him. "That just serves you right," said Kit, laughingly; then throwing the poker in a corner, he advanced, with open hand and smiling face, to the constable, saying, "forgive me, my dear fellow, for detaining you so long. I did but jest, for such have been the misrepresentations of late re. garding me, that it was my firm intention to have surrendered myself into the hands of Sir Charles Fielding to-morrow morning, which, although it would have saved you some trouble, would, nevertheless, have been the means of losing you the five hundred pounds rewards offered for one Kit Clayton, alias Rann. Now I, confessing myself to be Clayton, cannot, nevertheless, lay claim to the. latter appellation, but still I am your pri. soner, and I doubt not his majesty's justices will do you justice, by reward- ing you with five hundred pounds for your vigilance, ald I have, on the other hand, no doubt he will immediately do a second act of justice by dis. charging me." To paint the most astonished face in that ass6mbly was a moral im- possibility. The officer looked as if he had really serious doubts whether he had obtained possession of the right man or not, as would also appear to be the opinion of his confederates, for they all appeared grievously dis. posed to think the five hundred pounds reward was about to slip throueh their grasping and avaricious fingers, which doubt one of the officers ex. pressed in the following classic words: "D----n my eyes!"--a curse so commonly spoken, yet so shockingly impious in its tendency, that a popular author has justly remarked, were the wicked wish to be realized in but one out of every hundred times it is spoken, it would render "blindness as common as the measles." Not content with once uttering it, the fellow repeated the oath, finishing with the words, "what a cursed infernal do, if ve've got the wrong covey." "We can werry soon make sure of that, for if I arn't got a description of that ere robbery of the squire's, near Bath, with a description of the fellow, blow me!" said another officer, pulling a newspaper friom his pocket, and quietly taking a seat, read the following report from a Bath paper: "DARING OUTRAGE AND BURGLARY! KIT CLAYTON NEAR THE CITY OF BATH!! UNPRECEDENTED EFFRONTERYl" "This notorious, venturesome, and almost supernatural burglar, has paid the citizens of Bath a visit at last, which, as well as the short space of time allowed to us, and the hurried manner in which the account has reached us, we are enabled to give as follows: "  It seems that, shortly after twelve o'clock, the premises of Mr. Giles. the rich landowner and merchant, were broken open by this notorious ruffian and his gang, and property to an immense value extracted therefrom. But what adds to the     6             gKIT CLAYTON, impudence and astonishment of the robbery is, that the robber actually entered a lady's bed-room, while she was asleep, took a valuable miniature set in diamond t, from a table-drawer, leaving in its place a diamond ring worth three hundred gui. neas. and then actually sitting down and writing the lady an apology, and promis- ing to restore the picture whenever he should meet with the original. Mr. Giles was bound by ropes to the balustrades of the staircase, and his life repeatedly threatened by the robbers. Several of the city watch, who had a most desperate encounter with the gang, were dreadfully bruised, and otherwise maltreated. But a tale of unprecedented romance remains to be told. This very Kit Clayton, whom all the kingdom has been hunting after, turns out to be a countryman of our own; and his parents reside at a village called Bathwick. near Bath. This iden- tification cannot fail to bring the villain at once to speedy retributive justice.- Bath Journal, November 12, 1777. "POSTSCRIPT.-We stop the press to add that Kit Clayton is a stout, well- made, fine, fresh-colored young man, twenty-five years of age, about five feet ten inches in height, (and not eight feet as has been frequently reported of him,) with blue eyes, fine regular teeth, brown curly hair, a nose rather inclined to aqueline, has the remains of a scar on his left cheek, and generally assumes the disguise of a wealthy country farmer. He is a most melodious singer, and is noted for his courtesy and politeness, especially to ladies, in all his felonious practices." "Stout, fine made, fresh-colored young man, very good looking, five feet ten in height-you are the very man, sir, as I live!" "I wish I was," said Kit, shrugging his shoulders; "I should be a pre. cious sight better off than I am; but, however, if you are contented in my being the illustrious individual, I am quite content to perform the part of his representative; so perhaps you'll do me the favor to send for a coach at once, for I am anxious to be in bed, even though that bed be in Newgate." The officer was so much gratified in the prize he had gained, that he willingly acquiesced. The coach was got, and that night was spent by Kit Clayton in Newgate. CHAPTER VIII, Kit's committal for Trial-A  Scene in Court-Visits in Newgate-An Escape. THE next morning our hero was taken before the Lord Mayor-Lord Dashfield, Mr. Malcolm, Sir John Fielding, and other noted personages sharing the bench with the head magistrate. The Mansion House was; crowded to suffocation, the majority of the personages being well-dressed ladies, who had paid enormous prices for their seats, in order to catch a glimpse of the darling hero of the day, Kit Clayton, who had obtained a name as notorious for gallantry towards the fair sex, as it was for daring on the road. As our hero entered the dock, bowing, as he did so, politely to the bench, a murmur of admiration passed like an electric shock throughout the assembly--so imposing, so beautiful was his appearance. The murmur stilled a dead silence reigned, broken only by the ooca   THE HERO OF THE RQAD.           7 sional sobs of some few women, who were more tender-hearted than their compeers, and whose kindly sympathies were awakened, not only by the appearance of the gallant and exquisitely handsome fellow before them, but also by the dreadful fate that hung hovering over him. Silence being proclaimed, the charge was entered upon. Innumerable witnesses were called, who each and all swore they had been severally robbed, under different circumstances and in different localities, by a per- son calling himself Kit Clayton, yet strange to relate; so excellently had Kit manceuvred, not one could swear to his identity, and a hum of appro- bation was already on the rise in the court, for all considered the inno- cence of the prisioner established, when the Earl of Dashfield was seen to leave his seat, and make his way to the seat occupied by the Lord Mayor. A whisper passed between them-an ominous whisper! for the Lord Mayor, in tones stern and decisive, informed the court that the identity of our hero was established, and that he was in reality that scourge and pest of the country, called Kit Clayton. His lordship finished his oration by committing our hero for trial at the Central Criminal Court. As Kit rose to accompany the officer who attended him, preparatory to leaving the Mansion House for the prison, for the first time during the long examination, his eyes and those of the Earl of Dashfield met. On the latter unmitigated hatred and malevolence was visible, whilst Kit's expressed nothing but cool contempt. As he was leaving the box, a small bouquet was handed to him; it was composed wholly of myrtle and vio- lets-the type of undying love and friendship. Kit glanced around, to catch the eyes of the generous donor, but in vain. She was too thickly veiled for that; but, bowing with graceful politeness and unfeigned grati- tude, he pressed the sweet gift fervently to his bosom and lips; as he' did so, a piece of paper fell fluttering to the ground. The officer in whose charge he was, would, with over officiousness, have made himself possessor of it, but Kit, with a dexterity that use had made habitual to him, favor- ed the fellow with a jerk of his feet (completely tripping the officer off his legs,) by such a back fall as he had not felt before for many and many a day-and we doubt much if he had in the course of his life. A shout was raised at this reproof that made the house ring again; all, with one exception, and that was Lord Dashfield, glorying in the presence of mind of the man, who, under such trying circumstances, had still nerve sufficient to punish such impertinence. Thinking it an attempt at escape, one or two officious constables sprang forward to seize our hero. Kit put them calmly back as though they had been so many schoolboys, then leaning his hands upon the dock-rail, with his face towards the bench, he read the note, which contained these words :- "Kit-I will be true to you until death, if you will but let me share vour heart again. God knows I have loved you, and to this love may be attributedthe care that is breaking my heart-the anguish that is mad. dening my brain. I have a favor to ask: if a lady, calling herself your sister, applies at the prison, leave orders that she be admitted. It will be myself, your own unhappy            ELINOR RocHE." Kit had barely finished the perusal, before the Lord Mayor, starting to  his feet, exclaimed -     a8            KIT CLAYTON, "Officer, seize that paper. I demand to see it!" In aa ilstant it was torn iLto aa hldli i pieces, nd lashing it vio [ently towards the bench, Kit said, coolly, "It is at your service, my lord." He was then removed in a coach, which was followed by an immense concourse of persons, from the Mansion House to Newgate, at which place we will now imagine ourselves, in company with our hero and Toby-in the cell of the former. "That notorious willain Oliver, to go and peach," said Toby, blubber- ingly. "'Tis the worm's nature to crawl; nestle with the serpent, and be sure he stings you,") said Kit, in reply. "Exactly; vot do you expect from a pig but a grunt? I never had no opinion of them long 'uns; they make tall men as they build high houses, they runs 'em up cheap, and don't put much stuff in 'em; blast 'em, say I, vith all my heart," exclaimed Toby. "Let us forget him," said Kit; "you have followed my fortunes-- through good or ill, you were still the same." "Vell, vot o' that " said Toby. "I loved you-that is to say, if one man can love another-and now, captain, ven I vagabond as I aln, stands free as you, on the contrary, quite the rewerse, curse me if I wouldn't be hanged instead o' you-not that I'm at all partial to that there style of rope-dancing, though; hang it, not a bit of it, thank you." "Toby, my tulip, you have a buoyant spirit-cherish it; time will pass away, and I shall be nothing; you will forget me-do not speak- not quite forget me; for in our moods of mirth fond thoughts will come. Now, mark me, Toby, I see it now, that the world is very likely to close upon me forever-that there is no bread but that of industry'; all else is poisoned and valueless." "Well, pison me if I don't think so," said Toby. "Hunger alone excuses theft; but he who robs to pamper his vices, is a wretch, and deserves to sufter, even though it be at the gallows," said Kit. "Don't talk in that notrocious style," said Toby; "you make one quite moloncholic like. Hang it! captain, I thought as how you was a cove as had a precious sight too much pluck to give it up so." "Because I speak a word of truth, do you count me as having given up? not so, my friend; although these cursed thick and dismal walls are enough to give a cove of stronger nerve than myself the blues." "And so they are, cuss 'em! Now, for my own part, the only side of any prison, as ever I seed yet, that I could feel at all partial to, has always been the outside; but, Kit, my rattler, what I come to inquire arter, is this; and it's the 'ticlar wish of the gang to know what's to be done for your expense." "Defence, I presume you mean, Toby. Well, as escape, without com- ing to trial seems impossible, and as regards that, I've viewed every out. let in this cell that offered room for a bird to escape from, with a keen eye. I think you cannot do better than engage an advocate for me. With *an able one at my back, I feel sure, from the nature of the evidence being so conflicting and contradictory, that I shall escape."   THE HERO OF THE ROAD          59 "Shall! the cheek of the word; by heaven you must! At all events, Kit, my tulip, all that can be cone n th. share of wit aad m ,ney to save you, shall be done, rely on that, old fellow; and if we could only drag you from this willanous durance by main force, it would be the proudest and happiest moment of our lives; but if we can't save-you Kit, there is one comfort remaining to us, old codger." "And that is?" questioned our hero, as the other paused. "We will have a bitter and b-- vengeance on the head of your base betrayer." "Say not so," said Kit, earnestly, "' for God's sake. If I fall, Toby, my own true friend, let me fall alone. I had a vision of my grave last night, in my dream-a grave, too, covered with flowers; indeed, Toby, forgive this sentimental folly-but I awoke with tears in my eyes, and with sor- row in my heart, that I had awoke alive." ' Vell," said Toby, forsaking the energy he had displayed-an energy, that, removing all his rough peculiarities, had exhibited him as a true- hearted and kind-hearted man. "Vell, cuss me! my glorious captain- if I have ever done you the discredit to believe any thing this side of Tyburn, or, even that it itself could have made your bold heart flutter; but, now, vy, damme, Kit, you don't seem yourself at all. Rely on us, Kit, we will release you from these cursed grey walls, if we level them to the ground, stone by stone, we are determined-we are sworn to do it." Kit smiled as he answered:- "Toby, my brave fellow, however strong your hearts may be to effect my release, believe me my lear fellow, it is not practicable-were your number quadrupled a dozen times, it could not be done." "Vether or no, ve've made up our minds to try it, that's a fact, and what we make up our minds to do, is done, Kit, my nonpareil, vether it's possible or impossible." "That it has been done I verily believe, Toby, my friend, but in this case, believe me, an attempt can only be followed by failure." "Yell, then, good luck to us, ve'll fail! And jolly glad to do it, too; ye are so circumvented about, it's quite a treat to die for a good fellow like you." "None of your blarney," said Kit; " if I cannot meet my doom with a firm front and an undaunted heart, why, Toby, my hearty, I'll call you in to play the man for me." "And that you'll never do, Kit, gallant heart that you are," said Toby, with tears in his eyes, and with an earnestness of tone altogether unusual to him, " for the death that judge and jury will doom you to, is one you would save a mangy dog from! Ye know this, Kit," said Toby, falling again into his old style of talking, "Ve know it, and knowing it, are the more determined to save you, since you von't prove a alibi nohow, and even to save your own precious neck." After this short speech, for him of extra duration, Tobias drew a long sigh, of extra length and breadth of tone-and, gazing with much thought. fulness at our hero, for a few moments,he observed with a sigh:- "Night-owl Oliver is the man that did the dirty peaching, but he arn't the worse after all. Do you remember that yokel you gave the lovely     60            KIT CLAYTON, spat it. the mouth to, vhen he played the undertaker to sich perfeec tion!" "What, Luke Jones!" exclaimed Kit. "That's him," said Toby; "he's the fellow that's been and gone and chucked all our precious fat into the fire. He is the man who . prevailed upon the villain Oliver to betray you and the gang." "My bitter, deadly curse upon him!" said Kit in bitter wrath. "Why, Toby, had it not been for his machinations, and those of his infernal mas- ter, Heaven knows I should not now have been here. Luke first instructed me in the art of deceit by making me an accomplice in his poaching expe- ditions-expedition I should have said; for, on my very first excursion with him, I was waylaid and betrayed." "Vell, old fellow," said Toby, assuming a gaiety he was far from feel- ing in his heart, " if it's any satisfaction for you to know it, he and Oliver, and the cussed old earl himself-yes, and the squire too, if he shows his ugly mug near London, are all booked for the woody,-yes, Kit, if the worserest should come to the worst, and the king should fancy he couldn't do well although stretching your wind-pipe, so help me ten men and a boy, Kit, we'll scrag or pison, or stab each and all on 'em-that is to say, if there is any faith in cold steel or arsenic.". "How often am I to tell you, I neither need or wish violence to be done upon my account?" asked Kit. "You needn't tell me any oftener, thank ye," said Toby; "for vether you vish or not, if you are booked for the leafless tree, they are all booked for the vorms, and it will as sartinly fall upon 'em in a promiscuous vay, vhen they least expect it, or desire it, as yours vill fall upon you when your time's come-and, talking about time, puts me in mind, Kit, that my spell is vorn out; for here comes the cussed walking-lock and key, to show me the door." "And it's a blessing for you, my brave Toby, that he is about to show you the outside; for according to my poor taste and fancy, it is decid- edly the preferable side to be in." "Vat a very bad taste you have got, Kit, to be sure-vy, von 'ud fancy such a jail-bird as the vorld now reckons you, that like a tame canary, you wouldn't feel at home any vhere else but in your cage. But hero comes old turnkey, so quiet is the word.' Then, as the officer of the prison thrust his head in the doorway, he chanted:- "Vell, old straight hair, vy, you look as if you'd been voke up in a fright; vot's the matter vith you, eh?" "Oh, there ain't nothing the matter with me; all I got to say is, your time's up, and so you'd better be off." "Here's cheek," said Toby, turning to our hero, appealingly, and from him to the turnkey, with unusual ferocity, ': be civil, my tulip, or I'm d-d if 1'll go at all." "Werry good," said the turnkey, rattling his keys, as he moved towards the door, " ve've lot's of accommodation for you, sir, but I must find you a separate bed-so perhaps you'll follow. I'll ask the governor where the spare bed lies; I know we have got one or two, for the matter of that."   THE HERO OF THE ROAIf.         61 "Don't distress yourself, my dear fellow," said Tobias. "I'll endeavor to get a bed for myself; but vot's your charge, mly dear feller?" "Oh, for the matter of that, ve don't charge not nothing here-our lodgings is all free gratis, for nothing at all." "Then they are too cheap to be good, that's all I can say," said Toby, "and so I must, for this once, decline it. Well, my brave fellow, time is up, you see; the die is:cast-I must wanish; but what message must I take to the kids-kind love, and a kiss all round, eh?" "Give my best respects to all the brave fellows, and tell them you left me in good health, and brave spirits, with a hoping wishful heart for another moonlight flit with them over Hounslow Heath. Tell them this, my sterling, true old comrade, and as I ring your hand in fervent friend- ship and gratitude, so grasp you all their brave palms for me." "I will-I will," said Toby, a tear of sentimentality stealing into his eye; "good bye, my dear Kit, good bye." "Farewell, for the present," said Kit, gaily; "you will call again soon, my dear uncle, will you not?" for such had Toby represented himself; for unless the visitors were bound by ties of consanguinity to the pris oners, or had a special order from a magistrate, an interview was nevex granted. "I will, my dear nephew," said Toby, with an hypocritical burst of grief, " if the great and good sir John Fielding vill only grant me another order." "Vich I have not the least doubt in the world he will take particular delight in doing," said the turnkey, " he is such a very good man-what we should do without him Hreally don't know; why, this crib 'ud be empty without his aid and assistance. But come along, Mr. Wisiter; time's up, and there's a young woman in the lobby, what's been waiting half an hour, with a order in her fist, to see this precious nephew o' yours." "A young woman to see me!" said Kit; "who can she be?" "Hang me if I know," answered the jailor;, "she calls herself your sister." "Sister!" Kit was about to exclaim; "I have none ;" but a signmcant glance from Toby silenced the hasty words, ere yet they were spoken.  "If she be my sister," said Kit, " she is a thousand times welcome, and I pray you will admit her at once. Uncle, my kind friend, once more I bid you adieu." "Good bye, my dear nephew, good bye," said Toby, "I'm off. Fare thee well." "How sentimental the old cock is getting to be sure," thought Kit.- "Well, ell, life is but a farce after all, and what would a farce be with- out a wry face in it? A precious piece of humbug that Toby is, and what a sterling heart he has in that rough bosom of his. Well, God bless him, and all of them, say I." As he finished his soliloquy, the grating of the huge key in the lock announced a visitor, and on the next instant the heavy door swung back upon its hinges, and the jailor thrust in his head, and exclaimed:- "A lady brings an order for admission to you, Kit Clayton; may she come in "     12         '.  trT CrLAtrw, "Moat assuredly, my dear fellow," said Kit, with his habitual galan ry; "a lady as a visitor is at any time and all times a welcome guest.' "Step in, marm, much obleeged to you, I am sure, for the yellow boy rou'll excuse my locking the door on you, won't you? I wouldn't do it, ut it is more than my place is worth to lease it alone." The lady bowed her veiled head in acquie&ence, but spoke not a word, s she advanced into the cell, the door of which was quickly closed behind Ler, and the ponderous lock, as it went clanging again into the socket, nade the dismal galleries echo again: CHAPTER IX. THE LADY VISITOR-THE ESCAPE-THE PURSUIT--4 TRAGIDY. As the lady entered the cell, Kit arose from the stone seat upon which he had been sitting, and bowing politely, as he advanced towards her, begged, in his old cheerful tone, to be informed who, so far forgetting the fear habitual to her sex, had had the courage to penetrate into the felon's dismal cell. To this speech the lady made no reply; but sobbing with unconstraina- ble agony, she fell forward, fainting, upon our hero's neck. Then losing all power, and all consciousness, she would have fallen from thence heavily upon the stone floor, had not Kit's strong hand sustained and sup. ported her. "In God's name calm yourself, my dear madam," said Kit; " indeed it is madness to give this violent vent to your grief; for no good can, by any possibility, accrue from it, and great danger may." "Harm! how speak you thus of harm, who, standing on eternity's very verge, would have been supposed to have lost all thought and care for this world. Harm! if harm fall but on you, Kit, it would be no pity for any harm, even death itself to fall upon me ; for losing you, I myself am lost. and if I live, live but the life of misery, of the broken-hearted; for the tendons of our hearts, strained and cracked with bitter grief, yet cruelly refuse to snap asunder." "What, Elinor Roche, my darling," said Kit, folding her to his bosom, and rapturously kissing away the tears that bedewed her eyes, " this is a pleasure unanticipated, yet wonderfully-entrancingly sweet." "And yet, for me, alas! dear Kit, you of all men in the world, the only one I ever loved-to see you confined in this accursed cell, chained like a murderer, my God, it is cruel--inhuman-my heart will burst!' "Tush, tush, my darling," said Kit, soothingly; "be a woman your self, and let me beseech you to avoid making one of me. What is past, is gone, irrecoverably gone. I'm In Newgate! Well, Elinor, it is my meed-I have earned it by robbery-pillage-by desperate crime." "Alas! alas! that this confession should come from your lips, Kit!" said Elinor, wringing her hands with the anguish that overpowered her soul and bowed her spirits, hitherto so proud, to the very earth. "Yet, Elinor, bad as I am, and still more as you maythink me one   TrnB ERO Oi THE ROAD. ' remembrance sits light upon my heart: these iands were never stained with human blood, Elinor; throughout my career of crime, I have avoided blood -shedding." "Thank Heaven!" cried Elinor, fervently. "Amen, say I," cried Kit; " were it not for this consolation, no verier coward on the face of the earth could be found to face death; b;t having this innocence, in my soul, if the fiat goes forth that I must die, I shall mount the steps of Tyburn tree of death, with as firm a foot and with as peaceful a heart, as if I were mounting the old staircase at Dashfield house, to my own happy bed." "Would that we were there now," said Elinor, with exceeding fervor, "and that you did, in reality, love me with the ardor you once professed to do." "That you have had great cause to doubt me, Elinor, I confess; yet, Dy heaven--" "Nay, swear not by Heaven," said Elinor, with a solemnity, sweet and becoming at such a time; "for Heaven knows without an oath, and He knows I loved you as a woman only loves, and this love, filling my whole heart, rendered me incapable of resisting your overtures; for so set was my every thought on you, I would have gone to the grave-through fire, but what I would possess you. And how picture my feelings when I discovered your faithlessness-picture my madness-the hideous thoughts that lashed me on to my revenge! Oh, could you but do this, you would forgive me, you would indeed, the wrong I did you." "' What wrong, sweetheart?" said Kit, drawing the slender form of the lass nearer to him; "you speak in riddles, Elinor." "Then you are not aware of my duplicity, Kit Clayton-my heartless treachery towards you; but, as Heaven is my judge, I never thought or wished the evil to be so far extended-no, Kit, no!" and again she burst into a passionate flood of tears. "I tell you what it is," said Kit, " if you don't let me understand what you are blubbering about, I'll be shot if I don't make myself uncommon scarce, by making the jailor show you the door." "Don't drive me away Kit!" said the girl, vehemently. "Don't force me away, for Heaven's sake, unless you would see me fall a corpse at your feet." ".Don't mention it," said Kit, in a gay tone; "if there is anything in the world I have a horror of, it's cold, unwholesome bodies. Why, bless you, my charmer, you ate as fascinating as ever, and I'll have. a kiss of these cherry lips if I die for it." Kit had one, and not content with one, they clung together in a cordial embrace, and mingled soul to soul in one long delicious,kiss. "Good!" exclaimed Kit, drawing a long breath, rendered necessary by over exertion; "and now, old fellow, just tell me what's the matter to-night, and what the devil there is in the wind to render you so infer. nally miserable." 'Kit," said the girl, gravely, "you remember your parting night at Dashfield's house ." "I should rather say I did," said Kit; "my eyes, what an unlucky scrape to get into-unhappy young man that I was-why, he nailed me     "            IT CLAYTON, in the fact; and how thetevil he grew so suspicious of me all of a sud den, is a mystery to me; for I'll take my oath I never told him, and I'm almost equally certain that my lovely mistress and his right noble countess did not." "It was I, who told him Kit," said Elinor. "You!" said Kit, receding from her in astonishment. "Yes, I," she answered, "was so eaten up with unsatiable jealousy, was-so maddened, that a love I thought my own, was estranged from me by another, that, in my violent rage, I despatched a note to the earl, acquainting him with your presumption and his wife's infidelity. Bitterly have I repented it since, Kit--yes, oftentimes have I wished my heart had burst ere my tongue had betrayed you; for by that one act were you driven to crime-crime, the end of which, in a few short days at most, may be the gallows-your paramour, noble in all things but in this base act, paid the penalty of her sin with her life-" "Elinor, what mean you?" said Kit, with eagerness. "This," continued Elinor, sadly, " that she died, and that by the hand of her husband." "Mean you that he murdered her?" asked Kit- "Yes," she replied; "if ever woman was murdered, she was, and by his hands." '-Base, cowardly bloodhound!" exclaimed Kit, in his grief; " and yet why need I rant-I, that brought this doom upon her!" "Say not so, Kit; if not quite blameless, you were but guilty in the least degree, and even she should be spoken of in pity's low tones-pity should o'erweigh her crime, for, to be linked to such a libertine as the earl, to feel and know the dishonor almost daily heaped upon her, is enough to drive a woman, be she pure as heaven's own angel, to a wicked course. She was but mortal, and feeling her wrongs grievously, she acted in revenge, as erring mortals would. Fcr this revenge she paid, alas, a sad and deadly penalty; and let us hope, as the punishment far out- weighed the crime, she has met in another and better world, with the for- giveness denied her upon earth." "Amen!" said Kit, fervently: " but what of the earl? I would have tidings of him. I myself rescued from his clutches Miss Malcolm, Lady Dashfield's sweet young friend." I know you did, Kit," said Elinor, "and am sufficiently superstitious to believe that a blessing for that good action will forever rest upon you." "The pleasure afforded me at the time was a sufficient blessing then, and for ever," said Kit. "A good action is ever a constant reward in itself. This truth has been stirring in my heart since we parted at the Mansion House, Kit, and to-day I have come to realize it-to make it plain as. daylight to my soul. Kit, 1 have come to save you!" ' To save me!" said Kit, springing to his feet. "How, Elinor, how?" "By proving your love-that shall be salvation to you. Do you still love me, Kit 2" "I do, and always did, fervently, dear Elinor," exclaimed our hero. "It is enough, almost-you are already half saved. Now, if your heart be true, prove it, and be saved quite!" ,   THE HERO OF THE ROAD. . "Iow can I prove it?" asked Kit.  "Thus!" she replied, divesting herself of the feathered hat and riding habit that she-wore. "What caper is this 1" said Kit, in undisguised surprise. "One, if fortune be propitious, that shall save your life. Do not re- monstrate, Kit; the time for that is past-the time for action has come -we are almost of the same stature and size-so near, at all events, that those sleepy-headed jailors will not distinguish the difference." "This mystery I cannot unravel; what hidden motive is there here?" "What hidden motive-oh, man, how blind! The motive is escape from this cell-is life and liberty, Kit-the means are here. Assume my outward garments, and fly!" Kit staggered as if he had been struck a violent blow. "And leave you here in thraldom?" he exclaimed; "No, never!" "What can they do to me?" she said, blythely. "The judge may chide-may imprison me-they can't hang me, you know, Kit. A month -a year or two shut up in jail, and never caged bird will sing more gaily than 1, for I shall know my mate is on the wing, soaring at liberty." " Elinor, my brave old darling, this is like your noble self, but 1 can. not accept the sacrifice-my heart revolts at it." "Or your vanity," said Elinor; "if you will not escape, I will share your prison with you-of that I am determined. Do you fear the sneer- ing of the gang? Let them say it was unmanly if they choose-but if they breathe such word to me, I will say to them-What is there that man may do to shield a woman that woman may not do to succor him 1" "I confess life is dear, and with you beside me, dear Elinor, to point to better fortune-I confess it is hard even to have fear of dying so young. I feel my doom is dreadful." "Then flee from it whilst the means are yet at hand-and leaving these walls, commence life anew, Kit. Forsake the evil company that, like a festering sore, pollutes as it crawls, its slimy path around thee.-. Forsake vice for virtue-and when I leave this place-which in a few snort days may chance to be, we will leave England for America, and commencing a new life in the new world, may yet live and prosper." "You draw a picture I long to see realized," said Kit; " but to leave you here to suffer--I know not what for me, Elinor-I cannot, will not do it." "On my knees, my dearest Kit, let me beseech you to give over this mad fastidiousness. With the host of enemies you have about you--with the earl, the squire, Oliver, Luke Jones-craving for your blood, and all willing to bear false witness that it may be shed, I tell you, if put upon your trial, your doom is inevitable." "I feel it so," said Kit, with a shudder. "Then listen to the voice of reason-ha! already the turnkey's heavy footsteps approach-another instant and it will be too late!" And half maddened with terror, with the quicknesss of thought she wrapped her ample habit around him, placed her feathered hat upon his head-thrust her handkerchief into his hand, that he might hide his fea- tures, and dragged him by main force to the cell door. The door opened. "Now, marm, I'se sorry to disturb you, but time's up," said the turn. 5     68            KIT CLAYTON,  key, gallantly extending his arm as he spoke, to assist the supposed young lady up the steps. Kit had no time for hesitation-he accepted the offered arm, and walk- ing carefully that the jingling of his irons might not betray him, he passed in safety from the prison into the street. CHAPTER X. Kit among the Gypsies-Finds a horse that compensates him for the tempo- rary loss of Old Sue-Treachery again, an anecdote of what led to it.- A Race for Life. RELEASED by the devotion of his mistress from the horrors of a jail, and of the thoughts of impending and disgraceful death, Kit sought out his former friends the gypsies. He found them in one of their well-known haunts, and, as ever, a free-hearted, jovial, rollicking set; for many days he lived in their company, and saw nothing but happiness, their life so very changeful and hilarious with its occasional exigencies, all had its charms for Kit. To the majority of the gang Kit speedily became a great favorite, but amongst them were not lacking two or three who considered him an interloper. Their meaning was not expressed in words, but their sullen looks and equivocal answers betrayed them. Although Kit had not the slightest suspicion, yet it was to the thoughtful Jared a source of considerable uneasiness, so much so, that during his temporary absence he had engaged a lad named Zekiel to watch and report their movements. About this time Kit received a visit from Sheppard, who having an en- gagement a few miles from thence-which engagement was neither more or less than a burglary, by-the-bye-had visited the encampment, with the view of spending a day or so with his old pal, Kit was of course delighted to see him, and joining with ardor in his views, was all heart to join him in the expedition; there was one obstacle, however, and that, what ap- peared an insurmountable one, he neither had a horse, or the means of purchasing one, and without this desideratum-for then safety would lay in their speed-his services would tend to injury rather than good. Happening to hear the gipsy talking of a noted little mare, close at hand, whom one of the gang, the, boy Zekiel, had occasionally borrowed for a marauding expedition, Kit went in search of her stable, and, with his usual luck, found it. She had been browsing in the paddock, when Kit crouched beneath the window of her stable; but being plentifully gifted with the lady-like gift of curiosity, she had approached and rested her nose upon his shoulder to see what he was about; and, by way of intimating her presence, uttered a snort. Kit, in admiration at her beauty, gently patted her side, and exclaimned: "Hallo, sweetheart!" His good tempered tone and action appeared to make a most favorable impression upon the amiable young stranger, who was not only superior to the prevalent coquetry of her sex, but actually made the tenderest iad   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          67 vanees, by rubbing her lips against his hand. Encouraged by the action, Kit drew the lips apart, and found that she was not yet four years old, and as he playfully touched her with his whip, and stepped back a pace or two to admire her movements, he further found that, for fire and action she surpassed every animal he had ever beheld, excepting of course his- own mare Sue. Clayton was an enthusiast in horses; he was a thorough judge, and viewed them with the eye of an artist. Every thought of whatever evil might be hatching against him in the tent, and he had been warned by Jared that there was mischief afoot, vanished, as he fixed his admiring gaze upon the surpassing animal before him, and he dwelt upon each at- traction as a lover upon the charms of a mistress. It seemed as if Araby, Turkey, and Barbary had united to bestow their respective excellencies on one steed. Her finely-formed head was small and slender, with a broad flat forehead, and narrow pricked ears of the utmost delicacy. Her eyes, particularly the pupils, were unusually large and prominent, and as brilliant as two suns; her nose was long and arched, and the thin lips of her delicately split mouth were as rosy as a girl's. Her clean, finely-drawn throat and arched neck terminated in a chest of the utmost amplitude, and withers sharpened and elevated in ax- act proportion with the shoulders. The trunk had been formed in the mould of grace, and was in such beau- tiful condition, that the firm flesh swelled on each side of the curved and elastic spine, and formed, as it were, a natural cushion of velvet. In the hind quarters she was equally perfect, being characterized by enormous breadth of loin, shortness and fulness of flank, and roundness and plump. ness of crupper, which, while possessing that slight degree of elevation that has been found so essential to the just finish of a racer's qualities, was yet confined within the line of strict beauty. The admiration became thus divided between the excellent muscular condition of the haunches and the superiority of their formation. The tail was firm and thick at the dock, and at least a yard long; the thighs were ample and fleshy, and the knee-joints large; from that to the fetlock the distance was short, exact, and proportioned, for nature seemed to have formed the extraordi- nary creature by the nicest rules of calculation. The hoof was broadly displayed, with the. tendon Achilles standing finely cut, like a rope of twisted cat-gut; while, from each prominent fetlock, waved tufts of hair as long and silky as a lady's ringlets. Broad, well-sized pasterns; ele- vated coronet; hoofs, solid as oak, black as coal, and shining as ebony; high instep, round quarters, broad projecting heels, a-thin frog, and a thick concave sole, completed the individual beauties of an animal, which Kit had never seen equalled. Like a child viewing a first-rate toy, Kit's delight knew no bounds; he could have hugged the animal for her beauty, and actually laughed aloud with excitement. T'le steed answered with a neigh, and darted off to the edge of the paddock, then frisked back like a kitten at play. "Was ever such a beauty?" said the highwayman, filliping the side of her chest with the tips of his fingers, and causing her to rear on her hind legs like a well educated dog at an ex ibition. l"Is that it, my lady'?" continued Clay- tol. "Well, if you a. e inclined for dancing, allow me to ask the honor     O8           KIT CLAYTCN, of your hand?" and, in the spirit of fun, he pointed out his foot as if he had been borne and bred a dancing master, and extended his arms like a * aglioni. At that moment a sudden movement made by Sheppard, who had approached unnoticed, arrested the attention of our hero, and he in- stinctively grasped his riding whip, as he saw him coming towards him. "Down, down on your face, captain ;" whispered Sheppard, " the Phi- listines are upon us." Kit Clayton stayed not to question, but threw himself upon the ground, and in an instant the mare did the like, as if she considered the action a new feature in the game they had been playing. Down, at the same moment also, did Sheppard fling close against the shed, in the shadow of the horse; and scarce had they done so, ere they heard the door on the other side opened, followed by the sound of footsteps. "Remember t" said a voice which they knew to be that of Night-owl Oliver, " my name musn't be breathed in the affair. I don't want the gang to know who blowed upon them; nor do I, for my own sake,owish to throw any light upon my own whereabouts. All I want is to get that infernal young bully out of the way; for my mind won't be easy, nor my honor satisfied, till I see him dancing upon the invisible tight-rope, at Tyburn."' "And am I to have another ten guineas the moment I return?" asked a second voice, to which Kit was a stranger. "Yes, if you don't make a bungle of the matter," returned Oliver.-. "You must see the Lord Mayor himself, mind, and give him the packet, without a soul knowing a word about it, or else all will go wrong. You say you can get there and back without being missed?" "I can; and many a good night's work have I done in the same way. Why, ever since she was housed in this paddock, for the winter, I've had six night's work a week out of her; and yet she keeps her condition so well that the farm people don't suspect a word about it. Last night only, I visited twenty hen-roosts, a mile apart, over harassing ground, and yet she came in as fresh as a daisy." "Does she go swiftly '" asked Oliver. "Like the wind," said the other, whom Kit rightly surmised to be one of the gipsies. "I've known her when on mettle, to cover twenty-fiva feet of ground at a single stroke, and I wouldn't mind backing her to do a mile a minute." "Well, take care they don't find you out at your tricks, that's all," said Oliver. "Is she ready for use now?" "I'd just strapped the saddle-girth when you came up." "Well, get into the saddle as soon as you like. She must hencefor- ward become your own property; for you'll not be able to get back before daylight, even if the mare could do the distance; and when once missed, the look-out will be too sharp to make return safe." 'It'll be running a plaguy risk, though!" resumed the gipsey. "How- ever, it's worth one's while; so I'm off. But stay--I must first put out the fire, and remove the other signs of our meeting." "I shall leave you to do that alone, then; for it's infernally chilly standing here," said Oliver; "come, Steele," continued he, "what say   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.         69 you to a pipe and a tankard? Long Jemmy and myself have a capital move in view, and it may be worth your while to join us." "With all my heart," said a voice, which, by its huskiness appeared to proceed from an older person than the first gipsey. "Times have been d-d bad this winter, and I don't care what game I play to mend them." These words were followed by a confused murmur of mingled adieus, encouragements, and admonitions, and eventually the sound of retreating footsteps announced that the conspirators had separated. Kit and his companions, however, still lay perdue where they had first concealed themselves, and distinctly heard a man moving about inside the stable, as if busied in arranging it in order. Having completed his task, he came out humming a gay air, and making his way to the end of the building opposite the door, made his approach to the grey mare, without any idea of what was in store for him. Kit looked up--it was Zekiel. He was a well made, handsome youth of about eighteen, with ivory teeth, jet black eyes, ebony hair, and mahogany complexion. Kit could not forbear admiring him, but no sooner did he touch the bridle, to assist the mare in rising, than all thoughts of admiration vanished, and the three highwaymen sprung to their feet. Kit's hand was on the gipsey's throat in an instan nt. "We mean no hurt," cried Kit, " but a word, except in answer to us and you are dumb for ever." "Ask the young gentleman, who is no doubt a very respectable mem. ber of society," said Sheppard, "where he has stowed his package to my lord mayor. Kim, dub it up, young mulberry-wash, or I'll take that bit of acquiline of yours between my finger and my thumb, and proceed with all possible expedition to do vot vill greatly annoy your tender suscepti- bilities." "Leave him to me," said Kit. "The lad shall not be ill-used unless he deserves it. And now compose yourself, my nobby one, and tell us your name." Zekiel Steele," answered the gipsey, in a more careless than discon. certed tone. "Steele-a very good name for a thief," returned Kit. "1'm no thief," said the man; ' I'm only a poor gipsey chap." "Stop, stop, stop! Don't go too fast," interrupted our hero. "It can be proven on the evidence of these gentlemen and myself that you had saddled and bridled a mare, not your own property, for the purpose of taking it to London; and we have only to give this in detail before the nearest magistrate, and to add that we found the animal in your pos. session, to get you hanged out of the way, or have you sent across the Herring-pond at least." The gipsey scratched his head, and looked like one in a dilemma. "Rather perplexing, ain't it?" said Kit. "Not at all," answered the gipsey; "I have that about me which will form fny excuse, aifd bring me into favor instead of disgrace with the justice." "And what is that?" asked our hero.     70           KIT CLAtTON, "A clue to the discovery of Kit," answered the quick-witted gipsey fixing his laughing eye, full of meaning, upon Clayton. "Yes, yes; we know all about that," interrupted Sheppard; "but give it up, you young scoundrel, or I'll crack your pate for you." "Gently, gently," said Clayton; "unless I mistake, he's inclined to serve us without having his pate cracked ;" then, turning to the gipsey, he added, "will you favor me with a view of those papers? I promise to return them if we cannot come to an agreement."  Zekiel made no answer, save by silently taking from his bosom a clum- sily folded package, and handing it to our hero. Kit tore it open, and found it to be an ambiguously worded intimation of his and his comrades' whereabouts, and asking for assistance to capture them. Kit felt as if he could have brained the treacherous villain; but sur- pressing his indignation, he turned to the gipsey, and said, "You were to have twenty guineas for this job?"Steele nodded, and Clayton resumed, "What would you take to leave it alone l" "Service under Kit Clayton, himself," answered the gipsey, again fixing his penetrating eye full of confidence and meaning upon our hero. Clayton returned the glance, and that single interchange' of looks appeared to lay open the souls of each, and to establish a bond of faith between them. Distrusts and evil intent'vanished on the instant, and Kit, with- out any hesitation, stretched out his hand:- "I see you know me, and take you at your word," he said; "I have con- fidence in you-for I am certain no relative of Jared Steele can be a traitor." "You are a lad of spirit, I see," added the young highwayman, "and I have no doubt possess a head-piece that will carry us out of many a scrape." "I'll do my best," returned the other. "And now I advise that we shift our position, Oliver, and my father will be coming back to see why I have not departed, and the meeting might be awkward. It's more than likely that even now they are waiting in the road to see me pass." "Suppose I take your place?" said Kit. "The moon is getting behind a cloud, and at the pace I shall go, they will scarcely be able to distin- guish the change." "As you please, noble captain," said the sagacious gipsey; " but be careful of the animal you bestride, and reverence it." "I do," said Kit; "for she's the greatest beauty I ever saw, and has been making love to me for the last ten'minutes." With these words he placed his hands upon the jetty mane of the ani- mal, and vaulted with one spring into the saddle, The animal seemed sensible of the burden she bore, and reared and pranced as though proud of it. Kit patted her kindly, but he could scarce restrain her impatience to dart forward; and as she curvetted and caracoled like a mad thing, she champed the bit until it was impearled with foam. Rejoiced at these tokens of spirit, our hero resolved no longer to curb it; he therefore, exclaimed, "Now, then," and slackened the rein at once. In an instant she was off like lightning; she took the fence round her paddock with an easy leap, and flashing like a fire-fly over the ground, soon attained the   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          71 high road, where Kit beheld Oliver and his companions, -as had been anti. cipated. Clayton hesitated for an instant how to act; but prudence suggested that he had better ride on, without appearing to notice any one, and only, if addressed before passing them, to hold any conference. The complete occultation of the moon behind a dense mass of vapor, favored his design, as it involved theearth in darkness, and rendered all recognition difficult, if not impossible. Crouching close to the saddle, therefore, in order that the difference in size between him and the gipsey might not be too mani- fcst, he patted the noble neck of his magnificent courser, and whispering a word of encouragement in her ear, urged her to a still fleeter pace than she had before taken. Already had she gained the hedge that separated the fellows from the high road-already was this leaped, with the ditch beyond it-and already was she darting full speed past the waylayers, when Oliver and Long Jemmy, who was with him, caught the bridle on each side, and the former exclaimed "Stop!" The sudden check almost threw Clayton from his saddle; but recover- ing himself in time, he twitched the bridle from the hands of his detain- ers, and putting his mare into a quick walk, said in an under tone, "Hush! don't you know me? It is HZekiel Steele." "Oh, I know you fast enough," inswered Oliver; "and was coming back if I hadn't heard you galloping over the ground. You've been a most infernal time a coming." Kit replied that he had been picking a stone out of his horse's foot- disguising his voice as he spoke-and then urged the necessity of speeding onwards, lest daylight should cause the mare he rode to be recognised. "I shall take that chance myself, young shaver," resumed Oliver.- "The old man tells me you are not to be trusted, and that you are one o' them milk-hearted fellers as'ud rather screen a cove, than blow upon him. I thought you were in a mighty hurry to get the job into your own hands, and to keep the old chap from getting a word in edgeways." "Father knows nothing about it, and is only savage that his old bones wouldn't let him take the journey himself," reported Jack, slyly touching the mare into a trot; but Oliver was too much on the alert to be so easily escaped, and again checking the animal, exclaimed:- "Come, come, younker, no larking with me! I tell you I shall take second thoughts and look after my own business; so dismount directly. D'ye hear" " "Don't bawl so, or you'll bring the cottagers upon us," returned Clay- ton. "I do hear, and am not such a fool as to be choused out of twenty guineas, after a bargain has been struck, and so I tell you." "Pooh! you've got ten, and you may keep 'em, only hand me back the parcel. Come, give it up, or d-m me, I'll make you!" Kit knew too well the danger of compliance as well as that of direct refusal to give either; but he steered a milder course, by pouring forth professions of fidelity, and persisting in asserting his intention of duly fulfilling his mission. The ruffian, however, cut him short with an impre. cation, and roared: "Stash your palaver; will you, and do as I order! I stand no non. sense; so do it at once."     72            KIT CLAYTON, "I tell you I won't,' said Kit, now perceiving the inutility of further parley-" and to give you a bit of my mind, I don't like you half well enough to put myself out of the way for you. So take your hold from the reins, or I'll turn back and pitch your parcel into the fire." "Don't be a fool, boy," cried a voice, which Kit knew, to be that of old Steele, the gipsey. "Remember we are in good master Oliver's power." "You may be; but I am not," observed our hero, carelessly, his imi- tation of Zekiel's manner becoming more perfect with increase of prac- tice. "Well," ejaculated the old man in a coaxing tone, though he trembled with terror, "but you wouldn't like to see your old father split upon, would you-would you boy ." "No fear of that," returned the highwayman, beginning to grow weary of the part he was acting:-" if he don't stow his jaw and behave him- self, I'll split upon him!" "You!" reiterated Oliver, contemptuously; "why what do you know of me, to split about?" Kit bent his head towards Oliver's ears, and in a low voice, exclaimed, Your robberies and burglaries!" Oliver was thunderstruck. He even recoiled from Kit's side, and let go of the mare's bridle. But though his muscular frame was convulsed in every joint, his terror did not deprive him of that instinct towards self. preservation which is so inherent in all animal nature. "Steele!" ho shouted, though scarce able to articulate, " the whelp knows too much for us. Knock him off his beast and throttle him." Kit laughed; for he had already learned to despise dangers: but at the same time he twisted the thong of his whip round his fingers, and grasp- ing the narrow end of its handle, he brandished the butt-end, exclaim- ing- "The old man knows better! Let me pass unmolested, or by heavens, I will shed your blood!" "Ha!" resumed Oliver, drawing a pistol from his ample side pocket; "' Jemmy, look to your barker. And you fool, down to the ground, or I fire 1" With these words, he for a third time approached Kit; but the high- wayman disapproved of such advances, and consequently gave the mare a hint to evade them. The animal took it, like a sensible slut as she was, and once more sprang forward, like a pebble from the sling, kicking old Steele to the ground as she did so. With a deep curse, Oliver and Jemmny raised their weapons, and fired at the same instant; but Kit stooped till his locks blended with the mare's mane, and the balls whistled harmlessly over his head. He then raised himself in his stirrups, and exclaimed in his own peculiar voice, " so much for good intentions! and now dogs, be off, or you will find Kit Clayton has already made this part of the country too hot to hold you!"With these words, he touched the animal's side with the spur, and in one instant became lost in the dark- ness. Thankful at heart for the narrow escape he had had, and determined no more to trust himself in the hands of Jared's father, who, it was self-   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          73 evident had for lucre been readily bought over to Oliver's view, he put the brave horse forward at her quickest speed towards a neighboring vil- lage, where he knew he should meet Sheppard and a friend on their road to crack the crib, as has already been hinted, Their greeting was a hearty one, and whilst vowing vengeance on the head of Oliver, they were loud in their admiration of the honesty of'Jared's brother and the dexterity of Kit Clayton. "How the devil Oliver could have discovered your retreat, is a mys. tery to me," said Sheppard, and so it was in truth to all of them; but a mystery involving so rich a joke, that we cannot forbear solving it, for the reader's benefit. Kit, whilst alone among the gipsies; frequently indulged his roving in- clinations to such an extent, as to find himself wandering happily some five miles or so-from the encampment. It happened one fine morning, he had rather exceeded that distance on a pilgrimage towards London; chancing to look up, he descried in the distance two fellows, who, from their flash attire and rollicking way, he at once made up his mind to be "row-de-dowdy boys." That is, two gemmen of the metropolitan schools, whose genius had learnt them the art of picking pockets, of wipes and so forth, and then despising such inert unaspiring vagabonds, as left them to that low and inglorious occupation, to starve or to go to the devil in any other way that they pleased. "So, then," thought Kit to himself, " two humble brothers of the hank. kere ief-fool-school, or my eyes deceive me, hang it; but I'll draw their wipes if it be possible, for the fun of the thing." It so chanced, the two individuals were impressed with the same ideas, with the simple exception, that they did it for the profit of the thing - for one observed to the other:- "Look alive, my rhinoceros, here is such a dashing fellow a walking down the road." "So there is, I declare," said the other vagabond. "Lord, how 1 should like to pick his pocket." "Lord how I should like to catch you at it," thought Kit; but, advano. ing towards them, merely said, "Good morning to you, gentlemen." "Oh! good morning, sir," said both the fellows in a breath; "let me hope I have the honor of seeing you well." "Perfectly well, I thank you," said Kit, who, at that instant, felt his handkerchief leaving his pocket; "but I tell you what, sir," he said, turning to the fellow who had taken it, "That wasn't at all well done." "Wh-what wasn't well done?" stammered the fellow. "That handkerchief rig," said Kit, with a wink, as knowing as a wink could be by any possibility in any man's eye. "Hankicher rig! what hankicher rig!" said the fellow, in pretended astonishment. "I can't make out what you are hammering at: I don't know nothing about a hankicher rig." "I tell you it wasn't well done by any means," said Kit, " you clumsy fisted knave; I not only felt it go, but actually saw it go." "The devil you did," said the fellow. "Yes," said Kit, "and that is more than you saw when I took yours," and le exhibited as he spoke, to the prigs' astonished gaze, the fellow's own handkerchief     74           KIT CI AYTON, The other vagabond instantly burst into a roar of laughter. Ha, ha, ha!" he shouted-" capital-the neatest trick I ever heard on; but 'tis well sir you didn't try the rig on me-else 'twould have been a complete failure." "Would it!" said Kit quickly-" don't boast; clever men never boast: for their talent is sure to be appreciated without. There, what think you of that?" and he dangled the second thief's handkerchief before his aston- ished eyes. "Why, you must be the devil," shouted the fellow. "Or Kit Clayton," chimed in the second. "What if I am him?" "'Twill be the proudest moment of our lives," said the fellow-" the jolliest of meetings." "Well, I am he," said Kit, " and here, gentlemen, as I never pray upon pals, are your handkerchiefs." "Thank you," said the prigs, and the one who had extracted our hero's, commenced rummaging in his capacious pockets, for Kit's to return it to him. "Don't distress yourself," said Kit, with a laugh-"it has already returned to its owner. Gentlemen, your road runs one way-mine, the other. I have the pleasure of wishing you a very good morning, and jovial success to trade." Kit returned to the camp; the fellow, after making the country too hot to hold them, returned to London, and growing grandiloquent one night in their cups, they gave vent to the admiration excited in their breasts by their meeting with Kit. Oliver was in the room, and minutely questioned them as to the locality of the gipsey band, and concluding rightly and at once, our hero was screened by the gang over whom Steele reigned, and having in other days detrimental knowledge of the old man, he deter. mined to use such knowledge at once, intending by threats, to force the puerile old man to betray the trust confided in his son. With what success, has already been shown. CHAPTER XI. Consultation of the Gang-the determination-the fire-the victim. WE left the gang after the unhappy catastrophe of the officer's death, in solemn consultation as to the means to be adopted for the disposal of the corpse. Amongst a variety of suggestions, some of them positively too horrible for repetition, it was finally proposed by Sheppard, that the ghastly remains of the unfortunate man should be destroyed by fire. To this startling proposition, for several minutes no answer was returned. At length Toby, weighing well every word as he uttered them, said- "Live in this. house longer I cannot. No, no-the crib must be for. ever done up. My life would be one of unceasing horror-one continu.   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.     7? ous scene of misery, if I was compelled to live in a house where blood had been shed. I will, therefore, take your advice, Sheppard, and de- stroy the remains of the deed by fire; at the same time I will light so glorious a funeral pile to the poor wretch's memory, that all London shall be lit up with it. Since I cannot inhabit the old place myself, I am deter- mined no other man shall-for I'll burn its old timbers to the ground." "Why, you don't mean to say as how you contemplates firing the house? Why, Toby, my Tulip, you'd break your heart over such a sac. rifice of property." "I have a great respect," said Toby, pathetically, as he glanced round the place, "for the old shed, it's a fact, for ar'nt I passed hundreds of hap- py hours in it? but that ain't at all likely to be of any manner of use to us, and its precious old tell-tale timbers, if they were investigated, might chance to reveal a secret that might endanger all our precious necks. It's a very hard task-two hundred guineas did I give for this 'ere wooden tenement, and now I am going to consign it to blazes. Two hundred pounds is a good strong dose to lose at one unhappy go; but what's two hundred to the value of a human life? why it's a flea bite-it ar'nt noth- ing; so I'll do it. Don't speak, nobody, now-it's no use trying to per- suade me to alter my mind; I can't-won't-shan't-I'll burn the house to the ground; so you coves had. some of you, better look sharp, for in less than an hour, the sky will have a red look about it, awful to behold." "The old place will burn like a match," said O'Brien, "and it's myself would propose a convenient way of destroying our little secrets, which would not be wholesome to be exposed, nohow. Now I tell you the caper; we must light the fire down below, then won't the flames arise-. for the old timber will burn like a bunch of matches, and with the aid of the trifle of whiskey on the establishment, it's bright eyes will be wanted to find a single inch remaining of the old house at home to-morrow morning." "It shall be done," exclaimed Toby; and he immediately led the way below. The corpse of the unfortunate officer was dragged from the well, and, wrapped in an 'old tarpaulin, was placed upon a pile of combustible ma- terials, that had been scraped together for the purpose-collecting all the valuables on the premises at all portable, Toby threw them into a cart, and drove with all speed to the Jew's, in Pedlar's Acre, with them; then seating himself at the front window of the house, he gazed earnestly in the direction of Westminster. He was not doomed to be disappointed -the awful rays of a terrible fire were speedily visible, and the startled exclamations of alarmed citizens, as they hurried in the direction of the conflagration, broke the stillness of the night. Toby was by this time joined by the rest of the gang, who reported the fact that the fire was burning bravely, the truth of which was borne out by the sky, for such was the awful brilliancy of the scene that the very sky itselfseemed a mass of turbulent fire. Luke Jones paid the penalty of his treachery with his life; fastened in the shed by our hero, he had lain impatiently waiting Barnes's signal, and muttering many blasphemous curses on the officer's supposed tardi.     76            nIT CLAYTON, ness. Finally, losing all patience, he rushed to the door to release him. self from the place. To his intense mortification, he found he was entrapped.-Many bitter maledictions did he utter on the dead man's head. Amidst this burst of rage a sound fell upon his ear and curdled his heart's blood with horror. Fire fire!e As the words shouted by an anxious populace fell upon his ears, so loud was the roaring and crack- ling of the flames, it swallowed up every other sound. Presently the imminent danger of his situation became more apparent, for already was one side of the outhouse a mass of living flame. Utterring a cry of anguish as the flames came in, Luke flew to the far end of the building and raised a series of cries for help. It was in vain -the roaring of the flames drowned his voice, while their intensity speedily became fearfully appalling. It was all in vain; the mighty flames hemmed him in on all sides, until, at length, from the intense heat, the clothes upon his body burst forth in flames. Uttering a yell of agony and despair, Luke fell helplessly into the gulf of fire. A charred blackened mass, scarcely with one distinguishable feature of a human be. ing, was all that remained the following day of Luke Jones. We will now rejoin our hero, whom we left in company with Sheppard, and who were now concocting a scheme for the robbery, of a rich old jeweller, of the name of Bradley. "If the haul but turn out as I hope and expect it will," said Shep- pard, "rely upon it, our fortunes are made. Why, by all accounts, this old fool of a Bradley is rolling in riches." "We will speedily share them with him," said Kit, gleefully, "and now, old fellow, I will tell you my plans. From information I managed to glean of the servant-girl, I flatter myself I can, without much difficulty, find my way into the house by scaling the window; once in, I will con- concoct a plan by which you can join me. Let our nags be in readiness, for, as Night-owl Oliver is or our track, immediately the goods are ours it may be necessary to ride like the devil, and turn the gimcracks at once into money. It is getting dusk now, so I'll make for the house, and in half an hour will have everything ready for you." By the side of the jeweller's house, which was, in every respect, strong. ly guarded, and firmly secured with bolts and bars, there was an iron tubing, or water spout. As soon as an opportunity arose that he could commence operations in safety, he set about the assent of this said pipe, and by its means reached the first floor window. Into this room at the imminent peril of his neck, Kit managed to creep, and now only awaited the arrival of his pals. At length they came and Kit flew to the window with joyful eagerness, and unlatched the casement without loss of time. "In what quarter is the wind?" whispered he; that being the password agreed upon. "It stands still that it may carry no tales," replied Sheppard, and as the answer satisfied Kit that all was right, he threw out a rope, which he had employed himself in knotting for the purpose, and in a few seo onds Sheppard stood within the apartment. It should be explained that Kit's chamber was situated in the back   THE HERO OF TIE ROAD.          " part of the premises, over a low warehouse, and that, consequently, the approach of the housebreakers had been made under unusnal circiiustan- ces of security, a dwarf wall being their only impeditnent, whilst their passage up the rope was, of course, performed without chnce of discove- ry, as every window overlooking the feat had been closed dp for hours So favourable a beginning put them'all in spirits, but Kit did not sulfei himself to become unguarded through his elation. "We stand in great danger," he said, "for the place is so well secured from top to bottom, that, without the utmost caution, we shall be caught in some trap, or touch some wire connected with the alarm bell, that will betray our presence at once." "Something like walking in a rabit warren, or a preserve snared for poachers," exclaimed Sheppard; "however, I suppose you know the whereabouts of these hidden dangers." "Not so well as I could wish, but I don't fear; and now let me im- press one thing upon all: touch nothing but what I myself point out to you." "I mean nothing unpleasant, captain," said Shepherd, "but as an af- fair like this will cause more noise than anything we have yet done, we shall have to lie quiet the best part of a year after it, and, that would be impossible, without the booty was sufficient to keep us up during that period." "The most grasping fence in Petticoat-lane would give us a thou. sand pounds for what we shall carry away with us; so calm your dis- quietude on that head," said Kit. "And now to work: on with your visors! and give me mine-my cloak, too. Sheppard, give me your assistance. Hark! was that the watch l" "That I'll swear it aint," said Sheppard, "for I made him as swipey as a drayman's apron about an hour back, and left him snoozing in his box.' "That was well done, and now come on, boys. Let 'No violence' be our motto." They now proceeded to work. Kit led his companions to the ware- house beneath, and was on entering, encountered by a large watch dog, that was nightly left at liberty to roam the premises. A word, how- ever, changed his quick bark of defiance into a whine of recognition, and Kit ordered him to lie still. This danger averted, the gang fell to work, and the floor was quickly strewn with articles of every description and grade of value. They were the silks of China and the laces of. France, the watches of Geneva, the gold dust of India, and the gems of every country. Nor was there a deficiency of specie-for in those days the banking system had not obtained to the extent of relieving, each eve. ning, the merchant of all care concerning his cash-and Jack, having the keys of the strong box, was enabled to divide between four and five hun- dred pounds among his companions. From the store-room they proceeded to the offices, and then penetrated into the very heart of the dwelling-house. Here the amount of valuables that met the greedy gaze .of the plunderers on every side, absolutely astounded them, particularly Sheppard, who eyed them with a siauilar sort of relish to that with which a horse gazes upon a clover field.     79            KIT CLAYTON, "This blessed jeweller," said he to Kit, " has taken unkimmon pains to send to distant parts for us. How very considerate. He knowed as how we had no means of getting over the herring pond, unless sent there by government, and so he fits out his ships, and has all as he wants brought here for us to pick and choose from. He is one of that 'ere sort of ones who will invite a man to dinner to save him the trouble of provi- ding for himself." They betook themselves to the kitchen.-Having amused themselves for some time among the edibles, they then drew the corks from sundry bottles, and in a short time were on the high road to happiness. paving eat and drank to their heart's content, Jack gave the word for home. Sheppard descended in safety with their spoil, and our hero's feet were just upon the ground, when, on glancing round, he found him- self surrounded by a posse of constables, who had it appears been eye- witnesses of the affair; two of them instantly sprang upon him, but shaking them aside, Kit made his way to where the steeds were stand- ing, and leaped at once into the saddle. Astonished at the unexpected activity, Sheppard, exclaimed- "Hallo, Kit, what's the row?" they had scarcely spoken the word, when a pistol shot sounded loud and near "There's something up, lads!" exclaimed Kit drawing one of his hol- sters, "we are pursued; and must make a bold front, and have a hard fight for it." "I shud think so, my kinchens," chimed in Sheppard, well pleased at the idea of a scramble.-Out with your powder-mills-take my word, you'll want 'etn." As he uttered these words, Sheppard trotted forward towards the ap. proaching horseman, but had not got more than a hundred yards, when a second pistol shot rung loudly in their ears, and at the same instant ho fell from his horse-the bullet had shattered his shoulder-blade. "By God! poor Sheppard's down," exclaimed Kit, in a tone of rage and surprise. He leaped his mare over a high hedge, took a narrow, dark lane that presented itself to his front, and putting his horse. to its full speed, flew away like lightning on the wings of the night, leaving poor Sheppard in the hands of the Philistines. On Kit went, at the top of his speed, and on thundering after him came his pursuers. The foremost officer, who was considerably in advance of his companions, levelled his pistol, and fired with an aim so correct, that the ball struck Kit's steed in the right eye, and penetrating the noble animal-with a wail of anguish, it fell dead. The officer was close upon Kit, who, seized with a fit of daring, and half maddened by the death of the horse, he had no backwardness in deter- mining at once to attack the officer. It would be a rare thing, he thought, to spread the terror of his name, by overpowering on foot a mounted man. Added to this, he recollected that he was without a horse, and he conse- quently resolved to supply himself with one at the stranger's expense. His resolution formed, he boldly turned into the road, and, grasping the bridle of the approaching horse close by the bit, endeavored to throw him upon his haunches, and thus dismount his master without trouble.   THE HERO OF THE ROAD, 7. The horseman was, however, too well experienced in the menage to be thus easily unseated, and though the animal he bestrodeldid rear and struggle, the rider maintained possession of his saddle with infinite dex- terity, and also inflicted a heavy blow on Kit's temple with his riding- whip. An infliction of this sort always has one of two contrary effects: it either paralyzes or stimulates, and in this instance the latter was the case. Kit felt not the blow, nor the blood that followed; but he felt something boiling in his veins that urged him on. Again his powerfully nerved arm stiffened as it was extended, and again he caused the horse to retreat with sudden action. Following this with a heavily dealt blow on the chest of the rider, Kit now succeeded in throwing him full length bo the ground, and with an oath, he flung himself upon him. They struggled desperately, and several times rolled over each other, until'at length they had shifted their position a distance of several yards, and they came close against a milestone., Kit's adversary was a powerful man, and our hero felt that he would be overcome, unless, by some great effort, he gained an advantage. The coming in contact with the milestone at once afforded him this, for the stranger's head was close to it, and Kit. grasping his hair on each side, was about to stun him with a btow against the unconscious stone, when, at that moment, the other men appeared, and Kit refrained from dealing the blow. The stranger, who, a moment before, had expected his brains to be dashed out, viewed this change with astonishment, but had, at the same time, sufficient presence of mind to take advantage of it. He sprang to his feet, and regaining his whip, again struck Kit, and was repeating hi, blows hard and fast, when the clattering shuffle of a horse's feet, accom panied by a loud " halloo," made him fancy that a comrade of the rob- ber was near, and without thinking of his own horse, he " girded up his loins and fled." The traveller, who had so timely appeared, had witnessed part of the attack, with the subsequent flight of the assailant; and he naturally took a different view of the case than the right one, by imagining that Kit was the molested man, and the other the robber; he consequently accelerated the speed at which he was riding, and would have run down the supposed highwayman, but for the darkness in which the fugitive was speedily lost. Deeming further pursuit a loss of time, he reined round his horse and moved towards the spot where Kit was still prostrate from the stunning effect of the blows he had received. "Why, how is this?" exclaimed his preserver. "What brought you to this pass? and whom were you struggling with 8" "With Clayton," answered our hero, with the greatest effrontery ima. ginable, and as much presence of mind as if he had premeditated the lie before the encounter; "he knocked me off my horse, and would have stripped me of everything, had it not been for you." "And he on foot?" exclaimed the stranger. "Why, the fellow has the courage of a lion; my admiration for him increases with every fresh feat he performs. But come, you require attention--where is your horso! for I will not leave you until I set you on your road." Kit answered that it was no doubt browsing by the roadside, a suppo. sition that proved to be correct; and, with perfect coolness, he mounted the animal as if he had been its lawful master.     80            KIT CLAYTON, Having all the valuable booty about his person, Kit made at once for London, first taking the precaution to procure another disguise; this done, he started at once for Petticoat-lane, and was speedily on the barter with a celebrated Jew fence there, who, not content with the goods at less than half their value, kept protesting- "Can't give a farthing more, my dear boy; I can't afford it." "Stuff, Peter; why, you know very well these diamonds and jewels will make your fortune-never waM there such a blessed haul since the days of Pharoah, when your people bolted with all the gold and silver they could lay their hands on, and walked through the Red Sea. Come, five hundred on the nail; I don't mind notes, and a watch or two from you." "Oh, Kit, Kit, you have a conscience-why don't you know that there will be a careful watch on all goods in this line for a month to ctime; and if we don't get 'em safe under the hatches of some East Indiaman before twelve o'clock to-day, we must keep 'em close, in fear of the traps, for the next three months." "Bah! you're as hard mouthed as an exciseman," replied Kit to his Jew friend.-"Well, if we are to do business, what is your price?" "Two hundred, not a rap more." "Curse you for a sinner; here, snatch up these trifles, and give us the chinks for another hundred," said Jack, throwing several watches and pairs of silver-mounted pistols on the table before him. The Jew slowly handled them, turned them over and over, cast a knowing leer up at Kit, and then drawing an old dirty leather pocket-book from his breeches pocket, he unrolled it, and counting out a bundle of notes and a handful of guineas, he pushed them towards our hero, and pocketing the watches and pistols, exclaimed-- '; There, I know I shall lose by the job, but you're a good customer, so I suppose I must humor you." "Ah, ah, Master Peter, you're always going to the workhouse, but I don't think you're any nearer than you were twenty years ago; but so as these are righteous, I suppose I mustn't grumble." "Ah, ah," responded the Jew, "you know very well that I've paid a good price, and shall have a job to clear my profits." "Pitch that to guffins," replied Kit, laughing, as, gathering up the notes and gold he departed. This conversation was held between our hero and old Peter, a notorious Jew receiver, who had lived in a cellar in Petticoat-lane, for the last forty years; but as he never allowed a single article of the purchased property to enter his premises, he managed, by crafty dealings, and some- times an untruth, to evade justice, and drive a glorious trade with the cheap meichants of France and Holland, who were ever ready to purchase 'his stock. "Well I think I may make this job wind up my fortune," muttered old Peter to himself, as he dwelt upon the swag he had purchased of Kit and his gang. "A thousand! ah, let me see; why, if I don't make a clean fifteen hundred by it, I shall grumble. I must cut this Mr. Kit; he is too venturesome; I'm sure he'll get nabbed at last, and swing high at Tyburn, and then it might be unpleasant for me, especially as I have   THE HERO OF TnE ROAD           81 given him two forged fifties-ah! he is too eager to find that out. Yes, yes; I must wash my hands of him, and I think of retiring from the dan- gerous trade." Thus ruminating, the Jew went on his way, to get his purchase shipped before daybreak. CHAPTER XII. Miss Duncan finds a love', who is nevertheless not exactly to ler mind, and our hero finds an opportunity of exerting his gallantry, from the conse. qeences of which he involves himself in an awkward dilemma. Miss DUNCAN, who, from her first interview with our hero, had beheld' in him ope whom her whole heart could love, had viewed with thoughts of distraction and feelings of poignant anguish, the sinful and dangerous career our hero had chosen, and often with all the fervency of a young and truthful heart, had she bent her knee before high Heaven to sue for pardon for him. Not only the heiress of considerable wealth, but also the possessor of rare personal beauty, and every femine accomplishment; it became a matter of no wonder that her father's house was literally besieged by would-be suitors, and aspirants for the lady's hand and fortune. But-so enraptured was she with our hero-so earnestly, so devotedly attached to him, even in the dark tide by which he was beset, she turned a deaf ear to all their protestations, vows and prayers. Nor could her mother's persuasive tongue, or earnest and tearful advices win her loved and lovely daughter from the object on which she had fixed her guileless heart. No, the more the danger that surrounded him, the more she clung to the dar- ling hero of her soul-the stronger the obloquy heaped upon him, the stronger grew her excuses for his conduct-the more powerful grew her love for him. It seemed that the disgrace and ignominy which he so reck- lessly risked, had no power to steel her heart against him. She was in heart his unalterably-for weal or woe, for happiness, for ignominy, for a happy life or a miserable death! Of her suitors, one in particular essayed more than the others to wean her fromn her untoward passion, and own her for his bride.-He was the Hon. George Dashfield, a captain in the King's Ist Regiment of Cavalry, and heir, after the Earl of DashfieId, to the estates and titles of that name It was he, who, having information of the earl's villainous and lustfl wishes after the fair Miss Duncan, and having, moreover, had the good fortune to ascertain the time and route for the intended abduction, had sought out Clayton, at the Jew's place, in Pedlar's Acre, and by the lavish dispensation of his gold, had won the services of that worthy, and those of our hero, which ended, as the reader has already been informed, in the glorious rescue of Miss Duncan, by our brave hero, and the no less glo. rious discomfiture of the villanous old earl. It was a glorious sunset on the afternoon in question, as Miss Duncan was seated at the drawing-room window of her father's country mansion, 6      982       S'KIT CLAYTON, at Clapham-one of those calm, peaceful evenings, when thoughts of past happy hours, of absent, lost, or departed friends steal over our mind with a soft and soothing tendency, and when our thoughts blend with a salu- tary shading, as we view, with half regret, the past, or view, with only half a heart of hope, the future; salutary, inasmuch as it tells us of the mutability of human happiness, and carries the mind to that holier and better place, whence true happiness alone flows. As she gazed upon the scene before her, rapidly becoming indistinct in the gathering twilight, a few hot tears, awakened by her unhappy thoughts of Kit Clayton, dropped upon the book she had been perusing. Even whilst indulging in this mournful reverie, and with the pearly tears yet wet upon her matchless cheeks, the door of the room was noiselessly opened, and her father and the captain came unperceived upon her. "Still in tears, my beloved Isabel," said the father, with parental ten- derness; "why do you indulge in this absurd, this unavailable grief, for a vagabond, who, setting at defiance the laws of God and man, has de- servedly forfeited his life to the outraged laws of the King? Believe me, my dear child, it is sinful in the extreme. Think you, were he but an honest man, I would exercise any control over your actions-think you-l would raise any objection, even to your linking your fate to his in wed- lock? No, my darling, could I be but convinced it would in the least %eonduce to your happiness, my consent should at once be given; but now, when I see my once happy child bringing herself to an early grave,  fr the sake of a highwayman, whose neck may be encircled with a halter in a few days, whose life must eventually be forfeited, in spite of his almost miraculous escapes, in spite of his undoubted courage, I feel cut to the heart-" For God's sake speak not so, father; even the prospect of his suffer- ing the dreadful doom at which you hint, fills my heart with agony. Can nothing be done for him-is there no country but England in which he can spend the remainder of his unhappy life in peace, and in spots where he and his crimes could remain alike unknown? Oh, Captain Dashfield," she said, turning appealingly to her suitor, "cannot you advise me-can- not you avert the doom that now hangs over him 8" "If his fate remained in my hands, lady," answered the young officer, "his salvation should at once be accorded, for I believe him to have been driven to this desperate career.-I believe him to have been more sinned against than sinning-but, alas! 1 am powerless; I lack the means, not the' will." "You have spoken to me of love," said Isabel, in deep tones of emo- tion, " and believe me, I feel flattered by the offer of your noble heart; yet, spite of all my father's counsellings, spite of my own innate conviction of your worth and his unworthiness, my heart still yearns to see him who was my savior from a fate worse than death, removed from the pale of danger to that of safety." "1 would it were in my power to change your wishes to realities; be- lieve me, no moment's hesitation should prevent its consummation; but, alas! I am powerless. And yet I have sometimes thought, had Ibut speech with him, I could turn his thoughts into another chanlel, could succor, could save him."   THE ilnRO OF THE ROAD.          $ "Oh, thank you-thank you a thousand times, for even those words of hope. Promise me, my own dear friend, you will leave no stone unturned, no means untried to effect this desirable end." "Well," exclaimed the captain, a smile of joy pervading his handsome face, "well, lady, I will give the prosecution of this scheme immediate and untiring attention, and, should I succeed in freeing your darling hero from the trammels that surround him, should I succeed in placing him in ano- ther clime, where he may recommence life, and, by the rectitude of his future days, recdmpense for the follies and crimes of those that are past, may I then, lady, hope to find favor in your eyes?" "Well done, Fred!" exclaimed Mr. Duncan, " you are, at last, on the highway of success-you have found the true way to Isabella's heart. There is nothing in the world women admire so much as generosity; and if it be in your power to save this Clayton-of which I, also, should be right glad-believe me, my dear young friend, Isabel will not have the heart longer to refuse you. Go it, old fellow, the citadel is half won; raise the storming ladders, and carry it by a coup de main! But let me run away, or I shall prbve a regular Marplot in disturbing your tete-a-tete," and the merry old gentleman hurried from the room. 'My dear Isabella," said Dashfield, when they were alone, "believe me, I would not thus ungenerously urge my claim, but I have beheld with pain the inroads this unceasing care has made in a constitution ever so delicate. Believe me, my dear girl, my love is no evanescent love-from boyhood upwards, your image has been enshrined in my heart-the joy of having you for my own dear little wife has been, and is, and ever will be, the highest soaring point of my ambition. This secret would have remained buried in my heart, had an honorable man, and a gentleman, won and obtained possession of your hand and heart; but, seeing with pain--as none could fail to see-that the rich gift of invaluable love has been heedlessly thrown away upon a person most unworthy, I waived the false point of etiquette which had hitherto kept us apart, and, taking the liberty of an old friend, sought your society, in the humble hope that my presence, even if it could not relieve, might yet ameliorate your sorrow. From the transit of being a casual visiter to that of being a constant, and, I hope, not unwelcome one, I learnt the admiration of you that had so long been struggling in my heart, was nearer akin to deep, sincere and lasting love than even I myself had been aware of. Under its influence I proposed for your hand, having first obtained your father's sanction; courteously, yet firmly, you rejected me; uudaunted by one rebuff, I still kept on, for I had a good cause at heart, and wyas determined to win you. After a lapse of time I again proposed, to meet with a denial, and further, to hear tidings that out me to the very soul, for, from your candor, I learnt your heart was irrevocably given to ano- ther. Cursing my procrastination, to which I imputed my failure, in my agony I sought council of my uncle, the Earl of Dashfield, and from him I learnt, scarcely more to my intense astonishment than to my unfeigned agony, than the invaluable prize which the gift of your love would convey on whomsoever it as bestowed, was literally thrown away upon a notoe rious highwayman. Cut to the heart, it was many a day ere I could think ealmly of mte matter, nut when i again recovered my reasoning faculties,     84            KIT CLAYTON, I vowed, as a friend, to use every means in my pc eer to prevent so un- hallowed an alliance, for I could not conceive it possible that you could be aware of the nature and character of the man you were so blindly loving. As time kept on its beaten track, my unhappy young rival continued his headlong course to destruction. In your sunken eyes, and attenuated form, I at length had sad evidence that his follies and his crimes were not only known to you, but they were in reality, undetermining your health, and bringing you to a premature grave. Determined to awaken you, if possible, to a sense of what was due to yourself--to save you from the misery so thickly hanging around-I presented myself a third time, with a tale of love, in the hope of dispelling some of the gloom that envi- roned you; and tell me, sweet Isabella, is my third mission, like its pre- decessors, doomed to be a failure?" "As Heaven is my judge, no :" answered Isabella, frankly extending her hand to the gallant young soldier. "I am so conscious of your merits -so thankful for your unceasing kindness, I cannot find it in my heart to let them go unrequited. If you will but place poor Clayton in safety, Fred. erick, and can content yourself with the poor half that remains of this broken heart, I am yours-" "Oh, joy! am I indeed so blessed?" exclaimed young Dashfield, rapturously folding the lovely girl to his heart. "If I bring you but half a heart, and be in safety, yet, in unceasing devotion, in unalterable love, in inflexible duty, you shall hever live to miss or regret the part I had unwittingly given to another. No, Fred- erick, what remains of me, firmly and irrevocably, heart and soul, shall be your own." "My own angel! my own darling wife, I implicitly believe you, and will be well content with the heaven of love in store for me; but my darling girl, I beseech you, tell me, when shall the happy day be?" "When Clayton is removed from danger-then if God be willing, and yourself in the same mind, you will meet with no objection in Isa. bella Duncan." Almost beside himself with joy, Captain Dashfield vowed again and again to save our hero, and uttered a thousand incoherent senseless nothings. Finally, his delight extending beyond all bounds, he rushed from the room, and finding Mr. and Mrs. Duncan, completely electri fied them both by not only unbosoming himself to them, but by actu- ally, in his transports, taking them to his bosom, by bestowing so vigor- ous a hug upon them both, that the worthy couple were a good half-hour recovering the breath he had completely squeezed out of their blessed bodies. Moderating his transports at length, he sufficiently calmed himself ta proceed to the drawing-room, and propose to Miss Duncan their first appearance in public together. It so happened, a new opera was pro- duced that evening at Drury Lane Theatre, upon which occasion a cele- brated Italian songstress was to make her first appearance in England. The royal family had expressed their intention of being present, and with such a combination of talent and rank as had seldom been seen, even in the walls of "Old Drury." To this place of amusement, after some persuasion, Isabella was induced to go by her importunate lover, and   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.         85 having dressed, the now happy pair, at an early hour in the evening, set out for that far-famed place of amusement, in a carriage and pair.- Whilst they ,re proceeding to the theatre, we will return to our hero. Having disposed of the fruits of the burglary at Bradley's, to the advan- tage which he had, Kit instantly hied to a respectable tailor, who, for the accommodation of the more needy of the aristocracy, kept a good supply of gentlemen's clothing, ready-made, upon the establishment. Having chosen a superb suit of gentlemanly attire, and having purchased a sword, Kit was soon metamorphosed into a swell of the first water. Stepping from the clothier's with all the swagger of a man about town, Kit took his way undauntedly down the Strand, ruminating on what his next move should be on the great drama of human life. Whilst chin-deep in thought, he suddenly found himself in violent contact with a fellow-foot-passenger. Contenting himself by merely consigning the unfortunate pedestrian's eyes to eternal darkness,4vith the characteristic politeness of gentlemen of that enlightened age, he was proceeding onward at an increased pace, and if possible, with an increased swagger, when he suddenly felt a hand gently glide into his pocket, which, with the quickness of thought, he seized, and held fast there. Turning upon his assailant, he grasped him by the throat, and dragging him under a lamp, peered anxiously into his face. A burst of laughter was the result of his investigation, as in the prig's fea- tures he recognized the never-to-be-forgotten face of Wide-Awake. "Hallo, my venerable," said Kit; " what game do you call this!" "A dose of cold steel if you don't ungrip my throat," said Colledge, savagely, and in a voice rendered unnaturally bass by the pressure on his w;nd-pipe. "No, thank you," said Kit, slacking his hold; "my appetite's not keen enough to relish that for supper. What, Wide-Awake, my flower," said Kit, in his own voice, "don't you know me '" The changes that crowded into Wide-Awake's face in that interval, would have beat a phantasmagoria to a shadow. "What, captain," he stammered, "is it you?" "It is, old fellow," answered Kit; "but let's aside-I've a trifle to ask you," and stepping into a tavern, Kit called for a private dinner and a bottle of sherry, and they were so deep in their revelations-Kit learn- ing for the first time, of the destruction of Toby's house, and the death of the officer, and likewise of the horrible fate of Luke Jones. Whilst, on the other hand, Wide-Awake was speedily in possession of the knowledge of Night wl Oliver's treachery, Old Steele's fallibility, and the fatal shot that had loded poor Sheppard in the county-prison. Almost the first inquiry Kit ade, was for Elinor Roche. "What! ou mean the girl what hocussed the turnkeys, don't you?" Kit answered in the affirmative. "Oh, she's a brick, she is," said Colledge, " all up the back. I tell you what, it's -ny opinion," continued the interesting youth, with extraor- dinary sagacity, " that she's an out-an-outer-a regular screamer. Why, what do you think? the big wigs actually offered her her liberty if she'd blow as to your whereabouts. Devil a bit; she was as close as a miser's, clenched fists, and that's the closest thing I can fancy. So, when they found they couldn't get her to patter on the strength of promises     88            KIT CLAYTOY, they took her to the press-yard, and tried by torture to worm the secret from her." "My God'!" exclaimed Kit, with sincere emotion., "It's a fact," said Wide-Awake, seriously; "they half killed her-I might have said three parts, and not lied; but not a word could they get from her. Oh, she is a wonderful woman. Blow me if I wouldn't keep a gall myself, if I could only get hold of such a piece as she is," said Wide-Awake, with profound admiration. "And what further punishment did she undergo?" "None," answered Colledge; "her dose was plenty strong enough I should think, as it was. After the torture, they let her go. She was taken to the work-house; but getting better soon, she left that, and now is-blow me if I know where." Kit heaved a sigh as he listened to this narrative; for the devotion of Elinor had filled his heart with love for her. "Well, Wide-Awake," he said, after a pause, " and where were you steering to when I so unexpectedly run afoul of you?" "Oh, I was going to hear this ere new singer, at Drury-there's a glo- rious company there to-night; the king, and princes, and dukes, and duchesses, and marquisses, and his royal highness the devil only knows who." "We shall be too late for a seat, I suppose," said Kit, "as I should like to go myself." "Too late for a seat!-what nonsense," said Wide-Awake, rising; " if you only do as I do, I'll warranty to get a seat." "What notable scheme is that?" inquired Kit. "Why, I tell you how I work the oracle: I go right to the top, make a noise with one voice, shout out, ' chuck him over,' in another, and pre-  tending to be thrown over, I jump on somebody's back, roll myself up in a ball, like a hedge-hog, and roll right over their heads, till I come to a good pitching-place-then down I drop. My eyes! it's such a lark; don't I make 'em tuck in their twopennies!" "It strikes me very forcibly I should make you tuck in yours," said Kit, " if you were to roll over me; but, however, it's a long time since I've been to a theatre-so for this once, I'll treat myself to Old Drury." "Werry good," said Wide-Awake; "as old Toby would say-by the bye, that antique friend of yours has gone quite mouldy, melancholy mad, since the crib's broke up, and I'm half afraid the old wenerable piece of antiquity contemplates turning honest." Drury-lane was reached at last, and Kit and Wide-Awake entered the boxes. No sconer were they fairly seated, which feat, in consequence of the crowded state of the house, was not accomplished without some difficulty, and only then by the aid of a large fee, than Kit's piercing eye took the circle of the crowded house. "So, so," thought Kit, as he glanced at the royal box, "the Prince of Wales and his two royal brothers, and in the same box, hang me if there 1sn't my exquisite friend Beau Brummel-let me remember, the fellow owes me something for a wager that he would not be robbed. Well. well, he's able to owe, I warrant, if not to pay me-so, being the safe side of the hedge, I'll even let that pass."   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          87 Beau Brummell, the accomplished and refined companion of George the Fourth, was lounging at his ease in the box. Of this illustrious per. sonage, a hundred excellent things have been said-so rich in fact, that we cannot help recapitulating a few of them here. A great deal has been said of Beau Nash and his witticisms; but, cer- tainly, there was never anything of his which was at all equal to the era. cular sentences of Mr. Brummell. Of all the beaux that ever flourished- at least, of all that ever flourished on the same score-exemplary of waistcoat, and having authoritative boots from which there was no appeal; he appears to have been the only one who made a proper and perfect union of the coxcombical and ingenious. Other men may have been as scientific on the subject of bibs, in a draper-like point of view; and others may have said as good things, which had none of the coloring, or rising out of the consciousness of fashionable pre-eminence. But to proceed to our anecdotes:- 1.-Mr. Brummell having once fallen out of favor with an Illustrious personage, (the Prince Regent), was of course to be cut, as the phrase is, when met in public. Riding one day with a friend, who happened to be otherwise regarded, and encountering the personage in question, who spoke to the friend without noticing Mr. Brummell, he affected the air of one who waits aloof while a stranger is present; and then, when the great man was moving off, said to his companion, loud enough for the other to hear, and placidly adjusting his bibs "Eh  who is our ft friend?w 2.-Having taken it into his head, at one time, t eat no vegetables, and being asked by a lady if he had never eaten any in his life, he said, "Yes; madam, I once ate a pea." 3.-Being met limping in Bond-street, and asked what was the matter, he said he had hurt his leg, and the worst of it was, it was his favorite leg. 4.-Somebody inquiring where he was going to dine next day, was told that he really did not know: "they put me in my coach, and take me somewhere." 5.-He pronouned of a fashionable tailor that " he made a good coat, an exceedingly good coat-all but the collar: nobody could achieve a good collar but Jenkins."  6.-Having borrowed some money of a city beau, whom he "patron- ised" in return, he was one day asked to repay it-upon which he thus complained to a friend: "Do you know what has happened?" "No." "Why, do you know, there is that fellow, Tompkins, who lent me five hundred pounds, has had the freedom to ask me for it, and yet I always called the creature 'Tom,' and let myself dine with him." 7.-You have a cold, Mr. Brummell," observed a sympathising group. "Why, do you know," said he, "that on the Brighton road, the other day, that infidel Weston (his valet) put me into a room with a damp stranger.1" 8.-Being asked if he liked port, he said, with an air of difficult recol     88           KIT CLAYTON, lection, "Port! port! oh, aye, P-or-t! the hot intoxicating liquor so much drank by the lower orders!" 9.-Going'to a route where he had not been invited, or rather, per. haps, where the host wished to mortify him, and attempted it, he turned round to him, and with a happy mixture of indifference and surprise, asked his name. "Johnson," was the answer. "Jauhson," said Brummell, recollecting and pretending to feel for a card-"Oh! the name, I remem- ber, was Thaunson, (Thompson) and Jauhnson and Thaunson, you know- Jaunson and Thaunson are really so much the same kind of thing!" 10.-A beggar petitioned him for 'charity, "Even if it was only a far- thing." "Fellow," said Mr. Brummell, softening the disdain of the appellation in the gentleness of his tones, "I don't know the coin." ".-Having thought himself invited to somebody's country-seat, and I eing given to understand, after one night's lodging, that he was in error, he told an unconscious friend in town, who asked him what sort of a place it was--" that it was an exceedingly good place for stopping one Light in." 12.-Speaking lightly of a man, and wishing to convey his maximum ef contemptuous feeling about him, he said, "He is a fellow, now, that would send his place up twice for soup!" 13.-It was his opinion that port, and not porter, should be taken with Cheese. "A gentleman," said he, " never malts with his cheese-he always ports." ".-It being supposed that he once failed in a matrimonial specula- tion, somebody condoled with him-upon which he smiled, with an air of better knowledge on that point, and said, with a sort of indifferent feel of his neckcloth, "Why, sir, the truth is, I had great reluctance in cutting the connexion; but what could I do? (Here he looked deploring and conclusive). Sir, I discovered that the wretch positively ate cabbage." 15.-Upon receiving Isome affront from an illustrious personage, he said, " that it was rather too good; by gad, I have half a mind to cut the young one and bring old GEORGE into fashion." 16.-When out on a visit, he was reported to have taken with him an eaborate dressing apparatus, including a silver basin. "For," said he, "it is impossible to spit in clay."  17.-On being asked by a friend, during an unseasonable summer, if he had ever seen such a one?"Yes," he replied, "last winter." 18.-On a reference being made to him as to what sum would be suf- ficient to meet the annual expenditure for clothes, he said, " that with a moderate degree of prudence and economy, he thought it might be man aged for eight hundred pounds per annurn!" 19.-He told a friend that he was reforming his life. "For instance," said he, "I sup early; I take a-a-little lobster, an apricot puff, or so, and some burnt champagne about twelve-and my man gets me to bed- by three." At this instant Miss Duncan and her lover entered a private box, directly opposite to the one in which Colledge and our hero were sitting. Wide-Awake instantly drew Kit's attention towards them. "Look opposite: there's a spicy bit of muslin. She's the handsomest womran in the theatre, by jingo, and look, if her champeron isn't Clay- ton's military friend, strike mi sensible."   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          89 As Kit gazed upon Miss Duncan, to whose fair cheek the excitement of the gay scene had lent a pleasing glow, Kit thought he had never gazed upon 'a more superb beauty, and as the reminiscences of his meeting with the amiable girl flashed across his memory, a blush of shame lit up his face to the very temples. "She has forgotten me," thought Kit, as a pang of anguish shot through his heart. "Well, fool that I am, how could I expect she would retain in her memory one disgraced, and cursed, and banned as I am." Then giving way to the more generous impulses of his heart, he added, "and God be thanked, she has forgotten me; for the gallant fellow by her side is right noble in birth and blood, and right worthy of her, and it ought rather to be a consolation and a joy to me, that she has risen triumphant over her love for my vagabond self, since in him she has gained so desirable a companion; well," said the brave, fellow, fervently, "the only harm I wish them, is, that God may preserve and bless them both." "I say, Kit," observed Wide-Awake, "look at that old buffer in the dress circle, doing the gallant to those young ladies. Did you ever see -such a gay young scoundrel in your life?" Kit gazed in the direction of Wide-Awake's outstretched finger, and to his surprise, beheld in the gallant old buck indicated by Colledge, no less a personage than the Earl of Dashfield. "All my old friends are here," he whispered to Wide-Awake; "that gay old rascal there was originally my master." "The devil he was," said Wide-Awake, surprised in his turn-" what a blessed young cupid he is, ain't he? I say, Kit, ain't you anxious to make his acquaintance? Suppose I inform him Mr. Clayton is in a pri- vate box, anxiously anticipating the pleasure of shaking his daddle." "No, thank you,' said Kit; "I'll content myself by keeping an eye on his movements. Do you the same, Colledge, my boy."  "Oh, you want him looked after, do you?" asked Wide-Awake. Kit nodded assentingly. "Werry good," continued the voung hero. "I won't take my blessed peepers off him; but will watch him as narrowly as a hungry cat would a plump young mouse. Crickey, look at him now. Ain't he doing the deeply interesting-oh, no, not at all! What a profitable lesson I should learn from that delicious juvenile, to be sure-in the art of love-making. Blow me, after this I shall be able to turn lovyer myself. But soft, the curtain rises, and the play begins." The curtain rose at the moment, disclosing the first scene in the new opera, and the cantatrice, whose fame had spread o'er Europe, appeared at the foot-lights. The dead silence which preceded her appearance, was broken by three enthusiastic rounds of applause, which suddenly ceased as the melody of her rich and powerful voice reverberated through the vast building. 'So consummate was her acting-so melodious the tone of her truly wonderful voice, that the whole audience seemed suddenly transfixed with wonder at the sweet and bewitching power of the young songstress, who had so suddenly appeared amongst them, destined by the magic of her rare gifts, to win their very hearts away. The scene ended, the cirtain fell, and silence again reigned in the theatre, broken only by the voices of the enraptured' throng, as they, in unqualified terms, loudly expressed their admiration.     O.         .   KIT CLAYTON6 Klt again gazed upon the Earl this time to perceive his hyena-like face, fixed in deadly ferocity upon Miss Duncan and her companion. The look of demoniacal hatred gave place to a smile, if possible, yet still more loathsome, so bitter, so malign was it. Kit absolutely shuddered as he beheld the look of exultation; for, in the Earl's changing features, he at once read treachery and mischief. "That old villain is concocting some damnable plot," he whispered to Wide-Awake. "Watch him narrowly, as you value my friendship, and if he stirs from the box, do you follow him." "What mischief is he hatching, the old reptile?" asked Wide-Awake. "I caught his eye fixed upon yon fair lady's face. Think you an ill wind lurks in that quarter?" "I do," answered Kit, in tones deep and earnest, the more to impress Wide-Awake with the necessity for active vigilance; "he has for years had a longing tooth in that direction, and no crime, even that of murder itself, would prevent the old villain's carrying out his designs, if it were at all practicable." "I'll look after him, never fear," said Wide-Awake; "although, in the company she is in, strike me if I see much danger. Mynpble captain opposite, has the pluck and strength, and courage of twenty such old dotards as he is." " am aware of it," said Kit; "but we have received proof an hun- ired times in our own profession, how strength can be outmatched by cunning, and yon hoary villain is as treacherous and subtle as he is lech- erous; and, if he succeed, the victory will not be so much by force of merit, as by force of craft. See, he has already risen to take his-depar. ture. Look to him, Wide-Awake, and prove yourself worthy of your name and trust, and you shall receive a brave reward-for I would rather sacrifice the last guinea I had in the world-my very life itself-before a hair of that dear girl's head should be injured. Look-he is leaving the box. Follow him." "I am gone," said Wide-Awake, whose whole nature gloried in an expedition by which he could oblige his captain-" his own shadow shall not dog him with more fidelity than I will," and Colledge, a she finished the utterance of the words, sprang from the box, and was gone in pursuit of the earl, who, by that time, had left the box. The subsequent entertainment, delicious and attractive as it was, in every respect, had no charm for Kit-there was an undefinable dread of some coming evil; yet what, he could'not imagine or divine, gnawing at' his heart. This oppressive feeling was further heightened in the course of an hour, by a messenger, who entered the box wherein Captain Dash- field was seated, and delivered a missive. What the purport of the note was, Kit could not, by any living possibility be supposed to know; but he was further strengthened in his opinion that some infernal scheme of treachery was on foot, from the fact that the captain rose, and, after whispering a few words to his lovely companion, he left the box, with the servant, leaving Miss Duncan totally unprotected. Another hour passed-yet neither the earl, the captain, or Wide-Awake returned, and Kit's growing excitement almost reached the pitch of madness.- Presently the same servant, at whose instigation the officer had. left,   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.          91 returned, and delivering a message to Miss Duncar, the young lady, sud. denly becoming deadly pale, as if afflicted by some painful intelligence, also hurried from the theatre. Kit seized his sword, which he had stood in a corner, and instantly followed her-but when he reached the street, he found, to his intense sorrow, she was gone. There was a crowd about the doorway bending over an object on the ground. Kit elbowed his way into the midst, and beheld his faithful aid- de-camp, Wide-Awake, stretched bleeding upon the pavement. Almost frenzied by the sight, and the conflicting circumstances that surrounded Kit besought of Wide-Awake an explanation. "I did my best," said poor Colledge, resting his bleeding head upon his hand-" did my best to prevent it; but they was too much for me, Kit  they cut me to the ground." "And the lady," screamed Kit-" what of her ." "The old man has got her, Kit-they forced her into the carriage, arid drove off, up Bow-street. Oh! Kit, I am fainting-dying!" and as the last word escaped from his pallid lips, poor Wide-Awake sank back insensible. "Look to him, somebody, for God's sake-here is money," and Kit pressed a handful of gold into the first hand he came to, which chanced, for the wonder, to be an honest one. "Take him to yonder hotel-run for a doctor, somebody; for more than life depends upon my speed." "Get you gone, then," said the man-"I will see this young man is well bestowed, and that every care is taken of him," said the man who held possession of the gold. "Thanks-a thousand times," said Kit, wringing the man's hand in heartfelt gratitude-then, bending onward like an arrow from a bow, Kit took his course towards the earl's house, in Piccadilly. Such was the speed at which he went, that but few minutes were occupied in the transit; and, pale and breathless from rage and excitement, he seized the handle of the bell, and favored the porter of the lodge with a peal so sonorous, that the worthy man in question sprang to his feet, as if influenced by a magnetic shock. In an instant he threw open the door, and in stammering tones, and teeth chattering with fear, he inquired Kit's business. "It is with the earl!" exclaimed Kit, as lie sprang through the door. way, and hurriedly crossed the court-yard to the house. As he did so he perceived the earl's carriage being conveyed to the coach-house. Irri. tated beyond constraint with the fear of being too late, Kit sprang up the marble steps into the hall. Here he was stopped by some half dozen lacqueys, one of whom, with much politeness, inquired his business. "It is with the Earl of Dashfield," answered Kit, sternly; " tell me where he is, scoundrel, instantly." "Oh, yes, certainly," said the fellow, in an accent that was intended to be excessively droll; " my lord is in precisely the position I presume you ought to be--in bed-for you look as if you had been woke up in a de- perate fright."  "Tamper not with me, fellow," exclaimed Kit, in a voice that made the fiunkey shiver in his pumps. "I would have speech with the Earl, and, by heavens, will, if I seek out every corner of this accursed edifice!" "Well, my dear impetuous sir, if you must have an audience why you     92            KIT CLAYTON, must; but as my lord has laid strict injunctions he should not be dis- turbed, and as I have too much respect for him to disobey his commands, I have the honor of informing you, with all due deference and politeness, that I'll see you d-d twice over, blast me! before I move one step, either to call him or take you too him :" and the lacquey, who was a very giant to Kit, looked at his compeers for an approving recognition, and they, true to their lick-spittle qualities, were not long in according it. "What imperance!" lisped one. "What audacious cheek!" chimed another. "Bravo, Stoples," said a third. 'Pitch him into the court-yard," suggested a fourth. "Twist his nose, Stoples," lisped the first again. Kit was seemingly awakened to his self-importance by this remark, for he instantly caught the speaker's nasal organ between his thumb and finger, and gave it so tremendous a tweak, that the fellow roared with pain.- Leaving him, Kit sprang towards the tall flunkey, and administered such a vigorous kick in the breech, that the fellow, from the unwonted impetus, measured his length upon the floor. The others, needing no further proof of his prowess, scampered in all directions. Kit instantly sprang up the marble stairs in the direction where he knew the Earl's chamber to be; on reaching the landing, he was intercepted by other servants, who, hear ing the uproar, were hastening to their fellow's assistance. "How, now, fellow," said one, who was dressed in a plain suit of black, and seemed superior to the others, " so you are the cause of this uproar. What is the meaning of this disturbance Are you aware you are in- truding into a private gentleman's mansion, and are, in fact, making your- self amenable to law for trespass, assault, and battery ." I am aware of nothing, sir," said Kit, vehemently, "but that a young lady has been treacherously, and forcibly torn from her friends, and con- veyed hither, for the worst of purposes; and I am also aware, sir," said Kit, drawing his sword, "that I am here to rescue her, and I will, by heavens, or die in the attempt, therefore if you would prevent bloodshed, give me my way." "My dear fellow,' said the gentleman, mildly, " this is some blunder, the Earl has just returned from Drury-lane theatre somewhat unwell, and quite alone." "Liar!" cried Kit, in a voice that made the place echo again, "if you attempt to tamper with, or deceive me, by heavens I'll cut your black heart out. You have to deal with no craven, now, fellow," said Kit, glaring at him like an infuriated tiger. "It is HClayton, who not only demands the lady, but will have her, if I fight to the death." As our hero thus undauntedly announced his name, the bravest amongst them grew pale from fear, for his feats of intrepidity-his reckless courage --his dashing deviltry, had gained him a name to be admired at a distance, and to be feared when at hand. If you are he," said the superior servant, "I feel it will be useless to deny the truth. The earl is here, and he has with him a young lady, for what purpose I dare not say, but you may readily guess." "They are in the earl's chamber," said the man, in a low tone, ' but for God's sake, do not reveal who told you, as it will certainly cost us our places, and, probably, our liv s:."   THE HERO PF THE ROAD.          93 "Trust to me, and fear not," said Kit, rushing forward. "I am here to deliver, not to involve." The chamber door reached, Kit found, to his despair, it was locked. At that instant a low moan of anguish from the interior burst upon his ear. Lashed to madness by the sound, Kit dashed himself violently against the door, the fastenings were insufficient to resist the heavy pressure, and the door flew open. Sword in hand, Kit dashed into the apartment. Rudely thrown upon the sumptuous bed lay the lovely form of Miss Duncan; whilst gloating over his victim with a look really horrible from the lust and licentious- ness depicted therein, stood the earl. So entranced was he in the con- templation of his prize-so enwrapt was his imagination in the enjoy- ment in which he was about villain-like to revel, that he neither heard or heeded Kit's entrance, although it was, in good truth, noisy enough almost to have awoke the dead. He was not suffered long, however, to remain in this unconscious happiness; in an instant, Kit's voice, threaten- ing and sonorous, broke upon his ear, as he exclaimed, in startling tones:- "Villain! what, again caught then at your damnable tricks. So, so, old man, if you have but injured one hair of this dear girl's head, by heavens I'll wipe the stain out in your heart's best blood." "What scoundrel are you, that you dare thrust yourself armed and un- bidden into my presence? - Answer me, I say, or I'll summon my servants and bid them whip you with your own sword--or break your accursed in- truding neck by throwing you down the stairs; they ought never have al. lowed you to ascend." "They dared not prevent me," said Kit, calmly; " and were their num. ber trebled, even then they would not dare to execute your behest." "We will see that," said the earl, advancing to the door; but Kit in- terposidg his person, bid him, in tones of thunder-"Stop!" "Help, help, help," screamed the earl. Kit seized the earl by the throat with one hand, whilst with the other, he brought the sword to within a few inches of my lord's heart. "By He who made me," cried Kit, "if you cease not that uproar I'll stop your mouth forever. Get you in yon corner, hound as you are, and stir not on your life until I bid you." "You bid me!" said the earl, brightening up; for he caught glimpses of his servants hovering round, "and who in the devil's name are you, that you command me in my own house." "These features ought to be familiar to you, my Lord of Dashfield," said our hero, with a derisive smile; "read them again, are they now unfamiliar to you 8" "Audacious devil that you are, I know you now. Now you scoundrels there," he shouted to. his servants, "call in the constabulary, we have cap- tured Clayton, the highwayman, there's five hundred pounds reward for the man who captures him." "And for the man who attempts to capture me, my lord, there is certain death-I warn you all, I am a desperate man, and my good sword, come life or death, shall stand my friend, if you urge me in my desperate need. As for you, Lord Dashfield, if you would have the assistance of the offieeris you are free to depart and summons them, but mark me," and Kit levelleb     "         -.KIT CLAYTON, his finger at him with a warning gesture; "I go not to the scaffold alone; no, no, when Clayton, the highwayman, is arrested for robbery-let the Lord of Dashfield, the murderer, tremble for his guilty soul; for the officers will be on his track for the murder of his unhappy wife." Trembling with excessive fear, the earl's knees positively shook together, whilst a cold perspiration, like the damp and clammy dew of death, stood upon his forehead. "Who says I murdered her a" he groaned rather than spoke, whilst his eves glared with fearful suspicion around. "One who is a living witness of the fact," responded Kit, " hast ever heard the name of Elinor Roche?" "I saw it reported in the newspapers the other day," replied the earl, spitefully, "that the wench had undergone the punishment of the press to make her confess thy whereabouts-coward-despicable coward that thou art, to leave a woman as hostage for your own black crimes. I defy you  The accusatiou is false, po magistrate would listen to it coming from such vile lips as thine and her's." "Grant it even so," said Kit, unmoved; "there is yet a positive-a damning testimony of your guilt-" "And that," stammered the earl. "Is the body of the countess, buried at midnight without your sanction or knowledge.-Well may your lips blanch-well may your guilty con. science be apparent in your very face! the reproduction of that body with the murdleer's mark upon the throat-the unmistakeable signs of a bloody, brutal and cowardly murder, with the living testimony which you brave so daringly, would irrevocably seal your doom. If the prospect of Tyburnu fatal tree be fearful to me, how much more appalling ought it to be so to you, old man, who will go to it steeped in blood?" 'Mercy! mercy!" implored the earl, as he sank, a shivering heap of wretchedness and fear, into a corner. A faint groan from Miss Duncan, who was now awakening from the state of insensibility into which she had fallen, arrested Kit's attention. "Villain! bloodless, merciless, soulless villain!" exclaimed Kit; "is not this sight enough to clothe your eyes in eternal darkness; you, who have dared again to lay impious hands upon the person of this dear girl?-out of my sight, hound that you are, lest my. more indignant nature rise and prompt my just sword to do her justice. Yet stop! I, who witnessed your unholy triumph, will now witness your ignoble defeat. Miss Duncan," ha exclaimed, raising her gently from the bed, "awake, arouse yourself, I be- eeech you." She staggered to her feet, and gazed around with painful astonishment. "Where am I?" she murmured; "what does this mean 8" then as her eye wandered to the crouching form of the earl, she started back, as though a viper lay in her path, and in tones of heart-breaking agony, besought heaven to save her. "etwen has heard your prayer, lady," said Kit, with much feeling, "and has made me the humble instrument of His goodness." "And you will protect me-you will defend me ." I will, lady," answered Kit-" to the death." "Then do remove me from this horrible place-from that bad, wicked man. Oh. heavens 1 why has this punishment again fallen upon me!" e   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.           95 ' Be comforted, Miss Duncan-all will yet be well; there are none who dare attempt to molest us, and I will escort you in safety to your father." "Thanks, kind sir-my heart will ever hold grateful remembrance of your timely generosity; as for you, sir," she said, turning to the earl, "think not again to escape with impunity. Silence sealed my lips over your first outracge-for I held too much love in my heart for Ilor Lady Iashfield, to wound her by a recital of her husband's villainous conduct.- But your second outrageous proceeding has o'erstept all bounds, and this time, black-hearted scoundrel that you are, fear not, but you shall be pub- licly disgraced, and publicly punished." "Be it so, madam," said the earl, his face pale to the very lips with pas- sion; "I fear not the ordeal, since the public may learn the fact that Miss Duncan is the mistress of a knight of the road. The prized companion of a notorious thief. Glorious news for my nephew, too, will it not be when he knows he is rivalled in his love by that scape-gallows, Clayton, the footpad." "Silence, villain," exclaimed Clayton-" nor dare add insult to injury.- That, as Kit, the world has felt some loss, and I have reaped some unenvia- ble notoriety, I candidly confess; yet spite of all, disgraced, lost, abandoned, as I am, Kit has too much manliness in him to debauch the child of friends, and too much honor in him, to steep his hands in the blood of a woman." "And can it indeed be Mr. Clayton, who has again saved me?" exclaimed Miss Duncan, bursting into tears. Oh! sir, what wondrous miracle is this 9" "No miracle, my dear Miss Duncan," answered Kit Clayton, smiling; "only a simple matter of fact, which I will explain more fully anon. In the mean time let us decamp-the sight of that man is obnoxious, and the breath of this perfumed air is redolent with crime. My Lord Dashfield, you will please excuse our abrupt departure. I need not ask you to hold us in your heart; for that I already feel assured you will do. I leave you now, with no punishment, excepting what your own guilty conscience and bad passion have heaped upon you. As this lady will seek protectiqo under the vengeful wing of the law, I should seriously advise you to consult your safety, or you may chance find England somewhat unpleasantly warm for your delicate constitution. "I absolutely must demand at your hands-this much-that you do confess yourself a traitorous black-hearted villain; a scoundrel, who deserves to have his ears slit, and be put in the pillory, as a mark for all the offal and filth of London. That you are the representative of a nobleman, without a spark of true nobility in your carcase; the effigy of a man, with the body of a beast, and the heart of a villain; and further, that you do humbly and sincerely, upon your bended knees, apologise to Miss Duncan for the outrage, the insult, and the injury you have this day heaped upon her; and moreover, you shall summon your whole household to be eye-witnesses of the fact, that they may reap a lesson from your dis- grace, and learn how despicably mean, man in his baser qualities, may reduce himself." "I will, perish rather than do it," said the earl. "Not so, my lord ; you will do this first, and perish afterwards. Come, sir," he said to the head servant, " summon the household-his lordship desires publicly to apologise for his duplicity; get you gone, sir, and obey my mandate, or you and I may perchance quarrel." The man looked first from his lord to Kit Clayton. In the face of the Former he read everything it was possible for the human face to express of     lean and despicable; in that of the latter hle perceived, plainly traied, that would not be thwarted-of-a determination that would not brook Sition, and from this he drew a reasonable inference that it would be r even to chance the loss of his situation, than run the risk of a per- conflict with Clayton. He therefore obeyed the latter's bidding, and  ew moments, the whole household were gathered in the room in silent  ernation, to witness the degradation of a master whom they served, yet ily hated while they did so. 'hese persons comprise the whole of the establishment, do they?" 'hey do," was the reply. Very good. Now my lord, you will commence the task of justice ned you, by confessing yourself to be a disgrace to human nature--a upon manhood-an old man, whose grey hairs, instead of honor, are a ace to him. Come, sir, begin." Curse you-curse you," muttered the earl, "I will die first." 1 will have reparation, and if you will concede to the terms I have pro- d, you will not trouble me to find means of disgracing you after a atill disgraceful fashion. Come sir." Cowards, knaves, scoundrels!" exclaimed the earl, as he gazed upon hi nts, " to suffer me to be taunted by a villain like that-upon him on6 ", and cut him to the ground." it the servants budged not a foot-Kit's glaring eyes, equally as much se unsheathed sword in his hand, awed them into passive obedience of "Ilif For this last time I ask you, will you or will you not obey my bid- ," said Kit to the earl. No, no, no!" shrieked the culprit. Be it so then," said Kit. He advanced to the group of wondering ser- s, and took from the hands of one of them, a massive riding whip, with rticulaly thick and rigly thong. Kit handed his sword to Miss Duncan, advancing to the earl, he seized him by the collar and speedily stripped ,oat from his back. Then grasping the whip tightly by the handle, he ied the thong with such vigor to the sides, back and legs of the unfor- ite earl, that he danced and screamed with agony. Disregarding his and appeals for mercy, Kit stuck to the practice until his vigorous arm an to tire, when spite of the remonstrances of Miss Duncan, who, pitying  i sufferings of the earl, besought our hero to desist, Kit threw all his aining strength into a dozen finishing cuts, and then mercifully allowed earl to roll from his grasp, writhing like an eel in his agony, and com- ely black in the face.  aking the sword from Miss Duncan, he turned to the group and said: You have been eye-witnesses of that scoundrel's punishment: Ask your ,  i consciences whether he has received a tithe part of what he deserved."  I No--he has not," said several voices.  The sore bones he will carry about with him for many a day to come,  y have a salutary tendency in teaching him, that right must not always trespassed upon with impunity, even by the mighty. I have now to  uest at your hands free egress from this mansion for myself and this fair y. If it be freely accorded, as in jistice it ought, I have sufficient in this I se," which he threw at their feet, "to give you all an opportunity of    a   ar aniav  urV' 'l'THE ROAL        9q drinking the health of Kit Clayton; but if the least m7vement be made to interrupt myself or this lady, even to the brushing of her dress as she passes, mv sword shall find a home in the heart of the man who does it." Seeing that, they drew aside with respectful politeness; Kit confidently sheathed his weapon, and extending his arm to Miss Duncan, they passed unmolested from the room and from the house.   CHAPTER XII. The escort home-Congratulations-- The surprise- The fight-A leap into the Thames. ON reaching the street, Kit's first care was to hire a hackney-coach, which he ordered to be driven to Mr. Duncan's country residence. It was to both a delicious ride. So absorbed were both in delightful reminiscences and pleasurable feeling, that they almost felt disappointed when the vehicle stopped at Mr. Duncan's mansion. The anxious parents were already on the lookout for their beloved child; for, filled with all sorts of wild imaginings at her delay, (Captain Dashfield having returned without her), they had been in an agony at her unaccountable absence; it was, therefore, with emotions of the purest delight that they greeted her on her return; and Isabella, unable longer to restrain the pent up feelings of her overcharged heart, threw herself upon her mother's bosom, and sobbed aloud.  " My darling child," cried the fond mother, "what has happeled--what can be the matter  "' " Oh mother, I have had such an escape!  Thanks to the noble gallantry of this dear gentleman; such an escape, that my heart is like to burst almost at the thought." "Tush, tush, child," cried the old man.  " Moderate your grief, child all is well--you are home safe and sound, and there is that brave fellow Captain Dashfield, over head, impatiently awaiting an interview. Bless my soul, I quite forgot the coachman; what a shame  to keep the poor man waiting, to be sure--let me go and settle with him, and I'll be back in an instant.' "Excuse me, my dear sir," said Kit, with a smile; "but I have urgent business in town to-nig ht--or rather morning-and shall require his services in that direction; if you will permit me, I will at once take leave of Miss Duncan, and     then take my departure." "' Oh, certainly sir," said old Duncan, somewhat glad that our hero was going if truth must be told ; for he  had-set his heart on a  wedding between hbi daughter and Captain Dashfield, and feared even the slightest interpo- sition might prejudice  his  wishes; "take  your leave of the   ladies by all malnner of means, sir. I  will desire the coachman to wait.' To do the good old  gentleman justice, he had certa'nly not the least idea Of the imrnport;lnt service rendered his daughter by our hero. "My dear Miss Duncan," said Kit, at which familiarity both father and mother stared most mightily,   " permit me to wish you a  good night, and s speedy recovery  from the events and annoyances of this  memorable--"    KT ULAYTUN, "Memorable, indeed, my own dear friend," replied TIabel, with charming simplicity; " how can I ever reward your timely, praiseworthy, and noble devotion." "By dismissing from your thoughts, dear Isabella-" "Eh, what?" grunted the father. "Miss Duncan, I beg pardon," said Kit, with a smile, as he corrected himself-" by blotting from your memory all recollections of this night, since the reminiscences so awakened, are more tinged with sorrow than joy." "Say not so, Mr. Clayton," said Isabel, with much feeling; "believe me, while there is yet life in this poor heart, it will ever throb in fervent grati- tude to you." "Eh, what?" grunted old Duncan again. "What's your name, sir H Ixcuse me-you know." "Certainly." said Kit; "my name is Clayton, sir." "Eh, what?" exclaimed the old gentlemen, quite aghast with surprise. Kit repeated the word for his especial benefit. "Clayton, eh? Curious coincidence-not Kit Clayton I hope!" "The very same, sir," answered Kit. "The devil!" then, drawing a long breath, he went on. ' So you are that scoundrel, Kit, the highwayman, are you!" "I amn," answered Kit. Then, all I can say is, sir," said the impetuous old man, "I'll not al- low my house to be a harbor for thieves, so the sooner you leave it, the better I shall like it, and mayhap the better for your safety." "I have no fear for that," said Kit calmly. "Then you would have, if you were not an audacious devil, so I tell you to your head, sir." "You think so," said Kit, in the same calm tone. "I know so," reiterated Mr. Duncan, "' and further know, sir, it is my duty, as an honest citizen of England, to give you into custody of the offi- cers of the peace; but as you come peaceably, I scorn to take unfair ad- vantage of you. But nevertheless, sir, I bid you leave my house, sir, be- gone, sirrah, begone!" "Don't distress yourself, old gentleman, I'm going," said Kit. "You'd best be going, whilstyour shoes are good." Then, seemingly inspired by a fresh idea, he turned to his daughter, who was pained beyond measure at this unexpected procel ing. "Bella, my dear, examine your pockets, perhaps the villain has robbed you. Our hero's face crimsoned to the temples at this insulting supposition. "You judge me hardly, sir," said Clayton, gravely, "and believe me, however culpable my conduct may have been, I do not think myself de- serving of this insult at your hands. But it is the way of the world, sir; a world composed of unfeeling hearts, and unforgiving spirits-and so, like many a martyr of a better order, I must bow resignedly to my fate. Farewell, sir, never fear, Kit's shadow shall never again darken this ho. nest door of yours." Kit turned to Miss Duncan. "' Farewell, dear lady; may heaven bless, preserve and cherish you. O,o   FHE HERO OF THE ROAD.          Q May the choicest gifts this life can afford be yours, and happiness eternal crown the closing vf your life."    ae  As Kit spoke these words i. a tone full of tendernss and pathos, the true-hearted girl, unable to restrain the tide of gratitude that swelled her heart, threw herself upon our hero's breast and sobbed convulsively. "Oh, Kit, my own dear, true friend, do not leave me thus-he spoke in ignorance-he did not, could not mean what he said;" then turning ap- pealingly to her father, she poured forth in broken sentences, the recital of the earl's villany, her own dire danger, and the dreadful fate from which she had been rescued by the undaunted bravery of our hero. In an instant the scene was changed. Theorok of scorn and disdain with which Mr. Duncan had regarded Kit Clayton gave way to a gush,of grateful tears, and the old gentleman in tones of fervor, besought our hero's pardon for the injustice and insult he had- heaped upon him. It was no sooner asked than instantly accorded, and as Kit extended his hand gaily and frankly to him, Mr. Duncan's delight transgressed all bounds of decorum. "What an old ass I am! What a brave dear fellow you are! Mother, come down on your knees and thank the savior of your child," then rush. ing to the staircase, he shouted to the captain, who, in a state of nervous excitement more easily imagined than described, was pacing the drawing- room overhead. "Captain Dashfield, I say-why the devil don't you come down-here's Mr. Clayton, the highwayman, come to see us--and he's brought home Isabel; come along you dog, I'm as happy as a prince." The Aaptain did not need the injunction to be twice repeated, but almost instantly entered the room. He was somewhat startled to be sure, at be. holding Miss Duncan rushing in other arms than his own, and a feeling of jealousy was struggling for the mastery in his, bosom; but that was as quickly dispelled as it was awakened, as Kit, with a candor that knew no deceit, and with a smile of unalloyed pleasure illumining his handsome countenance, stepped frankly forward with extended hand. "Captain, I have robbed you of a glorious treat, inasmuch as I have been instrumental in saving this lady from the hands of an old villain. This pleasurable task by right should have been yours; but since I have returned her safe and sound to your arms, look you, that you hold no jealousy in your heart towards me for the act." "Jealousy, my dear fellow," exclaimed young Dashfield, enthusiasti. cally, "I owe you an eternal debt of gratitude, my dear fellow, for your noble and gallant services. But I am so enwrapt in mystery-so con- fused by the incomprehensible events of the last few hours, that I assure you I scarce ean explain the extent of my bewilderment." "That you are scarcely compos mentis I must candidly confess,' smld Kit, with a grapeful smile, "or you would not have suffered Miss Duncan to remain so long in my arms-come, sir, take the rich gift heaven vouch- safed you," said Kit, presenting her with a grace at once touching and truthful, "your bosom is the safer abiding place for this fiir head. May heaven send it may long support it--maY God grant it-may he ever be her a happy and safe abiding place." And, uttering these words, Ki, with a tenderness those who know     100           KIT CLAYTON, him best could scarce have credited, placed the dear girl in her lovels arms. Kit turned to Mr. and Mrs. Duncan, who were looking on with tear- ful eyes, and exclaimed in a voice broken with emotion:-- "This scene of happiness is one 1 shall review with joy to the latest moment of my life." "God send that the time may be far-far distant," said the old gentle man, with fervor. "I have but little hope of that," said Kit, with a tinge of melancholy in his tone. '; I can perceive too clearly the fate that is in store for me." "If the powers that be could have their will, friend Kit," said young Dashfield, in a hope-inspiring voice, "a dog's death to a certainty would be thine. But if not all-powerful, you have at least in us friends, who have the heart and will to assist you. It only remains for fortune to place the opportunity within our grasp, and, by Jove, I am half inclined to think she is favorably disposed towards us; this eventful night 1 have a scheme in my head, Kit, for your salvation, of which more anon, but now I am all eagerness to learn the secret of this wonderful deliver. ance." "My portion of the narration is a short one. I went to the theatre to while away an idle hour. The lynx-eyes of a young friend of mine discovered yourself and Miss Duncan in an opposite box. My own optics led me to discover the Earl of Dashfield. I instructed my aid. de-camp to watch him narrowly; for, from a single glance which he di- rected towards you, I gleaned there was mischief afloat. I was further strengthened in my suspicion by his leaving the theatre; still further awakened to a sense of impending .danger by your absence, and finally convinced by the ultimate withdrawal of Miss Duncan from the house. I followed her with all speed, but was too late-the plot was successful- she was gone. From my companion, who, by some means, was badly wounded-  " "It was in his gallant endeavor to save me," said Miss Duncan, with a shudder. "I learnt," continued Kit, ' the lady had been forcibly seized, and also gained intelligence of the route the carriage had taken. My own suspi cion did the rest. I flew to Dashfield House-obtained admittance- saved the lady-and read the earl a lesson he will remember to his dying day." "Most accursed treachery. I read it all now," said Captain Dashfield. "Then you have certainly, the advantage of me," said Kit, ' for I can- not imagine how you could by any means, however plausible, been pre- vailed upon to leave your lady alone and unprotected, in a theatre. It speaks anything but highly of your character for gallantry, sir." "Appearances I confess are against me, but I think you will admit the tealities by which I was surrounded ought satisfactorily to dispose of them. You probably remember a lacquey of the theatre delivering me a missive V" uI do," said Kit. 'There is the precious missive, sir," said the eaptain, tendering it to 'r hero, "give me your opinion upon it."   THE HERO OP THE ROAD.          " ,c As specious a piece of villany-as pretty a piece of treachery, as ever I read," said Kit, as he ran down the document. "Read it out," said the captain, "I have no secrets from these dear friends, indeed it is due to them as to myself, that the whole truth should be revealed." "Here goes then,' said Kit, swallowing a glass of wine as a prelimi. nary. "Listen all." "We are all attention," said Mr. Duncan. Jack then read the contents of the note, which ran in these words:- "The Earl of Dashfield has been thrown from his horse, and is seriously if not mortally hurt; your instant attendance is required. Hesitate not a moment, or you may be too late; the sufferer is lying at No-Duke- street." "Now, under these circumstances, may I claim forgiveness, dearest Isa. bel, for my seeming discourtesy in leaving you!" Isabella assented by a slight but significant pressure of the hand. "You were quite justified in going," said Kit, " that's clear as crystal, but still, captain." "I am all attention, Mr. Clayton.' "Well, then, I must confess I cannot perceive you were justified in staying the time you did." "It was a matter of necessity, sir, not of choice, inasmuch as I was de. tained by force." "By force," echoed Kit, " how so!" "Simply this: when I reached the house, I was ushered, with every appearance of haste up stairs; the party who conducted me left for the purpose of procuring a light, the one she carried having by accident been extinguished." "By accident, eh," repeated Kit. Yes, sir, by accident," said Dashfield, "why do you repeat my words?" "Why," answered Kit, with a laugh, "because it strikes me ;here was more desire than accident in the affair." "You speak truly, sir; I had reasons speedily to believe it was done designedly, for no signs of return became visible; I waited for some time m patience; at length, losing all control, I sprang to the door to effect an egress. Imagine my dismay, sir, when I found it locked, and the ago. nising conviction burst upon me that I had been treacherously entrapped. I shouted, kicked and thumped, most lustily but the only answer to my vigorous appeals, were loud and boisterous shouts of laughter, which ever and anon greeted my ear, completely drowning the uproar I made. Driven to desperation, I flew to the window, there was no chance of escape ty that outlet. If one, it was forty feet from the ground, and death alone could result from such an enterprise. On learning this I redoubled my exertions, and made tenfold more noise than I had before. The only an. swer I received, was shouts of jeering, and derisive laughter from the t:;p below. Satisfied liberty was not to be gained by an appeal to theik ood feelings, I tried if the public without would be more on the alert, and dashing the window open, I cried murder, fire, thieves, at the top of my lungs.. A crowd speedily gathered about the door; alarmed at this,  forbidding fellow came from below with a light, I sprang upon the villain,     V;;  KIT CLAYTON, id verily believe I should have strangled him, if his fellows had not )me to his assistance. Finally I forced my way from the house--re rning to the theatre, I discovered Miss Duncan was gone. Supposing ie had left for home, indignant at my seeming neglect, I sprang into a briolet and drove hither to learn, to my deep disappointment, she had )t returned, for her displeasure was less to be feared than the danger of -ing exposed to the licentious rabble who nightly prowl the streets of "Did you not also receive a note, Miss Duncan?" asked Kit. "I did,' answered the young lady. "I have lost the missive; but the Irport I well remember, as it was couched in but few words." "And they were?" queried the father. "In effects, if not in actual terms, these :-' Captain Dash field has met th a serious accident; he desires a moment's speech with you. Delay t an instant.' When I reached the lobby, I was instantly hurried by some vants in waiting, into a carriage. I remember a brave youth making  enuous efforts to prevent my entrance; in an instant he fell, covered with ,od,.on the curb-stone, whilst the carriage was whirled away. More I nember not, excepting that I found, to my unspeakable horror, I was "n in the power of Lord Dashfield, from whose evil machinations and iked intents, Mr. Clayton's noble undaunted courage, in face of number- difficulties so wondrously rescued me." "If there be law and justice to be had in England, that man, earl though be, and protected, as I grieve to say he is, by the sad example of an pious and licentious court, shall not escape punishment." Hie richly deserves it, and although he is near a kin to me, yet will I you to the uttermost of my power in your efforts to bring him to jus- ," said Captain Dashfield. '1 accept your proffered aid; but come, let us to supper," said Duncan, rgayer tone-" we have had enough of troubles and tribulations for one ht; a glorious morn is now breaking-let us crack a bottle of champagne r these joyful reunions, and if we trouble our brain with thinking more, it be on some expedient whereby we can benefit our brave friend Kit yton." 'hey betook themselves to the supper-table, and having partook of the ,d things of this life, proceeded, over the generous juice of the grape, to ,uss what was, should, or could be done, to benefit our hero. You confess, then, Kit," said Mr. Duncan, you are tired of the lawless, gerous career you have been leading " Nay, not exactly so, sir," said Kit, with flashing eyes. "A life on the I has more charms than you wot of, and for a fellow like myself, with no to bind him to life, it is just the free, rollicking, dangerous career a ng man like myself, with more blood than brains, and more wants than l, would take delight in." Could I so far have misinterpreted your meaning then," said Mr. Dun- with a disappointed visage; "did I not understand you to say you Id forsake the path of crime, for that of honesty, were but the chance fn you?" You did," said Kit. Then why this lingering regard for old evil courses and vicious propen. Bi"   THE HERO OF TIU  ROAD.         108 4 Because the love of it has so firm a hold upon me, I should lie were I to disown it. God bless you," said Kit, "if you only knew what a deli- cious life a highwayman's is, hang me if you wouldn't go on the road your- self." "Not I," said&Mr. Duncan, seriously. "I tell you you would," said Kit, on whom the wine was taking an exhilarating effect. "Come, now, 'll -give you an ilustration. Fancy yourself as 1 have often been, without a stiver in my purse-with a crew of creditors driving you for money, at your back. What's to be done? You argue, your worldly property consists of a brace of barkers." "Brace of barkers," echoed Mr. Duncan; "but you must confess it is very wrong of gentlemen in difficulties, to think of keeping two dogs.- Surely one might suffice." Kit greeted this economical interposition with an unrestrained burst of laughter. "I see nothing to laugh at," said the simple old lady. I consider two dogs an extravagant number for a poor man, who has no ostensible means of feeding his own belly-let alone theirs; poor dumb things." Kit gave vent at this till his sides faihly ached. "Excuse me, man-but upon my soul it is such an exceedingly good joke, I must pay it one respect-ha, ha, ha!" "Barkers, Mrs. Duncan," whispered the captain to the lady, " does not  mean dogs." "What on earth does it mean?" said the lady, impatiently. "Dogs are the only things in Natural History that I am aware of that bark- except parrots. I remember a lady who had a parrot that barked once. Perhaps, it's parrots." ( No, madam," said the captain, unable himself to restrain a smile, " it is merely a technical term for pistols." "Pistols! pistols!" exclaimed Mrs. Duncan, letting the words off as though she was positively firing the weapons-" what on earth do people want to give things such incredulous, outlandish names for, I can t con- ceive for the life of me." "My dear Madam, it's only a funny way that we've got. But to my illustration-you look at your barkers-pistols I mean, and begin to think what they were made for-begin to examine them, perhaps, and from examining them, load them. The thought then strikes you, you have a beautiful little mare, who is never more in her glory than when she has her omaster athwart her back. This brings you again ruminating upon your empty pockets; they must be filled-that's certain-but how- How I pistol points-the horse leads it. Once across his back, at a glo. rious gallop, your blood rises to extacy. Softly-who have we coming here? A couple of travellers, riding in company for safety's sake. The probability of their full pouches brings again unpleasantly to your mind the dilapidated state of your own inexpressibles, with their pockets to let. To think, is to do it. A stroke of the spur, and your gallant mare is upon them like a whirlwind. Pistol in hand-stand and deliver in your mouth-trembling for their lives, forth comes their money-bags. The caitiffs ride off, well pleased they have escaped with whole skins, whilst you with heavy pockets and a lightened heart, gallop to town, and right */     104             KIT CLAYTON, jolly is the highwayman's life, till the money grows short again. Why, it's so jovial a life, a poet has actually embodied it in verse. Come, Pll tip you a stave or two"-and throwing himself back in his chair, Kit gave vent to the following song:- THE ROBBER'S LIFE. On the stream of the world, the robber's life Is borne on the blithest wave; How it bounds into life in a gladsome strife, How it laughs in its hiding cave. At his maiden's lattice, he stays the rein, How still is his courser proud! But still as the wind when it hangs o'er the main In the breast of the boding cloud. With the champed bit, arched crest, And the eye of a listening deer, Like valor, fretful most in rest, Least chafed when in career. Fit slave to a lord when all else refuse, To save in his desperate need ; By my troth! I think one whom the world pursues, tHas a right to a gallant steed. Away my beloved-I hear their feet! I blow thee a kiss, my fair, And I promised to bring you when next we meet, A braid for thy bonny, air. Hurrah for the booty!-my steed, hurrah: Through bush, through brake, go we; And the coy moon smiles on our merry way, Like my own love, timidly. The parson he rides with a jingling pouch, How it blabs of the rifled poor! The courtier, he rolls in a gilded coach, How it smacks of a sinecure. The lawyer revolves in his whirling chaise, Sweet thoughts of a mischief done: And the lady knoweth the card she plays, In counting her guineas won. Oh, lady! what, halloa, ye sinless men! My claim ye can scarce refuse; For when honest folks live on their neighbors, thet They encroach on the robber's dues. The lady changed cheek like a bashful maid, The lawyer talked wonderous fair, The parson blasphemed and the courtier prayed, And the robbe bore off his share.   THE HERO OF THE ROAD,          l0 Hurrah for the revel! my steed, hurrah! Through bush, through brake, go we; It is ever a virtue when others pay, To ruffle it merrily. Oh! there never was life like the robber's, Jolly, and bold, and free: And ia end-why a cheer from the crowd below, And a leap from a leafless tree. "And if that is my end," said Kit, "why need we go to grieve? It will save a wondrous sum in doctor's fees, and is the shortest cut to heaven I know of. So hang me, I'll spin my gay career to the end, and when the time comes to snap my thread of life, let it be done by a hempen neckcloth." "Your heedless way of talking, makes me shudder, Kit," said Miss Duncan-" pray for. heaven's sake cease." "You have drawn a brilliant picture of a highwayman's life; but believe me, Kit, it does not near approach in happiness the life led by an honest man," said Dashfield. "Come, Kit, I must change your opinions-must yet win you to a life of industry and the path of rectitude, Now tell me, truly Kit, had you the opportunity, would you not exchange your reck. less life for one of quietude, ease and comfort!" "I am afraid 1 couldn't-I am naturally of a restless disposition, and without excitement, I should die of ennui." "But is there not various kinds of excitement, and think you another cannot be equally as inviting and profitable now, as that which has a ten. dency to demoralizing acts, and vicious tendencies?" "There may be," said Kit, carelessly, "and is, I have no doubt-but the only one I have run against in my gay career, is that which you cha- caeterise as one of vicious tendencies." "What think you, Kit, of the life of an emigrant?"Miss Duncan sug. gested. "It is the very life for you Kit," shouted the sanguine young officer--" the very life of all others to bring your natural free disposition into full play. Why, in America, Kit, freed from all the trammels of European man- ners, you might build yourself a house, wander, gun in hand, over miles of forest-ground literally swarming with game, and without fear of an ugly encounter with a game-keeper, or an action for trespass. Might fish in your own lake, grow your own corn, and become at once, like Selkirk of old, and exclaim with him: ' I am monarch of all that I survey. My right there is none to dispute.' The dangers by which you might first be surrounded too, would give zest to a vigorous disposition, such as yours. Fancy the glow of triumph that would thrill through your frame, as with unerring aim you brought your bear or wolf to the ground. Fancy the glorious superiority displayed in curbing the wild passions of the Indians, who would worship your feats of daring and intrepidity, as they would the actions of a god, and their aumiration once gained-the aggressive spirit once quelled, you wood not find in the world more steadfast friends-more faithful allies, wee you to search the wide world through out, than these would prove themselves. There also Kit, in a new world     M            KIT CLAYTON, apart and severed from all the temptations that destroyed you in the old one, you may yet learn to take pride in life, by perseverance and energy, might win yourself a new glorious name-might live long, an honor and a blessing to your fellow-men, and descending full of years to the grave-- might be borne thither by surrounding hearts, regretting the loss they had sustained in the destruction of your prized companionship." "Such, indeed, would be a glorious destiny; but it is beyond my reach-so why tempt me with fallacious hopes." "Tell me truly, Kit, as you value your happiness, here and hereafter- as you value our. esteem and friendship, if this destiny was placed within your grasp, would you accept it?" "As God is my judge I would," responded our hero, solemnly. "Then you are saved, Kit-art saved! There is a vessel chartered to sail from Liverpool, within a week from this time. I will engage a berth in her for you-will ship you a full complement of provisions, plcughs, harrows, and every agricultural implement necessary to establish a first- rate farm, and further, I will place in your hands five hundred pounds, for the purchase of land. That sum, in the new world, will enable you to purchase a tract of ground, that shall in extent exceed the utmost limits of your ambition. Say Jack, shall this be a bargain-will you agree to it?" "Agree to it," exclaimed Kit, rapturously-"could any sane man refuse so generous-so unexpected an offer Sir, I accept your pro. position with heartfelt gratitude-here is my hand on it." "Brave Kit," said Mr. Duncan, tears of joy flashing in his eyes. "Go, my brave boy. God will sustain you in your good resolve, and still fur- ther to aid you in your endeavors, I have here five hundred pounds, which I also devote to your service," and the old gentleman pushed, as he spoke, a pocket-book towards our hero. Unable to restrain his excessive gratitude, which this princely genero- sity caused to flow beyond measure, Kit gave vent to his feelings and sobbed aloud. They did not disturb him in his transports, being satisfied they would calm and allay his excited feelings-nor were they wrong in their conjec- ture: for, in a few minutes, Kit had sufficiently recovered to speak calmly on the subject. "How deeply grateful I am for this kindness-my heart is too full to allow my tongue to speak. But if I accept the aid of this money," said Kit, " it must be upon my own conditions." "And they are?" asked Mr. Duncan. "That immediately I can earn the means, I may be allowed to repay it." "We can have no possible objection to that, Kit," said Mr. Duncan, who at once perceived it would be an inducement for Kit to persevere.- "What say you, Dashfield?" "I wished mine to have been a voluntary gift," replied the young offi- cer, "accepted as a present from a friend, who values the heavy obliga. tion under which he lays; but if Kit insists upon returning it-" "And I do," said Kit, firmly.  f "Then I will offer no impediment to your will, and only hope, for youi   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.        ' 10 own sake more than mine even, the money may be speedily returned to us, since it will be a gratifying proof you are pursuing your new avo. eation of industry with energy and perseverance." "Rely on me for that," said Kit, " and now 1 must still further impose upon your kindness." "You have but to name your wants, and if it lays in our power, con- sider them executed."  "I have been thinking," said Kit, " a life in the back wood, will be one almost too solitary for a chap who has ever been used to society, and plenty of it. I, therefore, propose, with your permission, to take out a help-mate for me, in the shape of a-a wife." "An excellent thought," said old Duncan-" do so, by all manner of means; but have you chosen the lady fair?" "I have," answered Kit. "She is a noble and devoted girl, and one I am assured who loves me right fondly. Her name is Elinor Roche, sir. She was fellow-servant with me at Dashfield House, and is the same girl who underwent the torture for me in the press-yard at Newgate." "You have made a right worthy selection," said the captain, "and I sincerely. hope you may have cause ever to rejoice at it. Is there any. thing further?" "Yes," answered Kit-"I am afraid I cannot even now let you off with- out still further encroachments. There are two beloved companions of mine, whom I cannot reconcile myself to leave behind-one of them Steele by name." "A And steal by nature-I have heard of him," said the captain, " and should advise you, Kit, to cut his company." "You know him not, or you would argue differently," said Kit, warmly. A more generous-hearted fellow never lived, and for faith, honesty and truth, sir, certain it is, he is as the name he bears." "You are of course the best judge," said Dashfield--" all I meant to observe, was that the trifle I heard of him, does not greatly redound to his honor. Who is your other companion?" "One of whom you have a slight acquaintance. It is none other than young Wide Awake, the lad who was wounded this evening." "Whenever that young imp of mischief leaves the country, Kit, it will be for lis country's good," said the captain. Kit responded with an assenting smile. "Well," he said, having settled the preliminaries, "and as daylight is now far advancing, you will perhaps allow me to withdraw." Of this proposal they would not hear a word, being fully determined to have his company till morning, when the captain proposed that Kit should accompany him to the shipping-agents, and that the passage money should be paid. The ladies, who had long since shown symptoms of weariness, now rose to take their departure, and our hero was-in the act of bidding them "good night," when a loud and authoritative knock at the door, arrested their attention. They listened with breathless eagerness until the knock was repeated. The servants having long since retired to rest, the captain seized a lamp, and advancing to the casement, peered forth, and in answer to his challenge:     108           KIT CLAYTON, "Who is there?" a voice answered: "Open your door, in the King's name." "By heavens Kit is betrayed," said the captain, in terror-" the house is surrounded by soldiery. What is to be done "' "Trapped, eh?" said Kit, coolly; " well, I must run for it, then, that's all. What a lucky thing it is I didn't start a few minutes since-I should have run slap in their arms. Is there no outlet at the back whereby I can escape?" "None," replied Mr. Duncan, who actually shivered with dismay, whilst the two-ladies, at the ill-tidings, were white and motionless as marble. "What a nuisance it is, their coming at this unreasonable hour," said Kit, with perfect equanimity. "Just as we had settled everything too, to give them a long farewell. Well, there is no help for it, I suppose; fate is fate." During this short period the clamor without increased to a perfect din. "They are battering in the door," said the captain-then, turning appeal- ingly to Kit, he said, " can you suggest nothing ]" "Yes," said Kit-" let them in." "Let them in," was repeated by white and trembling lips. "Yes," said Kit-" it is the only chance. The fellows are doubtless provided with a secret warrant-thanks to the advice of the earl, who doubtless sent them hither-and they are bound to execute their mis. sive, and will-never fear. Let me advise you ladies to retire; you, also, Mr. Duncan, would be best in bed, lest the unpleasant charge of having aided and abetted a highwayman against the officers of the King, should be brought against you. Leave me and the captain to deal with them." "There is a whole platoon of them," exclaimed Mr. Duncan, in despair. "My God, what shall I do?-you will be killed." "' Not a bit of it," said Kit, encouragingly-"I have faced dangers not a whit less desperate than this, and yet have escaped scatheless. I tell j ou I bear a charmed life-so fear not for me; I have made up my mind to escape, and will." "But how?" queried each alternately. "By force of courage," said Kit, "which is a thing your Bow-street officers, with all their sagacity, cannot understand; let the captain open the door-the eager fools will at once rush in, and I will take the liberty at the same time of rushing out. Don't you see 1--they will fire at me of course, and miss me of course. Pray get to bed. Dangerous as it may seem, it is my only chance of safety. If you love me, do not mar that which, if you hesitate, your foolhardiness most certainly will do." Thus entreated, they shook hands in solemn silence with our hero, and Isabella, unable to restrain the poignant feelings of anguish, fell back insensible, and in that state was conveyed to her apartment. It may easily be imagined, during this interval the officers without, were not idle. They distributed the soldiers in such directions that every avenue was strictly guardedi whilst they themselves continued battering the door with unexampled zeal. "Now captain follow me; make no noise-carry no light to attract P VIY      lr  vr   THE HERO OF THE ROAD.         10t their aim. Throw the door wide open, and trust to my celerity for the rest." The captain implicitly followed Kit's directions, and presently, to the assailing parties' astonishment, the door stood widely open. Suppvsingl it was from the effects of their blows upon it, they uttered a shout ot joy and rushed in. The first tripped over Kit's foot, which was dexter- ously extended for the purpose, and some half-dozen more falling over their leader's body, lay a struggling mass upon the floor, collaring one another, in the confusion, until they were half strangled-each one con- gratulating himself on the hope that they had succeeded in capturing our hero. Gathering up his energies, Kit lept over the prostrate bodies into the road, knocking down a sentinel as he went. True to the directions he had received, another of the soldiers, as Kit leaped by a terrific bound the garden rails, levelled his piece and fired. An inch lower, and Kit's life and our history were alike ended. The bullet passed through his hat! On, on, like a startled stag, went Kit, and the hue and cry of his daring escape having been raised, on came a troop of soldiers dashing after him. It was in truth a gallant race-but far too rapid and impetuous to last long. Kit, although an admirable runner, was at length so fatigued out, that his knees knbcked together and his heart beat with such fearful rapidity, it seemed like to burst the strings that held it. Still, to hesitate, were death-for the sound of his pursuers, as they came thundering on behind him, was wafted to his ears with fearful dis tinctness. "If they pursue me to the town, my capture is inevitable," thought Kit. for the cursed uproar they create, will bring the whole place upon me. God held me--am I to perish thus miserably I Is there no shelter at hand? Yes!" he exclaimed aloud, as he was struck by a sudden glimpse of hope-the Jew's house is not a mile hence: once there, I should be safe. I'll do it-I'll do it, or burst my heart in the attempt." This resolution nerved our hero again to the task, and forward he sprung with renewed vigor. It was a hard flight-a mighty struggle was that race for life-and Kit, although he fagged fearfully at last, still kept gallantly on. Brave heart, keep up. The Jew's house was in sight, another struggle-mightier than any that preceded it, and it was reached. By a miracle the door was open, the Jew was already up. As Kit crossed the threshold, Saint Paul's bell came booming over the waters- it was four o'clock. "Mine Got! vhot is the meaning of this!" stammered the Jew, as Kit unceremoniously entered the house; "by Got, ash 1 live, 'tis Mister Clayton." "It is," murmured the panting Kit; "shut the door, Jew, the blood. hounds are at my heels-I am pursued." The Jew instinctively flew to the door, and locked and barred it: this done, he assisted our hero up stairs, and, having administered to him a bumping glass of Hollands, our hero speedily became sufficiently reco. vered to explain the cause of his arrival.     Tobv. who had since :ae destruction of his own habitation taken up a temporary lodging with Moses, was soon awakened, and instantly flew to greet our hero, although his only covering was his shirt. "Oh, Kit, my darling!" he exclaimed, as he hugged our hero in his arms; "and is it indeed your own self, my blessed darling boy-what blessed wind has blown you here?" "An ill wind, I am afraid," answered Kit. "I am hunted for my life, old fellow." "Why, you really look like it-why, you seem all out of breath like." "I have had a narrow escape," said Kit. "' Escape, did I say," he ad. ded, with a better laugh, " let me not boast too soon, for hark! my pur. suers have traced me hither-they are now at the door." This fact soon became evident from the uproar at the outside of the building. Toby went to reconnoitre. "Why, Kit, mybtulip," he said, "' there is i whole regiment of soldiers-you're caged, by jingo. But they shall not ave you, my boy-no, they shall wade through my heart's blood first." Then turning fiercely round, he exclaimed, "where's the Jew?" "Gone to admit them, perhaps," said Kit, "he knows escape is impos- -ile; so, perchance, thinks he may as well have his share of the reward ,fFered for me." "If that be true, black death shall be the portion of the unbelieving g!" said Toby, with bitter emphasis. "Hush!" It was true, as the clattering of ascending feet upon the staircase plainly testified. "Toby," said Kit, in the tones of a man who has made up his mind to a desperate deed. "I must not, will not be taken alive," flying to the window, which opened upon the river, he threw it open, " what depth of water is there?" "Ten feet," answered Toby; "farewell, old fellow-may God bless you! Here they come." At this instant a dozen soldiers dashed into the room. "What cheer, old fellow," said Kit, to the foremost, "you would cap. ture Kit Clayton, would you?" "I would, and have," said the man; "I have followed you thus far, and now will follow you to the end." "Come on, then," said Kit, and saying these words, before an arm could be raised to prevent him, he sprang through the casement, into the rushing river. As he fell, a loud voice gave the command, "fire!" and a peal of musketry rent the air with its thunder, from the pieces of a group of sol. diers stationed on the bank. The waters closed over the body-a stream of crimson rose to the sur. face--the soldiers watched with breathless eagerness-but there was no re appearance, and turning away with looks of exultation, they uttered t- "So perisheth Kit Clayton." TH* END   PETERSON'S MAGAZINE MAIMMOTH COLORED FASHONS. This popular Monthlycontains more for the money than any Mag7zine in the world. In 1867, it t'ill have nearly 1010 pages, 14 steel plates, 12 double-sized mammoth colored steel'fashion plates, and 900 wood engravings- and all this for only TWO DOLLARS A YEAR, or a dollar less than magazines of its class. Every lady ought to take "Peterson." In the general advance of prices, it is THE ONLY MAGAZINE THAT HAS NOT RAISED ITS PRICE. It is, therefor, emphatically, THE MAGAZINE FOR THE TIMES. The stories in "Peterson" are conceded to be the best published anywhere. Mrs. Ann S. Stephens, and the author of "Margaret Howth;"Ella Rodman, Mrs. Denison, Frank Lee Benedict, and the author of '- usy L's Diary;"T S. Arthur, F. L. Chandler Mnulton, Gabrielle Lee, Virginiar. Townsend, Rosalie Grey, Clara Augusta, and the author of "The Second Life," besides all the most popular female writers of America, are regular contributors. In addition to the usual number of shorter stories, there will be given in 1867, Four Original Copy-righted Novelets, via: RUBY GRAY'S REVENGE, By Mrs. ANN S. STEPHENS. A LONG JOURNEY,                                     J By the Author of "MARGARET ;IOWTH."*  CARRY'S COMNG OUT, By FRANK LEE BENEDICT. A BOLD STROKE FOR A HUSBAND, By. ELLA RODMAN. In its Illustrations also, "Peterson" is unrivalled. The Publisher challenges a comparison between its SUPERB MEZZOTINTS & OTHER STEEL ENGRAVINGS And those in other Magazines, and one at least is given in each number. DOUBLE-SIZE COLORED FASHON PLATES Each number will contain a double-size Fashion plate, engraved on steel and handsomely colored. These plates contain from four to six figures each, and excel anything of the kind. In addition, wood-cuts of the newest bonnets, hats, caps, head dresses, cloaks, Jackets, ball dresses, walking dresses, house dresses, &c., &c., will appear in each number. Also, the greatest variety of children's dresses. Also diagrams, by aid of which a cloak, dress, or child's costume can be cut out, without the aid of a mantua-maker, so that each diagram in this way alone, will save ayear'J subscription. The Paris, London, Philadelphia and New York fashions described, in full, each month. COLORED PATTERNS IN EMBROIDERY, CROCHET, &o. The Work-Table Department of this Magazine IS WHOLLY UNRIVALED. Every number contains a dozen or more patterns in every variety of Fancy-work; Crochet, Embroidery, Knitting. Bead-work Shell-work, Hair-work &c., &c., &c. SUPERB COLORED PATTERNS FOR SLIPPERS, PURSES, CHAIR SEATS, &C., given-each o which at a retail store would cost Fifty cents. -   "OTR      3EW. COOOK-BOICK0            " The Original Household Receipts of"Peterson" are quite famous. Fox 1867 our "CooK-Boo " will be continued: EVERY ONE OF THESE RECEIPTS HAS BEEN TESTED. This alone will be worth the price of "Peterson." Other Receipts for the Toilette, Sick-room &c., &c., will be given. NEW  AND FASHONABLE MUSIC in every number. Also, Hints on Horticulture, Equestrianism, and all matters interesting to ladies. TERMS-ALWAYS IN ADVANCE. 1 Copy, for 1 year,           $2.00    5 Copies, 1 year,(n      up of Ct $8.00 3  Copies       "          4.50   8    4        (and otfoCg ter )12.00 4 6       flfl           IA 66       it   (and i to getter\1ffn 4   "        "          6.00   14    " .u       up of Club. ) 20.00 A CHOICE OF PREMUMS. Where a person is entitled to an extra copy for getting up a club, there will be sent, if preferred, instead of the extra copy, a superb premium mezzotint for framing, (size 27 inches by 20,) "WASHNGTON PARTING FROM HS GENERALs," or a LADY'S ILLUSTRATED ALBVM, handsomely bound and gilt, or either of the famous "BUNYAN MEZZOTINTS," the same size as the "WASHNGTON." Always state whether an extra copy or one of these other premiums ispreferred: and notice that for Clubs of three or four, no premiums are given. IN BzMnrTlId, get a post-office order, or a draft on Philadelphia or New York: if neither of these can be had, send green-backs or bank notes.               Address, potpaid, CHARLES J. PETERSON,     . -- - -,       . U. .....l.   .I-A . alu iL6ia, SORGE LIPPARD'S WORKS.                     J. F. SMTH'S WORKS. uaker City; or    The Empire City,  -  75     The Usurer's Victim; or  Adelaide Waldgrave, of ks of Monk Hall I 50 Memoirs of a Preacher, 75     Thomas Balecombe,   75 I Trials of a Governes, 75 rdenheim,  - 1 50 The Nazarene, -     75 ,gton and his    Washington and his Men 75         NEW    AND    GOOD   BOOKS. rals,orlegends   Legends of Mexico,  50 Revolution,  1 50 Hide with the Dead,   s0     The Beautiful Nun, -  75 13enutiful French Girl 50 e Brandywine, 150 The Entranced,    -  25    The Aonk. by Lewis, -  O Moreton Hall, -     50 leo of Florence, 1 00 Bank Dirt ctor's Son, 26    Diary of a Physlcian  50 Jenny Ambrose,     50 ve in cloth 82 each. The Robbers, -  -  25     Ella Stratford.   - 50 Admiral's i)achter,   50 Josephine,    . -  50 The Emligrant Squire, s0 BIG'S WORKS ON      CHEMSTRY.          Robert Oaklands,  -  50 Abbey ot Inlsi;..oyle  25 Abednego, Money Lender 50 Gliddon'a Ancient ltural Chemistry, 25 } The Potato Disease, and     Female Life New York, 50  Egypt,        25 I Chemistr, -  25 ' how to prevent it, - 25    Agnes Grey, .      O Lie of Bishop Hughes, 25 g's Complete Works on Chemistry.  Containing    Life of Gen. McClellan, 50 Life of Geeral Butler, 25 'rofessor Liebig's writings, in cloth. Price 82.00.  The Deformed,  -   25 Lfe of General Meade,  25 Two Prima Donnas, -  25 Mysteries of Bedlam,  25 Jack Downing -Letters 2, The Ladies' Etiquette, 25 UW   R'c(or     yton  N  VE  S      Jck    H  auge, 25 Book oflhost Sorie   ; oue,     -   I Falkland. -    -  25     Mysteries of a %, nvent 25 Philip in Search of Wife, 25 tonians, .    . 50 The Courtier,    25     Bell Brandon,   -   O Father Tom and Pope,  25 Rose Warrington,    25 Nobleman's Daughter,  25 BY  VERY    BEST   AUTHORS.           Charles Ranaford,   25 Rifle Shot,       5 rigand: or the Demon of the North. By Victor      Madison's Expo    of Odd Fellow p,      25 o, author of"Les Miserables," etc. Price 75 cents.            It ITn           I ish Sketch Book. By Wm. M. Thackeray.    75     PETERSONSI ILLUMNATED          TORIES, phais and Caleb Field. By Mrs. Oliphant,  50     Old Put,      - 25 Mysteries of Bedlam,   25 rey Woman. By Mrs. Gaskell,  -   - -  25     Rebel and the Rover,  25 Charle Ranford,     2 e; or, Where is Utopia^  By C. H. Wiley,  75     Sweeny Todd,      25 The Iron Cross, -    25 rock of Gold. By Martin Farauhar Tupper,  75     Dick Parker, - -  - 25 Biddy Woodhull,   - 25 ewine and lIeart. By Martin Farquhar lupper, 75    Jack Ketch, -  -  - 25 Myteriesof a Cosvent,' 25 usgrave; or Most UnfortunateMan in the World, 75    Mother Brownrigg,   25 The IMan-o'-Wr's-Man, 25 ated Life, Speeches, Martyrdom and Funeral of     Galloping Dick, -  - 25 Mysterious  surraige, 25 dent Lincoln. Cloth $2.00, or in paer m1.50.      The Robber' Wife,  - 25 CaptaIn  Blood,  the ated Life and Campaigns of General U. S. Grant.    Obi; or, Three-Fingered   Highwayman, -     5 h 81 00, or in paper 76 cents.             Jack,       . 25 Captain Blood and the ated Life and Services ot Major-General Philip H.   Desperadoes New World, 25  Beagles,    .  - 25 Idan. Cloth, l1.00; or in paper 75 cents.       Harry Thonlas,   - -5  HiThwayman's Aenger, 25 peeches and Services of President Andrew John-    Mrs. Whipple r nd Jesse 2  I5ry Bateman,     25 Cloth3100, orlinpaper 75 enrtClas Portrat,00     FolloMrs. W hipple and Jesse rMary Bsateman, - - 25 Cloth 1.00, or in paper 75 cer ts.          Strang's Adventures, 25 Rody the   over,  - 25 f the Assassins an d Conspirators for the murder of  feofJonathaWld, 25 Ra      e  vile, dent Lincoln. Cloth $1.50, or in paper 50 cents.   Lives of the Felons, - 25  x t een - t r in e d Life and Execution of Anton Probst,     50     inon De L'Enclo's     Jack's Fight for Life, 25 r and Ilayne's Speeches in Reply to Col. Foote, 75   Jife and Adventure, 25 Roe Warrilgon  n, -   25 ti of the Prairie, 75 Miser's Heir, cloth, - 7    Drk Shades City Life, 25 Life of Arthur  pring, 25 acquet,  s   75    do.  paper,-  50     The  ats of the Seine, 25 The Valley Farm,   - 25 el, by Croly, - 75 Two Lovers,    -  0 e, or Italy,   75 Ryan's Mysteries of ... y,-   -  75 ITrr a g e ,-    s MLITARY               NOVELS. dion in SpaIn,  7 Fortune hunter, f    50       With Illuminated Military Covers, in Colors. dians of New-    Train's Union Speeches, 50  land, -   -  75 Train to the Fenians, 25     Charles O'Malley-  - 75 Three Guardsmen,    - 75 ,one in America 75 Clifford & the Actress, 50    Jack Hinton, -  -   75 Guerilla Chief,  -  - 75 ,quette,   -  75 Ronllsh Confessional, 50     'l'he KnightotGwynne, 75 Jack Acam's Advent's, 75 all,  -     75 Allieford,     -  O     Hirry Lorrequer,  - 75 Twenty Years Ater,   - 75 ice Three Cities 75 Victims Amusements,  O     Tom Burke of Ours; - 75 Brgelonne. Son of Athos 75 a, - -   -  75 Violet, -  .     O     Arthur O'Leary. -   75 Wallace, Hero Scotlalld 1 00 g to Say,    75 Montague, or Almacks, 50     Con Cregan,   -   75 Forty-five (uardsmen,  75 Clement, cloth, 75 New Hlope; or Rescue  75     Kate O'Donoghue,  - 75 Tolm Bowling's Advent's 75 o.    p)pef, 50 'angarua, a Poem, - I 00      Horace 'Templeton,  - 75 Ltfe of Robert Bruce, - 75 phan Sisters, - 50 Gen. Scott's Portrait, 1 00    Davenport Dunn,   - 75 The Gipsy Chief, -   - 75 stl'laieotl,lfe, 50 H-enry Clay's Portrait, I 00   Following the Drum, - 5) Massacre of Glencoe,   75 Par'or; or Slaves & Masters, 1.50. Cloth, 2 00    Valentine Vox, .  - 75 Lifeof GOy Fawkes, - 75 nu' Complete Coin Book, with fae-simniles       Twin Lieutenants,  - 75 Child cf Waterloo,  - 75 the Coisn in the World, and U. S. Mint value, 1 00  Stories of Waterloo,  7.5 Advent's of Ben Brace, 75 The Soldier's Wife,  75 Life of Jack Ariel,  - 75 "TARY AND ARMY BOOKS.                   W    SWORTH'S SEROS gight Infantry Drill, 25 iElleworth's Zouave Drill, 25   WADSWORTH'S       SERMONS. )overnment 11sfAn- 'he Soldier's Companion, 25    America's Mission,   25 1 Thanksgiving i a Thanks- Rifle Tactics,- 25 The Soldier's Guide,  25    Thankfulness & Cher-     giving Sermon,  -  15 acter,  .  .  .  25 Politics in Religion, - 52 ,ISTY   & WHTE'S SONG BOOKS.            le,ry Ward Beecher on War and Emanciplation, -  15 , sli  Woo's Seenadrledog o,   1tRev. William T. Brantley's Union Sermon. -      .  15 r ald Wood's     Serenader's Song Book, 10 lete Song ook,  10 Budworth's Songs, -  10           D-POINT    STEEL    PENS, o Song Boo300k, 10 Christy and White's         CURVEEL                 PENS. lion lMelodies, 10  CompleteEthiopian        The Slip Pen, -   -  - perdozen .25, per gross 82.00 an Song Book.  10  Melodies. Cloth, - 1 00     The Shoulder Pen, -  -   "   .40,  "   4.00 The Harrell Pen,   - .   "   .50,  is  5.00 CTURES AND OTHER BOOKS.               .Magnin. .lion. Pen ,               0" 7 llowship Exposed, 13 Dr. Berg on Jesuits, -      -These Pens are recommended to all, being preferred to Stales Exposed, 13 Dr. Berg's Answer to       the old-fashioned quill pen for easy writing. Try them. M talta Exposed, 13 DDr. Berg's Answer to Rev. John Aaiffit, 13 Archbishop ltughes, 13 of Iniquity.    Train and itlughes, - 1i cv A. Bar,cs. 1S Train on Slavery,  -  13     OQ   AG1u   a   A3r sA u    ss   T 'S teeceipts for Preserving Fruits, etc.,  13    1000     AGENTb AND  C ANVASSE1, WANTE.1 ard of StamC p gs ties for 1c8ad, approved by      A good reliable Agent or Canvasser, is wanted in every of or  large crd, - town in this country, to engage in selling the popular ansd fast selling books, published by T. B. Peterson & ETERSONS' COUNTERFEIT          Bros., 306 Ches nut St., Philadelphia, Pa. Apply in ETERSONS'      COUNTERFEIT           .person, or address your orders with cash enclosed, for ECTOR    &  BANK    NOTE   LIST.      Twhat books you may wish to start with, and your orders ECT A  0&  BANK^  NOTEJ  1ST.   will be flled at once, and the books sent to you per first ected by Drexel & Co., Bankers, Philadelphia.     express or mail as desired, after receipt of the money, hly  per annum .......................... 81.50   Agents and Canvassers to pay transportation, and they AlL t ntthly, per annum...,.............. 3.00    can select their own territory. One hundred books as. ljeNUmbenrs   ....................b. 15,C O  - '  orted, sent at the hundred price. All in search of work to Numbers .................   15  Cents.   I     
         
      
   
