
    ----CITATION----
        Derby, George Horatio, (1823-1861). The Squibob Papers .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6269 wright2-0740
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  A SIDE ELEVATION OF G. WASHINGTON.—See page 36. (not by Gilbert
                     Stuart.)
               
            
         
         
            
               THE SQUIBOB PAPERS.
            
            BY JOHN PHŒNIX. [CAPT. GEO. H. DERBY.] AUTHOR OF
               "PHŒNIXIANA."
            WITH COMIC ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE AUTHOR.
            
               NEW YORK:
               CARLETON, PUBLISHER, 413 BROADWAY.
            
            MDCCCLXV.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by G. W. CARLETON,
                  In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Southern District of New
                  York.
            
         
         
            TO GEN. GEO. B. McCLELLAN, THE FRIEND AND CLASSMATE OF THE AUTHOR,
               THESE SKETCHES ARE AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               I. FOURTH OF JULY ORATION IN OREGON. 13
               
               II. A CALIFORNIA MODEL LOVE LETTER. 43
               
               III. ON SPRINGFIELD MOUNTAIN. 45
               
               IV. PHENIX ON AGRICULTURE. 53
               
               V. NEVER TOLD A LIE. 56
               
               VI. SEWING MACHINE—FELINE ATTACHMENT. 58
               
               VII. PHENIX ON WET WEATHER. 64
               
               VIII. WARRE-LYKE BALLADE OF YE ASTOUNDEDDE DOCTOR. 71
               
               IX. LIFE IN PANAMA. 104
               
               X. A TRIP TO OREGON. 109
               
               XI. BUTTERFIELD AT THE BALL. 116
               
               XII. SQUIBOB'S "COMPOSITION OF ARMIES." 129
               
               XIII. BOSTON—A MORAL CITY. 138
               
               XIV. A JOURNEY FROM BOSTON TO NEW ORLEANS. 145
               
               XV. NEW ORLEANS—ITS HOTEL. 162
               
               XVI. MATTERS AND THINGS IN SAN FRANCISCO. 178
               
               XVII. JOHN RANDOLPH OF ROANOKE. 184
               
               XVIII. THE GYROSCOPE. A REVIEW. 186
               
               XIX. THE SONG OF "NOTHIN' SHORTER." 190
               
               XX. MASSACHUSETTS DENTAL ASSOCIATION. 198
               
               XXI. THE LEGEND OF JONES. 206
               
               XXII. REPORT OF A SCIENTIFIC LECTURE. 215
               
               XXIII. GREAT RAILROAD PROJECT. 223
               
               XXIV. TOPOGRAPHICAL ENGINEERS. 227
               
               XXV. ON CLIPPER SHIPS. 238
               
               XXVI. A LETTER OF CREDIT. 241
               
               XXVII. PANNIERS. 244
               
            
         
         
            
            LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
            
               I. PORTRAIT OF G. WASHINGTON. 1
               
               II. LEFTENANT CARTER AND HIS SON. 45
               
               III. THE PIZEN SARPENT. 46
               
               IV. VENGEANCE, SWIFT AND SURE. 47
               
               V. THE GRIEF OF MOLLY BLAND. 48
               
               VI. ZERUBBABEL IN TEARS. 49
               
               VII. THE STRICKEN FAMILY. 50
               
               VIII. THE LAST SAD RITES. 51
               
               IX. EXIT ZERUBBABEL AND MOLLY BLAND. 52
               
               X. SEWING-MACHINE—FELINE ATTACHMENT. 62
               
               XI. YE ASTOUNDED DOCTOR—SEVENTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS. 72
               
               XII. DARK INFANTRY. 129
               
               XIII. ARTILLERY PRACTICE—AN ASS-SAULT. 129
               
               XIV. A NEW STYLE OF SEDAN-CHAIR. 200
               
               XV. PANNIERS. 200
               
            
         
         
            
            "IN THE NAME OF THE PROPHET—FIGS!"
         
      
      
         
            The Squibob papers
            
            THE SQUIBOB PAPERS.
            
               I. FOURTH OF JULY ORATION IN OREGON.
               
                  Correspondence.
                  
                     
                        "Fort Vancouver, W. T., June 15, 1856."
                        
                           JOHN PHŒNIX, Esq., Sergt. Major, etc.
                        
                     
                     "DEAR SIR:—I am requested by a number of your brother officers, and other
                        gentlemen, to solicit you to deliver the oration at the celebration of the
                        approaching Fourth of July, at this post.
                     
                        "Very respectfully,
                        "Your friend and obdt. servt.,
                        "H. C. H.,
                        "1st Lieut 4th Infantry."
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        "Portland, Oh! Tea, June, 1856.
                     
                     "DEAR SIR:—I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your very polite
                        invitation to address a number of
                        my brother officers, and other gentlemen, on the coming glorious
                        anniversary, at Vancouver.
                     "In the words of a celebrated Roman emperor, when asked to take a drink, I
                        reply, 'I will do it with great pleasure,' and shall immediately prepare
                        myself for the discharge of the agreeable duty thus devolving upon me.
                     "Your invitation, Sir, arrived upon a most opportune occasion. Eighty years
                        (or thereabouts) ago, this day, our respected ancestors marched up the side
                        of Breed's Hill by a flank, to the following spirit-stirring tune: 
                           
                              'Oh! tweedle dum twee,
                              Oh! tweedle dum twee,
                              Oh! tweedle-tweedle, tweedle dum twee.'
                           
                         And after getting there, feeling sick at their stomachs from fatigue,
                        threw up a line of breastworks and trenches, that took the British very
                        particularly by surprise. Behind those breastworks, sir, our gallant
                        ancestors stood shoulder to shoulder, and received ceived the red-coated
                        minions of the British monarch with a galling and destructive fire, that
                        caused them to retreat in confusion. Three successive times was the attack
                        repeated, and three successive times were the British mercenaries repulsed.
                        At the fourth attempt, Sir, our ancestors suddenly remembered certain
                        business engagements in the country which could no longer be neglected, and
                        they had not time to remain and see the matter through. They left; and a
                        mingled mass of cowhide boots and shirt-tails fluttering in the distance,
                        was all the British could descry, when, out of breath, perfectly exhausted,
                        they arrived on the summit of Breed's. This great engagement, Sir, was named
                        the battle of Bunker Hill, on account of its not having occurred on a hill
                        of that name, and a monument two hundred feet high has been erected on the
                        spot, from the top of which a man once fell, and knocked the whole top off
                        of his derned eternal head, Sir!
                     "From the top of this monument now floats the glorious spang-dangled stanner of our
                        country, and long may it wave.
                     "Please, Sir, to accept the renewed assurances of the most distinguished
                        consideration. Carry and Stevens!
                     
                     "With singular respect, I remain
                     
                        "Your most obdt. servt.,
                        "JOHN PHŒNIX.
                        
                           "Lieut. H. SEA H.,
                           "1st. Lieut. 4th U. S. Foot
                           "Vancouver, W. Tea."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  Oration:
                  DELIVERED AT FORT VANCOUVER W. T., ON THE FOURTH OF JULY, 1856,
                     BY JOHN PHŒNIX, ¥ S. D., SERGEANT MAJOR, EIGHTY-THIRD REGIMENT, OREGON
                     TERRITORY LIGHT MULES.
                  "BROTHER SOLDIERS AND FELLOW CITIZENS:—I feel honored by the call that I have
                     received and accepted to deliver on this great occasion, the glorious
                     anniversary of our nation's independence, the customary oration. The word
                     oration signifying a public address, I have reason to believe has a mil itary
                     origin. It originated in a custom once prevalent among commanding officers and
                     chaplains, of making long and verbose addresses to the troops, which were
                     stigmatized as 'all talk and no rations,' whence the word noration, modernized
                     into oration. The term address has also a similar origin, it having been the
                     custom for the troops to be dressed to the right before the oration was
                     delivered. From the word noration is derived the common expression—common in
                     the sweet and classic vales of Pike—'to norate.' Thus we hear an individual
                     wishing to refer to an anecdote related to him in early life by his
                     grandmother, say, 'I hurd her norrate it.'
                  "This explanation may appear irrelevant and uninteresting; but I never lose an
                     opportunity to impart a little valuable information.
                  "Brother soldiers and fellow citizens: It is the Fourth of July. This morning,
                     at half-past two o'clock, every inhabitant of this great, free, and enlightened
                     republic, amounting in number to several millions, was awakened from a sleep by
                        the discharge of cannon, the
                     explosion of fire-crackers, and the continued and reïterated shouts of little
                     boys, and children of larger growth. From that time until four o'clock sleep
                     has been rendered impossible, and every inhabitant of this republic has had an
                     opportunity to reflect with gratitude and thankfulness on the wisdom of our
                     progenitors, and the greatness of our institutions; until at that hour the
                     bells of every church, meeting-house, factory, steam-boat, and boarding-house
                     throughout the land, beginning to pour forth a merry and universal peal,
                     joining in the glad anthem of our nation's independence, every citizen has got
                     up, put on his pantaloons, taken a cock-tail, and commenced the celebration of
                     the day in good earnest.
                  "Throughout our whole vast extent of country, from Hancock Barracks, Houlton,
                     Maine, where they pry the sun up in the morning, to Fort Yuma on the Colorado
                     River, where the thermometer stands at 212° in the shade, and the hens lay hard
                     hard-boiled eggs, this day will be a day of hilarity, of frolicking and
                     rejoicing.
                  "Processions will be formed, churches will be thronged, orations will be
                     delivered, (many of them, possibly, of a superior character to this of mine,)
                     the gallant militia, that right arm of our national defence, will pervade the
                     streets in astounding uniforms, where of it may be said that Solomon in all his
                     glory was not arrayed like one of these. Small boys will fire
                     pistols and burn their fingers; large boys will fire cannon and blow off their
                     arms; men will guzzle inebriating liquors, and become much intoxicated thereby;
                     and a mighty shout will go up from the land, which, if the wind happens to be
                     in the right direction, will cause the Emperor Alexander to tremble in his
                     boots, and the young Napoleon to howl in his silver cradle. For on this day the
                     great American eagle flaps her wings, and soars aloft, until it makes your eyes
                     sore to look at her, and looking down upon her myriads of free and enlightened
                     children, with flaming eye, she screams, 'E Pluribus
                        Unum,' which may be freely interpreted, 'Aint I some?' and myriads
                     of freemen answer back with joyous
                     shout: 'You are punkins!' On this glorious day, joy, good feeling,
                     and good nature animate each breast; babies cease to cry, ladies cease to
                     scold, all is amiability; and I hesitate not to say, that were the commanding
                     general of this Division on this day to ask the Governor of Oregon for a chew
                     of tobacco, he would hand over the whole plug without a moment's delay or
                     hesitation. And what is the cause of this general rejoicing, this universal
                     hilarity, this amiable state of feeling, this love and veneration for this
                     particular day of all days in the year—a day when the native American forgets
                     all prejudices, and, though loving his country better than aught else, feels
                     well disposed toward every thing beside—a day that our German population
                     respect and speak of as 'more better as good'—a day which Pat, who believes one
                     man is as good as another, and a mighty sight better, reverences as he does
                     'Saint Patrick's in the morning'—a day when aught unpleasant is forgotten, and
                     mirth, and jollity, and fire-crackers abound. I will endeavor to inform you.
                     Many years ago, before Vancouver was ever born or thought of, when the present
                     magnificent city of Portland was but a wild forest of fir timber, and the
                     waters of these mighty rivers, now daily ploughed by the splendid steamer
                     'Eagle,' were navigated by the Indian chief Multnomah in his dug-out,
                     provisioned with salmon and whortleberries, there dwelt in the far-off city of
                     Genoa, a worthy merchant named Daniel Lumbus, who prosecuted his business as a
                     dealer in velvets, under the name and style of Lumbus & Co.
                  "This merchant, at a somewhat advanced age, was blest with a son of great
                     promise, whom, out of compliment to his partners, he named Christopher Co
                     Lumbus. From his earliest infancy this youth showed an ardent desire for a
                     maritime life; and old Lumbus gratified his inclinations by sending him to
                     sea.
                  "In those days popular opinion turned to the belief that this world on which we
                     live was a large square table, or plane surface, supported on columns of rocks,
                     which extended all the way down.
                     Columbus, however, dissented from this opinion, and believing the earth to be a
                     globe or ball, decided in his own mind that it might be feasible to start in a
                     given direction, aud sail clear round it, returning to the point of departure.
                     Having communicated these views to Isabella, the Queen of Arragon, that lady,
                     who was somewhat of an enthusiast, and had a srong conviction that Columbus was
                     'one of them," sold her hoop ear-rings and other jewelry, and fitted out three
                     top-sail schooners, of which she gave him the command.
                  With these vessels, Christopher sailed in 1492, and after the most unheard-of
                     trials and difficulties, encountering many head-winds, and much opposition from
                     his crew, finally discovered the West India Islands, whence he immediately
                     returned with a cargo of rum and sugar. This extraordinary discovery being
                     noised abroad, a Spanish captain, who from his jovial disposition was called A
                     Merry Cuss, sailed away, and discovered this continent, which, from its
                     discoverer, derived the name of America. Then New England was discovered
                     covered by John Cabot, and Virginia by Walter Raleigh, who also discovered
                     tobacco, and gave himself dyspepsia by smoking it to excess, and Pocahontas was
                     discovered by John Smith, and South Carolina by Calhoun.
                  "Emigration from Great Britian and other countries then commenced, and
                     continued to a tremendous extent, and all our fore-fathers, and eight
                     grandfathers, came over and settled in the land.
                  "They planted corn and built houses, they killed the Indians, hung the Quakers
                     and Baptists, burned the witches alive, and were very happy and comfortable
                     indeed. So matters went on very happily, the colonies thus formed owing
                     allegiance to the government of Great Britain until the latter part of the
                     eighteenth century, when a slight change took place in their arrangements. The
                     king of Great Britain, a Dutchman of the name of George Guelph, No. 3, having
                     arrived at that stage of life when Dutchmen generally, if at all inclined that
                     way, naturally begin to give way to
                     ill-temper and obstinacy, became of a sudden exceedingly overbearing and
                     ill-disposed toward the colonies. He had offenders sent to England to be tried;
                     he was down on a bank and a protective tariff, and began to be considered
                     little better than an abolitionist. He also put in effect an ordinance called
                     the Stamp Act, which prevented applause in places of public amusement,
                     prevented the protection of cattle against flies, and interfered with the
                     manufacture of butter; and he finally capped the climax of his audacious
                     impositions by placing such a tremendous duty on tea, that our female ancestors
                     could not afford to drink that exhilarating beverage. Our ancestors were
                     patient and long-suffering, but they could not stand every thing.
                  "Souchong and Young Hyson cost about twelve-and-a-half cents a cup; and our
                     grandmothers were weeping with vexation, and would not be comforted with
                     herb-tea and decoctions of sassafras. They annoyed our grandfathers to that
                     extent that they rebelled, got up a Vigilance Committee mittee in Boston, and
                     destroyed two cargoes of English tea, and were fired on by the British troops
                     in consequence. Then the whole country flew to arms; the battles of Concord and
                     of Lexington followed, and our grandfathers went marching up to the tune of
                     Yankee Doodle to the top of Bunker's Hill, whence they did not march down until
                     they had given the British troops a most fearful and ever-to-be-remembered
                     whipping. By this time it suddenly occurred to some of the smartest of our
                     respectable ancestors that it was a good long way to the little island of
                     England, that there was a good many people in the provinces, and that perhaps
                     they were quite as able to govern themselves as George Guelph No. 3 was to
                     govern them. They accordingly appointed delegates from the various Provinces or
                     States, who, meeting together in Philadelphia on the fourth day of July, 1776,
                     decided to trouble the King of England no longer, and gave to the world that
                     glorious Declaration of Independence, to the support of which they pledged
                     their lives, their fortunes, and their
                     sacred honor. This was the birth-day of Freedom—the birth-day of the United
                     States, now eighty years of age; and as there are few of us but feel some
                     inclination to celebrate our own birth-day, there can be little wonder that we
                     celebrate the birth-day of our country in so joyous, earnest, and enthusiastic
                     a manner.
                  "Love of country is strongly impressed on every mind; but, as Americans, we
                     should and in fact do have this feeling more strongly developed than any other
                     citizens of the world. For our country is a free country; its institutions are
                     wise and liberal, and our advantages as its natives are greater than those of
                     other citizens. To be sure, every body can vote two or three times in some
                     places; it is true taxes are four and a half percent on the amount of our
                     property; it's a fact that it's difficult to get scrip paid; there's no
                     disputing the existence of the Maine Liquor Law, and we do occasionally have a
                     mob; but these are errors not arising from the principles of our government,
                     but from circumstances, and they will finally obviate and correct themselves.
                     Upon the whole, I believe that a man has quite as much chance for a life of
                     happiness if born under the glorious stars and stripes as if he happened to be
                     born anywhere else, and perhaps a little more. We elect our own rulers, and
                     make our own laws, and if they don't turn out well, it's very easy at the next
                     election to make others in their place. Every body has a chance for distinction
                     in this country; nothing is wanting but natural ability to attain it; and Mrs.
                     Laving Pike's baby, now lying with a cotton-flannel shirt on, in a champagne
                     basket, in Portland, O. T., has just as good a chance of being president of the
                     United States, as the imperial infant of France, now sucking his royal thumbs
                     in his silver cradle at Paris, has of being an emperor. I do not wish to
                     flatter this audience; I do not intend to be thought particularly
                     complimentary; but I do assure you, that there is not a man present who, if he
                     had votes enough, might not be elected president of the United States. And this
                     important fact is the result sult not
                     so much of any particular merit or virtue on your part, as of the nature of our
                     glorious, liberal, republican institutions.
                  "In this great and desirable country, any man may become rich, provided he will
                     make money; and man may be well educated, if he will learn, and has money to
                     pay for his board and schooling; and any man may become great, and of weight in
                     the community, if he will take care of his health, and eat sufficiently of
                     boiled salmon and potatoes.
                  "Moreover, I assert it unblushingly, any man in this country may marry any
                     woman he pleases—the only difficulty being for him to find any woman that he
                     does please.
                  "Fellow-citizens and brother soldiers: It is the Fourth of July; it is
                     Independence Day—a day dear to every freeman, an anniversary which is good to
                     celebrate, as it will be celebrated till time shall cease, and the Union shall
                     perish with it.
                  "Every boy in these United States knows the origin of this glorious day. Small
                     sums of money ey, varying from twelve-and-a-half cents to a dollar and a half,
                     according to the financial prosperity of their parents, have been annually
                     given them to expend on this occasion, which indelibly impress the fact upon
                     their memories, and lead them to look forward with pleasure to its return. One
                     of my earliest and most cherished recollections is of my exploits on the first
                     Fourth of July that I can remember, when, with patriotic fervor, I purchased a
                     leaden cannon, which, exploding prematurely, burned off my hair and eye-brows,
                     and put an end to the existence of a favorite cat of my aunt's that peacefully
                     reclined, watching my operations. It is considered by many a duty to become
                     intoxicated on the Fourth of July. I remember hearing a distinguished Senator
                     express his opinion, 'that any man who did not get drunk on the Fourth of July
                     was a damned rascal.' Without fully coinciding in this novel hypothesis, I can
                     truly say, that I consider it the duty of every freeman to enjoy himself to the
                     full limits of his capacity on this glorious occasion, and if there are, as I dare say there are, individuals
                     to whom getting drunk is the acme of human felicity, why, if they do allow
                     themselves to be carried away on this day, there is surely more excuse for them
                     than there would be on any less joyous occasion. An anecdote that went the
                     round of the papers a few years since is amusing and interesting, as showing
                     the independent feeling engendered in the minds of all classes by the arrival
                     of the glorious Fourth.
                  "A parsimonious merchant who, I regret to say, flourished in Boston, kept his
                     counting-room open on Independence Day, where he sat with his clerk, a boy of
                     ten or twelve years of age, busy over his accounts, while the noise and uproar
                     of the celebration were resounding without. Looking up from his employment, he
                     perceived the unfortunate youth, perched upon his high stool, engaged in
                     picking his nose, a practice that the merchant had frequently reprobated, and
                     taken him to task for.
                  "'William,' he exclaimed, 'why will you persist sist in that dirty practice? I
                     am astonished at you.'
                  "'I don't care,' whimpered the unhappy boy. 'It's Independence day, and it's my
                     own nose, and I'll pick thunder out of it.'
                  "An excellent custom prevails in many cities of the United States to celebrate
                     the close of this day with a grand exhibition of fire-works. This is not only a
                     beautiful and exciting spectacle, but, to the thinking mind, presents a refined
                     pleasure in the analogy that is suggested; for he may think to himself that, as
                     the day ends, so will end the lives of the enemies of freedom and the
                     incendiary abolitionists, who threaten with parricidal efforts the union of
                     these States. They will be followed by a grand display of fire-works in another
                     world, if there is any truth in the orthodox doctrines of the age. I have never
                     known a Fourth of July oration delivered, and I have listened to many, without
                     a full and complete biography of the immortal Washington being given before its
                     conclusion. It may appear a slightly hackneyed custom, but I shall certainly not let you go off without
                     it. At the risk of appearing tedious, I shall therefore request your patience
                     for a few moments, while I read from the 'Clatrap Cyclopedia,' by Professor
                     Tube Rose, the following beautiful tribute to the memory of this greatest of
                     men:
               
               
                  "'GENERAL GEORGE WASHINGTON.
                  [FROM TUBE ROSE'S AMERICAN BIOGRAPHY.]
                  "George Washington was one of the most distinguished movers in the American
                     Revolution.
                  "He was born of poor but honest parents, at Genoa, in the year 1492. His mother
                     was called the mother of Washington. He married, early in life, a widow lady,
                     Mrs. Martha Custis, whom Prescott describes as the cussidest
                     pretty woman south of Mason and Dixon's line. Young Washington commenced
                     business as a county-surveyor, and was present in that character at a sham
                     fight, under General Braddock, when so many guns were fired that the whole body
                     of militia were stunned by the explosion, and sate down to supper unable to
                     hear a word that was said. This supper was afterward alluded to as Braddock's
                     deaf eat, and the simile, 'deaf as a Braddock,' subsequently vulgarized into
                     'deaf as a haddock,' had its rise from that circumstance. Washington commanded
                     several troops during the Revolutionary war, and distinguished himself by
                     fearlessly crossing the Delaware river on ice of very inadequate thickness, to
                     visit a family of Hessians of his acquaintance. He was passionately fond of
                     green peas and string beans; and his favorite motto was: 'In time of peace
                     prepare for war.'
                  "Washington's most intimate friend was a French gentleman, named Marcus Dee,
                     who, from his constant habits of risibility, was nick-named 'Laughy
                        yet.' His greatest victory was achieved at Germantown, where, coming
                     upon the British in the night, he completely surrounded them with a wall of
                     cotton bales, from which he opened a destructive and terrific fire, which soon
                     caused the enemy to capitulate. The cotton bales being perforated with
                     musket-balls were much increased in
                     weight, and consequently in value, and the expression, playfully used, 'What is
                     the price of cotton?' was much in vogue after the battle.
                  "During the action, Washington might have been seen driving up and down the
                     lines, exposed to a deadly fire, in a small Concord wagon, drawn by a
                     bob-tailed gray horse. His celebrated dispatch, 'Veni,
                        vidi, vici,' or, I came and saw in a Concord wagon, has reference
                     to this circumstance.
                  "Washington has been called the 'Father of his country;' (an unapt title, more
                     properly belonging to the late Mr. McCluskey, parent of the celebrated
                     pugilist;) the child has grown, however, to that extent that its own father
                     would not know it. General Walker (William Walker) is also called the 'Father
                     of Nicaragua,' and we have no doubt, in case of his demise, his children, the
                     native Nicaraguans, would erect a suitable monument over his remains, with the
                     inscription, 'Go, father, and fare worse.'
                  "Washington was a member of the Know-Nothing Nothing order, and directed that
                     none but Americans should be put on guard, which greatly annoyed the Americans,
                     their comfort being entirely destroyed by perpetual turns of guard-duty.
                  "He was twice elected President of the United States by the combined Whig and
                     Know-Nothing parties, the Democrats and Abolitionists voting against him; and
                     served out his time with great credit to himself and the country—drawing his
                     salary with a regularity and precision worthy all commendation.
                  "Although, for the time in which he lived, a very distinguished man, the
                     ignorance of Washington is something perfectly incredible. He never travelled
                     on a steam-boat; never saw a railroad, or a locomotive engine; was perfectly
                     ignorant of the principle of the magic of the magnetic telegraph; never had a
                     daguerreotype, Colt's pistol, Sharp's rifle, or used a friction match. He eat
                     his meals with an iron fork, never used postage-stamps on his letters, and knew
                     nothing of the application of chloroform to alleviate suffering, or the use of gas for illumination. Such a
                     man as this could hardly be elected president of the United States in these
                     times, although, it must be confessed, we occasionally have a candidate who
                     proves not much better informed about matters in general.
                  "Washington died from exposure on the summit of Mount Vernon, in the year 1786,
                     leaving behind him a name that will endure forever, if posterity persist in
                     calling their children after him to the same extent that has been fashionable.
                     He is mentioned in history as having been 'first in peace, first in war, and
                     first in the hearts of his countrymen;' in other words, he was No. 1 in every
                     thing, and it was equally his interest and his pleasure to look out for that
                     number, and he took precious good care to do so. A portrait, by Gilbert Stuart,
                     of this great soldier and statesman may be seen, very badly engraved, on the
                     'History of the United States;' but as it was taken when the general was in the
                     act of chewing tobacco, the left cheek is distended out of proportion,*
                      and the likeness rendered very unsatisfactory Upon the whole, General
                     George Washington was a very excellent man; though unfamiliar with 'Scott's
                     Infantry Tactics,' he was a tolerable officer; though he married a widow, he
                     was a fond husband; and though he did not know the Beecher family, (and would
                     have despised them if he had,) he was a sincere Christian.
                  
                     
                     *(See Frontispiece.)
                  
               
               
                  "E PLURIBUS UNUM.
                  "A monument has been commenced in the city of Washington to his memory, which
                     is to be five hundred feet in height; and it should be the wish of every
                     true-hearted American that his virtues and services may not be forgotten before
                     it is completed; in which case, their remembrance will probably endure
                     forever.
                  "Accustomed as I am to public speaking, it has been with no ordinary distrust
                     of my own powers that I have ventured to address you to-day. Standing beneath
                     the waving banner of our country, with Mount Hood towering in snow-crowned magnificence above our heads, and the
                     broad bosom of the noble Columbia spread in calm expanse at our feet, I see
                     before me an attentive audience composed of individuals whose interest I am
                     proud to awaken and command. I see before me some who have borne no
                     undistinguished part in the bloody but most righteous war now raging in our
                     vicinity; I see men who have pushed the war into the enemy's country with the
                     gallant Haller, and returned with him when he thought, perhaps, it would be
                     about as well to leave; who accompanied the daring and skilful Raines, when
                     intrepidly rushing with drawn sword at the head of his troops into Father
                     Pandosy's hut, he wrote that letter to the humbled Kamiakin; men who have
                     planned and built block-houses, which serve alike as refuges from the attacks
                     of the savage and merciless foe, and imperishable monuments of architectural
                     taste and refinement. These services, which have brought this war so nearly to
                     a close, (for already the Sun of peace may be seen gilding the clouds in the
                     east preparatory to rising,) are well worthy of commendation; and no better
                     occasion can be found to recapitulate and commemorate them than the
                     present.
                  "Where are the gallant volunteers on this occasion, our tried and trusty
                     comrades in the hour of danger—men who, at the call of their country, cast
                     aside the frivolous axe, the enervating hoe, and the trifling pick, and,
                     springing into their eighty-dollar saddles, shouldered their fifty-dollar
                     rifles, and spurred their three-hundred dollar horses into the wild plains of
                     the Walla Walla, and there desperately and recklessly encamped? To what
                     destruction were many of these daring spirits exposed, forced by the attacks of
                     famine and the scarcity of fresh beef to live for weeks together on hard bread
                     and pickled pork? They might yet have kept together had the whiskey still held
                     out; but alas! like the early cloud and the morning dew, it passed away, and
                     even the jar that contained the ears of P. P. Mox Mox was exhausted! Then they
                     returned—slowly and sadly they returned—and those who had never been peppered in service were mustered
                     out. Like the prophets of old, they went forth with their staff and their
                     scrip; but the staff soon resigned their commissions, and the scrip has not yet
                     been paid. But, by the blessing of Heaven and Saint Pike, that consummation, so
                     devoutly to be wished, will yet be arrived at. The scrip will be paid, and we
                     shall see Pike flourishing like a green bay horse.
                  "The toils and dangers of the war will be forgotten; in the elegant luxury and
                     refinement of their homes, hardships will be looked back upon with pleasure;
                     the physical suffering and results of exposure will yield to skilful treatment,
                     and those who have suffered from sleeping on hard beds in the wilderness, can
                     now console themselves by lying on wool.
                  "In future times, when by some impartial historian the present Oregon war is
                     faithfully depicted, posterity, as it peruses the volume, will drop a tear o'er
                     the picture of the sufferings of those noble volunteers that wallowed in the
                     Walla Walla valley, and their intrepid march into that country, and their
                     return, will excite a thrill of admiration as an adventure never equaled even
                     by Napoleon H. Bonaparte, when he effected the passage of the Alps.
                  But the war will soon be ended; it is even now drawing to a close. The
                     completion of the Pacific railroad, which may be looked upon as certain in the
                     course of the next fifty years, increasing our facilities for transportation of
                     arms and supplies, will undoubtedly have a most favorable effect; and I look
                     upon it as a matter of little doubt that, three or four hundred years from this
                     time, hostilities will have ceased entirely, and the Indians will have been
                     liberally treated with, and become quiet and valuable members of our
                     society.
                  The influence of that glorious banner will have been felt by them; they will
                     have been made to see stars; they will have been compelled to feel stripes; and
                     all will be peace and harmony, love and joy among them. Four hundred years
                        from this time, the descendants of
                     Kamiakin will be celebrating with our posterity the recurrences of this
                     glorious day, with feelings of interest and delight. While to-day that great
                     chief, moved by feelings of animosity toward us, sits and gnaws the
                     gambrel-joint of a defunct Cayuga pony, little knowing on which side of his
                     staff of life the oleaginous product of lactation is disseminated. But long
                     after that time shall arrive, centuries and centuries after our difficulties
                     shall have been settled, and the scrip, with accumulated interest, paid, may
                     our glorious institutions continue to flourish, may the Union be perpetuated
                     forever in perfect bonds of strength and faternal affection, and the 
                        
                           
                              "STAR-SPANGLED banner continue to wave
                              O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave."
                           
                        
                        MUSIC BY THE BAND.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               II. A CALIFORNIA "MODEL LOVE-LETTER."
               
                  
                     Mariesville july fore 1856.
                  
                  DEAR CATE, you know I luv you mor an any uther Girle in the World, and wat's
                     the Reson you allways want Me to tell you so. I no you ar almost gitting tired
                     of waiting for me; I no you luv me fit to brake your hart. I no we ort to git
                     marid, but how kin we if we kant—sa! Wat's the use in thinkin bout it. I thort
                     wen I sold mi mule that I wud have nough to pay the precher and by you nice
                     goun. But I tried mi luk at poker and got strapt the fust nite. Cate, you never
                     played poker—in korse not. Wel, it's a confounded mity nice game as long as you
                     kin sit behind a smorl par; but when you kant get a par, the pot's gone. I luv
                     you so much, Cate, that I almost hav a notion to sel me 1 horse wagin and buck
                     a nite or 2 at farow; but how kin I—sa!
                     Mi whol wagin wudent fech more an fore or 5 good staks. ile go back to the
                     mountings an work and dig and swet and do every thing I kin to get money to git
                     marid. I ain't any ways gelus, Cate, but pleze don't hug and kiss and set on
                     J——n B——s lapp any noor. you know he ain't worth shaks, he kant drink mor an 3
                     hornes 'thout gittin tite; I kin stand up under fiftey. You know I kin lick him
                     2, and hav dun it and kin do it agin. But I ain't a bit gelus, I no I out to
                     marid long ago. leven years is rether long to kort a gal, but ile hav you yit
                     Cate.
                  
                     Good by, till next we meet.
                     Your affeckunate Lover,
                     D—— G——.
                  
               
               
                  Note a bena, good-by agin. Run that feller off. 2th P. S. I'm nat a bit gelus,
                     Cate; but don't let him cum bout the house.
               
            
            
               
               
                  
                     LEFTENANT CARTER AND HIS SON.—See page 45.
                  
               
               
                  I.
                  ON Springfield Mounting, thar did dwell
                  A likely youth, I knowed him well;
                  Leftenant Carter's only son,
                  A comely youth, nigh twenty-one.
               
               
               
                  II.
                  ONE Monday mornin, he did go,
                  Intew the meadow for to mow;
                  And all ter once, he thar did feel
                  A pizen sarpent bite his heel
               
               
                  
                     THE PIZEN SARPENT.—See page 46.
                  
               
               
               
                  
                     VENGEANCE, SWIFT AND SURE.—See page 47.
                  
               
               
                  III.
                  QUICK as he felt the sarpent bite
                  He raised his scythe, with all his might
                  He struck ter once a deadly blow,
                  That laid the pizen creeter low.
               
               
               
                  IV.
                  HE tuk the riptyle in his hand,
                  And straight he went tew Molly Bland;
                  Oh! Molly, Molly, here you see
                  A pizen sarpent, what bit me.
               
               
                  
                     THE GRIEF OF MOLLY BLAND.—See page 48.
                  
               
               
               
                  
                     ZERUBBABEL IN TEARS.—See page 49. 
                  
               
               
                  V.
                  ZERUBBABEL, why did ye go,
                  Intu the meadow for to mow?
                  Oh! Molly Bland, I thought you knowed
                  'Twas Daddy's field, and must be mowed.
               
               
               
                  VI.
                  THEN Molly Bland, she squatted down,
                  And sucked the pizen from the wound;
                  But oh! she had a rotten tewth:
                  The venim soon affected both.
               
               
                  
                     THE STRICKEN FAMILY.—See page 50.
                  
               
               
               
                  
                     THE LAST SAD RITES.—See page 51. 
                  
               
               
                  VII.
                  OH, then they ware all spotted o'er
                  With all the colors that the sarpent wore,
                  They laid 'em both upon a bed,
                  And they swelled up and di-i-ed!
               
               
               
                  VIII.
                  THEN when they had gin up the ghost,
                  From "Springfield Mounting" they went post;
                  And they larfed, and sung, as up they went,
                  As chipper, as if there wa'nt no pizen Sar-pent.
                  
               
               
               
                  
                     EXIT ZERUBBABEL AND MOLLY BLAND.—See page 52.
                  
               
            
            
               IV. PHŒNIX ON AGRICULTURE.
               
                  San Francisco, Feb'y 7, 1856.
                  COL. J. L. WARREN, Sec. Cal. State Ag. Society:
               
               MY DEAR SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt, this day, of your very
                  polite and flattering invitation (dated Aug. 25, 1855,) to deliver a poem of my
                  own composition before the Annual meeting of the State Agricultural Society, in
                  September last. Though somewhat diffident regarding my powers in the poetical
                  line, (feeling in fact very much like the Irishman immortalized by Miller, who
                  when asked if he could play upon the fiddle, replied that "he presumed he could,
                  'though he had never tried,") I shall accept the invitation, and shall endeavor to
                  discharge the duty devolving upon me to the best of my ability. You do me more
                  than justice in supposing that I take a strong interest in the newly developed
                  resources of our glorious State, in an agricultural point of view; and I have in fact, as you may be
                  aware, devoted some little time to the pleasing science of horticulture in my
                  endeavors to show up the greens of California.
               I see nothing to regret in the arrival of your invitation, it gives me sufficient
                  time to prepare, and I doubt not, that by the return of last September I shall be
                  able to present to the Society a poem that will be among poems, what Niagara is
                  among cataracts, or Oregon among civilized nations.
               I already begin to feel a grand agricultural, floral horticultural, and
                  pomological poetic fervor stealing over me, under the influence of which, I have
                  without much effort composed the following admirable lines as a beginning: 
                     
                        Here's to the land of potatoes and carrots,
                        Whose banks grow wild, rich bacon and parrots;
                        Where each apple and pear a dollar apiece is,
                        And a man may devour just as much as he pleases;
                        (Spoken—If he's the money to pay for them.)
                        Where the soil is teeming with vegetable treasures,
                        And a pumpkin ten feet in circumference measures;
                        Where to root up a turnip, an ox team employed is;
                        By each laborer a very large salary enjoyed is;
                        (Play on the word celery.)
                        And kind Colonel Warren, with interest watches
                        The growth of his parsley and marrowfat squashes,
                        And stirs up the farmers, and gives them rules of action, and incentives
                           to exertion, and constantly teaches,
                     
                  
               
               How they ought not to let Oregon get ahead of them, but establish nurseries at
                  once where they could raise at very trifling expense, all kinds of grafted fruit,
                  pears and apples, and cherries and the most delicious peaches, &c., &c.,
                  &c.
               That last line seems a little exuberant, probably it results from the rich nature
                  of the soil, but there is plenty of time to apply the pruning knife. Thanking you
                  heartily for your kindness and presenting my compliments to the Society, to whom I
                  beg you will communicate my acceptance of their polite invitation,
               
                  I remain,
                  With great respect and esteem
                  Your friend and ob't serv't.
                  SQUIBOB.
               
            
            
               
               V. NEVER TOLD A LIE.
               SMALL Joe L—— was playing one sunny morning in a yard at the rear of his
                  residence, when essaying to cast a stone high in air, he found he had
                  miscalculated his strength, or the weight of the stone, as that missile slipped
                  from his fingers, and taking an entirely different direction from that intended,
                  went whack through a pane of glass in the neighbor's window. Mrs. Connolly, who
                  was engaged in washing in the kitchen, hearing the smash of glass in her spare
                  room, rushed hastily to the scene of action, and through the broken pane beheld
                  Joe in active retreat. Irate and indignant, the injured matron sought the presence
                  of Mrs. L——, and straight poured forth the story of her wrongs. Mrs. L—— assumed a
                  dignified air; the culprit was called to "the presence;" and the inquest on the
                  departed pane commenced. "Joseph," said Mrs. L——, with awful solemnity, "did you
                  break the glass in Mrs. Connolly's window?" "Yes'm," replied Joe with promptitude.
                  "Joseph," said Mrs. L——, "if you broke that pane of glass, I shall certainly
                  correct you: did you break it, Sir?" Joe hesitated, but conscience was powerful,
                  and he replied that he did. Mrs. L—— took a stick from the mantel-piece: "Joseph,"
                  said she, "if you broke that glass I shall correct you most severely: I ask again,
                  did you break it?" Joe looked at his mother; he looked at the stick; and hanging
                  his head, he murmured: "No ma'am." "There!" said Mrs. L——,
                  triumphantly, "that boy never told me a lie in his life. I know'd he
                  never broke no window; 'spect your little Guster broke it; she hove a stone clear
                  over our fence yesterday." That's a good style of encouraging truthfulness in a
                  child, "we don't think!"
            
            
               
               VI. SEWING MACHINE—FELINE ATTACHMENT.
               CIRCULAR: TO THE PUBLIC.
               PERMIT me to call your undivided attention to an invention lately made and
                  patented by myself, which is calculated to produce the most beneficial results,
                  and prove of inestimable value to mankind. It is well known that the
                  sewing-machines now so generally in use, are the most important invention and
                  greatest blessing of the age. Every lady considers this instruments indispensable
                  to her happiness; it has completely usurped the place of the piano-forte and harp
                  in all well-regulated families; and she who once purchased materials for clothing
                  by the yard, now procure them by the piece or bolt to enjoy the rational pleasure
                  of easily making them into garments.
               In the humble cabin of the laborer, and in the halls of the rich and great, now
                  resounds from morning until night, the whir of the sewing-machine. The result of
                  this universal grinding, although eminently gratifying to the sellers of dry
                  goods, and the philanthropic fathers and husbands who discharge their bills, has
                  not been of a favorable nature to our ladies in a physical point of view. It is
                  found that the constant use of the crank has brought on rheumatic and neuralgic
                  affections in the shoulder, and a similar application of the treddle has a
                  tendency to produce hip diseases, and white swelling of the knee-joint,
                  accompanied by nervous complaints of a painful character. The undersigned is
                  acquainted with a most estimable single lady of middle age, who, having procured
                  one of the fast-running machines, was so enchanted with it, that she persisted in
                  its use for thirty-six hours without cessation, and found, on endeavoring to leave
                  off, that her right leg had acquired the motion of the treddle in such a painful
                  manner, that it was impossible to keep it still, and her locomotion therefore assumed a species of polka
                  step exceedingly ludicrous to witness, and particularly mortifying to herself. I
                  regret to add that she was compelled, by a vote of the society, to withdraw from
                  the Methodist Church, on a charge of dancing down the broad aisle on a Communion
                  Sunday. A more melancholy instance was the case of Mrs. Thompson of Seekonk, a
                  most amiable lady, beloved and respected by all around her, but who, by constant
                  use of the crank, lost all control of the flexors and extensors of her right arm,
                  and inadvertently punched her husband in the eye, which, he being a man of
                  suspicious and unforgiving disposition, led to great unhappiness in the family,
                  and finally resulted in the melancholy case of Thompson vs. Thompson,
                  so familiar to most of the civilized world. A turn for mechanism, and an intense
                  desire to contribute to the happiness of the female sex, have ever been
                  distinguishing traits in my character. On learning these facts, therefore, I
                  devoted myself to a thorough investigation of the subject, and after a month of
                  close application, have at last made an invention which will at once do away with
                  every thing objectionable in the use of the sewing-machine.
               This beautiful discovery is now named
               
                  "PHŒNIX'S FELINE ATTACHMENT."
                  Like most great inventions, the Attachment is of great simplicity. An upright
                     shaft is connected with the machine by a cog-wheel and pinion, and supported
                     below by a suitable frame-work. Two projecting arms are attached to the shaft,
                     to one of which a large cat is connected by a light harness, and from the
                     other, a living mouse is suspended by the tail, within a few inches of the nose
                     of the motor. As the cat springs toward the mouse, the latter is
                     removed, and keeping constantly at the original distance, the machine revolves
                     with great rapidity. The prodigious velocity produced by the rapacity of the
                     cat in its futile endeavors to overtake the mouse, can only be imagined by one
                     who has seen the Attachment in full operation.
                  
                  It is thus that man shows his supremacy over the brute creation, by making even
                     their rapacious instincts subservient to his use.
                  Should it be required to arrest the motion of the machine, a handkerchief is
                     thrown over the mouse, and the cat at once pauses, disgusted.
                  Remove the handkerchief and again she springs forward with renewed ardor. The
                     writer has seen one cat (a tortoise-shell) of so ardent and unwearying
                     disposition, that she made eighteen pairs of men's pantaloons, two dozen
                     shirts, and seven stitched shirts, before she lay down exhausted. It is to be
                     hoped that the ladies throughout the land will avail themselves of this
                     beautiful discovery, which will entirely supersede the use of the needle, and
                     make the manufacture of clothing and household materials a matter of pleasure
                     to themselves, and exciting and healthy exercise to their domestic animals. I
                     present on page 63 an elevation of the "Feline Attachment" in operation, that
                     all may understand its powers, and none fail to procure one, through ignorance
                     of its merits.
                        ELEVATION OF 'PHŒNIX'S FELINE ATTACHMENT.'
                     
                     
                        
                           A. Sewing-Machine, Box-pattern,
                           $75 00
                        
                        
                           C. Cat, at various prices, say,
                           $2½ to 10 00
                        
                        
                           B. Vertical Shaft,
                           5 00
                        
                        
                           D. H. Projecting arms,
                           50
                        
                        
                           M. Mouse,
                           12½
                        
                        
                           Total cost of Machine and Attachment,
                           $90 62½
                        
                     
                      The Attachment will be furnished to
                     families having sewing-machines, on the most reasonable terms, and at the
                     shortest notice. Young and docile cats supplied with the Attachment, by
                     application at 348 Broadway, New York. Office of the Patent Back-Action Hen
                     Persuader.
               
            
            
               
               VII. PHŒNIX ON WET WEATHER.
               
                  Portland Oregon T. August
               
               IT gives me unfeigned pleasure to inform you that I am about to quit the gloomy
                  and never-to-be-dried-up sky of Oregon, and "repair without unnecessary delay" to
                  D——, on our borders. Yes, Sir, I'm off; "services" no longer required on these
                  inclement shores—shores, which, when you read of in Irving's "Astoria," you
                  naturally wish to behold, and admire old Astor's pluck in making establishments
                  thereon, and which, when you reach, you wish you hadn't, and admire still more old
                  Astor's good sense in breaking his establishments up, and quitting while there was
                  yet time.
               Rain is an exceedingly pleasant and gratifying institution in its way, and in
                  moderation; it causes the grass to grow, the blossoms to flourish, and is a
                  positive necessity to the umbrella-maker; but when you get to a country where it
                  rains incessantly twenty-six hours a day, for seventeen months in the year, you
                  cannot resist having the conviction forced upon your mind that the thing is
                  slightly overdone. That's the case in Oregon; it commenced raining pretty heavily
                  on the third of last November, and continued up to the fifteenth of May, when it
                  set in for a long storm, which isn't fairly over yet. There's moisture for
                  you.
               The consequences of this awful climate are just what might be supposed. The
                  immense quantity of the protoxide squirted about here causes trees, buildings,
                  streets, every thing, to present a diluted and wishy-washy appearance. The women
                  lose their color, the men their hair, (washed off, Sir,) and the animals, by
                  constant exposure, acquire scales and fins, like the natives of the great deep. In
                  fact, all the inhabitants of this territory have a generally scaly appearance, and
                     rejoice joice in a peculiar smell, a
                  combination, I should say, of a fish-ball and a fresh mud-sucker. The rains of
                  Oregon beat every thing in that line I ever beheld or conceived of. Those that
                  fell on Noah's ark were not more heavy; those of Nero, Caligula, and I. Neely
                  Johnson, not more terrible; nor those of Lady Suffolk and Moscow longer or
                  stronger, which is a slightly mixed metaphor of a very happy description. So, upon
                  the whole, I'm glad I'm off; yes, I am quite sure of it; and I long to get to D——,
                  where the people enjoy the light of the blessed sun, and where I can enjoy it
                  also, and dry my things, and read Irving's "Astoria."
               Howbeit, there are many interesting and curious things in Oregon; many odd and
                  entertaining people also therein; and I have seen much that was funny, and laughed
                  thereat, and should have laughed louder and longer if my mouth had not filled with
                  rain before I had half finished; and I might perhaps regret leaving a country in
                  which I have had so much positive enjoyment were it not that I have chronicled all
                  these amusing things and peculiarities, and shall be glad to get somewhere where I
                  can have a dry laugh over them. Such a thing as "dry humor" in Oregon is, of
                  course, a physical impossibility.
               A slight history of the Oregon war, with some incidents from the life of Pike, is
                  now in course of preparation, which, when finished, I will submit to you, with the
                  hope that it may prove entertaining and improving to your readers. The
                  information, certainly, is valuable, whatever may be the style. I inclose a short
                  "Pome," which tells its own story. Set to music, ("suthin slow, and
                  melancholy-like,") and accompanied by the swinette, I should think it
                  might be well adapted for the parlor, the boudoir, or the concert-room. It is a plain, unvarnished tale, not
                  only founded on facts, but with all three stories, and the attic, built of those
                  materials.
               
                  
                  STANZAS: LINES: SONG: BALLAD.
                  "Among them that came up to speculate in stock and
                     supplies."
                  A OREGON LAY.
                  BY A SURVIVING SUFFERER OF THE WAR.
                  
                     I.
                     Among them that come up to speculate in stock and supplies
                     Was a fellow named Stuart, a man of enterprise;
                     He bought him a switch-tail sorrel two-year old, which hed a white face,
                     And he bantered all Portland, O. T., for a three-hundred yard race.
                  
                  
                     II.
                     Thar was a man hed a horse, which he thought her pretty fair,
                     She was ginerally know'd as Millard's thousand-dollar mare;
                     He hadn't no idea, he said, of doing any thing so rash,
                     But he took up Mister Stuart for two hundred dollars, cash.
                  
                  
                     III.
                     So every soul in Portland, O. T., went straight down to the course,
                     And every cent we borryed, we bet on Millard's horse;
                     And thar was that speckilating Stuart, with his hand upon his hip,
                     And two men a-following with a tin pail full of dollars and a
                        champagne-basket full of scrip!
                  
                  
                     IV.
                     Wal, they measured off the ground, and the horses got a start,
                     And came running down right pretty, about four foot apart;
                     And the Millard mare had it all her own way, so every body said,
                     Till just as they got to the eend of the track, that are Sorrel shot suthin'
                        like ten feet ahead!
                  
                  
                     V.
                     Arter we seen that there riz a most surprising din,
                     And remarks like this ere followed, "Dog my everlastin skin,"
                     "I'll be dod-derned, and dog-gorned, and ding-blamed by Pike,"
                     And thar was such awful howling, and swearing, and dancing,
                     that many old people said they never had seed the like.
                  
                  
                     VI.
                     And that are speckilatin Stuart, he made matters worse;
                     He packed the money into a hand-cart, and did'nt care a cuss,
                     And sweetly smiling, pulled it off, as though he didn't mind the heft,
                     And since then we haint paid no taxes, nor bought nothing, nor sold nothing,
                        for I do suppose that in all Portland, O. T., there aint a single red cent
                        left.
                  
               
            
            
               
               YE WARRE-LYKE BALLADE OF YE ASTOUNDEDDE DOCTOR,
               BY PHENIX J. SQUIBOB
               
               
                  I.
                  IT was a fatte younge officer,
                  Who to a tayloure, came,
                  Tayloure! I would that thoue should'st make,
                  The garments that I name;
                  As quicklye as thoue mayeste
                  By either hooke or crooke,
                  And when they are completedde
                  Then charge them in thye booke.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  II.
                  A COATE of brighte blue broadclothe,
                  With buttons alle of gilte,
                  A sashe of crimsone net worke,
                  And a sworde with brazen hilte,
                  A veste of snowe white dimitye,
                  And one of the colour of cream,
                  And a paire of broadclothe breeches,
                  With a stripe on the outer seame.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  III.
                  THEN quickly seizing on his shears,
                  That tayloure did obey,
                  And ye garments, called for fashioned he,
                  In a quainte and curious waye,
                  In a harde knot he twined hys legges,
                  And to himself he said,
                  "I wonder, oh, I wonder,
                  If ever I'll be paid!"
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  IV.
                  TO Ye Taylours's shop so gallantyle,
                  Ye officer did come;
                  He clapped ye coate upon his backe
                  As ye Tayloure named ye sum.
                  Then sweetly thanked ye Tayloure,
                  For making him ye clothes,
                  And marched off, wagging pleasantlie
                  Hys fingers on hys nose.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  V.
                  A YEAR soon passed, and all that time,
                  Ye Tayloure never hearde
                  From that fatte younge officer, hys pen,
                  Or otherwise a word;
                  He layed his shears upon his benche,
                  Hys goose upon a coate,
                  And with hys leggs all tangled up
                  He wrote him off a note.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  VI.
                  "HOW now! oh, fatte younge officer!"
                  Thus the tayloure he did say,
                  "For your raiment that I furnished,
                  Do you never mean to pay?
                  Now quickly send ye moneys
                  For all that I did make,
                  Or something awful I will do
                  To make ye Earthe to quake."
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  VII.
                  THEN laughed ye fatte younge officer
                  At ye Tayloure hys queer scrawl,
                  And though it was annoying
                  Was not annoyed at all.
                  No moneys had he, and he told
                  Ye Tayloure hys sad state,
                  In a letter which he wrote to him
                  "All for to irritate."
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  VIII.
                  THEN wrathfulle waxed ye Tayloure,
                  And quickly he did send
                  To a high-born ladye who lived neare,
                  Who was his dearest friend;
                  And while with rage hys knees they smote,
                  And countenance turned pale,
                  He excited all her sympathy
                  By hys interesting tayle.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  IX.
                  TO her Lord, a learned Doctore,
                  Ye high-born ladye came;
                  "Now by my faith and halidome"
                  She cried, "It is foul shame."
                  Then the fat man's audacity
                  To him she did bewail,
                  And their tears flowed together o'er
                  The mournful taylour's tayle.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  X.
                  NOW ye Doctor was a wise man,
                  Of exceeding great renown,
                  So he got him in hys buggye,
                  And posted up to town.
                  To all that officer, hys friends,
                  He quicklye spread ye news,
                  How fearfully that fleshy one,
                  Ye tayloure did abuse.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  XI.
                  BUT ye Tayloure got hys moneys,
                  And then sayed, to be sure
                  He'd been as Taylours sometimes are,
                  A little premature.
                  So he wrote to ye young officer,
                  And gave hym great applause,
                  And he sayed he was a gentleman—
                  He always knowed he was.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  XII.
                  BUT this moved not ye Doctor,
                  Whose ideas being few,
                  When that he had got hold of one,
                  Was bound to put it through.
                  So in a friendly manner,
                  He still did circulate
                  The storye of ye letter,
                  That was wrote to irritate.
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  XIII.
                  BUT ye aunt of ye younge officer,
                  She was a warre-lyke mayde,
                  And she sharpened up her finger-nayles,
                  Aud to his mother sayd,
                  "It is our determination
                  Straight to prepare for war;
                  So up ye guards and at 'em,
                  We'll fix this old Doctor."
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  XIV.
                  BEHOLD them then, these fearless ones,
                  Ye mother and ye mayde,
                  How gallantly against ye foe,
                  Ye fat one they "arrayed."
                  Upon his belt they hung hys sword.
                  And so they marched him round,
                  All which warre-lyke preparations
                  Ye Doctor did "astound."
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  XV.
                  YE Doctor was "astoundedde,"
                  He wrote and told him so,
                  And sayed "if fyghtynge was their game,
                  With hym it was no go;
                  He had bled for hys countrye,
                  In fact had blystered too,
                  But with feuds of this description
                  He would nothing have to do."
               
               
                  
               
               
               
                  XVI.
                  HERE'S a health to ye, Doctor.
                  Ye Tayloure and hys friend,
                  And whatsoe'er they undertake
                  May full success attend.
                  Goose, syringe, shears and press-board
                  Doses, draughts and pills,
                  Cabbage and cathartics,
                  Scissors, lancet, buckram, BILLS.
               
               
                  
               
            
            
               
               IX. LIFE IN PANAMA.
               SCENE.—The interior of one of our principal hotels.—GEN. PLATES, the "spirited
                  proprietor is discovered sitting behind his bar, engaged in the pleasing
                  occupation of estimating the profits of the day, and reflecting on his "sacred
                  honor." A long table is seen in an adjoining apartment, covered with dirty sheets,
                  and lavishly spread with dark boiled rice, jerked beef, hard bread and the other
                  delicacies of the season. Deep groans are heard at intervals from the two hundred
                  and forty famished boarders, imprisoned and partially smothering in squads of five
                  in small pens, six feet by eight. A decidedly un-wholesome effluvia pervades the
                  entire building.
               
                  GEN. PLATES (reflectively).
                  —Two hundred and forty boarders, at two dollars a day, is, let me see, twice
                     oughts an ought, and—four hundred and eighty dollars, from which take for
                     expenses, say five dollars, leaves a clear profit of ——
               
               (Enter DODGE, BLATHERSKITE, FLATBROKE and
                  others.)
               
                  DODGE.
                  —Well, General, the steamer are here, and me and the
                     boys is bound to go. Now, we've been a living with you for two
                     weeks, and what with the derned monte banks and other extravagances, we're
                     completely busted, and havn't a red to pay our bills with.
               
               
                  GEN. PLATES.
                  —Why, d——n your impudence,——
               
               
                  BLATHERSKITE,
                  —Oh, dry up, General. Here, just take a look at this here, [Hands
                     a document to Plates, who reads aloud:]
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           TO THE PUBLIC.
                           
                              CITY OF PANAMA, New Granada, Lion's Den, OCT. 1,
                                 1852.
                              TO GEN. PLATES, COL. T. CUPP, LT.-COL. SAUCER, and MAJ. POTT.
                           
                           
                              Gentlemen,—At a large and respectable meeting ing held by your guests
                              this evening, in the bar room of your exquisite hotel.
                           A. Dodge, Esq., of Texas, was called to the Chair, and Kosciusko
                              Blatherskite, of New Foundland, chosen Secretary.
                           On motion of Capt. Flatbroke, a committee was appointed to draft
                              resolutions, expressive of the sense of the meeting, consisting of Mr.
                              Dunep, Dr. Busted, and Capt. Flatbroke, who retired a few minutes, and
                              returned with the following preamble and resolutions:
                           Whereas, it becomes us all to be grateful and benevolent to all who
                              treat us with impunity; we cannot therefore resist the incumbent duty
                              that is now forced to devolve upon us, of expressing at the following
                              time our sentiments in regard to our kind reception, elegant
                              entertainment and genteel treatment by Messrs. Plates & Co., the
                              worthable proprietors of the Lion's Den, in this city; and when we
                              think on the above, we would, in our unitarian capacity, give
                              emitterance to the following resolutions:
                           
                              Resolved 1st.—That since we landed at Aspinwall, we have
                              been treated awfully by everybody, and plundered beside, except
                              General Plates & Co.
                           
                              Resolved 2nd.—That we advise hereby most earnestly all
                              our friends, who intend to cross the Isthmus, to go by the way of Cape
                              Horn.
                           
                              Resolved 3rd.—That we deem the Lion's Den at Panama,
                              under its present management, equal to any house in the United States,
                              and rather a-head of the Astor House and Lovejoy's Hotel.
                           
                              Resolved 4th.—That we consider General Plates & Co.
                              Perfect gentlemen, and that they spare no pains or expense to appear
                              so.
                           
                              Resolved 5th.—That we caution all travelers across this
                              Isthmus against the Montebanks and the Peter Funks on this route, for
                              our experience calls forth our most bitter indignation as American
                              citizens.
                           
                              Resolved 6th.—That the proceedings of this meeting be
                              presented to General Plates & Co. and published in the Panama
                              papers, the New York
                              Courier and Enquirer, Harper's Monthly Magazine, and the Farmers'
                              Almanac, for 1853.
                           
                              (Signed) A. DODGE, Chairman.
                              K. BLATHERSKITE, Sec.
                              And 1600 others.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  GEN. PLATES.
                  —(Smiling.)—Well, boys, this is doing the fair thing. Never mind
                     the bills, they aint much any how, I reckon. Walk up and liquor. [All imbibe an
                     infusion of pokeberries and alcohol, and exeunomnes, mutually delighted with
                     each other.]
               
               
                  SQUIBOB.
               
            
            
               X. A TRIP TO OREGON.
               On the 16th day of September I received a letter from my correspondent in
                  Australia which convinced me that flour was about to make an unprecedented and
                  unheard of rise. I have been nipped slightly heretofore in flour speculations;
                  green and inviting appeared the floury paths before my mental vision, and I regret
                  to say that I returned from their pursuit with just a shade of the greenness
                  adhering to me, in a figurative point of view; but this time I determined to make
                  a sure thing of it.
               The last quotations from Oregon, (which land I never hear mentioned without
                  associating it with the idea of Bartlett pears at one dollar a piece and
                  particularly rotten inside) showed that flour might be purchased there for five
                  dollars per barrel. "If, then," said I to Mrs. Butterfield, "I repair to Oregon,
                  my dear, and purchase two thousand
                  barrels of flour at five dollars per barrel, and returning to San Francisco,
                  incontinently sell the same at eleven dollars per ditto, our circumstances will be
                  slightly improved."
               Mrs. Butterfield had seen at Guerin's a perfect love of a velvet mantle; a brown
                  velvet mantle profusely embroidered, for which they asked but one hundred and
                  twenty-five dollars, and she said she thought "it would be a good thing." And so I
                  went down to the steamship Columbia, and purchased "A" stateroom, and had my trunk
                  "dragged into camp" in stateroom "A." I detest and despise going to sea; it makes
                  me sick at my stomach and I cannot agree with that young man who, on being
                  reminded that "a rolling stone gathers no moss," replied, "never mind the
                     moss—let us roll." I do not like to roll at all, and I sincerely
                  believe that the man who first invented going to sea was some most abandoned
                  rascal, who could not under any circumstances be permitted to live on shore, and I
                  wish from my heart he had been drowned, and the invention lost with him. So that
                  when I had paid sixty dollars to Purser Meade, who like the beverage that bears
                  his name, is of a mild though sparkling disposition, and is moreover constantly
                  effervescing with good humor, I went below, and gazing with a discontented air at
                  stateroom "A," thought to myself I had given a very high price for an emetic.
                  However, when one has made up his mind to be slain, it is certainly the best plan
                  to employ a regular physician and have it done secundum
                     artem, and it was a great relief to my mind to find the Columbia a
                  clean and comfortable steamship, where if one had to die, he could at least die
                  with decency. The Captain too had such a cheery good natured smile on his handsome
                  face, such a roguish twinkle about his eye, such a strong expression of wishing to
                  make every one happy about him that it was difficult to conceive that anything
                  very disagreeable could happen where he commanded.
               You must have heard of the "Dalls of the Columbia." Well, that may appear a slight
                  digression, but the Captain is "one of them." The Columbia went to sea and I went
                  to bed in the second berth in stateroom "A." As Lever's hero, Charles O'Malley, invariably remarks, after getting
                  a lick on the back of the head, "I knew nothing more" until the arrival at
                  Mendocino Mills. Confused visions of Mrs. Butterfield, nursing a fifty lb. sack of
                  flour, which changed occasionally into a bowl of gruel, and then into a large wash
                  basin, prevailed in my mind, I remember, during this period; but at Mendocino
                  Mills I arose, girded up my loins, and the Columbia being very quiet, came forth
                  like a young giant refreshed with new wine. In fact, as the Captain pleasantly
                  remarked, I "opened like a psalm book."
               Even a tortoise draweth suddenly in his head when smote from the rear by some evil
                  disposed urchin with a stick; so suddenly did I disappear within the shell of
                  stateroom "A," when the Columbia left Mendocino Mills. Then an interval elapsed,
                  and we arrived at Trinidad. This place derives its name from the Latin words
                     Trinis, three, and Dad, father,
                  having been originally discovered by three Catholic priests. The town consists of
                  about thirty mules, being packed with whiskey for the mines on Trinity river.
                  Another interval of wash basin and gruel and we anchored at Crescent City. This
                  little place has quite an active and bustling appearance. It is the depot of the
                  Klamath mines, and appears to be very much of a business place. At the door of the
                  principal public house, sat a forlorn, lost looking girl, who had once been
                  beautiful; she was neatly and handsomely dressed, but there was a look of
                  suffering about her pale and care worn face that I shall not soon forget. I was
                  told she was the proprietor of the establishment. Poor thing.
               There is some surf at Crescent City, and unless you embark cautiously you are very
                  liable to get your trowsers wet. I never do anything cautiously. We arrived at
                  Port Oxford one night, and disembarked Lieut. Kautz and eight mules belonging to
                  the 4th U. S. Infantry. Lieut. Kautz commands the military post at Port Oxford I
                  was told, but what the military post is, I am not informed; probably they use it
                  to tie the mules to Port Oxford is a small place, a very small place. I heard that
                  the Columbia once got up steam and left here, without casting off one of her stern
                     lines, and accidentally towed the
                  whole city up the coast about forty miles before the line parted, very much to the
                  confusion of one Tichnor, who having been elected a member of the Oregon
                  Legislature, sailed off in a small schooner to find that body, but being
                  unsuccessful, attempted to return to Port Oxford but did not get in for some time
                  owing to that accident.
               Imagine the feelings that animated my mind as we arrived—I sprang hastily from the
                  steamer; I saw my friend Mr. Leonard G. Green, the great Portland jobber and
                  importer, on the dock. I seized him by the arm and led him one side—"Butterfield,"
                  said he, "how do you do?" "Never mind," replied I, in a faltering voice; "I want
                  to buy two thousand barrels of Oregon flour!"
               Leonard G. Green smiled; he was not at all excited, and he answered "Probably!"—I
                  gasped for breath. "Tell me," said I "how is flour selling?" Leonard G. Greene
                  looked me calmly in the eye and answered slowly "Eleven dollars and a half a
                  barrel!" I am not a profane man; I attend the Rev. Dr. Scott's church regularly,
                  have family prayers in my household, and say grace over my frugal repasts; but
                  dog-gorn——never mind, as the man said "I couldn't begin to do justice to the
                  subject."
               I wrote a letter, a doleful letter to Mrs. Butter-field that night, and the brown
                  velvet embroidered mantle, still hangs in Austin's window.
               I walked up the street of Portland and heard a man scream out, "J. Neely Johnston
                  is Governor of California, ha! ha! ha!" Confound Portland and Oregon Teritory; I
                  wish from the very bottom of my heart that Pierce would appoint John Bigler
                  Governor of it.
               
                  Yours in deep disgust,
                  AMOS BUTTERFIELD.
                  
                     Flour and Pork
                     Near the corner of Battery and Front
                     Orders from the country promptly filled.
                  
               
            
            
               
               XI. BUTTERFIELD AT THE BALL.
               You have not heard from me for some time. I have been "round," however, which is a
                  pleasant metaphorical way of expressing the fact that I have been about, and is
                  not intended as an allusion to my figure, though I weigh two hundred and
                  forty-three net, and it might appear appropriate to scoffers. Since my unfortunate
                  expedition to Oregon, I have been attending closely to my legitimate business, and
                  do not mind saying that I have been tolerably successful. I did a little thing in
                  butter last week, not after the manner of the celebrated sculptor Canova—who, I am
                  told, used to carve horses and other animals out of that oleaginous substance,
                  which looked well but became unpleasant to the smell in a short time—but in the
                  way of speculation, which increased creased my satisfaction and my balance at
                  Doolittle, Walker & Leggett's, my bankers, in no small degree.
               I was sitting in my counting-room a few days since, in an amiable frame of mind,
                  thinking of that butter which I had sold to a manufacturer to grease the wheels of
                  his manufactory, and wondering whether its strength increased the power of the
                  machinery, when Podgers, of Gawk & Podgers, Battery street, dropped in.
                  "Butterfield," said he, "don't you want to go to a ball?" A vision of Mrs.
                  Butterfield resplendent in her new dress, which, though of late importation, she
                  calls "more antique," passed before my mind. I thought of the balance
                  at Doolittle's, and in my usual prompt and decided manner replied, "Well, I don't
                  know." "It's a complimentary ball," said Podgers, given for the benefit of the
                  officers of the Army and Navy, and comes off at Madame Pike's on Friday. (The name
                  is Pique, and is pronounced Pi-quee, but Podgers don't understand
                  French." Now I always liked the officers, poor fellows; they look so prettily in their
                  brass-mounted clothes, and walk around with such a melancholy air, as though they
                  were wondering how they manage to support existence on their pay and allowance—and
                  how the deuce they do puzzles me. So after a few words more with Podgers, we
                  started off to purchase the necessary pasteboard. I suppose it was because the
                  ball was a national affair that we went to the United States Mint for that
                  purpose. Here we were introduced to a singularly handsome young fellow, who gazed
                  rather dubiously on Podgers and myself when he preferred our request. "The ball is
                  to be very select," said he. "Ah," replied I, "that's exactly the reason we wish
                  to patronize it." The young gentleman could not withstand the smile with which
                  these words were accompanied. "What name?" said he. "Butterfield," I replied.
                  "Flour and Pork," said he, with a kindly expression. "Corner of Battery and
                  Front," I answered, and the thing was done. Podgers got his ticket also, and we
                  left the Mint arm in arm, wondering if the lovely design for a head on the new
                  three dollar piece was intended for a likeness of the U. S. Treasurer, of whose
                  agreeable countenance we caught a glimpse as we retired. Mrs. Butterfield was
                  delighted, so was Austin, I fancy; he sent me a note a day or two after, very
                  prettily conceived, with Honiton, Valenciennes, point, edging, and other hard
                  words in it, which must have given him great satisfaction to compose. I purchased
                  of Keyes (not that Keyes, but the other firm) a new blue dress coat with brazen
                  buttons, military, you know; a pair of cinnamon colored leg scabbards, and a very
                  tasty thing in the way of a vest, garnet colored velvet with green plush cross
                  bars, in which I fancied I should create something of a sensation. I also dropped
                  in at Tucker's, and seeing a pretty breastpin in the form of a figure 2, which he
                  said was a tasteful conceit for married men, showing that there were two in the
                  family, I bought that also, and hereby acknowledge that it has given me great
                  satisfaction. Friday evening at last arrived. Podgers was to come for us in a carriage at 8 o'clock, and we commenced
                  dressing at three, immediately after dinner. My friends have sometimes flattered
                  me by remarking something in my air and personal appearance resembling the late
                  eloquent Daniel Webster (formerly Secretary of State under Tyler's
                  administration.) After dressing, and going through the operation which Mrs.
                  Butterfield unpleasantly terms prinking, I walked into the room of our next
                  neighbor, (we board at the corner of Stockton and Powell) under the pretence of
                  borrowing a candle. He was sitting by the fire smoking a cigar and reading
                  Tennyson's poems, which I take this opportunity of declaring are the silliest
                  trash I ever had the misfortune to get hold of.
               "Mr. Brummell," said I complacently, "do you think I look at all like the great
                  Daniel?" Brumell gazed on me with evident admiration. "Yes," he replied, "but you
                  are not near as heavy as he was." "No?" said I, "Why, Daniel Webster was not a
                     very large man." "Oh!" replied he, "I thought you alluded to
                  Daniel Lambert." This was a damper.
               We worked for three mortal hours getting little Amos to sleep. That child is two
                  years of age, possesses a wakefulness of disposition perfectly astonishing in one
                  so young, and has a pleasing peculiarity of howling terrifically in the night at
                  intervals of about twenty-five minutes. Paregoric and taffy were too much for him
                  this time, however; he succumbed at last, and dropped peacefully to repose at
                  half-past seven, to a second. At eight, Podgers and the carriage arrived. Mrs.
                  Podgers came up in Mrs. Butterfield's room to show herself. She was tastefully and
                  magnificently attired. She wore a white crape illusion with eighteen flounces,
                  over a profusely embroidered tulle skirt, looped up on the side with a bouquet of
                  Swiss meringues. Her boddice was of sea-green tabbinet, with an elegant pincushion
                  of orange-colored moire antique over the bertha.
                  Her head-dress was composed of cut velvet cabbage leaves, with turnip au naturel, and a small boned turkey secured by a golden wire, "a la maitre d' hotel," crowned the structure. Podgers
                  gazed upon her with complacent and pardonable pride. We descended to the carriage,
                  but finding it impossible for all of us to ride within, Mrs. Podgers stood upon
                  the seat with the driver, Mrs. Butterfield and I got inside, and Podgers walked.
                  [By the way, on this account, he subsequently, in an unjustifiable manner,
                  objected to paying his proportion of the expenses of transportation, as had been
                  agreed upon between us.] On arriving at Mrs. Pique's, I regret to say, an
                  unpleasant altercation took place between myself and our driver on the subject of
                  the fare. I was finally compelled to close the discussion by disbursing ten
                  dollars, which that disagreeable individual unnecessarily remarked, "was only a
                  dollar a hundred after all." On entering the hall, which was brilliantly
                  illuminated, we were struck with its size and elaborate ornaments, and also with
                  the unpleasant fact that nobody was there. The fact is, we had arrived a little
                  too early. However, we amused ourselves walking about, and Podgers got into the
                  supper room, where he broke a sugar chicken off the top of a large cake, to carry
                  home to his little Anna Maria, and being detected therein, was summarily ejected,
                  and had the chicken taken away from him, at which Mrs. B. and I secretly rejoiced.
                  At ten o'clock, the company began to arrive, and in half an hour the large hall
                  was crowded with the beauty, fashion and extravagance of the city. It really
                  brought tears of delight to my eyes to see the number of lovely women that San
                  Francisco can produce, and to think what immense sums of money their beautiful
                  dresses must cost their husbands and fathers. Sets of quadrilles were formed, then
                  followed the fancy dances, polkas, redowas, and that funny dance where the
                  gentleman grabs the lady about the waist with one hand, and pumps her arm up and
                  down with the other, while hopping violently from side to side, after the manner
                  of that early and estimable Christian—St. Vitus. I cannot pretend to enumerate the
                  ladies whose charms particularly impressed me. Moreover, if I could, it would be of little service to the
                  public, for it is in the fashion to do this sort of thing by initials, and who
                  would recognize "lovely Mrs. A., with her ugly daughter, in white cottonet, and
                  magnificent Mrs. B., the cynosure of all eyes in a peignoir of three ply carpeting, with a corsage de gunny bag and a point appliqué
                     robe de nuit, or the sweet Misses C. in elaborate Swiss ginghams,
                  with gimp cord and tassels and a fauteuil de
                     cabriolet. Suffice it to say that the loveliest ladies of San
                  Francisco were there, and the belle of the evening was unquestionably Miss ——,
                  though many preferred the mature charms of the radiant Mrs. ——. [You perceive that
                  these blanks are left for the convenience of those who wish to send this
                  description to the Eastern States, who hereby have my express permission to insert
                  any names they may think appropriate.] One lady, I observed, whose dress, though
                  no great judge of dry goods, I should imagine to have cost in the neighborhood of
                  fifty barrels of mess pork. Everything went off admirably. Wobbles, of Wobbles
                     &
                  
                     DARK INFANTRY—AN ASS-SAULT.—See page 125.
                   Strycum, who was present with his daughter, a young lady of nine years,
                  with a violent propensity to long curls, dressed in crimson silk with orange
                  colored pantalettes. Wobbles, who has a very pretty way of saying poetical things,
                  remarked with great originality, that "soft eyes spoke love to eyes that spoke
                  again, and all went berry as a marriage mell," and I agreed with him.
               The officers were all there, moreover, radiant in brass coats and blue buttons—I
                  mean blue buttons and brass coats—and looking divinely. One of them accidently
                  trod on my toe, but before I could utter the exclamation of anguish that I was
                  about to give vent to, he said so sweetly "Don't apologise," that the pain left me
                  in a moment. "The officers of the Vincennes, though sufficiently handsome are not
                  tall men. This, Podgers remarked, was a dispensaton of Divine Providence, as the
                  Vincennes is only four feet six between decks, and they would be constantly
                  bumping their heads if they were taller.
               At two o'clock we sat down to supper. Magnificent nificent indeed—turkeys, chickens, salads,
                  champagne—everybody gobbling and guzzling everything, presenting to my mind a far
                  finer spectacle than the vaunted Falls of Niagara, which I think have been much
                  overrated.
               Podgers, who is always doing something unpleasant, emptied a plate of oyster soup
                  on my head, merely saying, "Beg pardon, Butterfield," in consequence of which I
                  found a large stewed oyster in my right whisker on returning to the ball room, and
                  was made exceedingly uncomfortable during the rest of the morning.
               The ball was delightful. I heard the Consul of New Zealand say it was ravissant, and though with but a dim idea of his
                  meaning, I am sure it was. We returned home at 3½ A. M. The street around our
                  residence was lighted up as if for a celebration; people stood around the
                  door-steps, and an old gentleman with a watchman's rattle in his hand, both
                  slightly sprung, was leaning out of an upper window of No. 3 below. A loud shout
                  hailed us as we approached, but high above that shout, loud above the whirr of the
                  rattle, shrill above the rolling of our carriage, sounded an alarum that we
                  recognized but too well. It was the voice of our little Amos. The dear child had
                  woke up the whole street, and it is a marvel that he had not awakened the sleepers
                  in John Jones of Peter's cemetery, "just beyond. "For—the name of Butterfield, as
                  you well know, is synonymous with that of Truth,—but if that boy hadn't shattered
                  every pane of glass in our front windows, and loosened all the top bricks of the
                  chimney by the concussion of the air produced by his screaming, I wish I may never
                  sell another lot of extra clear bacon. The paper was loosened from the walls, the
                  plaster falling from the ceiling, the wash basin and——, everything was broken, and
                  there lay Amos black in the face, gurgling in his throat, and his small blue legs
                  kicking up toward Heaven. We did not get asleep until rather late that morning,
                  and what with damages, repairs, hack, drivers, dresses and tickets, the little
                     balance at Doolittle, Walker &
                  Leggett's is nearly exhausted.
               Perhaps we shall go to another ball at Madame Pique's, soon, if so, I will send
                  you an account of it.
               
                  Very truly yours,
                  AMOS BUTTERFIELD,
                  
                     Flour and Pork,
                     Corner of Battery and Front streets
                     Country orders solicited and promptly filled, etc.
                  
               
            
            
               XII. SQUIBOB'S "COMPOSITION OF ARMIES,"
               A NEW METHOD OF ATTACK AND DEFENCE OF POSTS.
               The subject of composition of Armies, that of fortification, and the attack and
                  defense of military posts, have for many years been considered of the first
                  importance to the safety and welfare of nations, and have in consequence, been
                  elaborately treated of by Vauban, Cormontaigne and other eminent scientific men,
                  of their own and later periods.
               With the advance of civilization, refinement and scientific discovery, we should
                  naturally be led to expect new discoveries and improvements in these important
                  branches of the military art.
               Such is however by no means the case. Whether a state of peace has operated
                  unfavorably to the prosecution of military research, or that the great minds of modern philosophers are turned
                  exclusively to such sources of discovery as may operate more to their personal
                  emolument than to the benefit of future generations, it is useless to
                  discuss,—true it is, however, that in all essential particulars the art of war
                  remains in precisely the same state that it was left by the savans who wrote upon
                  it half a century ago.
               Feeling deeply the necessity of some more perfect means of defence than these
                  comparatively uneducated and uninformed writers have left us, the writer
                  remembering the maxim of the immortal Washington, "In time of peace prepare for
                  war," has devoted himself exclusively for two days to the most close and vigorous
                  research into the principles of the military art, and has finally, by combining
                  the most valuable ideas of the more scientific writers slightly modified by some
                  originality of his own, obtained a system of defence which he thinks more suited
                  to the present advanced stage of science.
               This system he would present with becoming deference and humility to the approval
                  of his brother officers, with the hope that they will think it peculiarly adapted
                  to the defence of our own beloved country, when left, in accordance with the
                  message of a late executive, to the tender mercies of armed steamboats and the
                  militia.
               And first, with regard to the composition of armies for offensive operations in
                  the field. For this purpose let a body of men between the ages of eighteen and
                  forty-five be selected, if for immediate active service, blacks should be
                  selected, as being undoubtedly more offensive than whites. These men,
                  after being properly drilled to act in concert, should be armed in the following
                  manner. Each man to be provided with one of Colt's patent revolving six-barreled
                  rifles, with the necessary ammunition.
               2d. A large tin case perforated with holes on the top, is to be filled with black
                  pepper and suspended by the right side.
               3d. A dress cap made of tin and lined with flannel, the top of which is a cylinder
                     containing the material for
                  generating sulphuretted hydrogen gas, with a stop-cock in front, opening by the
                  pressure of a spring, immediately over his right ear. Each man on being enlisted
                  should be furnished with a staunch and well trained bull-dog, which he will take
                  the greatest possible care of, and which he should teach carefully to come and go
                  at his command. (See Page 128.)
               Both men and dogs should be accustomed by frequent drills to the odor of the gas
                  they carry about them, and should be exercised frequently with their pepper pots
                  before being taken into the field. Sneezing on such occasions should be looked
                  upon as a serious military delinquency, and treated accordingly. These preliminary
                  steps being taken, the troops are ready for service.
               On the eve of a battle, they will throw up a continuous line in their front,
                  consisting of a parapet and ditch of the usual form and dimensions.
               On the advance of the enemy they open a rapid and severe fire with their revolving
                  rifles, which must of course appal and disconcert the enemy. On the slightest
                  symptoms of retreat, the bull-dogs will be loosed and encouraged to charge the
                  retreating foe. This they will do en masse, and seizing the unhappy wretches by
                  the seats of their trowsers, will delay their progress or drag them back within
                  close rifle shot. This will generally decide the affair. If, however, in
                  consequence of vast numbers or determined bravery, the enemy advance to the
                  trench, a warm fire must be kept up.
               On coming to close quarters, the men will use their pepper pots vigorously.
                  Nothing can withstand this system,—with eyes smarting and blinded with pepper,
                  noses offended with the stench of the parapet, deafened by the barking of the dogs
                  and incessantly annoyed by their sharp and tenacious gripe, the enemy, though
                  composed of the best materials that ever made up an army, must give way and fall
                  an easy prey in their torturing retreat, to our victorious arms.
               When flying artillery is used in connection with these troops, it will consist of four and six pound
                  field-pieces, carefully strapped on the backs of stout jackasses and pointed to
                  the rear. These being fired the recoil will arouse all the natural obstinacy of
                  the animal, who, thinking he is pushed forward, will instantly move stern first,
                  with incredible celerity, towards the enemy. When a retreat is ordered, the men
                  serving the gun will pull the beast's tail, who will immediately change his motion
                  and rush forward with impetuosity. It is thus that man shows his supremacy over
                  the brute creation, in rendering even their evil dispositions subservient to his
                  designs. (See Page 128.)
               The next subject proposed for our consideration, is that of fortification.
               We have seen in the works of Vauban, Mahan, Cormontaigne etc., that in following
                  their various systems,—however well we may fortify a place, however carefully we
                  may defilade our works, and satisfy the conditions imposed as requisite to a good
                  defence, we are still unable to render a place impregnable pregnable. It is
                  acknowledged by all writers upon this subject, that the beseigers have an
                  advantage over the beseiged, which however well it may be defended, will
                  inevitably lead sooner or later to the capture of their work. With this great
                  principle established, our course is a very simple one. In fortifying a particular
                  site, let the space to be occupied by the garrison be entirely inclosed by a
                  continuous line of bastioned fronts, constructed according to the most approved
                  modern system.
               There will however, be this slight difference,—all the salients will be directed
                  inwards, toward the common centre, and the gorges of the bastions, demi-lunes,
                  etc., turned outward, and left entirely unprotected. This will give the garrison
                  all the advantages claimed by the besiegers; for the besieging army marching up,
                  will immediately occupy the works from without. The garrison having, in
                  expectation of this movement, made the necessary preparations, will instantly
                  commence the construction of parallels, boyaux, etc., and in forty nights with the assistance of divine providence,
                  and in accordance with our distinguished authority, infallibly carry the place,
                  thus completely turning the tables on their adversaries.
               In constructing the trenches, the mens' coats should be carefully lined behind
                  with sheet-iron, and thus rendered musket proof. This will prevent the necessity
                  of defiling the trenches from a severe fire,—if indeed the bull-dogs have not
                  already defiled them sufficiently.
               The writer will here leave the subject. It is however his intention to submit
                  these notes to the War department, and if his sanguine expectations should be
                  realized, his system adopted, and he should meet with that reward which he
                  modestly believes his suggestions deserve,—an immediate brevet,—he assures his
                  comrades that he shall never consider himself in the least elevated above them. He
                  will always be happy to meet them, and if they should be so fortunate as to
                  receive commissions in regiments formed upon his system, he can recommend them a
                  man who will sell them most excellent bull-dogs of a fierce and savage breed,—and
                  pepper-pots of a new and peculiar construction.
            
            
               
               XIII. BOSTON—A MORAL CITY.
               It is Sunday in Boston. I have been sitting in my room, No.78 Tremont House; by
                  the window, which commands a cheerful view of a graveyard, musing on various
                  matters and things in a solemn state of mind well befitting the place and the
                  occasion. Seventeen inches of snow fell last night, and Boston looks white like
                  the Island of Ichaboe, and to the full as desolate. Through the hollow and
                  reverberating passages of this ancient building; around the corners of the sinuous
                  streets; from each door and window, in every private and public building, and from
                  the houses of God, resounds the peculiar sharp, hacking cough of the population of
                  Boston. Every soul of them has it. It is the disease of the country. When I meet
                  an acquaintance in the street, I abstain from the usual greeting, and invariably
                  say, "How is your cough?" and the reply invariably is, "About the same." Coughing,
                  and the ancient pastime of hawking, (followed by expectoration,) are the principal
                  amusements in this cold city. In the grave-yard beneath my window, on a slate
                  tombstone, may be found, I am informed, the following touching inscription: 
                     
                        "Here I lie bereft of breath,
                        Because a cough carried me off,
                        Then a coffin, they carried me off in;"
                     
                   which, I doubt not, describes the case of the majority of the silent
                  incumbents of that place of rest.
               The Tremont House is in many respects a good institution; it is perfectly clean
                  and well arranged, the attendance is good and the fodder excellent; but there is
                  an indescribable air of gloom and solemnity pervades the entire establishment well
                  suited to Boston, but chilling to a stranger to the last degree. The waiters,
                  dressed in black with white neckcloths, move silently and sadly about the
                     tables bles, looking like so many
                  Methodist ministers with thirteen children, four hundred a year, and two donation
                  parties; the man in the office never smiles—in any point of view; a large Bible
                  with the name of the House stamped upon it in gilt letters, (to prevent religious
                  strangers from bottling it,) lies on every table, and the chambermaids attend
                  family prayers in the basement. All is "grand, gloomy," and it must be confessed,
                  exceedingly peculiar. I have attempted but two jokes in this solemn place, and
                  they fell like the flakes of snow, silent and unnoticed. An unfortunate individual
                  in the reading-room last evening was seized with an unusually violent fit of
                  coughing, which, if a man could by any possibility be turned inside out, would
                  have done it; and as a partial cessation of it occurred, with his hair standing on
                  end, (he had coughed his hat off,) his face glowing with exertion, and the tears
                  standing in his unhappy eyes, he very naturally gave vent to a profane execration.
                  Every body looked shocked! I remarked in an audible tone to my companion panion,
                  that the exclamation was a coffer-dam; an admirable contrivance for raising
                  obstructions from the bottom of streams, and probably adopted by the gentleman to
                  clear his throat; but no one laughed, and I incontinently went to bed.
               This morning on arising I discovered that my boots, left outside the door to be
                  embellished with blacking, had, like those of Bombastes, not been displaced; so I
                  said to the porter, a man of grave and solemn aspect: "You have a very honest set
                  of people about this house." "Why?" said the porter, with a somewhat startled
                  expression. "Because," I rejoined, "I left my boots outside my door last night,
                  and find this morning no one has touched them." That man walked off all slow and
                  stately, and never knew that I had been humorous.
               Disappointments have been my lot in life. I remember in early childhood going to
                  the theatre to see Mrs. W. H. Smith appear in two pieces; the bills said she would
                  do it, and she came on the stage perfectly whole and entire like any other lady.
                     Upon on the whole it is my
                  impression that Boston is a dull, gloomy, precise, and solemn city, which I take
                  to be owing entirely to the intense cold that prevails there in the winter, which
                  chills and freezes up the warmer nature of the inhabitants, who don't have time to
                  get thawed out before the cold comes back again. I have met many Bostonians in
                  more genial climates, who appeared to be very hearty and agreeable fellows.
               I took a short ride yesterday in the Metropolitan Rail-Road cars, which are
                  dragged by horse-power from the Tremont House to Roxbury. The only other occupant
                  of my car was a young and lovely female in deep mourning. She wore a heavy, black
                  veil, and her thick and auburn hair was gathered up on each side her face beneath
                  a spotless cap, a widow's cap of snowy muslin. I had always a feeling for widows;
                  young and pretty widows particularly, always excite my deepest interest and
                  sympathy. I gazed with moistened eye on the sweet specimen before me, so young, so
                  beautiful, I thought, and alas! what suffering she has experienced. I pictured to
                  myself her devotion to her husband during his last illness, the untiring
                  watchfulness with which she hung over his pillow, the unwearying and
                  self-sacrificing spirit with which she hoped on, hoped ever, till in despite of
                  her care, her love, he sank forever, and her agonized shriek rang in my ear, as
                  with hands clasped and upturned eye, she felt that he was dead, her dream of life
                  was over, her strength was gone, her heart was broken. The young widow had been
                  regarding me earnestly during this time, and probably imagined what was passing in
                  my mind, for throwing her veil over her hat, she turned partly around toward me,
                  and looking steadfastly in my face—she winked her eye! Yes, sir, she winked her
                  eye at me—the moral Phœnix; and I rose from my ashes and left the
                  metropolitan car and returned to the Tremont House.
               They don't have theatrical performances in Boston on Saturday evenings; the
                  theaters open at 3 o'clock P. M., and the performance is over at six. Thalberg was
                  allowed to give a concert here last
                  evening, however. He was practising a little this morning also on the piano, when
                  a message came from a serious family in the next room begging him not to play
                  dancing tunes. He didn't.
               I had intended to have written to you more at length, but am off to New Orleans
                  directly, and must pack my trunk. Boston is a great place. I am sorry I hadn't
                  time to go and see the Monastery presided over by Abbot Lawrence, that was burned
                  by the Orangemen.
               
                  Yours truly and respectfully,
                  JOHN PHŒNIX.
               
            
            
               XIV. A JOURNEY FROM BOSTON TO NEW ORLEANS.
               
                  New Orleans, La. 1857.
               
               On the fifth of January, at eight A. M., I left the Tremont House in a hackney
                  carriage, the wheels whereof had turned into runners. This method of progression,
                  rendered necessary by the deep snows, is considered a great amusement in the
                  North. Being particularly dangerous to life and limb, and usually terminating in
                  pulmonary consumption, the pastime is very properly called sleighing.
               With a through-ticket for the great city of Cairo in my pocket, I took a seat in
                  the cars at the Worcester rail-road depot. After waiting half-an-hour, during
                  which time my sympathies were deeply interested by the performance of an unhappy
                  young couple, one of whom was going somewhere and the other wasn't, and who in
                     consequence sequence were slobbering
                  over each other to a terrible extent, a sudden harsh bark was heard from the
                  engine, a grating jar, which acted on my teeth like lemon-juice, followed, and we
                  were off. The motion of a rail-road car is of two kinds, which may be called the
                  "heave and set, or whip-saw movement," and the "tip and sifter," names
                  sufficiently expressive to require no farther explanation. We started on the
                  "heave and set," which gradually merged into the "tip and sifter" as our velocity
                  increased.
               On entering a rail-road car the first object of the solitary traveller should be
                  to secure an entire seat to himself. This may generally be done successfully by
                  taking the outside seat and skilfully disposing a small carpet-bag, great coat,
                  umbrella, and cane, so as to cover the inner one. As the passengers throng into
                  the car, many will gaze earnestly at the place thus occupied, but will usually
                  prefer to move on rather than give you trouble; but if the car is quite filled,
                  the question will undoubtedly be asked, "Is that seat taken, Sir?" when you should
                  reply with an imperturbable countenance, "It is, Sir! and the inquirer, with
                  perhaps a slight glance of suspicion, will move on. As a man's object should be to
                  make himself as comfortable as possible in this world, that his mind may be in a
                  proper frame to prepare for the next, a slight deviation from truth for the
                  purpose of securing this object, like the above, is quite pardonable, in which
                  opinion I am corroborated by my dear friend and Christian teacher, Rev. H.
                  B.—tch—s, whose celebrated and useful aphorism, "Never lie, unless it is
                  necessary," will doubtless recur to the reader's mind.
               Having made my arrangements in accordance with these views, and being as
                  comfortable as circumstances would permit, the motion of the cars being that of a
                  small boat in a high sea, and their noise like unto a steam saw-mill, I composed
                  myself to the journey. At Framingham the usual nuisances of rail-road cars
                  commenced. First appeared the small boy with the Boston newspapers, which had been
                  brought to him by our train; then the
                  dirty boy, with the parched corn, who, in the intervals of trade, dabbles among
                  his merchandise with his sore hand, and devours so much of that dry commodity,
                  that you are fain to believe him to be his own best customer; then the big boy,
                  with the fearful apples, "three for five cents;" and finally that well-known, and
                  most indefatigable wretch with the "lozengers," who on this occasion actually sold
                  a roll of the description called "checkerberry" to an elderly individual of the
                  Muggins family sitting near me, who eat them, and to my great joy, became wofully
                  disordered in consequence. But the boy with the accordeon was not there—I think he
                  has not yet got so far North. It was but a week before that I met him, however on
                  the Philadelphia cars. It was after eleven o'clock; the train had passed New
                  Brunswick, and the passengers were trying to sleep, (ha! ha!) when the boy
                  entered. He was a seedy youth, with a seal-skin cap, a singularly dirty face, a
                  gray jacket of the ventilating order, and a short but remarkably broad pair of
                  "corduroy-corduroys." He wore an enormous bag or haversack about his neck, and
                  bore in his hand that most infernal and detestable instrument, an accordeon. I
                  despise that instrument of music. They pull the music out of it, and it comes
                  forth struggling and reluctant, like a cat drawn by the tail from an ash-hole or a
                  squirrel pulled shrieking from a hollow log with a ram-rod. This unprincipled boy
                  commenced pulling at his thing and horrified us with the most awful version of
                  that wretched "Dog Tray" that I ever listened to. Then he walked around the car
                  and collected forty-two cents. Then he returned to the center of the car, and
                  standing close to the stove, which was red hot—the night being cold—he essayed to
                  pull out "Pop Goes the Weasel," when suddenly pop went the boy; he dropped the
                  accordeon, burst into tears, and clapping his hands behind him, executed a frantic
                  dance, accompanied by yells of the most agonizing character. I saw it all, and
                  felt grateful to a retributive Providence. He had stood too close to the stove and his corduroys were
                  in a light blaze; a few inches below the termination of the gray jacket was the
                  seat of his wo. After he got on fire the conductor put him out, and a sweet and
                  ineffable calm came over me. I realized that "whatever is, is right," and I fell
                  into a deep and happy sleep.
               The musical nuisance, fortunately was spared us on this occasion. A tourist
                  travelling by railroad across the United States would have but little opportunity
                  to collect notes for his forthcoming work. Thus my idea of Albany, at which Dutch
                  village we arrived shortly after dark, are, a hasty scramble down a platform; then
                  huddling into a sled with other bewildered and half-frozen passengers; then a
                  rapid foot-race of about a quarter of a mile, encouraged by shouts of "Leg it! the
                  cars are off." "No they aint; plenty of time." "Hi! hi! there, round the corner,
                  them's the cars," etc.; then more cars and we ground on.
               It was on this Albany and Buffalo train that a little incident occurred which may
                  be worthy of mention, and serve as a caution to future innocent travellers. I had
                  observed that at each change of cars, and they were frequent, when the general
                  scramble took place, one car was defended from the assault by a stalwart man,
                  usually of the Irish persuasion, who deaf to menaces, unsoftened by entreaty, and
                  uncorrupted by bribes, maintained his post for the benefit of the "leddies."
                  "Leddies car, Sir, av ye please; forrid cars for gintlemen without leddies." Need
                  I say that this car so reserved was by the far most comfortable of the train, and
                  that with that stern resolve which ever distinguishes me in the discharge of my
                  duty toward myself, I determined to get into it coute qui
                     coute. So when we changed cars at Utica, I rushed forth, and seeing a
                  nice young person, with a pretty face, bonnet and shawl, and a large portmanteau,
                  urging her way through the crowd, I stepped up by her side and with my native
                  grace and gallantry offered my arm and my assistance. They were gratefully
                  accepted, and proud of my success, I ushered my fair charge up to the platform form of the ladies' car. My old enemy
                  was holding the door. "Is that your lady, Sir?" said he. With an inward apology to
                  Mrs. Phœnix for the great injustice done to her charms by the admission, I
                  replied: "Yes." Judge of my horror when this low employée of a monopolizing and
                  unaccommodating rail-road company addressing my companion with the tone and manner
                  of an old acquaintance, said: "Well, Sal, I guess you've done well, but I don't
                  believe his family will think much of the match." However, I got into the ladies'
                  car and having repudiated the young person Sarah, got an exceedingly pleasant seat
                  by the side of a very warm and comfortable young lady of a sleepy turn and quiet
                  disposition. I wouldn't have exchanged her for two buffalo-robes, but alas! she
                  got off at Syracuse, and then, frosty Caucasus, how cold it was! And so grinding,
                  and jolting, jarring, sliding, and freezing, wore away the long night.
               In the morning we were at Buffalo. I saw nothing of it but a rail-road depot; but
                  I remember ber thinking as I stamped my feet and thrashed my arms to restore the
                  circulation, that if that sort of weather continued, "the Buffalo girls couldn't
                  come out to-night," and would probably have to postpone their appearance until the
                  summer season.
               Among the passengers on the Erie rail-road was a very interesting family, on their
                  way to Terre Haute. (Ind.) There was the father, a fine manly figure; the mother,
                  pale, delicate, and lady-like; and niece, cousins, and babies innumerable, but all
                  pretty and pleasant to behold. But the gem of the family was "Belle." Belle was
                  the factotum, she nursed the babies, went errands for her father, helped her
                  mother, and was always on hand to render assistance to any body, anywhere; and
                  though her patience must have been sorely tried, she preserved her amiability and
                  genuine good nature so thoroughly that she became to me an object of constant
                  attention and admiration. She was evidently the manager of that family, and went
                  about every thing with a business-like
                  air, quite refreshing to observe. She was about sixteen years old, very pretty,
                  neatly dressed, and of a most merry and vivacious disposition, as was evinced by
                  every sparkle of her bright eyes. Farewell, "Belle," probably you'll never see
                  this tribute from your unknown admirer, or meet him in propria personæ but the loss will hardly be felt, for you must have
                  more admirers already than you know what to do with. Happy is the man that's
                  destined to ring the Belle of Terre Haute.
               All day and all night we ground on, "ripping and staving." We passed through
                  Columbus where the people had been having a grand ball to celebrate the completion
                  of their State Capitol, and picked up three hundred and eighty-four survivors,
                  each of whom contained a pint and a half of undiluted whiskey. And so in the
                  morning we came to Cincinnati, where for fifteen minutes we tarried at the Burnett
                  House, the most magnificent hotel in these United States. Here I met with Fisher,
                  the celebrated rail-road traveller, who accompanied us to Sandoval, and with whom
                  I was particularly charmed. Fisher is the original inventor of that ingenious plan
                  of getting rid of an unpleasant occupant of the same seat, by opening the window
                  on the coldest night, so that the draught shall visit searchingly the back of the
                  victim's neck; and of that method of taking up the seat and disposing it as an
                  inclined plane, and going to sleep thereon in such a complicated manner as to defy
                  subsequent intrusion. What he does not know about rail-roads is of no manner of
                  consequence and useless to acquire. Thanks to his experience, we enjoyed the
                  luxury of two seats together, and it was with deep regret that I parted with him
                  at Sandoval. The change of cars from the Erie to the Illinois Central, is a
                  delightful incident. The latter has the broad gauge, the seats are comfortable and
                  convenient, the speed exhilarating, and no exertion is spared by the civil
                  conductors to render the passengers as happy as circumstances will permit. I have
                  never travelled more comfortably than on the Illinois Central tral, and hereby wish long life and prosperity to
                  the company.
               The third day and the third night were over, we had passed safely through the city
                  of Sandoval, which consists of one house, where the cars are detained five hours
                  for the benefit of an aged villain who gave us very poor roasted buzzard and
                  called it wild turkey; and, grateful to Providence, we arrived at Grand Cairo.
               I stepped out of the cars a shorter man than when I started. The friction for
                  three days and three nights had reduced my height two-and-a-half inches; a
                  singular psychological fact, which I recommend to the consideration of the learned
                  Walker.
               Cairo is a small hole at the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi River,
                  surrounded by an artificial bank to prevent inundation. There are here about
                  thirteen inhabitants, but the population is estimated at three thousand, that
                  being a rough estimate of the number of people that were once congregated there,
                  when five trains of cars arrived before a boat left for New Orleans. They were
                  enjoying the luxury of the small-pox at Cairo when we arrived; they are always up
                  to something of the kind; a continued succession of amusements follow. The
                  small-pox having terminated its engagement, the cholera makes its appearance, and
                  is then followed by yellow fever for the season. Sweet spot! Dickens has
                  immortalized it under the name of Eden, an evident misnomer, for no man worth as
                  much as Adam could remain there by any possibility.
               The fine steamer "James Montgomery" was about to leave for New Orleans, and we
                  soon found ourselves most comfortably, indeed luxuriously established on board. A
                  very merry passage we had to this great Crescent City, under the charge of our
                  stout and jovial captain, whose efforts to amuse us, seconded as he was by the
                  pretty and vivacious "widow," were entirely successful. The "General" also, a
                  noble specimen of the gentlemen of Tennessee, proved himself a most agreeable
                  travelling companion, and endeared
                  himself to our little society by his urbanity, cheerfulness and fund of amusing
                  and interesting anecdotes. Among our passengers was, moreover, the celebrated
                  Eliza Logan, probably the finest actress now on the American stage, who has
                  acquired a most enviable popularity, not only by her great profesional talent, but
                  by her charms of conversation and her estimable reputation as a lady. She chants
                  the "Marseillaise" in a style that would delight its author. One who wishes to
                  realize for an instant what death is, should listen to her enunciation of the last
                  words of the refrain of this celebrated composition; if he can repress a shudder,
                  he is something more or less than man. Accompanied by my old friend Butterfield,
                  who had joined us at Memphis, I landed at New-Orleans, and proceeded forthwith to
                  the Saint Charles Hotel. At this great tavern Amos expected to meet his wife, who
                  had arrived from California, to rejoin him after a three months' separation. I
                  never have seen a man so nervous. He rode on the outside of the coach with the
                  driver, that he might obtain the earliest view of the building that contained his
                  adored one. It was with great difficulty that I kept pace with him as he
                  "tumultuously rushed" up the step leading to the Rotunda. In an instant he was at
                  the office and gasping "Mrs. Butterfield." "In the parlor, Sir," replied Dan, and
                  he was off. I followed and saw him stop with surprise as he came to the door. In
                  the centre of the parlor stood Mrs. Butterfield. That admirable woman had adopted
                  the very latest and most voluminous style; and having on a rich silk of greenish
                  hue, looked like a lovely bust on the summit of a new-mown hay-stack. Butterfield
                  was appalled for a moment, but hearing her cry "Amos," he answered hysterically,
                  "My Amander!" and rushed on. He ran three times round Mrs. Butterfield, but it was
                  of no use, he couldn't get in. He tried to climb her, but the hoops gave way and
                  frustrated the attempt. He extended his arms to her; she held out hers to him;
                  tears were in their eyes. It was the
                  most affecting thing I ever witnessed. Finally Mrs. Butterfield sat down, and Amos
                  got behind the chair and kissed her, until their offspring, by howling and biting
                  the calf of his leg, created a diversion. They were very happy, so were the people
                  in the parlor. Every body appeared delighted; and a small boy, a year or two older
                  than little Amos, jumped up and down like a whip-saw, and halloa'd "Hoop-ee" with
                  all his might.
               "Butterfield," said I, an hour or two later, "I suspect that Mrs. Butterfield has
                  adopted hoops."
               "Oh! yes," answered he, "I saw that sticking out. Perhaps it will obviate the
                  little tendency she had to blow up. I'm glad of it."
               I have taken room No. 3683 in this establishment, and am a looker on in Vienna. To
                  be sure my view is that usually termed, "the bird's eye," but I am getting a
                  tolerably good idea of things. I should like very much to attend the ordination of
                  Brother Buchanan in March next, and hear the Russian Minister preach, but I fear
                  it will be impossible.
               You will hear from me when you receive my next letter. Respectfully yours.
               
                  JOHN PHŒNIX.
               
            
            
               
               XV. NEW ORLEANS—ITS HOTEL.
               The St. Charles Hotel is a lively and bustling village of about one thousand
                  inhabitants, pleasantly situated on the left bank of St. Charles street, which
                  meanders through the centre of that sweet and swampy city, New Orleans.
               The building presents a fine architectural appearance, being built of white
                  lime-stone, and having in front a colonnade of massive pillars, which have a very
                  imposing effect, in more than one sense, as they look like marble, and are in fact
                  brick covered with stucco. But in spite of its conglomerate character, the
                  structure is a fine one to gaze upon; and its inhabitants, owners, and New Orleans
                  at large, are proud and happy in its possession, and well they may be. The "St.
                  Charles" is the Mecca of the Southern States. When the last bale of cotton has
                  been shipped from the plantation and the last hogshead of sugar has followed it;
                  when falling leaves and frosty mornings betoken the approach of winter; when the
                  Spanish moss waves grandly from the lofty trees, alone in its verdure, and greasy
                  niggers loll idly on the river banks, their large mouths watering over visions of
                  "possum and hominy," then does the planter, rejoicing over the account of sales
                  received from his agent, pack his trunks, gather together his family and prepare
                  for his yearly pilgrimage. Having seen his family safely and comfortably bestowed
                  in their luxurious staterooms on board the floating palace that is to take him to
                  New Orleans, he then proceeds to the "social hall," where, after indulging in
                  sundry potent libations of corn-juice with a good set of fellows with whom he
                  finds himself at once acquainted, our planter gladly accepts the invitation of an
                  innocent-looking youth to play a little game of "euchre," "just for amusement."
                  The game accordingly commences and the party are soon deeply ly engaged in the mysteries of "passing," "ordering
                  up," and "going it alone." But the best of games becomes tiresome at last, and the
                  planter feels relieved when one of the party proposes to change the game to
                  "draw-poker" with a dime "ante," "just to make it interesting." Pokers are drawn
                  and the battle has begun in serious earnest. Our planter has various success; now
                  he is ten, perhaps twenty ahead, now five or ten "out," when suddenly, the
                  innocent youth having the deal, he receives a hand of blissful promise, three
                  queens, a seven, and four. How jealously our friend examines his hand, holding his
                  cards tightly together and moving them just sufficiently to be quite sure there is
                  no mistake about it. Then with a careless laugh he discards the worthless seven
                  and four, and says he believes he'll "go in." They all "go in," and a mass of
                  silver, with one or two aged and crumpled shin-plasters, adorns the centre of the
                  table. The innocent youth deals, and our planter, to his great satisfaction,
                  receives a pair of nines. He slips his cards hastily together, lays them on the
                  table and awaits the result of the betting. The red-nosed man on his right "goes a
                  five;" the man with the battered hat opposite, sees that and goes ten better; the
                  innocent youth "passes," and our planter, in a voice tremulous with emotion,
                  "sees" the last bet and "goes fifty better." The man with the red nose groans and
                  asks if he may take down his money, but the man with the battered hat, pushing
                  that article of dress still farther down over his sinister brow, puts his hands in
                  his pocket and pulls forth the money. Here it is, twenty, forty, sixty, "two
                  hundred dollars better!" The planter is surprised. He takes another secret but
                  earnest glance at his cards. "A full," it can't be beaten. Out comes the old
                  pocket-book, and he "calls." "Four kings," says the man with the
                  battered hat, and with the most business-like air imaginable rakes down the money
                  with one hand and turns over his cards with the other.
               Our planter is disgusted, he leaves the table with an imprecation referring to the
                  soul of the innocent cent youth, takes
                  more corn juice, and excepting a little dash at "chuck-a-luck" at which he loses
                  seven dollars and wins a horn-handled knife and a pocket-book, tempts fortune no
                  farther during the voyage. Meanwhile the innocent youth and his comrades divide
                  the money in the "barber's shop," and go on shore at the next landing, well
                  pleased with their success.
               On arriving at the St. Charles the planter's party are supplied with a parlor and
                  the necessary sleeping apartments, and commence living at the rate of about five
                  bales of cotton a week. The ladies come down to dinner the first day, presenting
                  perhaps a slightly seedy appearance. Hoops have not yet been heard of at Kentucky
                  Bend, and the bareges and organdies of last summer's wear look but limp and
                  tawdry, and compare unfavorably with the brilliant silk robes that surround them.
                  Still our family preserves a confident and well-satisfied air; they know "there's
                  a good time coming;" and it is refreshing to observe the defiant glance they cast
                  upon any individual vidual who may chance to look too long or scrutinizingly at
                  their habiliments. The next day the chrysalis has opened, the full-painted
                  butterfly comes forth. "Par" has been to his agents, the ladies have been to
                  Madame Weasel and Mlle. Chargenuff, and silk robes, with fearful flounces, hoops
                  of vast dimensions, point lace, ribbons, and other flummery, are the order of the
                  day.
               They breakfast at ten o'clock in the ladies' ordinary, an operation which takes
                  two hours and a half; then they go forth "shopping" (a groan comes in here from
                  every Benedict who reads this paper) until three; then "Adeline the hairdresser,"
                  performs the most remarkable feats with their natural locks and the new braids
                  they have purchased, and at half-past four they descend to dinner, arrayed in such
                  magnificence as Solomon in all his glory never began to have the least idea
                  of.
               Dinner, which consists principally in an animated contest with the waiters, who
                  won't bring any thing they are sent for, but will persist in carrying rying every thing off that may chance
                  to be upon the table, lasts an hour or two, and then our ladies adjourn to the
                  parlor, where sitting around in groups, surrounded by their favorite beaux, they
                  gaze affably on the grand crowd of masculine individuals that surround the door,
                  not one of whom knows a lady present, and not one of whom but wishes he knew them
                  all. However, "a cat may look upon a king," and we doubt not that Adam after being
                  kicked out of Paradise, frequently went and peeped longingly into the gate of that
                  garden. So continue to gaze, O Jones, Smith, and Robinson! and envy as you may the
                  happy fellows who have had introductions.
               In the evening our ladies go to the French opera, (where the performance is a
                  matter of secondary interest to the struggle of the spectators to out-do each
                  other in richness of attire,) or to theaters, or—it is a fact—to the circus, more
                  tastefully termed the "horse-opera," which last is patronized to a greater extent
                  in this city than any other place of amusement. Then comes supper, oysters and
                  cold turkey, and they retire.
               But on Monday evenings the St. Charles is in its glory, for then comes off the
                  weekly "hop." A hop is generally supposed to be a small and informal dancing
                  party, at which the ordinary dinner dress may be worn with respectability.
               But as the ladies from Mississippi, and Tennessee, and Louisiana, and Kentucky,
                  and Arkansas, and Milliken's Bend, and every other part of the world, have a large
                  number of party dresses of amazing beauty and richness, and not a very great
                  number of opportunities of displaying them, it so happens that our "hops" at the
                  St. Charles Hotel, are what in other places are denominated full-dress balls. Here
                  you may see the celebrated Mrs. A——, whose first husband left her in possession of
                  such an immense estate, accompanied by her niece, the lovely Miss A——, the belle
                  of Alabama; the dashing and magnificent widow B——, whose four hundred bales a year
                  are her least attraction; the exquisitely beautiful Mrs. C——, from "the Coast," whose charms of manner and
                  conversation have made her the belle of the St. Charles; Mrs. D——, quiet but
                  observing; pretty Miss E——, from Kentucky; lively Miss F——, the Philadelphia
                  heiress; Mrs. G——, tall, stately, and always tastefully dressed; little Miss H——,
                  with her hair done à la Chinoise, and her feet
                  in the same style; the pretty Misses J——, Kentucky beauties; Miss K——, superbly
                  dressed, whose dress-maker's bill is fifteen hundred dollars a year; Madame L——,
                  the "Admirable Crichton" of the female sex, from Mobile; and so on through the
                  alphabet, including all the wealth, fashion, beauty, and extravagance of the
                  South.
               It was at one of these gay reünions that dear little Miss B——, one of the
                  prettiest and best girls in the world, asked Butterfield, who stood sweltering in
                  the corner, how he enjoyed himself.
               "Hops," replied the sage, "have a soporific tendency, and I do mainly incline to
                  sleep."
               "You look," said little Miss B——, "as if a continuation of these hops would bring
                  you to your bier."
               Amos acknowledged the malt by a cheerful guffaw, and looking down on his swelling
                  form murmured, "Larger," and subsided into an arm-chair.
               Annually at the St. Charles are given those grand dress balls, which have attained
                  a Union-wide celebrity, and which are well worth travelling over the Union to
                  attend.
               Three thousand invitations were issued to the grand ball of this season, and a
                  more crowded, uncomfortable, or magnificent spectacle I never expect to witness.
                  The large suite of rooms were crowded to excess by the most lovely, bewitching,
                  and animated crowd that ever were assembled. Dancing was impossible, they could
                  not do the schottisch, there was not room to pump arms. But it was a glorious
                  spectacle, and so select. I observed among the masses on that gay occasion, the
                  curvilinear proboscis of a well-known Hebrew, who supports himself and contributes to the
                  happiness of mankind by selling shirts on Canal street. He was enjoying himself
                  greatly in a full flow of the finest spirits, when he suddenly "paused in mid
                  career," blenched, and his face assumed a fine expression of humility and
                  confusion.
               Looking about for the cause of this appearance, I descried Butterfield gazing upon
                  the victim with a highly virtuous and indignant glance. "What are you looking at
                  the man for?" said I; "you don't know him."
               "Don't I?" said Amos in a vindictive whisper; "but I do though. Sell shirts, Sir;
                  sold me a shirt without any——, well," added he in modest confusion, "when I came
                  to examine it I found it was like Halley's comet, or that fox that Æsop tells
                  about after he got out of the trap."
               "You don't tell me that," said I.
               "It's so," replied Butterfield; "look here," and pulling me into a corner, he drew
                  from the pocket of his vest a crumpled piece of paper, which thrusting into my
                  hand he whispered, "Read that," and disappeared.
               I opened the paper and with some difficulty deciphered the following touching and
                  beautiful 
                     
                        "LINES TO A NISRAELITE."
                        "Oh! were we but alone, in some region wild and woody,
                        I'd like to punch your head, old Shylock, Nazareth —— dy.
                        A cambric shirt to me you once did make a sale of,
                        But when I took it home, I found you'd cut the —— off;
                        Whether to make a cravat, or whether to wipe your nose, Sir,
                        I really do not know, but on me you did impose, Sir.
                        Like a man without a wife, like a ship without a sail, Sir,
                        The most useless thing in life, was that shirt without a ——, Sir,
                        'Vall it ish vary goot,' old Shylock Nazareth —— dy,
                        But I'd like to make you wear it, yes indeed, Sir, would I."
                     
                  
               
               The touching and plaintive character of this morceau affected me beyond description; it does, I think, great
                  credit to Butterfield's acknowledged poetical ability.
               I should say that there was a great deal of hospitality in New Orleans, which
                  (with some notable exceptions) appears to be graduated pretty closely to the
                  number of bales of cotton annually shipped to that city, by the recipient.*
                  As there
                     
                     *Thus it has been sagely remarked, that a stranger in New-Orleans must give
                        bale to be well-received, and hence, when a resident of the city is observed
                        to be peculiarly kind and attentive to a visitor, they are said "to cotton"
                        to each other.
                   are a vast number of
                  strangers that do not ship cotton at all, and of course have a great deal of
                  leisure time at their disposal, it follows that "the Rotunda" of the St. Charles
                  is pretty constantly filled. This "Rotunda" forms the centre of the building; it
                  contains about half-an acre of tesselated floor, and is furnished with most
                  comfortable, cushioned arm-chairs. Here, if you take a seat between the hours of
                  eleven A. M. and two P. M., you will have the pleasure of seeing every white male
                  inhabitant of New Orleans, and the majority of those inhabitants of the whole
                  United States that are worth knowing, and with whom you have acquaintance. They
                  come and go, a constant panorama of familiar forms and faces.
               The origin of the word "Rotunda" is singular, and not generally known. At the risk
                  of appearing pedantic, I will "norate" it. Many years ago, shortly after the
                  foundation of Rome, a distinguished architect of those days, named Claudius us
                  Vitellius Smithers, erected the first building that ever was surmounted by a dome.
                  This building was originally intended for a "savings institution," but the Roman
                  that officiated as cashier having left with the funds, it was used successively as
                  a market, dance-house, theatre, and Presbyterian meeting-house, and finally fell
                  into decay and became a mere mass of ruin. Such it remained until the time of the
                  Emperor Alexander Severus, when that monarch one day, accompanied by his
                  countries, came down to examine the ruins, with a view to purchasing the lot on
                  which they lay. Here the Emperor's eyes were attracted by the fallen dome, which
                  he gazed on with great curiosity, and finally picking his steps over the stones
                  and rubbish that intervened, he found his way beneath it. The ancient Romans had
                  the same partiality for cheap distinction that animates the modern Yankees; they
                  lost no opportunity of leaving their autograph in all public and private places;
                  the consequence was, that when the Emperor looked up he was amazed at the number
                     of inscriptions that the interior of
                  the old dome presented. It was quite black with ancient and respectable
                  appellations. "Ha!" said the Emperor Alexander Severus, with the air of a man that
                  has made a great discovery, (and with an utter disregard of all grammatical
                  rules,) "It's been wrote under."
               His principal courtier, Naso Sneakellius, instantly repeated the remark, with
                  sycophantic reverence to the by-standers, getting about as near it as that stupid
                  official generally did to every thing: "The Emperor," he said "says that this has
                  been a Rotunda. Hats off!"
               The Romans all bowed with great solemnity, not having the most dim or distant idea
                  of the joke, and the interior of a dome from that day to this has been called a
                  Rotunda.
               I have not told you one-half of the greatness and magnificence of the "St.
                  Charles," but I have not time nor paper to continue. I can only add that it is a
                  most agreeable place to pass the winter, that the proprietor is pleasant and
                  attentive to his numerous families, (when he makes a fortune the St. Charles Hotel
                  will make a great Haul,) and that any one who doubts that it is a delightful place
                  of sojourn had better proceed there at once and have his mind set at rest, which
                  can be done at small expense. Fain would I tell you of "the St. Louis," and of the
                  theatres, and of the opera, and of the "Boston Club," (so called from the sanctity
                  of appearance and dignified demeanor of its members, who are a right nice set of
                  gentlemen, and hospitable to strangers, cotton or no cotton,) but as the man who
                  lost his watch said, "I have no time." The other wonders of New Orleans for this
                  present, must go unrecorded by this veracious historian, for he is compelled to
                  dessicate.
               Adieu, should I write again, you will undoubtedly hear from me.
               
                  Respectfully yours,
                  JOHN PHŒNIX, Prof., etc.
               
            
            
               
               XVI. MATTERS AND THINGS IN SAN FRANCISCO.
               The Limantour (Le Menteur) title to about
                  one-half of San Francisco, has lately been confirmed amid weeping, wailing, and
                  gnashing of teeth. John Nugent of the Herald, remarked to me that
                  he didn't like the title of my book, "Phenixiana;" said it wasn't a good one. I
                  told him it was as good as any one; no title was worth a red cent in
                  this country. (Play on the word deed—he! he!) Like unto Mr.
                  Sparrowgrass, I have recently purchased a horse; bought him as "perfectly sound."
                  With the exception of two wind-galls, a splint, and a ring-bone, he appears to be.
                  But lo, you! as I was driving him a-down the street this morning, a man (Johnson,
                  you don't know him) said unto me: "Hello! why don't you get two
                  horses for that heavy buggy?—that's too much for one." I know you don't like
                     puns—I don't; despise any body that makes them: but I told Johnson
                  I didn't like display, and preferred to drive about in a one-horsetentatious
                  manner. (Play on the word charger.) Johnson smiled, and I went off
                  with upright carriage. Since writing the above, a little incident has (actually)
                  transpired that I think will please you. Our little girl, yclept Daisey, fourteen
                  months old, blue eyes, yellow hair, and with a gradually increasing taste for
                  comic almanacs, pleasing to notice, sat upon the floor playing with Harper,
                  Putnam, ye Eclectic, and ye goodlye Knickerbocker, when a sudden ejaculation from
                  the maternal relative, and the spectacle of the baby borne from the room with
                  great precipitancy, attracted my attention. The periodicals suffered. "Never
                  mind," said I to my wife, "I must tell my friend 'Old Knick' of that, and he will
                  rejoice with exceeding great joy to
                  hear it." "I don't see why," said she. "No?" answered I; "why what could be a more
                  satisfactory proof of a literary turn, than to find a child of this precocious age
                  pouring over the columns of the Knickerbocker?" By the way, this reminds me of
                  "suthin" else. Many months ago, when Daisey was but a callow infant, I was
                  afflicted with a grievous cough, and one night, far in the deep watches, I gave
                  vent to such a cough, prolonged, terrific, hideous, that I woke myself, wife, and
                  infant, which last set up a most unearthly and tremendous yell. "There," said my
                  sympathizing partner: "You've gone and woke up the baby." I was wroth at this
                  uncalled-for remark, and replied: "Well, I'm glad of it." There was a moment's
                  silence, and then she asked: "Why?" "Well," said I, "it shows the child has a
                  tender disposition and feeling heart. She is weeping over her father's
                     coughing." There was silence at the Mission of Dolores for the
                  space of about half an hour after that. I did not intend to have commenced another
                  sheet, but as I have done so, I cal'late I had better tell you a small anecdote
                  about Captain Wallen, of the Fourth Foot, which he told me, and I thought at the
                  time, I remember, was worthy of repetition. Wallen started down from the Dalles to
                  Vancouver, to bring up a party of recruits to fight the locomotive Indians. He
                  stopped for the night at the Cascades, in the house of an old man, hight "Uncle
                  Sammy," an inquisitive old fellow, about eighty-six, and deaf as a haddock. After
                  supper the old man, old woman, and Wallen, drew up chairs around a blazing wood
                  fire. The old man immediately commenced applying the brake, (good expression for
                     pump?) "What are ye goin' daöwn to the maöuth of the river for?"
                  "After recruits," replied Wallen, at the top of his voice. "Hey?" "After
                  Recruits!" roared Wallen again. "Can't hear ye." Then the old lady moved round,
                  and putting her mouth to the old man's ear, shouted, in a voice that would have
                  done credit to Stentor after he'd got a little in years: "He's a goin'
                     daöwn—arter ter
                  re-cruits—sugar—and—coffee—and sich!" One small (Irish) yarn more,
                  and I'll "dry up," tambien. Premises: You know a
                  soldier has two dresses—full-uniform and fatigue: the one blazing with worsted
                  embroidery; t'other, dull and sombre-looking. Patrick Hogan, of the Second United
                  States Foot, stationed, in the year of grace, '36, at Tampa Bay, E. F., went forth
                  one day into the wilderness near the barracks, and seating himself beneath a
                  palmetto, essayed to read a small Roman Catholic book called "The Words of Jesus,"
                  when "zoom!" a yellow-jacket hornet stung him under the left ear. "It
                  hurt," and Pat chased the "little animil" for some time, but
                  fruitlessly. Next day, went forth again: same tree; same book; "words," etc.;
                  every thing quiet, when, buzz! buzz! a large brown beetle came flying up. Pat
                  looked at him, and left: "Ah! be J——," said he, "my boy, d'ye think I don't know
                  you in yer fatagues?" On reading this over it don't sound as funny as
                  it did when Dr. Byrne of the United States Army told it to me; but
                  it's a deuced good story, and if ever we three meet again, I'll have him tell you
                  that, et al., which you never heard before.
            
            
               
               XVII. JOHN RANDOLPH OF ROANOKE.
               In an account of the death of John Randolph of Roanoke, which went the rounds of
                  the press a year or two since, it was stated that Mr. Randolph, during his last
                  moments, wrote the word "Remorse" on one of his visiting-cards, and continued to
                  gaze upon it with a melancholy expression until his eyes were closed in death.
                  This statement was dwelt upon with much unction, particularly by the religious
                  papers; the evident effect produced by it being the idea that this great man was
                  troubled in mind, at this solemn period, by the memory of some unrepented and
                  unatoned-for crime. The following passage from "Chittenden's Western
                     Virginia" may serve to throw some light on the subject:
               "The day after the funeral, a stranger, dressed in deep black, called at the
                  mansion and inquired for Mr. Randolph. He was ignorant of the melancholy event
                  that had occurred, and was profoundly shocked when told of Mr. Randolph's death.
                  He inquired particularly if Mr. Randolph had not asked for him, stated that his
                  business with him had been urgent, and that he had been especially directed to
                  call upon the day on which he arrived, and expressed the deepest regret that he
                  had come too late. On going away, the stranger left his card, on which was
                  engraved, 'R. E. Morse, Culpepper County, Va.' This man was never seen again, and,
                  though frequent inquiries were subsequently made for him, they proved
                  unsuccessful. It was supposed by Burwell that this must have been the agent
                  alluded to by Mr. Randolph in his account of the Cuban affair."
            
            
               
               XVIII. THE GYROSCOPE. A REVIEW.
               It is with the greatest pleasure that we acknowledge the receipt from that gifted
                  author, of the "Analysis of Rotary Motion, as applied to the Gyroscope," by Major
                  J. G. Barnard, A. M., Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army. The "Gyroscope" has always
                  been with us a favorite instrument. Of beautifully simple construction, easily
                  managed, and exceedingly gratifying in its results, we know of no machine equally
                  adapted to household use, or more eminently fitted for the amusement or
                  instruction of a small family. It has remained for Professor Barnard, in the
                  interesting treatise alluded to above, to explain, in a simple style, easily
                  comprehended by the merest child, the operation of this instrument, and to show by
                  a clear and beautiful analysis the principle upon which its results depend. There
                  are certain points in "the Analysis," however, on which, with all due humility, we
                  must venture to differ with Professor Barnard; for instance, on page 545 we have
                  the following: "Knowing this fact, we may assume that the impressed
                  velocity n is very great, and hence cosθ—cos a exceedingly minute,
                  and on this supposition obtain integral of equations 6 and 7, which will express
                  with all requisite accuracy the true gyroscopic motion." We doubt very much the
                  propriety of making these assumptions; the Mathematics is properly an exact
                  science, and we are by no means prepared to admit the exceeding minuteness of the
                  cosθ—cos a, until it is demonstrated to us unmistakably. Again, on page 545, the
                  Professor says: "By developing and neglecting the powers of u
                  superior to the square, we have: 
                     "sin2θ=sin2a - u sin 2 a + u2cos 2 a, etc."
                  
               
               Allow us to inquire the object of developing the powers of u, provided they are to be
                  subsequently neglected? Can Professor Barnard answer this question? Or, how do we
                  know that u, or its powers, are superior to the square,
                  which, as every school-boy knows, is next to the sphere, the most perfect of
                  figures? But we have no wish to be hypercritical; our remarks are merely made with
                  the object of discovering the truth, which result deep research only can obtain;
                  as Cicero beautifully remarks, "De profundis
                     clamavi," or "out of the deep have I procured a clam;" showing in a
                  figurative manner the necessity that he felt of thorough investigation on the most
                  ordinary occasions. The analysis of Professor Barnard is written in a playful,
                  humorous style, admirably adapted to popular comprehension, and, like the chaste
                  works of Professor Bache, formerly noticed favorably in this journal, contains
                  nothing that could bring a blush on the cheek of the most fastidious, the whole
                  subject being treated in the most delicate manner, and all unpleasant allusions
                  carefully avoided. We cordially recommend to each of our readers to purchase the
                  work for himself and Mrs. Smith, and a copy for each of the children, satisfied
                  that they will be well repaid by its perusal.
            
            
               
               XIX. THE SONG OF "NOTHIN' SHORTER."
               BY H. W. TALLBOY.
               I transmit to you a heroic poem, the production of the author, Mr. H. Wadding
                  Tallboy, which it strikes me any one might have waited to read, six months at
                  least, and probably longer, with satisfaction and advantage. Several friends of
                  mine, who have had a sly peep at the manuscript, declare that "this quaint legend
                  is told with exquisite grace, sweetness, and power!" and I trust you will be of
                  their opinion. You will perceive the moral is excellent, and the general tone
                  unexceptionable; nothing in fact being introduced which could bring a blush upon
                  the cheek of the most fastidious. The main incidents are facts; and thus woven
                  together gether form a pretty little romance, sweet indeed to dwell upon.
               
                  At the Mission of Dolores,
                  Near the town of San Francisco,
                  Dwelt an ancient Digger Indian
                  Who supported his existence
                  Doing "chores" and running errands,
                  (When he "got more kicks than coppers.")
                  He was old and gaunt and ghostly,
                  And they called him "Step-and-fetch-it."
                  Old and grim and ghostly was he,
                  Yet he had a lovely daughter,
                  Sweet and budding, though not blushing,
                  For her skin was kinder tawny,
                  So she really could'nt do it.
                  But she was a "gushing creature,"
                  And her springing step so fawn-like
                  "Knocked the hind sights" off the daughters
                  Of the usurers consequential,
                  Who in buggies ride, important,
                  Rattling past the lonely toll-gate.
                  Yes, a sweet and fairy creature
                  Was old "Step-and-fetch-it's" daughter,
                  And her name was "Tipsydoosen,"
                  Or ye young grass-hopper eater!
                  
                  Should you ask me whence this story,
                  Whence this legend and tradition?
                  I should answer, "That's my business;
                  And were I to go and tell you,
                  You would know as much as I do."
                  Should you ask who heard this story,
                  This queer story, wild and wayward?
                  I should answer, I should tell you,
                  All the California people,
                  Pipes of Pipesville, King of William,
                  Jones and Cohen, Kean Buchanan,
                  And Miss Heron, sweet as sugar;
                  And the Chinese, eating birds'-nests,
                  Well they know old "Step-and-fetch-it."
                  Near a grocery at the Mission,
                  Step-and-fetch-it and his daughter
                  In the sun were once reclining.
                  Near them lay a whiskey-bottle,
                  Mighty little was there in it,
                  For the old man's thirst consuming
                  Caused that fluid to evaporate.
                  In his hand old 'Step-and-fetch-it"
                  Held a big chunk of boiled salmon,
                  And as fish, bones, all he bolted,
                  Wagged from side to side his visage,
                  And with moans, strange, wild, portentous,
                  Sung the song of "Nothin' Shorter,"
                  Accompanied by Tipsydoosen,
                  In four sharps, upon the Jew's-harp.
               
               
                  "Twang a diddle, twang a diddle
                  
                     Twang a diddle, twang a diddle,
                  
                     Twang, Twang, Twang, Tum!"
               
               
                  "Nothin' Shorter" was a "digger;"
                  So am I, and nothin' shorter;
                  (Thus he sang, old "Step-and-fetch-it,")
                  And he lived upon the mountains,
                  Dug his roots and pulled the acorns,
                  And the rich grass-hoppers roasted.
                  Happy was he, bold and fearless,
                  Had no troubles to molest him,
                  Had no fleas upon his blanket,
                  For in fact he had'nt got one.
                  "But one morning gazing earthward,"
                  He beheld a pond of water
                  Which he forthwith fell in love with,
                  And the pond reciprocated.
                  And they loved each other fondly,
                  Happy long they were together.
               
               
                  
                     Twang a diddle, twang a diddle,
                  
                     Twang! Twang! Twang!
               
               
               
                  Yes, the pond loved "Nothin' Shorter,
                  Every day she bathed his forehead,
                  Gave him drink when he was thirsty,
                  Would have washed him well all over,
                  Only that would take the dirt off,
                  And the grease, and yellow ochre,
                  In which his very soul delighted.
                  But "they lived and loved together;"
                  Yes, they lived and loved together
                  (An original expression)
                  Till the sun, with fever scorching,
                  Caused the little pond to "dry up."
                  Then was "Nothin' Shorter" angry.
                  Loud he howled, and tore his breech-cloth.
                  And with fury shrieked and danced,
                  
                  As on the sun he poured his curses.
                  And he cried, "O Scallewagger!"
                  Which is the Indian name for sun, "Sir,
                  You have been, and gone, and done it.
                  It was you dried up my sweet-heart,
                  Killed the beauteous Muddybottom,
                  You confess it; you confess it."
                  And he saw the sun wink at him,
                  As if to say he felt glad of it.
                  Then up started "Nothin' Shorter,"
                  And making quick a pair of mittens
                  Out of willow-bark and rushes,
                  With them rent a crag asunder,
                  Rent a jutting crag asunder,
                  And, picking up the scattered pieces,
                  Hurled them at the sun in vengeance,
                  And so fast the rocks kept flying
                  That the air was nearly darkened
                  And obscured, so "Nothin' Shorter"
                  Could not see but what he hit it.
                  So he ran and kept on throwing
                  Stones and dirt, and other missiles,
                  Till the sun, which kept retreating,
                  Got alarmed at his persistence,
                  And behind the western mountains
                  Hid his recreant head in terror.
                  But the last rock "Nothin' Shorter
                  Threw, fell back on his "cabeza,"
                  And produced a comminuted
                  Fracture of the cerebellum.
               
               
                  
                     Twang a diddle, twang a diddle,
                  
                     Twang! Twang! Twang!
               
               
                  For some time poor "Nothin' Shorter'
                  Lay upon the earth quite senseless,
                  Till a small exploring party
                  Under Colonel John C. Fremont,
                  Picked him up and fixed his bruises,
                  
                  Put on "Dalley's pain-extractor,
                  And some liquid opodeldoc.
                  When relieved, though sorely shattered,
                  He sat up, upon his haunches,
                  And to Fremont told his story.
                  Gravely listened that young savan,
                  
                  Wrote it down upon his note-book,
                  Had old Preuss to make a drawing
                  Representing "Nothin' Shorter"
                  Throwing boulders; then he gave him
                  An old blanket and a beef-bone,
                  And when he asked him for a quarter,
                  Told him to go unto the Devil.
                  But far away in eastern cities
                  Fremont told that tale of wonder;
                  And a certain famous poet
                  Heard it all and saw the picture,
                  Wrote it out and had it printed
                  In one volume post octavo.
                  And I wish I had the money
                  For this song of "Nothin' Shorter."
               
               
                  
                     Twang a diddle, twang a diddle,
                  
                     Twang! Twang! Twang!
               
               
                  At this juncture, Amos Johnson
                  Rushed tumultuously from his grocery.
                  Crying, "Dern your Indian uproar;
                  Stop that noise and 'dry up' quickly,
                  Or, by the Eternal Jingo!
                  I'll——" here he saw Miss Tipsydoosen,
                  And the heart of Amos caved in,
                  As afterward he told Miss Stebbins
                  That she "just completely knocked him."
                  Why should I continue longer?
                  "Gentiles," well ye know the sequel,
                  How the bright-eyed Tipsydoosen,
                  Now is Mrs. Amos Johnson;
                  Wears gipure, and old point laces,
                  And wont visit Mrs. Hodgkins,
                  'Cause her husband once made harness.
                  Yes, a leader of the fashion
                  Now is "Young Grasshopper-Eater,"
                  And the ancient "Step-and-fetch-it"
                  Has a residence at "Johnson's;"
                  In the back-yard an umbrella
                  Stuck for his accommodation,
                  Where he sleeps and dreams fair visions
                  Of the days of "Nothin' Shorter;"
                  And the moral of my tale is,
                  "To be virtuous and be happy."
               
            
            
               
               XX. THE MASSACHUSETTS DENTAL ASSOCIATION.
               
                  Nahant House, Aug. 6, 1857.
               
               While deeply interested in the discussion of the luxurious repast provided for the
                  happy guests of this mansion yesterday afternoon, my attention was diverted by the
                  sound of music of a wild and Saracenic description, resounding from the exterior
                  of the building. The melody appeared to be that portion of the "Battle of Prague"
                  which represents the "cries of the wounded," accompanied by an unlimited amount of
                  exertion on the part of the operator on the bass drum. Hastily rushing to the
                  window, bearing elevated on my fork the large potato from which I had partially
                  removed the cuticle, (Stevens gives us enormous potatoes, it takes twenty minutes
                  to skin one properly,) I beheld a procession, numbering some three or four
                  hundred, all in their Sunday clothes, every man with a cigar in his mouth, slowly
                  and solemnly moving past the hotel. They bore a banner at their head, on which was
                  depicted an enormous cork-screw, or some instrument of that description, with the
                  motto "A long pull, a strong pull, and a pull all together." Judge of
                  my astonishment and delight in recognizing in the beam of this banner, my old
                  friend, the philanthropic tushmaker, of wide-spread dental renown. As the
                  procession reached the front of the hotel, each man threw away his cigar, and
                  having replaced it by a large quid of tobacco, defiled on the esplanade beneath
                  the piazza in a tolerably straight line, and then gazing intently at the windows,
                  opened his mouth, from one auricular orifice to the other, and showed his teeth.
                  Never have I seen so glittering a display. Filled with curiosity, I was about to
                  ask an explanation, when my friend Doolittle from Androscoggin, who had rushed to
                  the window at the same time with myself, saved me from the trouble, by demanding
                  with an incoherent and exceedingly nasal pronunciation, "Why, what on airth is
                     this ere?" "This," replied the
                  courteous Hiram, whose suavity of manner is only equalled by the beauty of his
                  person, "this, sir, is the American Dental Association, composed of members from
                  all parts of both continents, and the British West India Islands."
                     "Jerewsalem," said Doolittle, "three hundred tewth
                     carpenters!"
               It was indeed a thrilling spectacle. To think of the amount of agony that body of
                  men had produced, and were capable of yet producing, to think of the blood they
                  had shed, and of their daring and impetuous charges, after the gory action was
                  over! The immortal charge of the six hundred at Balaclava was not a circumstance
                  to the charges made daily by this three hundred. As Hiram had truly said, these
                  were dentists from all parts of the civilized world and elsewhere. There was the
                  elegant city practitioner, with shiny hat and straw colored gloves, side by side
                  with the gentleman from the country, who hauls a man all over the floor for two
                  hours, for a quarter of a dollar, and gives him the worth of his money. I observed
                  that forty-seven of them wore white hats, and two hundred and sixty-eight used
                  tobacco in some form. There can be no question that this substance is a
                  preservative to the teeth. I observed, in the rear rank, the ingenious gentleman
                  who invented the sudden though painful method of extracting a tooth by climbing a
                  tree, and connecting by a catgut string the offending member with a stout limb,
                  and then jumping down; a highly successful mode of operation, but not calculated
                  to become popular, in the community. He wore buckskin moccasins and did not appear
                  to be enjoying a successful practice.
               But while I gazed with deep interest upon the assembly, the band struck up
                     "Tom Tug," and away they went. Three times they encircled the
                  hotel, then "with their wings aslant, like the fierce cormorant "swooped down upon
                  the bar, registered their names, and took a grand united Federal drink, (each man
                  paying for himself.) Here toasts and sentiments were the order of the day. "The
                  American Dental Association, like watermen men, we pull one way and look another."—"A three
                  dollar cavity, very filling at the price."—"The woodcock, emblem of dentistry—he
                  picks up his living from the holes and passes in a precious long bill." The memory
                  of Dr. Beale, drank standing. These, with other sentiments of a similarly
                  meritorious character were given, and received with great applause.
               Having all drank from the flowing bowl, the association again formed in line in
                  front of the piazzas, which were now crowded with a curious and admiring throng,
                  and sang with surprising harmony the following beautiful, plaintive and
                  appropriate chant:— 
                     
                        1.
                        "Oh, Jonathan Gibbs he broke his tewth
                        A eatin' puddin', a eatin' puddin'—
                        Jonathan Gibbs he broke his tewth
                        A eatin' puddin', a eatin' puddin'.
                     
                     
                        2.
                        "Great lumps of suet, they stuck intew it,
                        Intew it, intew it, intew it, intew it,
                        Great lumps of suet, they stuck intew it,
                        As big as my two thumbs."
                     
                  
               
               This chant finished, and the applause subsiding, an air of gravity came over the
                  association, and the president, Dr. Tushmaker, stepping forward, announced that a
                  few pleasing and wonderful performances would now be gone through with, with the
                  object of exhibiting the dexterity acquired by the members of the society. Then
                  turning to the line he gave the command, "Draw!" In an instant every
                  one of the association was armed with a brilliant turnscrew. "Fix!"
                  shouted Dr. Tushmaker, and each member opened his mouth and attached the fearful
                  instrument to a back tooth. "Haul!" screamed the doctor. "Hold, for
                  God's sake," shouted I, but it was too late; three hundred double fanged back
                  teeth, dripping with blood, were held exultant in the air. The association looked
                  cool and collected; there might have been pain, but, like the Spartan boy, they
                  repressed it; the ladies with a wild cry of horror fled from the piazza.
                     "Replace!" shouted Dr. Tushmaker, and in an instant every tooth
                  returned to the mouth whence it came, I
                  understood it at once, it was ball practice with blank cartridge—they were all
                  false teeth. Several other interesting exercises were gone through with. A
                  hack-man passing by on his carriage was placed under the influence of chloroform,
                  all his teeth extracted without pain, and an entire new and elegant set put in
                  their place, all in forty-two seconds. His appearance was wonderfully improved; he
                  had been known, for years, as "snaggled toothed Bill," but a new and more
                  complimentary title will have to be devised for him. Wonderful are the
                  improvements of science. At 5 o'clock the procession was reformed, and the band
                  played "Pull Brothers, Pull," the association moved off, returning by
                  the Nelly Baker to Boston.
               I have never seen three hundred dentists together before, and I don't believe any
                  body else ever did, but I consider it a pleasing and an improving spectacle, and
                  would suggest that the next time they meet they make an excursion which shall
                  combine business with pleasure, and all go down together and remove the snags from
                  the mouth of the Mississippi.
               
                  Yours respectably,
                  J. P——.
               
            
            
               
               XXI.THE LEGEND OF JONES.
               
                  Nahant House, Aug 10, 1857.
               
               During the past week Nahant has presented an unusually lively and fashionable
                  appearance. On Sunday, nine hundred guests sat down to dinner together at "the
                  House." I wish I could say one thousand, but, like that boy who stated that his
                  father had killed ninety-nine pigeons at a shot, and on being asked why he didn't
                  say a hundred, indignantly replied, "Do you suppose my father would tell a lie for
                  one pigeon?" my habit of exactitude forbids. Our society is composed of people
                  from all parts of the Union; Bostonians, social, affable and particularly kind and
                  attentive to strangers; Western people, cool, distingué, and difficult of access; and Southerners, lively,
                  bustling, but close, calculating and abstemious. All enjoy the cool and delightful
                  breezes from the sea, the rides upon the beach, the bathing in the surf, which
                  last is funnier to gaze upon than to actively participate in; the yatching,
                  fishing and other amusements of the hour. Signor Blitz has been here, performing
                  his wonderful feats, and feet more wonderful are nightly displayed in the
                  drawing-room during the progress of our hops. It gives me pleasure to inform you
                  that "the man who parts his hair in the middle," has arrived; he attended the hop
                  last evening and engaged in "the Lancus" with frantic violence, being apparently
                  in great agony from a pair of tight boots. I discovered him in the barber's shop,
                  this morning, lost in a pensive reverie before a looking-glass. He passes much of
                  his time in this way, and won't try sea bathing, or chew tobacco, for fear of
                  injuring his complexion. "The Double Eye Glass Club," (D. I. G. C. they place
                  after their names,) are flourishing; two of them have improved so they can see
                  through their glasses nearly as well as they can without them. It is quite
                  refreshing to see a member take down his glass to read the morning papers, and the haste with which he
                  replaces it if surprised by an outsider. A friend of mine named M——, from New
                  Orleans, who has always had a taste for fashionable life, and in fact has nearly
                  starved himself to death to improve his figure, being anxious to join the club,
                  went to Boston yesterday for the purpose of procuring the tools. Entering a
                  fashionable jewelry establishment he made known his wishes, and a box of double
                  eye glasses was placed at once before him. "What focus would you prefer, sir?"
                  inquired the shopkeeper with immense politeness. "Window glass,"
                  replied M. Solemnly, "I'm not nearsighted, sir, I'm stopping at Nahant." "Oh,
                  exactly," said the jeweler, and he fitted out his customer with great celerity. M.
                  says he is afraid it won't work, the instrument pinches his nose to that extent
                  that he has acquired a nasal pronunciation, and it is painful to him to bid his
                  friends "Good bordig."
               Jones has been here! My first interview with Jones was on board the magnificent
                  floating palace which he so ably commands. In other words, Jones is the captain of
                  an old steamboat, and "'twas there we met, 'twas there we loved, and I confessed"
                  that he could take my hat.
               The circumstances were these; I had just got through with an animating altercation
                  with the clerk on the subject of my quarters for the night. Persuaded that my
                  health required sudorific treatment, that individual had bestowed upon me a very
                  small stateroom in close proximity to the boiler where the thermometer would have
                  stood at 212° in the shade. At this I rebelled, and the clerk being obstinate and
                  disobliging, it was only after great exertion, and the intervention of numerous
                  friends, that matters were finally settled on a peaceful basis. While sitting on a
                  sofa in the cabin, reposing on my laurels and hugging the trophy of victory in the
                  shape of a new stateroom key, Jones approached. He is a large gentleman, of
                  perhaps fifty-five years of age, with grizzled hair, prodigious nose, and a most
                  winning expression of countenance, calculated to sour the freshest milk at a single glance. Seating himself by my
                  side, Jones revived the subject of the difficulty, taking, of course, entirely my
                  view of it throughout; then looking at me with a most amiable smile, he said, "You
                  are not a man to get into trouble any how; you have one of them open faces that
                  shows me that your only object in life is to make yourself happy and every one
                  around you happy." My face opened at once; Jones had me; I always flattered myself
                  I had a remarkably ingenuous expression, and was delighted at his ready insight
                  into my character. He then went below to take the clerk to task. Having occasion
                  to light a cigar, I passed by the office and inadvertently overheard the
                  conclusion of his remarks to that individual. "My dear sir," said Jones, "you have
                  one of them open faces that shows me your only object in life is to make yourself
                  happy and every one around you happy!" I saw Jones but once more that evening. He
                  was sitting by the side of a rather pretty, but rapid looking lady in a pink
                  organdie, on a téte a téte chair in the after
                  cabin. She appeared to be pleased and interested by the conversation of Capt.
                  Jones. As I passed them on my way to my stateroom, I heard him say in soft
                  accents, "You have one of them open faces that shows me your only object in life
                  is to make yourself happy and every one around you happy." I observed that the
                  lady in the pink organdie looked at Capt. Jones on this with a sweet expression,
                  much as if she had a spoonful of Maderia jelly in her mouth, and I retired. Much
                  later in the night I was awakened by the unmistakable sounds of a scuffle of some
                  kind in the vicinity of my state-room. There was much rustling and then a feeble
                  voice said "don't." "Oh," replied a low and soothing tone, "you have one of them
                  open faces that show me your only object in life is to make yourself happy and
                  everybody around you happy." This remark was followed by a noise not unlike the
                  drawing of a cork, but I do not pretend to say that Capt. Jones kissed the lady in the pink organdie; I
                     saw nothing. The next morning, when we landed from the boat, Jones
                  waited upon that lady on shore. They were about to part, perhaps forever—he gazed
                  tenderly in her face—he grasped her hand—a tear came to his eye, and he was about
                  to speak when I passed them. I am sorry to say that, with unpardonable rudeness, I
                  remarked, "Oh, never mind, Jones, we all know she's got one of them faces," etc.,
                  and then swinging my valise violently against his interminable shins, I departed.
                  I think Jones got angry, and have the impression that he cursed and used profanity
                  as I walked away, but I am not positive, and it is a matter of very little
                  importance. Months have elapsed since then and these occurrences had faded from my
                  memory, when happening into the office of this mansion a day or two since, I
                  observed a tall, awkwardly built man, with a prodigious nose, engaged in a
                  discussion with Maine, our jovial bookkeeper. Apparently something was wrong with
                  his bill; he had not been charged enough, perhaps. At any rate, as I arrived the
                  matter was adjusted, and just as I was wondering where I had seen him before, he
                  remarked, "Sir, you have one of them open faces that shows me your only object in
                  life is to make yourself happy and every one about you happy." Fully concurring in
                  this opinion, for Maine is something of an Apollo, I here broke in with—"He has
                  that, Jones." Jones turned, gazed and fled. The Nelly Baker took him to
                  Boston—free, I hope and believe; and I trust I may never see him more. Jones has
                  one of those faces, etc.
               The Nahant House is a great institution. I find I have nearly concluded my letter
                  without saying anything about our ladies. They are many and beautiful, like the
                  daisies on the sunny side of Ben Nevis. They don't like their names to appear in
                  print you know, initials are only an aggravation, so I will simply say that the
                  most attractive and beautiful married lady, and the prettiest young lady, are from Boston, the most lively and graceful
                  young lady is from New York, and the most charming widow is from Philadelphia.
                     Jam satis., etc.
               
               
                  
                     Au reservoir,
                  
                  Respectfully yourn,
                  J. P.
               
            
            
               XXII. REPORT OF A SCIENTIFIC LECTURE.
               An intelligent and fashionable audience, consisting of the members of the
                  Biological Society, their friends, and the representatives of the city press,
                  having assembled, the lecturer was introduced by the Hon. Prurient L. Half John,
                  with a few brief and felicitous remarks; after which, bowing urbanely to the
                  ladies, and directing the summary expulsion of a rude boy who had crawled in at a
                  window without paying, Professor Vaurien commenced as follows:
               "In a popular work, which may be found upon the centre-table of every lady, and in
                  the library of every statesman—I need hardly say that I allude to the first volume
                  of Sir Walter Scott's Infantry Tactics—the following striking paragraph occurs: 
                     'The object of the "about face" is to face to the rear.'
                  
               
               
               "The contemplation of the singular fact thus evolved in the simple and forcible
                  language of the great Poet, has developed some considerations upon the
                  constitution of Truth, which I now propose to present perspicuously to your minds.
                  In so doing, the naked truth will be exhibited, with a decent regard for public
                  opinion, and the falsity of the assertion, made in one of the poems of Coleman and
                  Stetson, that 'Truth lies in the bottom of a well,' rendered apparent
                  by a course of philosophical reasoning.
               "By a beautiful application of the differential theory, the singular fact is
                  demonstrated, that all integrals assume the forms of the atoms of which they are
                  composed, with, however, in every case, the important addition of a
                     constant, which, like the tail of a tadpole, may be dropped on
                  certain occasions when it becomes troublesome. Hence, it will evidently follow,
                  that space is round, though, in viewing it from certain positions, the presence of
                  the cumbrous addendum may slightly modify the definity of its rotundity. To
                  ascertain and fix the conditions under which, in the definite consideration of
                  indefinite immensity, the infinitesimal incertitudes, which, homogeneously
                  aggregated, compose the idea of space, admit of the compatible retention of this
                  constant, would form a beautiful and healthy recreation for the inquiring mind:
                  but, pertaining more properly to the metaphysician than to the ethical student, it
                  cannot enter into the present discussion.
               "It is here alluded to as the opening to a field of contemplation and
                  investigation worthy the examination of those representatives of the nation, who
                  have, at present, abundant leisure to devote to such vigorous mental exercise. Our
                  immediate business is with the troublesome constant in its generality. We do not
                  need to particularize; as Pliny the Elder remarked of the needle in the hay-mow:
                  'It will do to reason upon in bulk.' Assuming, for present convenience, that facts
                  are things, let us reason accordingly; deliberately, for time is eternal; and
                  cautiously, for nothing can be more uncertain than facts, and the presence of
                     the peculiar constant adds to the
                  uncertainty instead of annulling it, integrals though facts be. As, in our small
                  but efficient Navy, one man cannot, unassisted, be guilty of mutiny, so cannot his
                  individual volition be creative of fact. In fact, fact cannot be created. It must
                  preëxist, and to that preëxistence, as well as to the fact itself, must be
                  attached and mentally comprehended the variable constant. That mental
                  comprehension must be dull; of the mind that promulges, and of the soul that is
                  impressed by it, both retaining, being integrals, the variable invariable. From
                  these simple considerations we draw the substance of what vain mortals, each with
                  his or her changable constant attached, call Truth.
               "Truth involves the inception of its preëxistence, followed by enunciation and
                  comprehension, and accompanied in both mental essences, by homogeneous
                  arrangements of accordant constants of variable constitution.
               With this clear view of an hitherto misunderstood conception, its positive
                  applicability to the ordinary affairs of the world is rendered impracticable
                  without an equally lucid consideration of attendant constants too numerous to be
                  readily reconcilable with one another and with the subject under discussion. And
                  under this difficulty has the world existed ever since the beginning of the
                  precession of the equinoxes, and so it will continue to roll on while time shall
                  last, accompanied by its ever-increasing swarm of variable invariables!
               "Ingenious apprximations are all that the patient investigator dares to substitute
                  for the remote Truth, which, like the lost Pleiad, every one thinks he can see. So
                  standeth the world gazing agape upon plethoric immensity and saying, 'There is
                  Truth!' The world, here alluded to, is an aggregation of individuals with their
                  respective constants in various states of order and confusion. Suppose a
                  communication from one of these head-quarters of reason and its reception by
                  another: Can condemnation be predicated, or odium exhale from the accidental
                  incompatibility of the attached
                  constants? Hardly. Does approbation confer upon such communication the property of
                  indubitable veracity?" Such were a far-stretched conclusion. Examine well your
                  variable constants, and too often you will detect defects in their co-existent
                  accordance.
               "The subject admits of much deep thought and profound study, and is commended to
                  the class before named as an occupation for eternity. These few hints may show the
                  open path to deeper investigation, and those who value TRUTH may pursue it.
                  Meanwhile, let the broad mantle of charity enwrap your own and your
                  fellow-mortals' errors. Seek patiently. Until the end is attained, condemn not
                  rashly. May not your own constant be a little out of order?"
               Amid a storm of applause, I was borne by the Hon. Prurient L. into the next room,
                  where the door-keeper was waiting to render his account of the evening. A hasty
                  inspection of his book educed the gratifying fact that the receipts of the night
                  amounted, over and above expenses, to the handsome sum of four dollars
                  thirty-seven-and-a-half cents! But what are net receipts compared with fame!
               An embarrassing circumstance has, however, been brought to my notice. The
                  committee of the Bt. who got out the mammoth posters announcing the lecture, in
                  order to secure a full house, rashly pledged in my name, one thousand dollars to
                  the Cabmen's Orphan Society, and the treasurer is even now awaiting the receipt
                  thereof at the door. In this emergency my self-possession does not desert me. I am
                  now busy painting my visage with a burnt cork, and Prurient has turned my coat
                  wrong side out, so that I may pass him under the assumed character of Gumbo Chaff.
                  I shall discontinue lecturing. It has its annoyances. Flint's new hat, which he so
                  liberally lent me, "for this night only," has been used as a spittoon by a
                  reporter during the whole evening. Prurient advises me to leave. He says he will
                  procure me a mission to the Choctaws through his influence with the Sec. of the
                  Int——(there! I had nearly betrayed his
                  confidence,) with a distinguished person, the S-cr-t-ry of the I-t-r-or, and I
                  will start to-morrow. When you get another letter you will know my
                  whereabouts.
               
                  CITY OF PANAMA, New Granada, Lion's Den, OCT. 1, 1852.
                  SQUIBOB.
               
            
            
               XXIII. GREAT RAILROAD PROJECT!
               THE BELVIDERE AND BEHRING'S STRAITS UNION RAILROAD.
               The foregoing is the title of a road which has become a fixed fact in
                  the minds of the projectors.
               The proposed road commences at Belvidere, in the State of Illinois, and runs
                  thence in a north-westerly direction to Behring's Straits, via Roscoe. It is also proposed to diverge several branches from the
                  main line, the first of which is to be known as "The North Pole Extension
                  Railroad," and by which it is proposed to secure the ice-trade.
               The main line crosses the before-mentioned straits by a floating bridge; thence
                  south, by easy grades, and tunneling the Chinese Wall, to Pekin.
               At or near Behring's Straits it is proposed to diverge with a branch in a
                  southerly direction to Cape Kamschatka, the said branch to be called the "Kamschatka Valley Union Railroad." The
                  object of this branch is to secure the seal-trade for the Calcutta market.
               It is also proposed to start another branch at or near the same point of
                  divergence, running in a westerly direction to Tobolsk, in Siberia, connecting at
                  that point with an "Underground Exile-escaping Railroad" to the Dead Sea. The said
                  underground road to be built under the immediate supervision of eminent Ohio
                  engineers, they having had much experience in works of that character. The
                  services of Captain Ingraham have been secured as conductor on this road.
               From Pekin there will be a branch to Jeddo, crossing the straits near the island
                  of Niphon by an immense Pile Bridge. The object of the branch is to convey troops
                  and munitions of war from the United States to "civilize" and annex the Japanese,
                  and also to secure the Japan-ware trade.
               From Pekin will diverge another branch, via
                  Cochin China (to secure the fowl-trade), Farther India, Borneo, and Sumatra, to
                  the Gold Mines in Australia. It is proposed to cross the arms of the sea
                  separating these islands by immense stone culverts of the latest pattern.
               The main line then extends to Calcutta, tunneling the Himalaya Mountains,
                  connecting at this point with the "London and Calcutta Union Railroad," and with
                  the plank-road to Booloochistan.
               The main line then extends from Calcutta, via
                  Bagdad, crossing the Red Sea at Moses's Ford, and the great Sahara
                  Desert to Timbuctoo, connecting with the "Niger River Valley Union Railroad" to
                  the coast of Guinea.
               The main line then extends through Ethiopia and the Caffre settlements to the Cape
                  of Good Hope, there connecting with the "Union Balloon Company,"
                  plying between Cape Town and Patagonia.
               Thence the main line extends up the west coast of America, via Valparaiso and Panama, to San Francisco, with a branch to the
                  Lobos Islands (for the guano trade), and to Astoria, in Oregon. From San Francisco
                  the line extends on a direct course to
                  the place of beginning, with a plank-road to New York city.
               It would be useless to descant at any length upon the advantages which this road
                  will possess over all others. A glance at the map will be sufficient to impress
                  upon the mind of the most "general reader" an idea of the stupenduosity of the
                  scheme, and the mines of wealth which will be necessary in order to build it. To
                  the man of business, the extreme facility with which the most distant portions of
                  the globe can be reached should especially commend this project; and to the
                  pleasure-seeker, the ease with which he can be transported to the Maelstrom (which
                  undoubtedly is the greatest watering-place in the world) should make this to
                  appear the project of the age; the work which will cause this
                  generation to shine in the very extreme of glory on the farthest limits of
                  time.
               We hope soon to announce the successful opening of this great work.
            
            
               XXIV. TOPOGRAPHICAL ENGINEERS.
               While the bill for reorganizing the Army was under consideration during the last
                  session of Congress, the Military Committee of the House of Representatives
                  addressed a circular to the Chiefs of Bureaus stationed in Washington, requesting
                  their views in relation to the wisdom and propriety of its several provisions. The
                  various letters received by the Committee in reply to their circular were
                  subsequently printed by order of Congress, and a copy of the curious and amusing
                  document thus formed has recently found its way to this country. Its contents are
                  of such an interesting and extraordinary nature, considered in either a literary
                  or military point of view, that it is much to be regretted it was not published in
                  a more accessible cessible form.
                  Stereotyped, and given to the world with a few humorous illustrations, it would
                  have met with an unprecedented sale, leaving Fanny Fern's Leavings, Barnum's
                  Swindle and Wickoff's Love Chase far in the distance.
               The chef-d'œuvre of this unique document, the
                  richest cream where all is richness, is undoubtedly the letter of Brevet
                  Brigadier-General Joseph E. Totten, Chief of the Corps of Fortification Engineers.
                  As a pompous display of dullness, bigotry and narrow-minded views, it is worthy of
                  the pen of the celebrated Col. Sibthorpe. It would require more time and ability
                  than I have at my disposal to attempt a thorough review of the General's letter. I
                  shall therefore confine myself to a slight fusilade against the most salient point
                  of this redoubtable piece of military engineering.
               It will be remembered that the Army Bill above alluded to, contained among other
                  provisions, one "discontinuing the Corps of Topographical Engineers, and
                  transferring its officers to the Corps of Engineers or other corps and regiments."
                  The Corps of Topographical Engineers, organized in 1838, consists of forty-six
                  officers, most of whom have served in the field, not without some little
                  distinction, and whose scientific skill, not acquired without hard study and
                  experience, has been constantly called in requisition in the construction of
                  military roads, improvement of rivers and harbors, building light houses,
                  establishing boundaries and particularly in increasing the geographical knowledge
                  of the country by explorations of new and comparatively unknown territories. The
                  faithful discharge of these duties requires the utmost familiarity with the higher
                  and more abstruse branches of science, and the young officer engaged in them has
                  the satisfaction of knowing that he is doing something useful for his country, and
                  that his exertions are appreciated by his countrymen. The Corps of Engineers,
                  (commanded by Brevet-Brigadier General Totten,) have no other specific duty in
                  time of peace than to erect permanent for tifications. These works, built of
                  brick, cut stones, dirt and cement, were invented as a system of national tional defence by an old person named
                  Vauban, some years since, and as he confessed himself (never dreaming of
                  Sebastopol) that the best of them could be captured in forty days, it may be a
                  question, as the boy said when he learned the alphabet, "whether it's worth while
                  to go through so much work to do so little." But, leaving the question aside, it
                  is very evident that the officers of the Corps of Engineers, being constantly
                  employed in this manner, according to a system of unvarying rules, have little
                  opportunity to display any ability beyond that of other stone masons, and the
                  highest stretch of their ambition in time of peace, must probably be to become the
                  happy inventors of some new conglomerate, breccia, putty or other unpleasant stuff
                  spoken of in the works of old Dennis Mahan. I do not allude to the duties of
                  either Corps during a state of war, for the reason that both then, become to some
                  extent, soldiers, lose their distinguishing characteristics and perform nearly
                  identical services. It could scarcely be expected that the Officers of the
                  Topographical Engineers neers would be contented at undergoing the operation so
                  pleasantly alluded to as "being discontinued," or that they would feel any
                  ecstatic delight at being merged in the Corps of Fortification Engineers, to
                  become manufacturers of permanent fortifications, dirt pies on a large scale,
                  which, (Sebastopol excepted,) anybody can knock down again in forty days. Such a
                  life holds out little prospect of distinction, and I am persuaded that, no matter
                  how much talent or ability a young man may possess, if, when he has completed his
                  education, you give him a fixed salary for life, and make him a stone mason, a
                  stone mason he will remain, and never be heard of in any other capacity. But
                  Brevet Brigadier General Totten does not view the matter at all in this light.
                  Believing that his corps is the embodiment of every thing that is useful and
                  improving; that the manufacture of putty is the most scientific employment under
                  the sun; or in the words of another old lady, "there is but one what-d'ye-call-it,
                  and he is its thingumbob,"—he utterly objects to the introduction of the
                     unfortunate tunate topographers, on
                  the ground that their capacity is not sufficient to master the tremendous duties
                  of the Corps of Engineers, and that it would be doing his officers great injustice
                  to associate with them men of such inferior ability. And how do you imagine he
                  proceeds to prove the topographical inferiority? By quoting the graduating
                  standing of these officers at the Military Academy at West Point.
               Says the General—"Those cadets only who graduate at, or near the head of a class
                  at West Point, are promoted as Lieutenants in the Corps of Engineers; the
                  succeeding cadets are promoted in the Topographical Engineers and Ordnance." And
                  then to render clear the injustice of merging the two corps, he produces
                  statistics to show that the average graduating standing of the Officers of
                  Engineers is represented by the number 2½, while that of the inferior Topographers
                  actually amounts to 11¼. (One of the officers having unhappily stood 55th, was
                  promoted in the Infantry, and transferred.) This is indeed a fearful distinction
                  tion. Since the publication of this alarming discovery, a friend of mine who has
                  the misfortune to be a Topographcial Engineer, (but who constantly wears a
                  citizen's dress, for fear some one will find it out,) tells me he never walks the
                  street without fancying a huge 11¼ chalked between his shoulders, attracting the
                  public attention and obloquy. If he meets an Officer of Engineers, he reverently
                  makes way, respectfully murmuring 2½ and he has entirely lost the power of looking
                  out for No. 1, so absorbed is he in the thought of No. 11¼. It may be considered a
                  very fair method of classification to take an officer's graduating standing at the
                  Military Academy as a guage of his mental calibre for the remainder of his
                  existence, possibly the rule might work to admiration in a corps where no
                  incentives were held out for study or improvement: but to show that in the army at
                  large it has, like "Taylor's Theorem," its failing cases, allow me to adduce one
                  or two instances.
               The present Secretary of War, Hon. Jefferson Davis, who, I presume, General Totten would not
                  consider quite destitute of ability, graduated twenty-third in his class, and the
                  present Minister to China, Hon. Robert M. McLane, late M. C. from Maryland,
                  formerly of the Topographical Engineers, and by no means an idiot, graduated
                  thirty-seventh in the class of 1837. But the Corps of Topographical Engineers was
                  only formed in 1838, while the Engineers date from the time when Noah, sick of the
                  sea, landed and threw up a field-work on Mount Ararat. I remember well a
                  time-honored legend at West Point, which told how one of the earlier classes at
                  that institution was composed of but two members. At their final
                  examination, one was sent to the Board to demonstrate the 47th problem of Euclid;
                  but after a little hesitation he confessed his inability to draw the figure,
                  though he felt confident he could make the demonstration. The second here rose,
                  and diffidently remarked, that though he could not demonstrate the proposition, he
                  was able to draw the figure. This division of labor was accordingly made, the
                  figure drawn in a style of unrivaled elegance by the one, who was placed head in
                  drawing, and forcibly demonstrated by the other, who was placed head in
                  mathematics.
               Both gentlemen were deservedly promoted in the Corps of Engineers. If this story
                  be true, and I certainly do not vouch for it, the singularly small number
                  representing the graduating standing of the Corps of Engineers may be accounted
                  for.
               But if West Point standing is referred to as a means of judging of the ability of
                  an experienced officer, why not go farther back in his antecedents? Why not, on
                  Brevet Brigadier General Totten, prove that the officers of the Corps of Engineers
                  at their first introduction to this world of sin and sorrow, weighed from 12 to 16
                  pounds each, while the Topographical babies were but puling weakly things,
                  averaging at the best but seven and a quarter? Why not refer to the Sunday
                  Schools, where the little Engineer Infants at the early age of five, could repeat
                  with fluency the Apostles' Creed, the Lord's Prayer, and the Ten Commandments,
                     while the poor little Topogs
                  (weighing then scarcely eleven and a quarter) could scarcely get through their A
                  B—A B'S, and ask for sugar? It strikes me illustratious chief of a
                  Super-topographical Corps, that these researches would be equally apposite and
                  convincing.
               The letter of the Brevet Brigadier General, contains many other funny statements,
                  besides the statistics: the document contains many funny letters besides the
                  Brevet Brigadier's, but I have no time to allude farther to them at present. I
                  would merely suggest to a discerning public, the propriety of having the whole
                  published by subscription, elegantly bound in gilt and morocco, after the manner
                  of the Knickerbocker Gallery. Then with the proceeds, by the side of that limpid
                  lake, from whence the calm waters of Salt River placidly meander to the sea, I
                  would have erected a beautiful cottage, in form, a mural castle, with the number
                  2½ in brazen block letters above the portal. Here in quiet contemplation over what
                  he has done, and in the tranquil enjoyment of his self esteem, Brevet Brigadier
                  General Totten might pass the remainder of his days in happiness and peace. But he
                  should not be allowed to write any more letters!
               
                  Respectfully, your obedient serv't,
                  CONRAD POMPON, Capt. Light Brigade, 11¼ Division, California
                     Militia.
               
            
            
               
               XXV. ON CLIPPER SHIPS.
               I send this by special current express, calculating that it will drift along a few
                  days ahead of us; and you can have it all ready to put in, while we are within the
                  usual "two hours" sail of the port for twenty-four days. Don't forget also to
                  mention the fog, loss of sails, heavy weather, etc., and particularly "the light
                  and baffling head-winds for a couple of months." But you can regulate that by the
                  length of our voyage. No matter if you do make a little error of ten or fifteen
                  days in our favor, in reporting us. If not noticed, we won't correct it; but if it
                  is, then pitch into the compositors, and call it a typographical error.
               
               She is one hundred and fifty tons register, and carries two thousand, as measured
                  in Boston, with the measurer's thumb inside the callipers, which (the thumb) being
                  much swollen and tied up in a rag, may have made a few feet difference in the
                  measurements; but that don't amount to much. Her extreme length on deck is five
                  hundred and ninety-seven and a half feet; eight feet breadth of beam; two hundred
                  feet deep; twenty-four feet between decks. Her bow is a great rake, and the head
                  is composed of a female carved figure, with one thumb resting on the extreme tip
                  of her nose, fingers extended in the act of gyrating; the first finger of the left
                  hand in the act of drawing down the lower lid of the eye; which the captain
                  explains to us as a simile from the Heathen Mythology, denoting curiosity on the
                  part of the figure, to ascertain if any body discovers any thing verdant.
               The "Highfalutin" is finished with the patent "Snogrosticars,"indicating the millenium when it comes. She is rigged after the
                  recent invention of Captain Blowhard, which consists of three topsail-yards on the
                  bowsprit, the halyards leading down
                  through a groove in the keel, up through the stern windows, and belay to the
                  captain's tobacco-box. She has also the "skyfungarorum," a sail
                  something like a kite, which is set in light weather about seventy-five feet above
                  the main-truck, and made fast by a running double hitch under the binnacle and aft
                  through the galley, and belayed to the cook's tea-pot. It is sometimes (when the
                  captain carries his family) made fast to the baby-jumper. Her windlass is
                  rose-wood, inlaid with clam shells. She has also a French roll capstan with
                  musical bars. The caboose is elaborately carved with gilt edges, a Pike county
                  galley-sliding telescopic stove-pipe, of gutta-percha, and a machine for making
                  molasses candy for the sailors.
            
            
               XXVI. A LETTER OF CREDIT
               
                  Aug. 24, 1856.
               
               MY ONLY BENSON:—Your suggestion about the revolting pistols, is highly approved by
                  me, and I wish to improve a little on it, by purchasing also, a clarionet (E.
                  flat) for Marlin, and a piccolo, or octavo flute for yourself. With these dulcet
                  instruments, you and he can sit on the bridge, during the mid-watches of the
                  autumnal nights, and breath forth your saddened spirits in a flood of melody,
                  which shall charm the marine inhabitants of Walewski creek, and make the angry and
                  perturbed nature of the murderer Bell, as soft as mercurial ointment. Please send
                  the money for the pistols and musical instruments, and they shall be forwarded
                  without delay.
                  
                     
                        For the Colt's Revolting pistols, for Marlin,
                        $60
                     
                     
                        For the Colt's Revolting pistols, for Benson,
                        80
                     
                     
                        For 1 E. Flat Clarionet,
                        10
                     
                     
                        For 1 Piccolo,
                        10
                     
                     
                        For Extra reeds,
                        1
                     
                     
                        For Music, a few concerted pieces in B. Minor, arranged for clarionet
                           and piccolo,
                        10
                     
                     
                        Total
                        $121
                     
                  
               
               I have not the money by me, or I would advance it as you request.
               You could not have supposed the United States Government would furnish arms for
                  the use of overseers on a military road. Do they furnish them for the officers of
                  their armies? No, by my faith, those warriors pay for their own swords; they
                  purchase their own habergeons and surcoats, their targets and bucklers, and if
                  they are fain to indulge in the luxury of a Colt's revolter to strap upon their
                  posteriors, (there to hang in inglorious idleness, for aye,) they have to borrow
                  the money from their friends for that purpose.
               Fain would I furnish you and the gallant Marlin each with a suit of Milan armour
                  of tempered steel, inlaid with arabesque work of fine gold; Helmets of the same,
                  with a crest of marabout feathers containing four at $1.25 each, swords, shields
                  (with a device representing Bell fishing off Walewski Bridge) habergeons,
                  battle-axes, daggers of mercy; and surcoats and lutes with broad blue ribbon at
                     3s. per yard for your ladies' bower, but I have'nt got the money
                  to spare, and well I am not, if ye seek to come forth in martial guise, your
                  coffers are far better able to supply your armament than is my poor pantaloons
                  pocket. I counsel you therefore, to purchase what you may wish, or make unto
                  yourselves bows and arrows withal to defend yourselves after the manner of our
                  ancient forbears. As to Bell, have I not written unto the sheriffs of Stillacoom
                  and Olympia, praying that he may be suddenly and quickly removed from our
                  midst.
               The rope will be sent, the gimbolet is enclosed, (on the outside.) Make more than
                  2600 feet per week, and believe me to remain,
               
                  With deep admiration,
                  Your affectionate friend,
                  G. H. D.
               
            
            
               
               XXV. PANNIERS.
               
                  Portland, Sept., 20, 1856.
               
               SAY OLD FELLOW:—You've got a way lately of laying back there at Astoria, and
                  imagining all sorts of things which you think would save you the slightest trouble
                  or inconvenience, and sending off orders for them with all the imperiousness of
                  Aldiborontsphosco phornis, when ordering Rigdum Funnidos to chop off the head of
                  Chrononhotonthologos. What in thunder do you mean? I send the things this time,
                  but request you to get rid of the habit; it grows on you, like an appetite for
                  liquor. All but the pannier's, ha, ha! In the venerated name of Sancho Panza,
                  where did you read about pannier's? The word is suggestive of Dapple Cork trees,
                  Andalusian maids, bandits and
                  
                     SEDAN-CHAIRS AND PANNIERS.
                   sech. Why, ignorant dweller at the corners of Clay and Montgomery, (up
                  stairs) do you know that for eight years I have done little or nothing but travel
                  through California and Oregon with pack trains, during which time I have seen over
                  4000 mules packed, with over 800,000 pounds of merchandise, while upwards of
                  4,000,000 oaths and profane execrations were vented at them, and yet never in my
                  life saw a—ha! ha! a pannier. And do you suppose
                  that I, an old and experienced packer, to whom a hair sinch is as familiar as a
                  tooth-brush, will permit you, having but three mules to pack, to use—a—ha! ha!
                  (excuse me) a,—ho! ho! (really I can't help it) a——panniers! a primeval implement
                  probably used by Balaam to save himself a little trouble in packing his jackass.
                  No, sir. Take a lash rope, double it equally, lay it over the saddle, put an equal
                  weight on each side, and turn up the ends, then take your sinch, and draw it tight
                  over the pack in various directions and fasten the ends to the horns of the
                  saddle. Panniers, indeed,—would'nt you like a sedan chair? Panniers, young man, are only raised
                  in Chili and Peru and other Catholic countries, by the peons and chulos, etc., to
                  carry fruit to market. I have seen them myself in Valpariaso, teeming with the
                  luscious grape, the fragrant strawberry, and the rich and juicy buckwheat cake.
                  But you can't have any Panniers. No, sir. You are, however, permitted
                  to look at them—te he! (See page 200.)
               Your oats were sent by the last boat. The Multnomat resumes her trips to-morrow.
                  We are all disgusted by the non-arrival of the mail steamer Columbia, expected
                  here last night—oh! yes! Have I "thought to make an extract from the letter of the
                  Secretary of War?" No. I haven't thought to make any such extract. You had plenty
                  of opportunity to make an extract if you wanted to, when you were here; if you
                  want any extract now, you can get Lubin to make it. It is not at all in my line!
                  Have I a copy of the act making the appropriation and of the advertisement
                  inviting proposals? Yes, I have a copy of the act, and of the advertisement, and I
                  mean to keep 'em.
               Have you got them? If you haven't don't you wish you may get 'em?
               Good-bye, he—ha! Panniers!
               
                  Yours, truly,
                  SQUIBOB.
               
            
         
      
      
         
         

            NEW BOOKS
            And New Editions Recently Issued by
            CARLETON, PUBLISHER, NEW YORK.
            413 BROADWAY, CORNER OF LISPENARD STREET.
            N. B.—THE PUBLISHER, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send any of the
               following Books, by mail, POSTAGE FREE, to any part of the United States. This
               convenient and very safe mode may be adopted when the neighboring Booksellers are not
               supplied with the desired work. State name and address in full
            
               Victor Hugo. 
                     LES MISERABLES.—The best edition, two elegant 8vo. vols.,
                        beautifully bound in cloth, $5.50; half calf, $10.00
                     LES MISERABLES.—The popular edition, one large octavo
                        volume, paper covers, $2.00; cloth bound, $2.50
                     JARGAL.—A very remarkable novel. With six illustrations. In
                        press. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     LES MISERABLES—In the Spanish language. Fine 8vo. edition, two vols.,
                        paper covers, $4.00; or cloth, bound, $5.00
                     THE LIFE OF VICTOR HUGO.—By himself. 8vo. cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               By the Author of "Rutledge." 
                     RUTLEDGE.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     THE SUTHERLANDS.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     FRANK WARRINGTON.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     LOUIE'S LAST TERM AT ST. MARY'S.—12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     ST. PHILIP'S.—Just published. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               Hand-Books of Good Society. 
                     THE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY; with Thoughts, Hints, and Anecdotes,
                        concerning nice points of taste, good manners, and the art of making oneself
                        agreeable. Reprinted from the London Edition. The best and most entertaining
                        work of the kind ever published. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     THE ART OF CONVERSATION.—With directions for self-culture A sensible and
                        instructive work, that ought to be in the hands of every one who wishes to
                        be either an agreeable talker or listener. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               Miss Augusta J. Evans. 
                     BEULAH.—A novel of great power. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               
               Mrs. Mary J. Holmes' Works. 
                     DARKNESS AND DAYLIGHT.—Just published. 12mo. cl.
                        $1.50.
                     LENA RIVERS.—A Novel. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                     TEMPEST AND SUNSHINE.—A Novel. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                     MARIAN GREY.—A Novel. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                     MEADOW BROOK.—A Novel. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                     ENGLISH ORPHANS.—A Novel. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                     DORA DEANE.—A Novel. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                     COUSIN MAUDE.—A Novel. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                     HOMESTEAD ON THE HILLSIDE.—A Novel. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                     HUGH WORTHINGTON.—Just published. 12mo. cl. $1.50
                  
               
               Artemus Ward. 
                     HIS BOOK.—An irresistibly funny volume of writings 'by the immortal
                        American humorist. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     HIS TRAVELS.—A rich and racy new volume with Mormon adventures. Full of
                        laughable illustrations. 12mo. cl., $1.50
                  
               
               Miss Muloch. 
                     JOHN HALIFAX.—A novel. With illust. 12mo., cloth, $1.75
                     A LIFE FOR A LIFE.—With illust. 12mo., cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               Charlotte Bronte (Currer Bell). 
                     JANE EYRE.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     THE PROFESSOR.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     SHIRLEY.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     VILLETTE.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               Geo. W. Carleton. 
                     OUR ARTIST IN CUBA.—A volume of sketches—mostly comic—illustrating a
                        visit to the West Indies in 1865. With fifty drawings on wood. Beautifully
                        printed on tinted paper. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               Joseph Rodman Drake. 
                     THE CULPRIT FAY.—An illustrated Presentation edition, with 100 original
                        drawings by A. Lumley. Elegantly printed, small quarto, morocco bound,
                        $7.50. cloth bound, $5.00 Also a smaller edition, without illustrations.
                        $1.00
                  
               
               Richard B. Kimball. 
                     WAS HE SUCCESSFUL.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     UNDERCURRENTS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     SAINT LEGER.—A novel. 12mo. cloth,$1.75
                     ROMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     IN THE TROPICS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               A. S. Roe's Works. 
                     A LONG LOOK AHEAD.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     TIME AND TIDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     I'VE BEEN THINKING.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     THE STAR AND THE CLOUD.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     TRUE TO THE LAST.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     HOW COULD HE HELP IT.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     LIKE AND UNLIKE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     LOOKING AROUND.—Just published. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               Walter Barrett, Clerk. 
                     OLD MERCHANTS OF NEW YORK.—Being personal incidents, interesting
                        sketches, bits of biography, and gossipy events in the life of nearly every
                        leading merchant in New York City. Three series. 12mo. cloth, each,
                        $1.75
                  
               
               T. S. Arthur's New Works. 
                     LIGHT ON SHADOWED PATHS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     OUT IN THE WORLD.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     NOTHING BUT MONEY.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     WHAT CAME AFTERWARDS.—In press. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               Orpheus C. Kerr. 
                     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS.—Three series. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     THE PALACE BEAUTIFUL.—And other poems. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               M. Michelet's Works. 
                     LOVE (L'AMOUR).—From the French. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     WOMAN (LA FEMME.)—From the French. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     WOMAN'S PHILOSOPHY OF WOMAN.—By Hericourt, 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               Edmund Kirke. 
                     AMONG THE PINES.—A Southern sketch. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     MY SOUTHERN FRIENDS.—A Southern sketch. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     DOWN IN TENNESSEE.—Just published. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               Cuthbert Bede. 
                     VERDANT GREEN.—A rollicking, humorous novel of English student life; with
                        200 comic illustrations. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     NEARER AND DEARER.—A novel, illustrated. 12mo. clo. $1.50
                  
               
               Ernest Renan. 
                     THE LIFE OF JESUS.—Translated by C. E. Wilbour from the celebrated French
                        work. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     RELIGIOUS HISTORY AND CRITICISM.—8vo. cloth, $2.50
                  
               
               Cuyler Pine. 
                     MARY BRANDEGEE.—An American novel. $1.75
                     A NEW NOVEL.—In press. $1.75
                  
               
               
               Josh Billings. 
                     HIS BOOK.—Containing all the rich comic sayings of this celebrated
                        writer. Illustrated. In press. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               Epes Sargent. 
                     PECULIAR.—One of the most remarkable and successful novels published in
                        this country. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               Mrs. Ritchie (Anna Cora Mowatt). 
                     FAIRY FINGERS.—A new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     THE MUTE SINGER.—A new novel. In press. 12mo. cloth,
                        $1.75
                  
               
               Robert B. Roosevelt. 
                     THE GAME FISH OF THE NORTH.—Illustrated. 12mo. cl. $2.00
                     SUPERIOR FISHING.—Illustrated. 12mo. cl. $2.00
                     THE GAME BIRDS OF THE NORTH.—In press. 12mo. cl.
                        $2.00
                  
               
               John Phoenix. 
                     THE SQUIBOB PAPERS.—A new humorous volume, filled with comic
                        illustrations by the author. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               J. Sheridan Le Fanu. 
                     WYLDER'S HAND.—A powerful new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                     THE HOUSE BY THE CHURCHYARD.—A powerful new novel. 12mo. cloth,
                        $1.75
                  
               
               P. T. Barnum. 
                     THE HUMBUGS OF THE WORLD.—In press. 12mo. cloth,
                        $1.75
                  
               
               Charles Reade. 
                     THE CLOISTER AND THE HEARTH.—A magnificent new novel, by the author of
                        "Hard Cash," etc. 8vo. cloth, $2.00
                  
               
               The Opera. 
                     TALES FROM THE OPERAS.—A collection of clever stories, based upon the
                        plots of all the famous operas. 12mo. cl., $1.50
                  
               
               J. C. Jeaffreson. 
                     A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.—An entertaining volume about famous physicians and
                        surgeons. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               F. D. Guerrazzi. 
                     BEATRICE CENCI.—The great historical novel. Translated from the Italian;
                        with a portrait of the Cenci, from Guido's famous picture in Rome. 12mo.
                        cloth, $1.75
                  
               
               Private Miles O'Reilly. 
                     HIS BOOK.—Comic songs, speeches, etc. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     A NEW BOOK.—In press. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
               Rev. John Cumming, D. D., of London. 
                     THE GREAT TRIBULATION.—Two series. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     THE GREAT PREPARATION.—Two series. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                     THE GREAT CONSUMMATION.—Two series. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
                  
               
            
         
      
   
