
    ----CITATION----
        Jones, Clementina.. The Shades of Sorrow Dispelled by the Sunshine of Love .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6909
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The shades of sorrow dispelled by the sunshine of love
             
                  THE Shades of Sorrow Dispelled BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE. A Story Illustrating Christian Benevolence, Gratitude and Early Piety. BY Clen   l, nfti7n t 07onmes. TROY, N. Y. DAILY TIMES STEAM PRINTING HOUSE. 1870.       Affectionately dedicated  BY PASTORS TEACHERS, SCHOOLMATES, AND PUPILS      TO THE READER. DEAR READER, -The following story is not a mere picture of fancy or imagination. The family of Mr. John VanVaulkenburgh, who formerly resided in a lovely valley called The Clove (the valley), might serve as a model for the one at Elm Grove. And that of Rev. D. J. Waller of B. Penn., for the Walkers, in Bostol. Many of the former teachers and pupils of the Troy Female Sem- ilary, will readily recognize Dear Mamma Thompson, in the good nurse. I knew the generols Raney family and Dr. Laird, in Virginia; and many others, whose images are engraven on my heart. I have knownl several good Pastors, and hope my readers can say the same. I named Mr. Hosford for the first inmate of the Church Home, in     Vi       INTIROl ,UTIox.        .  Troy, N. Y.  For although the latter did not find his grand-children, like his name- sake, in Boston, he did find warm and loving hearts to cheer his last days. The wife of Gen. E. Seliriver, and daughter of Mrs. Na- than Warren, was one of them. Her wealth and station did not raise her above minister- ing to the aged  Christian, who had been taken from the poor house. No, she felt it a blessed privilege to watch by the sick bed of a fellow- heir to an immortal crownl.  It is nearly ten years since she went to those blessed mansions, of which she used to read to the aged pilgrim, on the brink of Jordan; but she still lives in the hearts of those who knew her wortlh. Her f ords of love, her smiles, her tears, Her tender sympatlhy; Her gen'rons gifts and watcllful care, Will ne'er forgotten be. It has been my happy lot to know others whose families I would like to record; many of whom are gone-not dead.   INTROIDUCTION.      Vii The good can never die; They only drop their tent of clay, To soar to worlds on high. I miss theml, but would not recall Them, to this world of care. By faith I view their happy home, And wish that I was there. I regret to say I have known poor Nellies and their unfeeling mistresses; and their en- vious and thoughtless schoolmates.  And too many Jim Browns, who rob the widow and the fatherless. One design of my story is to illustrate christian benevolence. For there is much which bears the name, that will not stand the test when the day of reckoning comes. The Apostle says: "Though I give all my goods to feed the poor, and my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." Love to God, and to our fellow beings, must be the main-spring of all we say and do; or all our words and deeds will be but "sounding brass and tinkling cymbals."     Viii     INTRODUCTION.  Many who are eulogized on earth for their generous acts, will, at the last day, be among those who will say: "Lord, have we not  prophesied in Thy name, and in Thy name  done many wonderfil works?" and will hear the awful words: "I never knew you; depart, ye workers of iniquity." While  others, whose deeds of love are known to few, except those who are cheered by them,  will hear the joyful greeting: "Come, ye blessed of my Father." OCh! may you andc I, dear reader, be amonlg the latter. The other designs are so obvious, it is not necessary to say anything( about them here.   CHAPTER I. NELLIE, wherq did you get that elegant bonnet?" exclaimed Anna Adams. "It must be the latest Paris fashion. I do not see how Mrs. Bruce can afford to dress you so fine." "Mrs. Bruce is a queen, and Nellie the first lady of honor," chimed in Bettie Ball. "I wonder where the kinl is?" "What a beautiful dress; and such shoes and gloves," said Emma Edwards, pointing to poor Nellie's bare feet and sunburnt hands. Then they all laughed. Poor Nellie walked on in silence, for she had long. been accustomed to their ridicule. She thought it very unkind in them, to treat her so. But she knew her old straw bonnet, with its faded ribbon, her patched dress     10  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED and ragged apron made her appear very meanly to her well dressed schoolmates. Just then Eva Southerland, who had stopped to assist a little boy, whose tiny kite had caught in a bush, overtook them. She was a lovely girl, about Nellie's age, and a great favorite with all the scholars. "Oh! girls," she said reprovingly, "how can you tease poor Nellie so She has no kind mother to love her and dress her, as we have. Oh! what sliould I do, if I had no owe to care for me; and had to be a ser- vant!" and her eyes filled with tears. Then  she hurried on, to overtake Nellie, who was a little in advance of the rest, and putting her arm affectionately aroundl her neck, said tendeily, "Do not mind those thoughtless girls; I love you, and if we were only well oft, you should live with us; and I would be your sister." 'The lonely orphan had borne  the sneers of her companlions, apparently unmoved ; but Eva's loving words touched i'i i   BY THE STNSHNE OF LOVE.  her warm and generous heart, and her long pent up feelings burst fortl in a flood of tears. "Dear Nellie, do. not cry," said Eva, "it makes me feel so sorry for you." But the poor child could Inot restrain her tears; Eva's loving words and affectionate manner had awakened tender emotions, long buried, in her lonely heart. An angel form, who had taught her to look up to God, as ler Fatler; and to Jesus, as her Saviour, seemed to be hovering over her, and speak- ing in gentle accents, of' a brighter and happier w9orld. When they reached Mrs. Southerland's gate, Eva kissed Nellie affec- tionately, saying, "I will pray to God to raise you up a friend, who will love you, and )bejable to. take good care of you." Nellie threw her alrms aroundl Eva's neck, and sobbed out, "I wiJll be happy it' you will love me, for I have loved you a long time, because you are so kind. But I did     12  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.  not think any one would love such a poor child, as I am." Then, with one more fond embrace, the well dressed child and little  servant selarated.  ! !I   CHAPTER II. IT was a lovely April day. The bright warm sunshine and balmy air made it a delightful time to gather the early spring flowers, which bloom almost as soAui as the snow is off the ground. So when Eva had gone into the house, (for she always went directly home from school, unless delayed to perform some act of kindness, as in the instance mentioned in the preceding chap- ter), alid poor Nelhe had gone to her cheerless home, to wait upon her unfeeling mistress; some of the girls, as they were in the habit of doing, strolled about from place to place, to see and hear what was to be seen and heard. As they were passing Mrs. Bruce's, Anna Adams called out: "Look there! girls; see Nellie splitting wood. I     "  SIIADES OF SORROW DISPELLEI) wonder Eva ever speaks to her, for her nails are as long as birds' claws, and as black as a chimney-sweep's. Her curly hair looks as if it had never been combed. And such a tfight as she is, with that short faded dress, with the sleeves half way to her elbows. She ought to be hung up in the corn field, to scare the crows." "I think it a shame," said Carrie Cole, "that she is allowed to go to school with us; I don't see what use learning is to a servant." "To set us a good example," said Minnie Moss, "for she is always at the head of her classes." "I know that," muttered Libbie Lot; "she studies just because Mr. Hall praises her, and says she is one of the best scholars in school. But what do I care for that, as long as my father is rich, and can get me every thing I want; while she will only be a beggar, with all her learning."  "Oh! girls," said little Fannie Fern, "how   15   BY THE SUNSIIINE OF LOVE. can you talk so? I feel sorry for her; for I am sure it is not her fault that she goes look- ing so. I do not mean to laugh at her again, and I am sorry I ever did. I had no idea she had to cut wood, and--" Fannie stopped; for she saw poor Nellie, with a heavy pail, crossing the street to get water. The girls all stood still and looked at her drawing up the bucket, and lifting it with main strength, to pour the water into the pail. When Nellie reached the gate (for the well was in a yard), she set down the pail, and panted, as if out of breath. But when she saw her schoolmates gazing at her, and whispering and laughing, she took it up and hurried away as fast as she could, till she got to the dbor, and then sunk down, as if exhausted. put she soon rose and went into the house. The girls resumed their walk, and some of them, I am sorry to say, their unfeeling remarks.     C HAPTER   1II. As soon as Nellie got home, Mrs. Bruce   ' told her to hurry and get tea, for she was oroino' to the circus at seven, and wanted to finish the novel she was reading, before she went. But getting tea was no easy task for the poor girl, who had first to cut the wood to make a fire, and then to go to the neigh- bors for water; and while the kettle was boiling, to the grocery for tea and sugar; and to the baker's for bread and cake. By  the time every thing was ready, Mrs. Brace had finished her book, and sat down to tea, while poor Nellie, who had eaten nothing but an apple Eva had given her, since her scanty breakfast, was sent out for pearl pow- der, perfume, &c. When she returned, Mrs. Bruce had finished her supper, and was ready                i.   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.   17 for her to comb and curl her hair, and pow- der her face; and while Nelhe was putting on her gaiters, and laying out her things, ready for her to put on, Mrs. Bruce reclined, on the sofa, reading the programme for the evening. Just as the clock struck seven, the door bell runlg ; but Mrs. lBruce, who had looked in the glass, at least a dozen times, during the last hour, would not allow her little maid to open the door till she had taken another survey of herself. We will not follow the selfish mistress in her pursuit of groveling pleasure, but observe the timid orphan, 'who had to stay alone, until nearly midnight, to wait for Mrs. Bruce's return. Faint with hunger and fatigue, she went to the table; but the tea was cold, and nothing had been left, for her to eat, but a piece of bread and butter. After putting every thing in order, she laid down on the carpet, with her old shawl for a pil- low, and soon fell asleep, and dreamed of 2     18   SIISAI)ES 1OF SORR4O)' I)ISl"ELLEJ)  that blessed home, "where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest."  She slept sweetly until half-past eleven, when she was suddenly aroused to admit her mistress; who scolded and boxed her ears for being asleep and keeping her, as she said, half an hour waiting, at the door.  The poor child made no reply, but waited on her as cheerfully as if nothing had happened. .  When all was done, shte retired to her lonely garret, to rest her aching head and weary limbs. The moon had just risen, and  was shining, brightly thro gll.  The uncurtained . window, on the broken furniture, bags and  boxes, with whiich the room was filled. It  was a dreary looking plalce, all d   ad often  terrified poor Nellie ; but it appleared differ-  ent now. The words of endearment, spoken  by Eva, and the tender recollections they  had awakened, banished  all superstitious  . tear from her heart, and instead of ghosts, in  which she had learned to believe, while at    BY TIlE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   19 the Asylum, she felt, as she remembered to have done, when her dear mother was living, that angels were hovering over her, to guard her from evil. She was only six years old when deprived, of the care, of that dear parent, and the various changes and trials, through which 'she had passed, had nearly obliterated every thing, connected with her happy childhood, from her meinory, except the prayers and hymns her mother had taught her, and which, like a talisman, had, amid temptations and trials, preserved her pure from the contaminations of the world. If mothers only knew and felt the in- portance of teaching their little ones to love God, and do good to their fellow beings, how many children vould be a blessing to their parents, who break their hearts, or "bring down their gray hairs in sorrow to the grave." Nellie looked out on the beautiful land- scape, sleeping, so calmly, beneath the soft     20   SIADES OF SORROW DISPELLED. moonbeams, and then kneeling humbly, by  j her hard bed, committed herself to His  watchful care, who never slumbers nor  sleeps," and then laid down, on her lonely pillow, to dream of that beautiful home  I Jesus has gone to prepare lbr those who love  Him.  A, X}   CHAPTER IV. THE next morning, when Nelhe was going to school, she saw a gentleman and little girl walking just before her. He had hold of the child's hand, and carried a small basket on his arm. He put his hand back and drew his handkerchief, from his coat pocket, and as he did so, something bright fell on the ground. But he walked on, with- out noticing it. Nellie picked it up, and handed it to him, saying: "Sir, you dropped this, when you took out your handkerchief," and then ran on, without giving him time even to thank her. Eva saw her comning, and waited at the gate, until she got there, and then the two friends walked on together. Mr. Souther- land looked at them, with mingled feelings of     22  SIIAD:ES OF SORROW DISPELLED pleasure and surprise, not knowing which to j admire most: the honesty of the poor for-  lorn looking child, or the generous kindness of the well dressed little lady, who was not ashamed to walk the street with her bare- footed schoolmate. The half-hour bell was ringing, when the two friends entered the school room. Mr. Southerland stopped in the liall and askde to see the teacher. After making arrangements for the new scholar, and  letting her go in the school room, lie inquired  who those girls were. Mr. Holt informed him that one was the only child of a widow lady, and the other a poor orpllanl, who was living, as a servant, with an officer's widow. Mr. Southerland then told how Nelhe had picked up a twenty-dollar gold piece he had dropped and given it to himn, and left, before he had time to thank her for her honesty. "That is just like  ler," replied the teacher. "She is one of the most generous and noble-minded girls I ever knew, and, I    BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   23 believe, a true christian. It is a great pity, for one, possesing her moral and mental endowments, to be a slave to one, who is her inferior, in every respect. Eva is a model of kindness, and a favorite with the whole school. While poor Nellie,- on account of her shabby looks,'is often the subject of ridi- cule. I do all I can to prevent her being ill treated; but I cannot always be with them; and were it not for Eva's generous kindness, I fear the poor child would fare badly, among some of her schoolmates.  But she never appears to cherish the least resentment, but always seems glad of an opportunity to assist them, or do them a kindness." -Mr. Southerland took out his watch, and seeing it lacked but a few minutes of nine o'clock, thanked iMr. Holt for the information he had given him, and then asked, "What can I do for the poor girl '" "If you really desire to benefit her, the best thing you can do, will be to get her     24  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.  books. I have no doubt the poor child often goes hungry; but if you give her the money she would buy the books, rather than food." Mr. Southerland requested Mr. Holt to give him a list, of what she needed, and after thanking him again, took his leave; and walked home, revolving in his mind what could be done. to better the condition of the C poor, friendless orphan.    CHAPTER V. WHEN Emma Vail, the little girl Mr. Southerland had brought to school, went in the school room, Mr. Holt introduced her to Eva and Nellie, who were seated at their desks, learning their lessons, while the other scholars were out at play. Eva received 'the little stranger, very cordially, but Nellie only with'politeness, because she thought the little lady would despise her, as most of her schoolmates did. But she soon dis- covered she was mistaken.  For Emma, though rich, was no stranger to poverty, and Nellie's sweet, intelligent face soon won' her loving heart. She was pleased with both the girls; but poor Nellie's shabby appear- ance, contrasted with Eva's, made her love the poor child the more.     26   SHA)ES F01 SO1ROW DISPEII.,EI) As soon as Mr. Southerland left, Mr. Holt went in, and gave Enmmla a vacant desk, aside of Eva's. She looked up timidly, say-  ing : "Sir, if you are willing, please to let J Nellie sit by lIen." Mr. Holt, smiling, replied "I have no objections, if Eva has none." Eva was delighted, that Emma had taken  such a liking to her poor friend, and readily consented to the change'. Eva went home at noon, not to return that  day, as her mother had company and needed her assistance. When she was gone, the other girls gathered round the little stranger,  and Anna Adams said to her: "Come and sit with us in the shade, and eat your dinner. I am surprised that Mr. Holt should give you a seat, by that dirty, ragged girl." Elnma replied, indignantly: "he did not  put her here; I asked him to let her sit by  me." The girls all laughed, and Bettie Ball said  I4   IBY TIrE' SUNSHlINE OF LOVE. 27 "Let us go; if she prefers to associate with servants, instead of us, let her do it." As soon as the two girls were alone, Emma took a napkin, from her basket, and spread it on the desk, and laid her food in order upon it. Then clasping her hands, reverently, asked' God to bless it and give them thankful hlearts.  "Nellie," she said, "now we will eat ou dinner." "But," Nellie replied, "I cannot beg; I would rather go hungry." "Beg!" said Emma, "when you are in- vited to dine." "Dear Emma, I thank you for your kind- ness, but it would not be rightl for me to eat your dinnler." "My dinner, Nellie! Here is enough for two hungry men. Mrs. Thomlpson gave me so much, that I might have some one dine with me, for I always do, when I am in Bos- ton. These nice things would not taste good     28   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED if I had to eat alone. So, now, if you want me to love you, you must be kind enough to help me." Nellie could no longer refuse; and they both enjoyed the meal. There were two nice pieces of cake and a piece of cheese left. Emma wrapped them in a paper, she had in her basket, and when school was out, asked Nellie to carry the package, as far as she wlent. She was very glad to do anything she could, to oblige her little friend, who, when they reached Mrs. Bruce's, called out "goodbye," and ran off, as fast as she could, so as not to give Nellie a chance to hand her the parcel. After Nelhe had finisled her evening's woirk, she went, as usual, to see poor old Mrs. Blake, who lived a few yards down the street, at the corner of Chestnut Grove. She found the cottage door open, and saw the old lady in the garden. So she went in softly,  and laid the cake and cheese on the table.   BY TIIE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  29 When she went to school the next morn- ing, she found a large green box on her desk, with the words, "To Nellie," written on the cover. It contained a whole set of new books, all neatly covered, and her name in each, with, "Reward for honesty," written beneath. There were also, two small boxes: one for the toilet-the' other a work box. Surely, she said, to herself, God has answered dear Eva's prayers; and she raised her tear- fill eyes to heaven, and after expressing her gratitude, to the Author of all good, prayed fervently, for a blessing, on her generous bene- factor. The scholars were all surprised, when they saw Nellie's new books; but no one vpn- tured to inquire where she got them. At noon, Emma handed her a package, saying, "Uncle told me to give you this." It con- tained the same as Emma's basket. The three friends spent a happy hour together, and when they parted, in the afternoon, expressed regret that they should not meet again, till Monday.     S34O  g\-,IAIDES 4)F sOI{OV DISI'ELLEI) The next day was Saturdlay, and as usual, a very hard one, for poor Nellie, who had all the work to do, while her mistress reclined on the sofa, reading the Lclet'. But she did not suffer hunger, as was frequently the case, Decatise she had enough of her Friday's dinner left to prevellt that. But, as much as she needed it herself; she saved a nice piece of cake for Mrs. Blake.         : At three o'clock, Mrs. Br1uce went out to make some calls; lanld told Nellie, as she had nothing more to do, she could go where she pleased till five. Slhe was very glad of the privilege of spending :ll ai our or two, with }iel old friend, and was soon at the cottage. When the old lady saw the nice cake, she exclailmed, "Where did you get this? Some one laid two pieces, just like it, and ; a piece of cheese, at my table, Thursday evening." Nellie related all that had happened, during the last few days. And the dear old lady, with tears of joy, in her eyes, said: "I have    BY TIlE .UNSI SINE OF LOVE.  31 prayed earnestly to God, to reward you for all your kindness to a poor old creature, like me, and I believe that He will answer my prayers."       . 'Mrs. Bjake's cottage was, as we have stated, at the corner of Chestnut Grove, and only separated from it by a hedge. Mr. Southerland had 'left home, a little before three, to call on Mrs. Bruce. But when he got as far as the Grove, he saw her going up street. The budding trees and early flowers looked so inviting, he took a seat on a rustic bench, against the hedge, adjoining Mrs. Blake's dwelling, where he was an uninten- tional listener, to the conversation between the old lady and her little visitor; which inter- ested him so much that, with tears in his manly eyes, he implored wisdom from above to guide him, in 'regard to that poor child, who al, Dearted to be about the age his own daughter would have been, if she had lived. Sunday . morning, Mr. Southerland. his     -:2  SHADES OF SORROWr DISPELLEI) mother, and little Emnma, alighted from the ( carriage, as Mrs. Bruce was entering the  j church; and poor Nelhe was following, some  distance, behind her. A boy standing near,  said to Ills conpanions, "'There is Nellie; let .  us sit in the gallery and have some fun with  her." Mr. Southerland was going to reprove / him, when a better plan was suggested. As  the child was passing, he said "Nellie," and her timid glance met his, as he extended his  hand and said, smiling, "Let me introduce ' you to Mrs. Thompson." The old lady took her kindly by the hand and led her into their  pew. When they were seated, they all knelt . reverently to ask God's blessing. At first, poor Nellie felt out of place; but when the solemn services began, she only remembered : that she was in the presence of Him, "who : seeth not as man seeth, but looketh upon the heart." When church was out, Mr. Southerland  insisted, as there was a vacant seat in the  -4   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   33 carriage, that she should ride with them. fhe boys, who had been disappointed in their wicked design, waited, hoping to ac- complish their object, while Nelhe was on her way home. They were, therefore, greatly vexed when they saw her get in thecarriage. But not more so than Mrs. Bruce, when Mr. Southerland got out at her door, and assisted her little servant to alight, and he and the ladies bid her an affectionate "good bye." Although Mrs. Bruce was displeased with the attention paid to Nellie, she was glad, because she hoped to learn something from her of the family at Elm Grove. So when Nellie came in, she said, smiling, "You had a very pleasant ride. Who is that old lady?" "I do not know-only her name is Mrs. Thompson." "Is she that little girl's mother?" "I guess not, for her name is Emma Vail." "Do you know it Mr. Southerland has a wife?" 3     34  SH-A1DES OF SORROW DISPELLED. "I heard Emma say, that his wife and child died a good many years ago." "Then, I suppose, he has adopted her." "I think not, for she is going home the first of October." "What did they talk about, in the car- riage?" "About the sermon; and then Mr. South- erland asked me if I remembered the text, and when I repeated it, he said he was glad I had been so attentive, and hoped I would try to remember the sermon. By that time we were here, and he helped me out, and they all bid me good bye."   CHAPTER V I. :  ON Monday, a boy was sent to carry Em- ma's basket, which contained her and Nellie's dinner, and a parcel for Mrs. Blake. Mr. Southerland had intended to see Mrs. Bruce that day, but business obliged him to go several miles in the country; and as the weather was pleasant, he insisted on Mrs. Thompson going with him. Mrs. Bruce, who was very anxious to be- come acquainted with the family at Elm Grove, decided to call there that afternoon, before Nellie came home. For she said to herself, if they do not give me a cordial reception, Emma will nuot be there to carry the news to school. Her precaution was unnecessary, for Mr. S. and Mrs. Thompson were too noble minded and generous to treat ,      , ,     36   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED ally person with disrespect; and if they had not been, Emma had been too well instructed to repeat what she saw and heard. As Mrs. Bruce walked up the broad avenue, shaded with stately elms, and bordered with shrubs and flowers, she saw a lady sitting on the front stoop, who rose and invited her in. After she was seated in the parlor, which, to use her own expression, was "elegantly fur- nished," the lady domestic, for she was both, said she was sorry Mr. Southerland and his mother were both absent, but if she wished, after resting and taking some refreshments, she would -be happy to show her the house and grounds. Mrs. Bruce ungraciously de- clined staying, and added, that she "called to see the family, and not to get something to eat." The lady said she hoped madam would take no office, for she had been told to treat whoever called, as if the family were at home. When Mrs. Bruce left, she gave the lady   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   37 her card, saying, "Be sure and give it to them as soon as they get home. Now, don't you forget' it." And then, without even saying good bye, departed, vexed and disap- pointed. Mr. Southerland and Mrs. Thompson could not help being amused, when they read, on their visitor's card, "Mrs. Captain Jared D. Bruce," but they were both too- refined to speak of it, even to each other. They con- sidered her call providential, as it afforded them tan opportunity to return it-which they decided to do, as soon as the; rules of etiquette would permit; intending, in the mean time, to prevent poor Nellie suffering for want of food. On Thursday- afternoon they both called on Mrs. Bruce, who overwhelmed them with attention and apologies. After conversing for a while on commonplace subjects, Mr. Southerland spoke of Nellie's honesty and other good qualities, and then inquired how     38   SHADES OF SORI0RO DISPELLED long she had lived there, and where she was from. Mrs. Bruce replied: "I took her from the Orphan Asylum, in M., three years ago; but we have resided here only two." "Do you know her age?" "She will be thirteen, the 24th of Septem- ber." "How strange!" remarked Mr. Souther- land. "She is just the age my daughter would be, if living; and if my memory serves me, very much like her." "How old was your child?" inquired Mrs. Bruce. "She was nearly six when she died; but I had left home two years before; so she was only four wlhen I saw her last." "You could filnd a good many children the age of yours; and it is not uncommon to see people resemble others, who are no relation to them," remarked Mrs. Bruce. "That is true," said Mr. Southerland, "but as I wish to adopt one the age mine would   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   39 have been, I prefer one whose birthday is the same as my own daughter's, and who is like her, in appearance and in principle, as I believe Nellie to be; so, if you will transfer her indenture to me, I will pay you for her time-for I suppose she is bound to you." Mrs. Bruce hesitated for some time, but finally, after a great many ifs and ands, consented, on condition that Nellie could remain with her until the middle or last of June, when she intended to move to Spring- field. She was not such a servant as she needed, but it would be a great trouble to change for so short a time. Mr. Southerland was very reluctant to have the poor child remain so long, but saw nb way to prevent it. So all he could do was to make it as easy and comfortable for her as possible, while she staid. . Therefore, after a little reflection, he said to Mrs. Bruce: "I will take her on the conditions you proposed, but want the privilege of furnishing her with comfortable X,     40  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED. clothes, and to have her sit in our pew in church. I will also send a man to cut your wood; and when you have hard work to do, hire it done, and I will pay for it." Mrs. Bruce objected, because it would make her appear badly, to have him provide clothes for her servant. Hie replied: "No one, not even Nellie, need know but you purchase them."i So the matter was arranged; and by Sat- urday evening, Nelhe had two good every- day suits, and a nice one to wear to church. Now, while the poor child is going to school and to church as well dressed as other children, and enjoying the good dinners sent to her from Elm Grove, we will give a brief history of Mr. Southerland's life, to the time we introduced him, so unceremoniously, to  our readers.    I,   I . CHAPTER VII. MR. SOUTHERLAND was an only child. His father died when he was. two years old, leav- ing him to the care of his pious mother, who spared no labor or expense necessary to carry out the wishes of her husband, with regard to her son; who, young as he was, had already learned to obey the wishes -of his parents. And, instead of being kept in the nursery during family worship, had been taught to be quiet while they were reading and sing- ing, and to kneel with his little hands clasped and his eyes raised to heaven, during prayers. He graduated at College, and then' at the University, with the highest honors. But he always said he had received the most val- uable part of his education from his excellent mother; who not only fitted him for college,     42   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLEDI  but instilled into his mind the purest prin- t ciples of morality and religion. She taught  him that nothing is noble which is not truly : good; that neither rank, nor wealth, can  make a man-devoid of personal merit-- great; and that every occupation which is  honest, is honorable. Both his parents pos-  sessed a fine sensibility and tender sympa- thy, which, we hav,e seen, was inherited inl  an eminent degree by their son. His mother died when he was sixteen, and left him to the care of her brother, with whom she had resided after the death of her husband. A few months before he left the University, his uncle died, and left all his property, except Elm Grove, to be equally divided between him and his cousin. He willed Elm Grove to Mr. Southerland, because he was named  for him, but directed that if he died without heirs, the place should be his cousin's-who was married, and had several children-be- cause he did not wish it to go out of the   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   43 family. At twenty-one, Mr. Southerland engaged in the East India trade, and resided in Boston. He married a pious and highly educated lady, whose principles and tastes accorded so well. with his own, that P:ovi- dence seemed to-have destined them for each other. He had no relatives but his cousin and his family, and his wife had none. Her parents were Scotch, and emigrated to Bos- ton when she was ten years old. When she was twelve, they died, within a few months of each other. A pious widow lady, whose children were all settled, took her as her own. She put the money, her pairents had left, at interest, and educated and clothed her at her own expense. That excellent lady never had cause to re- gret what she had done for the lonely orphan, whose affection and gratitude amply re- warded her. She died about two years after the mairiage of her beloved foster-daughter, aid eleven months after she stood sponsor ,  ,    .z     "  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED for her namesake, Clara. She breathed her last thanking God for sparing her to see the object  of her tender solicitude so happily settled. When Clara was four years old, Mr. South- I erland's partner died at Calcutta, and he was obliged to go there to settle up the business. With a sad, yet trusting, heart, he took leave of his beloved wife and child - hoping, through the mercy of God, to whose watch- ful care he confided them, to live to return. That, he knew, was uncertain; but of one  thing he felt confident: that whatever might  befall them on earth, they would meet at   a last where separations are unknown. It was  i this blessed assurance which sustained him and his dear Anna, whose pure and generous  i  hearts seemed blended into one. He set sail, and after a speedy and prosperous voyage,  arrived, in good health, at the destined port. Letters were sent and received, all of which carried cheering news to the widely separated husband and wife.   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   45 A year and a half had passed since Mr. Southerland had bid adieu to the "loved ones, at home," when he wrote the following letter, which he supposed would be the last, as he expected to sail three days after the vessel which carried it: CALCUTTA, March 30th, 18-. 1y own -Dear Anna: How shall I express my gratitude to the Giver of all good, for preserving my life so long in this unhealthy climate; and as I am about to embark for my distant home, per- mit me to receive tie cheering news that my dear wife and child are well and happy. I have been wonderfully prospered in arrang- ing my business, and my property is all safe in England; leaving me nothing to take care of but my baggage, which consists mostly of things rare and curious for you and Clara. Providence permitting, I will leave here next Monday, in a vessel bound direct for Boston. It is one of the same line that will convey this letter to you. Language cannot express my feelings at the prospect of again being     "  SA1I.1DES OF SORROW DISPELLED with you; but should that hope never be realized on earth, I trust to land on a brighter  shore, there to await your coniing. I am often congratulated on my success il business, and  the large fortune I have accumulated. I thank God for it becauise it elnables me to do good.  But wliat is the wealth of the world compared                i To that never failing treasure,  The rich gift of Jesus' love, Purchased by his death and suff'rings, And reserved for us above? As soon after my arrival as we can make arrangements-to leave home, I want to sail with you and Clara for England, and spend a year in traveling. Then, if we are spared, return to our own happy country, and take up our abode at Elm Grove, and devote our- selves to the pleasure of doing good, with the wealth God has so abundantly lavished  upon us. I was delighted with the gratitude of Capt.  Jones, who was here a few days ago. I had not seen him since I procured his present eligible situation, nor did I ever expect to ,4   BY THE SITUNSHNE OF LOVE.  47 again in this world.' But he had heard f was going home, and came to pay me what I had given him, before I obtained his present berth. He said he could have paid me three months after he left here if he had had the means of sending me the money. But he soon found use for it, in doing for some of his own countrymen, who, like himself, had been wrecked a'nd lost all they had. He trusted in God to make more to pay me, and his confidence was not misplaced, for he has already acquired a considerable fortune, with which he will accomplish much for the good of others. When he offered me the money, I told him to give it to the Lord, if he did not need it himself.. And this morning I learned he had given it to the American Mission, and an equal amount to the English. What a blessed privilege to aid such a per- son! I was delighted to hear Clara is so studious and anxious to learn; but far more gratified to know that her loving heart yearns over the poor and afflicted, and her generous hand is ever ready to relieve their wants. God     48  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.  has indeed heard our prayers, and I trust will keep her in the straight and narrow  path till she reaches the Celestial City. Hoping soon to meet you and our darling  child, I bid you both an affectionate adieu. From your devoted husband, W. I1. SOUTHERLAND. 1i s   CHAPTER VIII. Two ships left Calcutta, the 2d of April, with a fair prospect of a pleasant voyage. But one of them was wrecked off the Cape of Good Hope, and the other carried the sad news, to Boston, that all on board had per- ished. The vessel struck a rock with such violence that some were stunned and died without knowing what caused their death; while a few on deck were thrown overboard, and picked-up by a boat belonging to an Eng lish vessel, bound to Sydney. Mr. Souther- land was among the latter. But he, from the shock or exposure in the water, or from both, was extremely ill and delirious during the whole voyage. Fortunately, the captain had known him in Calcutta, and was indebted to him for his position as corilmander. In- 4     50   SADES OF SORRIOW DISPELLED, spired by gratitude, heldetermined to lo all in his power, to restore his benefactor to health, and, if he recovered, to his friends. Mr. Southerland was immediately  placed under the care of the plysician, and the best nurse, on board.  As soon as the ship anchored in the harbor, the captain went on shore, and hired a room of a pious English  family; procured a good nurse, and the best physician, in the place, to attend him. For  three weeks, there was little or no change, in Mr.. Southerland's symptoms; but after that he declined so rapidly, the doctor soon despaired of his recovery. But the good nurse, who had watched over him, with a mother's tenderness, could not give him up; and insisted that some other remedy should be tried. The doctor told her there was only one more; and that, if it did not help him,  would hasten his death. She was silent for t a few moments, and then said, with choked utteracpe. "Let us ask God to direct vou."  '/'    BY TI'E SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  51 They knelt by the bed of the unconscious suf- ferer, and engaged in silent prayer. When they rose, the doctor felt his patient's pulse, and then administered the medicine. The doctor left, and the nurse sat down to watch and pray, as none but a mother can. Mr. Southerland slept calmly for nearly two hours, and then, slowly opening his eyes, fixed them on her, and asked, in a faint voice, "Mother, is that you?"She bent over him with a throb- bing heart, and said, "Yes, my son, but you must not talk; but be perfectly quiet until the doctor returns." Her words seemed to satisfy him; and he soon fell into a peaceful slumber, and appeared to be dreaming, for several, times he murmured softly, "Mother; dearnmother!"Three hours after the medi- cine had been given, the doctor entered the room, with feelings of mingled hope and fear. After examining -Mr. Southerland's pulse, he turned to the. nurse, and taking her hand between his, said, "Dear madam, you have     52   SHlADES OF SORROW DISPELLED  saved him!  He will doubtless recover, with your nursing ; but I fear it will be a  long time before he regains his strength,  I even with the best of care." "Thlank God!"  she ejaculated; and sunk orl her knees by the  bed, to pour out her heart-felt gratitude to Him, who had heard and answered her pray- ers. From that time lie slowly recovered, and showed no signs of delirium, but tap- peared to have lost his memory; for he always called the nurse " mother," and fre-  quently " my dear mother" ; and was as affectionate and submissive to her wishes as  a little child. In a few days, lhe was able to be bolstered up in bed; and, three weeks from his convalesceece, was placed in an easy chair, by a large winldow, overlooking a beau- tiful garden and ,shrubbery, beyond which was tlme broad ocean, reflecting the rays of  the declining sun. lie gazed for some time, in silent admiration, on the lovely scene spread out before him. The ever-xwatchful  r                 g tI   BY TI1E SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  53 nurse knew from his expression, that strange thoughts were passing through his mind; and continued to observe him with anxiety. After a while, memory's casket, so long sealed, was suddenly opened; and the prin- cipal events of his life, to the time he was wrecked, were spread out before him. After surveying them for a time, he said, "Dear mother, where are Anna and Clara?"For- tunately, sle hlad learned who they were, from the last letter he had received from his wife, which she had found in his coat pocket. She rose, and placing her hand affectionately upon his head, replied: "They are at home, my son, and as soon as you are strong enough, you shall go to them." He began to make further inquiries about them, when she inter- rupted him, saying: "You have been up long enoutgh, and must lie down now. After you have had a good night's rest, we will talk about them." He readily complied with her wishes; and, after committing himself     54   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED and all that was dear to him, to his blessed Saviour, he soon fell asleep, while angels  seemed hovering over him.          i ----"'T is Sweet to lie passive in His hands,. And know no will but His." The next day he appeared so much stronger she ventured to tell hiln he had been ship- wrecked, and brought there by the captain of an English vessel, who knew htim; but whose name she had not heard. Before she had time to say more, the doctor entered, with an open letter in his hand. She, think- ing her presence milt t not be agreeable, left the room, saying: "Doctor, I will take. a short walk, while you are with my son." Theletter was from the captain, stating that two vessels would touch at that polt, bound  for England-the former three weeks, and the latter six, from that day. And he re- quested the doctor to inform him if Mr. Southerland would be able to go in either;  f " '  '     I   BY THE SUNSIINE OF LOVE.   55 and if so, in which. For. the captain of the one in which he sailed, would take him to Liverpool, and see him safely embarked for Boston. After the signature was the follow-  ing postscript: "It has just occurred to me, that it would be well for the good lady, lho has nursed him so tenderly, to accompany him to Eng- land. For while it would be a great comfort to him, it would afford her the pleasure of visiting her native land, without expense. For I will bring her back, or pay her pas- sage, whenever, she wishes to return." Mr. Southerland looked astonished, and was about to say, "She is my mother," when he recollected that his own mother had died when he was only sixteen. It was de- cided that lie should go in the latter vessel, and take Mrs. Thompson with him, if she would consent to go. rThe doctor then took leave, requesting him not to talk or think any more about it that day, as it might retard his recovery. The doctor called again the     56   SISADES OF SOIL)RO  DIS'PEILED next norning, and was left alone with his patient,--who expressed his gratitude for his faithful attention to a stranger, wio, he had no reason to think, would ever be able to re- ward him as his s services deserveed. The good man replied: U You owe your life, under God, to Mrs. Thompson,"-and told him what the  reader already knows, and then added: "She was so much distressed, for fear you migrht die  unprepared, that I surgested her examininig  your pockets, which might contain something  to relieve her anxiety. She found your wife's last letter, whch quieted her fears in regard  to your future state; but made her no less anxious for your recovery, for the sake of  your wife .and child. When Mrs. Thompson returned, Mr. South- erland exclaimed, as 'she entered the roon: n "Dear mother! Providence permitting, six  weeks from to-day, we will be on our way   i to England."  "So the doctor told me. God grant, my  !   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  57 son, that you may reach home i safety, and long be spared to your dear wife and child." "And to my dear mother, to," said Mr. Southerland.    - "Then you have a mother," she replied, with a deep sigh. "I know how to pity her, and thank God for enabling me to do some- thing for her son." "My first mother is dead," he resumed; "but God sent me here to find another, from whom iiothing but shipwreck or death shall ever separate me. I learned from the doctor that you had a son and daughter, and a little grand-daughter, who was about the age of my Clara. God has already given you an- other son; and will, I trust, conduct you safely to your home in America, where you will, if they live, find another daughter and grand-child. And though not the same you had, will love you as well; and owe you a greater debt of gratitude." Mrs. Thompson, not knowing Mr. Souther-     58   SIIADES OFROW )ISPELLED. land was wealthy, was afraid of being a bur-  den. But his heart was so set on taking  her with him, that she consented to go, lest  her refusing should injure him, ill his feeble state of health. He improved so rapidly that he was quite well when they embarked  i for England. While they rce on their voy-  age, whic proved to be a very pleasant one, we will relate a few incidents, which will j make the reader better acquainted with Cap- ia tain Jones, Dr. Laird and the Raney family, in whose hospitable mansion Mr. Southerlandt  passed more than three months.    CHAPTE    IX. CAPTAIN JONES, as already stated, was indebted to Mr. Southerland for his position as commander of a vessel. Mr. Southerland, actuated by pure benevolence, had raised an unfortunate stranger from want and suf- fering to an honorable and lucrative situation. On the other hand, Captain Jones conveyed Mr. Southerland to Sydney, with the best care his ship afforded; pledged himself to pay all his expenses, while there; when he. recovered, paid his passage to Boston, via Liverpool, and Mrs. Thompson's to England, and intended to be at the expense of her return. All out of gratitude to his generous benefactor, who he supposed had lost all his property, but what was in Boston; which he had reason to believe was so little he could never compensate him.     60  SIIADES OF SORLIOW DISPELLED.     I Soon after Mr. Southerland sailed for Eng- \  land, Captain Jones went to Sydney to meet  I his engagements. But neither the generous  doctor nor the benevolent family who, for more thanl three months, had given up tlhe best room in their house, to accommodate a  ' poor sick stranger, would accept anything  for tleir trouble. We maty well imagine   : their surprise, when a ship, which left Eng- V land only four days after Mr. Southerland . landedl, brought back the passage money,   . paid by Caltain Jones, and more than enough to discharge all other obligations; besides a number of presents from  Mr.   I Southerland, and letters expressing his gcrati- 'l tude to his generous friends, whose kindness he said he could never repay, nor find lan-  guage to express.       ?   CHAPTER X. AFTER Mr. Southerland had completed his arrangements to, reward Captain Jones and his friends at Sydney, he proceeded to exam- ine the Boston papers, to learn what had occurred there, after he left Calcutta. For, although Captain Jones and Dr. Laird had both written to his wife during his illness, he had heard nothing from her. The first thing that attracted his attention was an account of the shipwreck: stating that all on board had perished, and his name given in the list of passengers. He was deeply grieved at the thought of what his wife had suffered on his account; and as she had not answered the above-named letters, feared the news of his death had deprived her of reason, or she had died of grief. He     62   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED then, with an achinrg heart, examined the obituaries to the thirtieth of July, just four montls from the date (f the last lettel he wrote, before sailing for America, which con-  talied an account of the death of his wife and child, who had died within a few hlours of each other. We will pass over the sad  scene which followed; suffice it to say that  Mrs. Thompson was no less afflicted than he. But, as usual, thinking more of others' sor- rows than her own, strove to suppress her grief and soothe his. Happily, they both knew where to look for comfort, and they did not look in vain. The similarity of their trials boulnd the hearts of the mother and son more closely, for neither of them had any one else to care for. As soon as Mr. Soutilerlanc had recovered from the dreadful shock, he d(cided to remain in England, and devote his time to doing good. He knew his cousin had Elm Grove, the rent of which had supported his wife and    BY TE SUNSIINE OF LOVE.   63 child during his absence. And her property, he had no doubt, had been disposed of ac- cording to her wish, before she died. Al- though childless, Elm Grove was his during life. But, as he had enough without it, and did not wish to reside there, he felt no desire to claim it. A few weeks later, we find Mr. Southerland and his mother occupying a beautiful resi- dence, oi the outskirts of one of England's loveliest villages. The house is not as large, nor the grounds as extensive, s Elm Grove. But notlhing can exceed the beauty of the situation, and the taste displayed in the arrangement of every thing about the place. It commands a deliglltful view of the church and parsonage, embowered in trees; and the village, with its white cottages, rural man- sions and beautiful gardens. To the south, it commands a distant view of the sea, with its white sails, flitting here and there, like birds of passage. And to the north and     "  SHADES OF SORROW DIlsPEL.,ED east, a charming district of country is visible  for miles. At a little distance west of the village, are the stately residence and exten-  sive grounds of Lord R  , which terminate the view in that direction. Only those who  - are capable of appreciating the pure and beautiful, can' form an adequate idea of the pleasure the residents of Bellevuc (Mr. South- erland's home) derived from this scene of rural loveliness. But the greatest attraction  of the place, and which contributed most to their happiness, was the village church, with its daily service, conducted by the excellent. pastor, whose life was a "living epistle, known and read of all men."  He was the sun of that little system, diffusing his genial I rays, alike on all classes and conditions. The leader and guide of his people; the faithful shepherd, guarding his flock, "as one that must give account." The judicious adviser;  the cordial friend and tender sympathizer--  living to honor God, and bless His people.   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   65 Only those who have enjoyed the privilege of living under the ministrations of such a pas- tor, can conceive how much it contributed to the comfort of Mr. Southerland and his moth-  er, who soon became his warm friends; ever ready, heart and hand, to aid him and his amiable wife, in their works of love. Our friends at Bellevue were soon as happy as it is possible to be in this world of sin and sorrow. For instead of grieving for their friends as lost, they thought of them as glo- rified spirits before the throne; and them- selves as pilgrims going to the celestial city, ready to depart whenever God should call them from. their labors to join their loved ones in praising Him, "Who had redeemed them by His blood, and made them kings and priests unto God." When Mr. Southerland had resided at Bellevue six years, he saw Elm Grove adver- tised in a Boston paper, to be sold for debt. Knowing it was his uncle's wish to have it 5     "  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED. remain in the family, he decided to sell out and return to America.  But instead of claiming the place as his own, as he had a 4 right to do, he bought off the mortgage, and took possession by right of purchase. This he did, because he was not willing an honest man should lose what was his just due, nor his cousin be deprived of his home, which would have been the only means left by which the debt could be paid, if he took what was justly his own. It&   CHAPTER XI. THE first acquaintance Mr. Southerland met, on his arriXal in Boston, was Emma Vail's father, with whom he had been very intimate at the University. Mr. Vail would not permit his friend to go to a public house, but sent home for his own carriage to take him and Mrs. Thompson to his residence, and remained himself to see their baggage safely landed and carried home. He wrote a few lines on the back of an old letter he had in his pocket, and gave it to the driver, directing him to hand it to Mrs. Vail, who, as soon as she had read it, came out and received ithem as cordially as if she had always kfnown them. They remained there until they went to reside at Elm Grove, three weeks before the time our story began.     68  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.  Emma Vail, with whom the reader is al- ready acquainted, became so much attached to her uncle and grandmother, as she called Mr. Southerland and Mrs. Thompson, that they insisted upon her spending the summer with them. It was finally decided that Emma should go with them, and the rest of the family the first of September, and remain a month and then take Emma home with them  when they returned.  It is now time to resume the narrative where we left off, to give an account of Mr. Southerland's life. -K^-    CHAPTER XII. ABOUT the middle of June, Mrs. Bruce informed Mr. Southerland she was ready to leave the village; and he went with the car- riage to bring Nellie and the few things she had to Elm Grove. Poor Nelhe had such a loving heart and generous disposition, she could not leave her selfish mistress without weeping and expressing her regret that she had not been a better servant. Her manner was so touching that even that unfeeling woman was moved to tears.  When Mr. Soupherland and Nellie were in the carriage, Mrs. Bruce handed him a box, covered with thick cloth, with a card attached to it, on which was written: "To be given to Nellie Brown, on her eighteenth birth-day." It had been given to Mrs. Bruce by the Matron     70  SHA)ES OF SORROW DISPELLED of the Orphan Asylum, when Nellie left  there. Nellie and Eva had sometimes walked as far as the entrance gate, from whence they had admired the beautiful house and grounds  at Elm Grove. But Nellie soon discovered, on approaching the stately mansion, that she had formed a very inadequate idea of the beauty and grandeur of the place. She was cordially received by Mrs. Thomp- son and Emma. The former soon conducted her to her room, which was handsomely fur- nished and supplied with every comfort and convenience love could suggest. All of which the dear old lady pointed out to her. When told it was all hers, she could only  reply with her tears; and as soon as she was alone, knelt down and thanked God for His goodness to her, and entreated Him to make her worthy of the blessings he had bestowed upon her. Mrs. Thompson, who had only stepped out for a moment, was deeply moved   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   71 when she returned and, through the half open door, saw the child on her knees, sobbing and praying. She would have been less sur- prised had she known how great the contra/ between that lovely robm and the lonely garret, to which the poor frienidess orphan had so long been,accustomed. When Nellie rose, Mrs. Thompson pressed her to her bosom, saying: "May the blessing of the God of the fatherless ever rest upon you, my dear child." Then kissing her tenderly, told her to come down stairs, when she had arranged things as she wished. After the old lady had gone, she looked round but saw nothing to do, where everything was in per- fect order; for even what she had brought with her was all put away. So she thanked God again for His goodness; and after wash- ing away the traces of her tears, went down to the sitting room. As she entered, Mr. Southerland rose and conducted her to a seat on the sofa, aside of his mother. Then seat-     72  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED. ing himself near, inquired: "Do you think you can be happy here?" Nellie replied, timidly, "I think the place is beautiful, but not half as dear to me as you and Mrs. Thompson and Emma. If I can only be a good and faithful servant, so as to pay you for your kindness, I will be very happy." "My dear child, we have no servants; we have people who work for us, and are our fellow-servants-that is, the servants of God. But you are not to be one of them. I have taken you to fill the place in my home and heart that my dear Clara, who was just your age, and, as well as I can remember, looked like you, would fill, if living. Mrs. Thomp- son, my good mother, will be your grand- mother in name, but in deed, your mother." Poor Nellie was again overcome with emo- tions of gratitude, and wept. But Mr. Southerland told her to dry her tears, and go with her grandmother to look at the house and grounds.   CHAPTER XII. EvA's generous kindness to poor Nellie, and the similarity of Mrs. Southerland's situ- ation to that of his own dear wife, after she heard of his death, made Mr. Southerland and his mother feel a deep interest in her and her lovely daughter. They had reason to think her means were limited; and were, therefore, anxious to aid her. But their re- fined sensibility always made them careful to bestow their favors so as not to wound the feelings of those they assisted. They had never seen Mrs. Southerland except at church, dressed in deep mourning, and veiled. And from what they could learn, she visited none but the sick and afflicted, by whom she and her daughter were regarded as angels of mercy. They had tried, in vain, to think of '        *4     74  SHADES OF SORROW' DISPELLED some reasonable excuse to call upon her, and  thus become acquainted; but could think of none but what would make them appear as  intruders, as she had not called on them. Nellie's adoption by Mr. Southerland afford- ed the long desired opportunity, and they  were not slow to improve it. They had  learned, through Emma, that Mrs. Souther- land instructed her own daughter in music, French, and drawing; and they could ask her, as a favor, to teach Nellie too. Accord- ingly, at sunset the same evening, they walked down to Ivy Cottage.  The mother and daughter were sitting in the porch, enjoying the beautiful moonlight, and the lovely land- scape, illuminated by its soft radiance. They  had been taking a retrospect of the past, and thanking God for the present; and were  speaking, with cheerful hope, of the bright future that awaited them, when the sea should give up its dead, and the loved and lost be restored to them. But as soon as Mr. South-    BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  75. erland and his mother arrived, Eva ran to the gate to meet them, exclaiming: "How shall I ever thank you enough for taking dear Nellie!"Then extending both hands, which were warmly grasped by their visit- ors, she led them to the house, and introduced them to her mother, who received them cor- dially, observing, "This is an unexpected pleasure,"--and then invited them in. But they said, if it would be as agreeable to her, they would prefer sitting in the porch. When they were seated, Mrs. Thompson said to Mrs. Southerland: "We have been ex- pecting you to call on us, but as you did hot, we have been trying to find some excuse to call on you. For what we knew of your daughter made us anxious to know her mother." Mrs. Southerland replied: "I am happy to learn that my daughter has your approbation; because I feel confident, from what you have done for poor Nellie, you are capable of discerning real worth. I cannot      76  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED look into the future, but will venture to pre- dict, that the time will come when you will feel yourselves well rewarded for your gener- osity to that noble-minded girl. I have seen but little of her myself; but from what Eva  has told me, and Mrs. Blake, to whom she has devoted all her spare time, nothing but my straitened circumstances has prevented  my taking her as my own. Poor Eva has often been so overcome with grief, for what she suffered, that I had to suppress my own feelings, and try to console her." "Dear madam," said Mr. Southerland, "I am glad you have such a good opinion of  that dear child, for I have come to ask a great ] favor for her." "I will gladly confer it!" exclaimed Mrs.  Southerland, "if it is in my power to do so." "I wish her to learn what you are teaching your own daughter, if she is capable." "I will esteem it a privilege to instruct her in any branch I can teach. For besides   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   " the satisfaction of benefiting her, it will be a great pleasure to have her with us. And I would be glad to have littleEmma, too." "And I would be glad to let her come, if it will not add too much to your labor." It was arranged to have the girls take their lessons after school, before returning to Elm Grove-until vacation; and then come in the morning. Mrs. Southerland could have taught Eva all she learned at school, and thus have saved the expense of her tuition. But the judicious, self-sacrificing mother knew such a monotonous life, how- ever agreeable to her daughter-who would have preferred always being with her mother, would, in a measure, prevent her mental de- velopment, if it did not injure her health. Mr. Southerland requested her to state her- terms, that he might pay a quarter's tuition in advance. "Pay me!" ejaculated Mrs. Southerland; "I did not agree to teach them for pay, but S M)     78   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED for the pleasure of benefiting them, and en- joying their company."  "I have adopted Nellie," resumed Mr.   i Southerland, "and Mr. Vail will cheerfully  pay his daughter's tuition."  Then, without giving her time to reply, he asked permission to step into the hall, to i look at a paper he had taken out of his  pocket. It was a circular of a first class boarding and day school, containing the  terms for all the branches taught there. When he had ascertained the amount, he   N enclosed it and the circular in an envelope, directed with a lead pencil, and laid it on the table, near the lamp. He then resumed his seat, and after an hour's agreeable conversa- tion, he and Mrs. Thompson took leave, in-  sisting on Mrs. Sou'therland and Eva soon returning their call; and offering, if the walk was too long, to send the carriage for them. She thanked them, but said she had always  lived retired since the death of her husband,   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   79 and felt as if she always would; but added, that she would be happy, at any time, to see them. The mother and son returned to Elm Grove more deeply interested in the lonely widow and orphan, and more anxious to do some- thing for their happiness. Nellie and Emma were delighted at the prospect of spending two hours a day with Eva at her own home. Mr. Southerland said he hoped they would always be good girls, and improve as fast as possible-not only for their own benefit, but- for the satisfaction it would afford Mrs. Southerland and Eva, who, he knew, would be very unhappy if they did'not do well. They both promised to do their best, and I believe they did; for all parties were well satisfied with their progress.     CHAPTER XIV. THE first of August, Mr. Southerland set  out for Boston, to be absent eight or ten days, which seemed a long time to his loving household. He promised to bring Nellie a present, when he returned, if she would tell him what she wanted.  She replied, with tears in her eyes, "Bring yourself as soon as possible." "I hope to do that, my dear child, but you are so fond of animals, would you not like a little dog?"  Instead of answering his question, she said: "We had a dear little black one, sister I and I used to play with,"-and her tears  flowed afresh; for that little word had re- called her happy childhood. We will pass over the leave-taking, and   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.  81 be ready to meet him in Boston. But we must first narrate a few incidents, in order to understand the object of his visit. When his daughter was three years old, he, like the good Vicar of Wakefield, had a family portrait painted. Fortunately, his family was less numerous and the material on which it was 'taken more pliable, so he had no difficulty in placing it where he wished. Mr. and Mrs. Southerland were represented sitting near an open door, com- manding the view of a beautiful garden. Clara was standing on the threshold, with a basket of flowers in one hand and a cluster of grapes in the other, which she held up, as if tempting a small black dog, which was standing on his hind feet, with his fore paws resting on her mother's lap, and looking up, as if about to seize the fruit. Before embarking for Calcutta, he had two miniatures of that picture taken and each set in a gold locket, with the hair of 6 Ig     82  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED the three entwined, placed opposite. He always wore one of the lockets in his bosom, attached to a gold chain, fastened round his neck. The other was left at home. When Mr. Southerland arrived in Boston, from England, he wrote to his cousin, re- questing him to call at Mr. Vail's; but as he did not come, he went to see him; but was told that the whole family were from home, and would not return for several weeks, although he had seen his cousin and his wife  at the window, as he approached. As Mr.  Southerland had no relatives but his cousin  and his family, he supposed his wife had  given them the family picture, which, on  inquiry, he had learned was not there. He did not intend, if it was, to take it from them, but to have one painted like it, for himself. He soon after formed the acquaintance of a young artist, in whom he became so much interested that he employed him to paint a g   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   83 life size picture, from the miniature. He told the young man to take his own time, and to spare no labor nor expense necessary to accomplish his object. And if he failed, he would pay him for his labor and not expose him. Early in July, Mr. Southerland received a letter from him, stating that he had succeeded to his own satisfaction; but the picture was so much admired, he would like to retain it long enough to paint another like it, which he thought he could do by the first of August. When Mr. Southerland arrived at a way station, in the suburbs of the city, he left the car, directing the conductor to send his bag- gage to Mr. Vail's, with a note, saying he would be there to tea. He had been walking about for some time, looking at familiar objects and scenes, when, as he was passing the open gate of a cottage garden, a dog rushed out with such fury, he thought the animal was mad. The owner,     84  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED  an old man, who was sitting near the door, reading, saw the gentleman was frightened and called out, "Do not be alarmed, he will not hurt you. He is a very loving creature, and has mistaken you for some person he knows." Then going as fast as he could, called, "Beauty, come here, Beauty." But Beauty was deaf and blind to everything but the person whose attention he was trying to attract. Mr. Southerland, assured by what the old man said, patted him on the  head, saying, "Poor Beauty, poor Beauty." The sagacious animal having gained his point, ceased his gesticulations, stood still, his eyes beaming with pleasure, looking up at Mr. Southerland, who remarked; "I have seen this dog before; where did you get him?" "If you will step in, sir, I will tell you the whole story." When they were seated in the neat cot- tage, with Beauty lying on the floor, looking   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  85 first at one and then at the other, as if unde-   cided which he loved best, the old man began: "Three years ago last Monday, I was standing at the gate, when my attention was attracted by the sound of angry voices and the piteous cries of a dog, some boys were dragging along with a rope round his neck, and kicking and beating the poor !  creature, because he would not follow them. I called out, 'Do not abuse that poor dog so.' At the sound of my voice, he rose and ran as far as the gate, but would not go a step farther. I inquired what they were going to do with him. They said Jim Brown had hired them to drown him. I told them I would keep him.  But one of them answered, rudely, 'lie paid us for killing him, and we are going todo it.' I said all I could to persuade them to let me have him, but they would not consent, and were about to drag him away, when Brown came along and inquired what they were doing there     86  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED with that dog. It was soon explained, and Beauty given to me. A few days after, Brown called here and said: "I should think you had enough to do to provide food for yourself, without feeding that dog." I told him I had, but as long as I could get anything to eat, he should have a share. He said he was sorry to have him killed, because he had belonged to his cousin, who was lost at sea. But he had a pack of hounds; his son, George, a Newfoundland; John, a water spaniel, and his wife and daughter, each a  poodle; and the servants treated Beauty so badly, that he thought he would be better off dead than alive. When he rose, to go, he gave me ten dollars, saying, "That will help you feed him." When he had 'finished his story, Mr. Southerland asked what he would sell his dog for. "Not for his weight in gold," he replied; "because no one would buy him, except for   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   87 his skin; and I would as soon think of lay- ing my own head on a block and having it cut off, as to have that poor old creature killed." Mr. Southerland informed him that the dog was his, and he wanted to keep him as long as he lived, and then gave him the his- tory of his own life. The old man caressed Beauty, saying: "Language cannot express my affection for this dear creature, which has been my faithful and loving companion for three years. But for your sake and his, I prefer your having him." As it was getting late, Mr. Southerland rose to go, and handed the old man some money, saying, "I wish you to keep Beauty until I am ready to leave Boston." He was very glad to keep the dog for a few days, but refused to take the money. But Mr. Southerland said he would not leave Beauty unless he did. The next day, Mr. Southerland and Mr.          ' '1     88  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED and Mrs. Vail went to look at the pictures, which they pronounced the perfection of beauty. Mr. Vail had intended to go to a celebrated artist, in Philadelphia, and have himself, wife and infant painted in one piece; and Emma and her brothers, in another. But the family pictures were so beautifully executed, he thought they could not be ex- celled. So he engaged to have one painted as soon as the artist could do it, and the other, after Emma returned. Their attention was next called to a pic- ture of a shepherd and his dog, watching a flock of sheep, which, they were informed, was painted by a student. Mr. Vail said, "The pupil will excel his master." To which the artist replied: "It will not be my fault, if he does not. He is a young man of rare genius and nobleness of character. His mother is a poor widow, who has supported herself and child since he was three years old, and taught him all he knew, when he   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  89 came here. And if I can aid in raising him to the position he merits, I shall feel that I have not lived in vain." Mr. Southerland, always on the alert for opportunities of doing good, proposed to have a picture of the old man and the dog painted by the widow's son, who was called and introduced to the company. Mr. South- 1ii erland said: "I am so well pleased with that picture, and the character your teacher has given you, I want you to paint a picture for me." So it was arranged, that the old man and the dog should sit for their portraits at four o'clock, that afternoon. About two o'clock, a carriage stopped at the old mian's gate, and Mr. Southerland told him he had called to have him and Beauty take a ride, but he must not wait to change his dress, but go just as he was. They drove into the city and alighted at a furnishing store, where the old man was dressed in a complete suit of black broad cloth, with hat     90  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED and boots, and everything else to correspond. They then proceeded to the artist's, and while the old man and the dog were sitting for their portraits, the former related the, following story: "I was born in Derbyshire, England, where, at twenty-two, I married an amiable young woman, and then embarked for the New World. We landed in this city, and I soon obtained a situation as clerk in a whole- sale grocery store. We boarded two years, and then I bought that cottage, where I have resided ever since. "We had one child, a beautiful girl, whom we spared no pains to train up to fill any station to which God might call her; and when she grew up, she was all we could pos- sibly desire her to be. At twenty, she mar- ried a young Englishman, whose parents I had known, and resided, for seven years, in sight of our cottage. Then my son-in-law decided to go to Missouri; and as soon as   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   91 they were comfortably settled, we were to join them. They had one child, a girl six years old, the very image of her mother. They were nearly ready for us when they were both carried off, by an epidemic, within a few days of each other. I saw the account of their death in a St. Louis paper, and wrote immediately to 'learn the particulars; but never heard anything more about them, nor if the child was living or not. My friends thought it probable she had died before them, as nothing was said about their leav- ing her. "Grief soon prostrated my wife; and in a few months I was left alone in the world. It is nearly nineteen years since my last earthly tie was broken, and I have lived alone ever since, except the three years I have had this dear old dog." The next morning, the carriage was sent to convey the old man and his dog to the studio of the artist; and a good dinner for     92  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED both, as they were to remain there the greater part of the day. In the afternoon, Mr. Southerland was sit- ting on the piazza with Mrs. Vail and her children, when a young lady, accompanied by a little girl-a miniature of herself-ap- proached. Mrs. Vail rose, shook hands with both, and then introduced them to Mr. South- erland. After they were seated, the lady showed Mrs. Vail two pieces of elegant em- broidery she wished to sell. When Mr. Southerland heard the price, he said that was not half their value. "I know it, sir," she replied; "but I will be very thankful if I can dispose of them, even for that small amount." He took out his purse, and gave her their full worth; and presented one to Mrs. Vail, and said the other was for his mother. The lady was so much affected by his generous kindness, she could only thank him with her tears. Mrs. Vail brought out some nice cake and fruit for them to eat, and   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   93 a basket of early apples for them to take home. Mrs. Boyd thought the apples very heavy; and when she emptied them, found packages beneath them, of far more value than fruit. When they had gone, Mrs. Vail informed Mr. Southerland, that Mrs. Boyd was the only child of emigrant parents, who had died at the South when she was only seven years old; and that she had been adopted by a lady from Ohio, who was there on a visit at the time of her parents' death. She had been well educated by her foster-mother, and at eighteen married her son, who was also an only child. Three years after their mar- riage Mr. Boyd's mother died; and he sold his property, and set out, with his wife and child, for Boston. They were wrecked on Lake Erie, and lost all they had, except the money in their purses. The loss of his pro- perty, and exposure in the water, caused the death of Mr. Boyd a year after they left     "  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED. Ohio; "and that dear creature has worked and supported herself ever since." The next day, Mr. Southerland related the sad story to the old man, and proposed that Mrs. Boyd and her child should reside with him, to which he joyfully consented. So while he and Beauty were at the artist's, Mrs. Boyd and Mrs. Vail, with some assist- ance, effected a complete revolution in the cottage. The sitting room, bedrooms and kitchen were all carpeted, and fitted up in the neatest and most comfortable manner. The old man was no less surprised than de- lighted at the change, for he had anticipated nothing but the pleasure of their company, and the satisfaction of giving them a home. But when he saw his guests, who had been kept out of sight until he had surveyed his dwelling, he exclaimed: "God has sent me my daughter and grand- child, just as they were when they left me, twenty years ago!"   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   95 Then, addressing Mrs. Boyd, whose pa- rents, he had been told, were emigrants, asked if they were English? "No," she replied; "they emigrated from Boston to St. Louis, when I was six years old." "What were their names?" eagerly in- quired the old man. "My father's name was Henry Hull, and my mother's Marianna Hosford." "Then you are my grandchild!" he ex- claimed, clasping her in his arms. When their emotions had subsided, Mrs. Boyd drew a miniature from her bosom, and as she handed it to her grandfather, said: "That is the reason I thought I had seen you before." It was a picture of her grand- parents. "Dear Beauty!" said Mr. Hosford, clasp- ing the dog, which had been watching him with apparent anxiety, in his arms; "how much I owe you! If I had turned a deaf     96   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED ear to your pitiful cries, I should probably never have had the happiness of pressing my beloved children to my heart. Surely, when the Saviour said, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto one of the least of these, ye do it unto Me," He must have meant every living creature." The picture of the old man and his dog was finished, to the entire satisfaction of all parties, and hung up in the sitting room at the cottage. When Mr. Southerland was ready to leave Boston, he called at the cottage, to take his dog, and bid adieu to the happy family. Mr. Hosford wept like a child at parting with his generous friend, and the old dog, that had cheered so many solitary hours. Mr. Southerland wept, too; for the presence of the dear ones he had been the means of restoring to their aged sire: recalled his own loved ones. When he left, he handed the child a sealed envelope, directed to Mr. Hos- ford, in which was the following:   jI    BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   97 Dear Sir:-The money enclosed is for this month; and by going or sending your order to A--, you will receive the same amount every month, while you live. God grant that you may long be spared to enjoy it. Your grateful friend, W. H. SOUTHERLAND. P. S.-I will call on you whenever I visit Boston, and hope, ere long, to havet the pleasure of entertaining you and your grand- children at Elm Grove, where you will find other hearts as warm and true as Beauty's, to welcome you.  May Heaven's richest' blessings ever rest on you and yours. When Mr. Hosford had finished reading the note, he clasped his hands and raised his tearful eyes to Heaven, saying: "Dear Savior, what else can I desire but to be more like Thee." i      7 : .       .        "  .     CHAPTER XV. WHEN Mr. Southerland arrived at Elm Grove, he had the family picture hung up in the sitting room, opposite the door which opened into the hall, and then sat down in the front porch, with Mrs. Thompson, to await the return of the girls. (Beauty was laying on the mat, asleep.) He related his adventures in Boston, in which both were deeply interested; and when he had done,. Mrs. Thompson aid, smiling through her tears: "Pe aps we will find our loved ones again." "Not on earth," - he answered, with a deep sigh. They sat for some time in. silence, musing on the past, and looking, by faith, to the blessed future that awaited them when the sea should give up its dead, and all that are   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.  99 in their graves should hear the voice of the Son of Man, and they, with their dear ones, should hear Him saying, "Come, ye bless- ed-"  But their revery was suddenly inter- rupted by Nellie exclaiming: "Oh! Emma, Father is at home."  When Beauty heard her voice, he started up and looked all round, and as soon as he saw her, bounded down the avenue, like a young deer, to meet her, and made every demonstration of pleasure it was possible for an animal to make. Nellie, equally de- lighted, threw her arms round his neck, exclaiming, "Father, where did you find Beauty?" "Beauty'!" said Mr. Southerland. "How do you know his name is Beauty?" "I know it is, because he is tEF same little dog sister and I used to play with, before mother died." Had she said nothing about her sister, he would have believed she was his own child,     100  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED for he thought he discovered a stronger resemblance than ever before between her and Clara. When the girls went to their room to prepare for dinner, Beauty followed them, and when the dinner bell rung, went with them into the dining room and lay at Nellie's feet. When they rose from the table, Mr. Southerland set a plate of meat on the oilcloth for Beauty, but he left it to go with Nellie, and could not be persuaded to return till she went with him, and while eating, looked up every minute to' see she was near him. When Beauty had finished his dinner, Nellie went into the sitting room; and the instant she saw the picture she stopped sud- denly, and stood with her eyes fixed upon it, looking as if trying to recollect where she was. And Beauty whined and gesticulated, as though he wished to attract the attention of the portraits. None but a loving parent can form an idea of the emotions which k    F  BY TIE SUNSIN OF LOVE.   101 agitated the mind of Mr Southerland. It was a state of cruel suspense, between hope and fear. But ever more tender of the feel- ings of others than "his own, he strove to ap- pear composed; and said nothing of what was passing in his mind, for fear he might raise hopes in the heart of that dear child which would never be realized. (Had Nellie been less timid, and expressed her thoughts, the mystery would soon have been solved.) He would gladly have set out immediately, and traveled all night, to learn the truth. But he knew it was not best. So he pre- tended to take no notice of the effect the picture produced on. Nellie; but said, smil- ing: "Beauty falls in love with every new face he sees." After tea, Mr. Southerland told Nellie and Emma they might carry a prayer-book he had brought from Boston, to Mrs. Blake. When they were gone, he proposed to Mrs. Thompson, to examine the package Mrs.     102  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED Bruce had given him for Nellie. On opening it, he found the doll he gave to Clara the day he embarked for Calcutta, the family minia- ture, his wife's wedding ring; and several other articles of less value. After a moment's reflection, his cousin's strange 'conduct oc- curred to him, in connection with the sad story of the "Babes in the Woods," over which he had often wept when a child. And it appeared evident, that after the death of his wife, his cousin had acted the part of that cruel uncle. But being unwilling to believe him so wicked, thought it more probable the nurse had taken'them after the death of his wife and child. But then the inquiry rose in his mind, Who was the nurse? Surely not the mother of Nellie, for it seemed impossible for her to be the daughter of such a woman. He was for some time greatly perplexed, but finally came to the conclusion that his wife had given them, as a memento, to the faithful nurse, who had watched, with the tenderness   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  103 of a sister and mother, over herself and Clara. This idea was so consonant with his generous nature, that he had no doubt of its correct- ness. And pictured, in his imagination, the poor widow (for such she must have been), who had nursed his wife and child in their last illness, dying friendless, and leaving her dear little ones, with none to love or care for them. One of them, after much suffering, was well provided for. But where was the other? -" the little sister," as Nellie always called her. Not only suffering, as Nelhe had; but, being too young to remember her loving mother's instruction, was perhaps wandering from the path of safety. But whatever might be her condition, if living, he must find her; and she must share his home and heart with Nellie, who never spoke of her without tears. And if her little feet, with none to guide them, had wandered in by and forbidden paths, how happy would he be to lead her to the dear Saviour, to whom     104  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED the dying mother had commended her little orphans. For he remembered the words of Jesus when He said: "I have other sheep, which are not of this fold: them must I also bring; and there shall be one fold, and one Shepherd." His deal child was already safe in the fold of the Good Shepherd; and if. he could lead others there, was he not, in an humble manner, following the example of his divine Master? He spent a restless night, for the instant he closed his eyes to sleep, the images of his loved ones, and those of the poor widow and -her children, were before him. He set out for the Orphan Asylum the next morning, at the dawn of day, hoping to find Nellie's little sister there, or if not, to learn where she 'was. He had traveled several miles, musing on the strange vicissi- tudes of life, when, on ascending an emi- nence, the rising sun burst forth in a flood of glory, over the beautiful landscape. Ever   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  105 looking from Nature up to Nature's God, he saw by faith, the brighter beams of the Sun of righteousness; and their blessed influence soothed his troubled spirit. When Mr. Southerland arrived at thej Asylum, he inquired of the Matron who had placed Nellie Brown there. "Her mother, Mrs. Bascom," she replied, "because her husband would not allow her to keep the child at home." As he was on his way to call on Mrs. Bas- corn, he wondered how any mother could part with such a child as Nellie, to marry a second husband. And the more he thought of it, the less probable it appeared. And by the time he reached her dwelling, felt con- vinced his first suspicion, that his cousin had acted the part of the uncle, in the "Babes of the Woods," was correct. So when he met Mrs. Bascom, he inquired: "Have you a daughter you would like to put out?     106  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED "I have none old enough." "I was informed you had one, thirteen years old, the daughter of your first hus- band." "She died when she was six years old." "I was told you had put her in the Orphan Asylum." "That was a child I adopted, after mine died." "What was her name?" "Clara Southerland." "Why did you tell the Matron she was your child, and her name Nellie Brown?" "Because I had taken her as my own, and as her parents were dead, it made no differ- ence what she was called." "Did she reside here before you took her?" "No, she lived in Boston." ' iho brought her here?" "I did; and if you wish it, I will tell you all I know about her."   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  107 "I will be glad to hear it." "When my Nelhe was five years old; my husband died, and I went to Boston and made it my home, with my sister, and went out nursing. When I had been there nearly a year, Mrs. Southerland, whose husband had been lost at sea, a-few weeks before, was taken ill with a contagious disease, which deprived her of her reason.  Her little daughter, Clara, ail another little girl, about the same age, which she had adopted soon after her husband left home, were sent to my sister's for me to take care of, for fear they might take the fever. Neither of them had it; but; I believe, they brought it to my child, for she was taken sick a few days after. they came, and died only-three hours before Clara's mother. As soon as Mrs. Souther- land was dead, a man by the name of Brown, told me he was a cousin of Clara's father, and if I would adopt her and return here immediately, he would give me three hun- \      108  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED dred dollars, and have my child buried at his own expense. If I found her too great a burden, he said I must put her in the Orphan Asylum, as my own child. I married six months after I returned; and when I had been married a year, my husband would not. let me keep her any longer, so I put her in the Asylum, and she staid there till she was ten years old. Then I persuaded Captain Bruce's widow, who was here on a visit, to take her, because she had no children; and Nelhe was such a good child, I thought she could not help loving her." Where is the child Mrs. Southerland had  adopted?" "Mr. Brown said he was going to put her in the Asylum, in Boston; but I have never heard a word about her since." "Do you know what is in the box you gave the Matron of the Asylum, to give to Nellie on her eighteenth birthday?" "I never examined it. But I saw Nellie   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  109 open it, while we were at my sister's, in Boston, and take out a beautiful wax doll, she said her father had given her the day he left home; and a little picture in a locket, with some hair; so I guess there is nothing in it but her playthings." Mr. Southerland went from Mrs. Bascom's to the hotel, and wrote the following letter to Mrs. Thompson: My dear Mother:-I write to inform you that poor Nellie is my own dear Clara. The little sister she speaks of-an orphan, about her age-which my wife adopted soon after I sailed for India. I need not tell you how anxious I am to return, and clasp my long- lost child to my heart. But I must forego that pleasure until I find, if possible, the the poor little orphan she calls sister. For she may be as bad, or even worse off, than Clara was, when I found her. If I succeed, she shall share my love and fortune with my own dear child. I leave it to your discretion whether to tell Clara before I return. Re- member me to all the family. In haste, from your devoted son, W. H. SOUTHERLAND.     "O  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED As soon as Mr. Southerland had mailed the letter, he set out for Boston. When he ar- rived, he called on Dr. Davis, who, he-had been told, attended his wife in her last illness, and inquired if he knew where the child was that Mrs. Southerland had adopted? The doctor replied, "With Mrs. Souther- land." "Is Mrs. Southerland living?" inquired Mr. Southerland, greatly agitated. "She is," replied the Doctor, " unless she has died within a week. There is a letter I received from her last Monday." He took the letter, and read as follows: Y Iy Esteemed Friend:-When I moved here, I found the house so well furnished, there is room for nothing more. I therefore entreat you, as a favor, to dispose of the fur- niture I left, for your own benefit; for I con- sider it a very small return for all you have- done for me and my dear Eva, who is all I can possibly wish her to be. The poor or- phan I mentioned in my last letter, has been \   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  Ill adopted by an English gentleman, who pur- chased Elm Grove when it was sold last win- ter. So I shall not be under the necessity of trespassing on your goodness to provide for her. She is now studying with Eva, and I can assure you, it affords me great pleasure to instruct her, for she is as noble and gener- ous as my dear foster-child. ,How little I thought, when I promised Eva's dying mother to take the friendless little orphan as my own, that she would ever be all that was left to bind me to earth. I think I could not love her any more if she was my own child. What makes me love her most, is the tender- ness she manifests for the poor and suffering. And Nellie is just like her." After Mr. Southerland had read the letter, the doctor made the following statement: "Mrs. Southerland was taken very ill with. on epidemic fever, soon after she heard of her husband's death; and for three hours was thought to be dead. Her little daugh- ter, who had been sent from home on account of the contagious nature of the disease, died ('      "2  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED about the same time. Being deprived of Elm Grove by the death of her child, she had nothing to depend on but what her pa- rents had left her. The interest of that would have supported her; but was not suf- ficient for her and her child. Her friends advised her to put the little orphan in the Asylum. But she said she would perform the most menial labor for her support, before she would part with her. She called on me to ascertain what my bill was;. and said she would be glad to get a situation to teach in a family. I handed her a letter I had just received from my brother, in Columbus, re- questing me to procure a teacher, to reside in his family, and instruct his children and a few others. After reading the letter, she said she would be glad of the situation, if she could keep her child with her.- I wrote to my brother immediately, stating her circum- stances and qualifications. He replied, that he would be happy to have her come as soon   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  113 as convenient; and would charge her nothing for her child's board. She sold all her fur- niture, except her musical instruments, and the furniture referred to in her letter. It would be difficult to tell which was most pleased: Mrs. Southerland with her situation, or my brother with his teacher. And Eva, instead of being a trouble, was considered a treasure in the family. Mrs. Southerland taught there four years; and then my broIer gave her a neat cottage, in the little village near Elm Grove, where she has resided for the last three years. You may imagine her surprise when she arrived, to find it handsomely furnished and every thing in perfect order, with well filled pantry and cellar. That was done by her other patrons, out of gratitude, for the benefit their children had derived from her instruction. As she has no rent to pay, and a large garden with an abundance of fruit; what she earned at my brother's, with what she had before, is I            '  .     "4  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED sufficient to support her and Eva very nicely." When the good Doctor had finished the nar- rative, Mr. Southerland asked what his bill was. He replied, "I have no idea what it was, for I crossed off the account without looking to see'the amount." Mr. Southerland hande( limi a paper and left hastily. It was a check for one hundred dollars, with ' A token of gratitude from a devoted husband, for kindness to his beloved wife," written on the back with a lead pencil. Mr. Southerland left Boston immediately, not even waiting to call on Mr. Hosford or Mr. Southerland's hair was so thin, when he came from England, that Mr. Vail per- suaded him to have it shaved off and wear his wig until it grew out again. Mr. South- erland had straight brown hair, and the wig was black and curly; that was one reason whl. his wife did not recognize him, but not   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  115 the only one, for she wrote to Dr. Davis that an English gentleman had purchased Elm Grove. She certainly had no reason to suppose her husband, if living, would buy his own property. On the other hand, he had only seen her at church, dressed in deep mourning  Hnd veiled, except one evening, in her own poM by moonlight. Then he knew that her reputed daughter Eva was not his Clara. But his hair was so well grown, that he took off his wig before making himself known to his wife, whom he found, in a white morning dress, looking very much as she did When he left home. As the supposed burial place of Mr. South- erland's wife and child could not well be mentioned before, without interrupting the narrative, I will here state, that he thought they had been put in the family vault at Elm Grove, the front of which he found thickly covered with ivy, which his cousin must have planted soon after he took possession of the     "6  SIIAIES OF SORROW DISPELLED place. He was surprised to find it there, but did not feel disposed to have it removed until it was necessary, to admit another lifeless form to its last resting place; for he had not been- accustomed to regard those cherished beings as tenants of the tomb, but as glorified spirits in the presence of God. His pious mother had early taught him that the grave only encloses the casket, while the jewel is a gem in the Saviour's crown. Happy, happy child, whose little feet, so soon are taught to tread the path to endless life, with firm undaunted steps. Dear mothers, into whose hands this little volume may chance to fall, will you not'strive to train up your little ones for a blessed im- mortality, that they may be gems in the Savi- our's diadem, and also in your own "crown of rejoicing?"   CHAPTER XVI. WHEN Mr. Southerland arrived at Elm Grove, Clara met him at the the gate, and as he clasped her in his arms, she said:- "Dear Father, I suppose I ought to love you a great deal more than I did; but your kind- ness to a poor friendless orphan and a servant, filled my heart so full of love for you, that it can hold no more." When he informed her that Mrs. Souther- land was her mother, she was wild with delight; .but when told that Eva was an orphan, she wept as if her heart would break. It grieved her to think one who had been so kind to her, should ever know what it was to be an orphan. When she was able to speak, she entreated her father never to let Eva know she was not his child. Ite promised he never would.     "8  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED After relating to Mrs. Thompson and Clara all he had learned during his absence, the three rode down to Mrs. Southerland's, where they were cordially received by Eva, who invited them into the parlor, and said she would call her mother, who was gathering flowers. Mrs. Thompson rose and said, "If you are willing, I will go with you to see the garden." When Eva met her mother, she told her Mr. Southerland was waiting to see her, and she would finish the boquet. Mrs. Southerland wore a white morning dress and black apron, and her hair was dressed as she wore it before her husband left home. The first object which drew Mr. Souther- land's attention, on entering the room, was the family picture; and he sat, with his eyes fixed upon it, lost in thought, when his wife entered. Startled from his revery by her approach, he turned suddenly, and as his eyes met hers, they at once exclaimed: "Anna! Harry!"   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  119 We will pass over what followed, for lan- guage would fail to express the:surprise and joy of the devoted wife and mother, meeting so unexpectedly, with the husband and child she had so long mourned as dead. But their joy at meeting, did not make them forget there were other hearts, as warm and tender as their own,' that needed comforting. Therefore, as soon as Mr. Southerland had related his adventures, they went to look for Mrs. Thompson and Eva, whom they found locked in each other's arms, rejoicing, while tears of gratitude, to their Heavenly Bene- factor, flowed down their cheeks. 'For Eva, after Mrs. Thompson had told her of the happy discovery, eulogized Mrs. Southerland, by giving an account of the ship-wreck and death of her mother; and her adoption by Mrbi Southerland, and all she had done for her; from which Mrs. Thompson learned, not only the character of that noble woman, but that Eva was the' little grandchild she      120  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED had so long believed lay buried in the briny ocean. Oh! what joy to that devoted mother's heart, to know that her daughter had been tenderly nursed in her last illness, and died, feeling the sweet assurance, that she confided her darling child to one who would never betray her trust; and that instead of be- ing buried in the deep, where her only requiem would have been the moaning of the surging billows, had been followed to her last resting place, by those who truly mourned her early death; and a monument erected to her memory recorded her virtues, and loving hands had daily strewn fresh flowers on her grave, until compelled to leave that sacred spot to labor for the support of her child. Dear reader, do you wonder that her heart burned with love and gratitude to Mrs. Southerland; and that all she had done for her husband should sink into insignificance, in comparison with what Mrs. Southerland had done for Eva and her mother?   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  121 When Mr. and Mrs. Southerland entered the arbor, Eva rose to congratulate her mother, but before she had time to speak,. Mr. Southerland pressed her to his heart, say- ing: "My dear child, how can I ever reward you for your kindness to my dear Clara?" "Reward'me!" exclaimed   Eva,- "for being so happy with her mother, while she was suffering;" and the dear child wept, as if she had been the cause of all Clara had endured. "Dear Eva," said Clara, "do not cry for that, for if my mother had not gone West, to earn money to support you, she would never have come here." "But your father would," replied Eva.. "Yes, but he would not have found me, for I should have died of grief before he came, if I had not had you to love and com- fort me," said Clara, embracing Eva. When their emotion had subsided, Clara said : "Dear Eva, when I was a poor servant     122  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED and everybody else despised me, you treated me like a sister; now we are sisters, and oh, how happy re will be."  "And my daughter," added Mr. Souther- land, " and share my heart and fortune with Clara. When you were both poor, you did all you could to comfort and relieve the suffering; now you shall have the pleasure of doing good with the abundant means God gives you, for I am only his steward. Our blessed Saviour said, 'He that is faithful in that which is least, is faithful also in much.' You were faithful in a few things, and now He gives you many-; may He give you grace to be as faithful in them." As Mrs. Southerland entered the arbor, Mrs. Thompson began to express her grati- tude, but was interrupted by Mrs. Souther- land, who put her arms around the dear old lady's neck, and said: "Dear mother, how shall I express the love and gratitude I owe you, for what you have done for me?"   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  123 "Dear child," replied Mrs. Thompson; "you owe me nothing; give God the praise. But if I deserved it all, I would be rewarded a hundred fold, by the joy I feel at seeing you so happy; but as you are so anxious to make me some return, I have the pleasure of informing you, that what I did for your husband in 'Sydney, was only a very small return for what you had done for my dying child, and have, for nine years, been doing for my grandchild. For I have just learned the joyful news from Eva, that her mother was my daughter." When they returned to Elm Grove, Mrs. Thompson proposed to resign her position to Mrs. Southerland; but she replied: "Dear mother, I am read4 and willing to aid you in any way you desire, but you are to be mis- tress here while you live." K     CHAPTER XVII. FIVE years have passed since the loved ones, so long mourned as dead, were restored to each other. Five happy years spent in the love and service of God, and promoting the happiness of their fellow beings. Mrs. Thompson is still the beloved mother and grandmother, whose son and daughter, and granddaughters vie with each other, in show- ing their esteem and love for her. Mrs. Southerland was educated at the Troy Seminary, an institution which has done more to promote female education, than any other in this country, if not in the world. If Mr. Southerland had resided in, or near Troy, Clara and Eva would have been sent to Mrs. Willard's school; but the happy family could not bear to be separated, so Mrs. South-   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED. 125 erland devoted her time to instructing them, and the two daughters of a poor widow residing in the village. The latter have been teaching for a year, and give entire satisfac- tion to their patrons. Clara has been married six months. The ceremony was performed in church, and the whole village invited to attend. She wore a white muslin dress with no ornaments, but a wreath of the lily of the valley around her hair, and a white moss rose in her hand. Eva, attired in the same manner, was brides- maid, and her husband's brother groomsman. After partaking of an excellent dinner with their guests, all the villagers, the whole family set out for Columbus, to visit Doctor Davis' brother, in whose family Mrs. South- erland had taught. We need not say they were welcome guests. As Clara and her husband were both very wealthy, many wondered that they did not go to Europe; but they preferred giving the     126  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED / money the journey would have cost them, to send the gospel to the benighted heathen. They did not approve of spending thousands in self-gratification, and evangelizing the world by taking up penny contributions; When the family returned from Columbus, Clara and her husband remained a week at Elm Grove, to receive calls from their friends. The carriage was sent for Mrs. Blake, and others who had none, and were not able to walk so far. Dear reader, do you wish to know who Clara's friends are? I cannot name them all, but will mention a few of them. Little Fanny Fern and Minnie Moss are two; they never laughed at poor Nellie after they saw how hard she had to work; but embraced every opportunity to show her respect. And Anna Adams, Carrie Cole and Libbie Lot had long before acknowledged, with grief and shame, that it was envy made them ridicule her; they could not bear that one   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   127 in such -iumble circumstances should be their superior in moral and intellectual worth, and, therefore, made her shabby appearance a pretext for scorn and contempt, thinking thus, to hide one of the basest of human passions. But when they saw she was the same, in principle and practice, in affluence, she had been in poverty, they were led to reflect, and soon discovered the vast gulf which separated them from her, and which they could never pass, until their hearts, like hers, were renewed by divine grace. So they followed the Saviour's command, "be first reconciled to thy brother," arid asked her forgiveness; and then, guided by her counsel, gave their hearts to Him, "who, when he was reviled, reviled not again." It was a beautiful sight, and one which caused angels to rejoice, to see those girls, with Clara and Eva, attired as St. Paul directs, kneeling at the altar and partaking the emblems of His death, who, "though He     128  SHADES OF SORHROW DISPELLED was rich, for their sake became poor, that they, through His poverty, might be rich." The other scholars had neither envied nor despised poor Nellie, but, like too many thoughtless children, were always ready to join with others.   CHAPTER XVIII. A few weeks after Clara had settled in Boston, her husband's brother asked the hand of Eva. She was' silent for a moment, and then said: "Mr. Walker, are you aware that I am a poor orphan;" and then gave him a history of her life, from the time she and her mother were shipwrecked. He listened with fixed attention, scarcely able to restrain his tears, and when she had finished, took her hand and said: "I thought I loved you as well as it is possible to love another, but I was mistaken. Your meekness, in what you have said of yourself, and the gratitude and love you manifest for your friends and benefactors, have raised you, in my estimation, more than language can express. No amount of money 9     130  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED could make me half as happy, as I shall be, if you consent to be mine without a penny." When he asked Mr. Southerland's consent, he was about to give it, when it occurred to him to test Mr. Walker's regard for Eva, for he loved the orphan too well to entrust her happiness to any one, who would marry her for her money. So instead of answering his question, he asked: "Do you know that Eva is an orphan, with nothing but what I choose to give her?" "Yes," he replied; "she has told me all. And I can assure you, if I had been informed that she was to inherit all you possess, I should be less anxious to marry her." "Well, sir," said Mr. Southerland, " if you are willing to take her, for herself, I consent; and I believe you will never have reason to regret your choice." Then he told him what she had done for Clara, when she was a poor despised servant. "Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Walker;   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  131 J "I did not suppose, from what she said, she had ever done anything to merit, or reward your kindness. I esteem her more than ever." Mr. Southerland said he would give Eva a wedding the same as Clara's. "No," replied Mr. Walker, "you have done enough." "But," M3r. Southerland resumed, "I cannot forego the pleasure of giving such a treat to our villagers." The wedding party again consisted of the whole family, who spent a week at Old Point, one of the finest watering places in the world. While there, Mrs. Southerland had the pleas- ure of meeting many of her schoolmates, and hearing from many more; several of whom are faithful and successful teachers, who were fitted and sent out by Mrs. Willard, to advance the cause of female education. When the party returned to Elm Grove,  Mr. Southerland informed Mr. Walker, that he knew of a house already furnished, be- longing to a lady, who would let him have     132  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED it on his own terms. So when they arrived in Boston, a carriage was ordered and they drove directly there. The young couple were delighted with the house, because it was exactly like Clara's and furnished in the same manner. When they returned to the parlor, after surveying the premises, Mr. Southerland handed Mr. Walker a paper, saying: "Here is the deed of the property. You can apply to the owner yourself; I have other business to attend to," and hastily withdrew, without saying where he was going, or when he would return. Mr. Walker and Eva were surprised, and con- tinued silent for some time, when, on opening the paper, they found the house and furni- ture were a wedding gift to Eva. They also found a note, saying': "I have engaged help for you, and they will be here within an hour and bring your baggage. All arrived in due time, but Mr. Southerland, who, they regret- ted to learn, had gone home. In the eve-   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  133 ning, Clara and her husband called, who, to their surprise and delight, they learned lived next door. Mr. Southerland had taken them a circuitous route, and kept them so closely engaged in conversation, they had not time to observe anything, till they entered the yard through the back gate.     CHAPTER XIX. WE have seen the fruits of early piety beautifully portrayed by Clara and Eva. First, in the poor little servant girl and young cottager: then in the daughters of the rich Mr. Southerland, at Elm Grove. Now we will contemplate them in the wives of two wealthy merchants in the metropolis of New England. The following is from a letter addressed to Carrie Cole, by Anna Adams, who spent several weeks with her friends in Boston, about two years after Eva's marriage: Dear Carrie: Eva and Clara met me at the depot, and received me as affectionately as if I had always been their best friend. When Glara embraced me and said, "Dear Anna, how happy I am to see you," I could not restrain my tears, and said: "Dear Clara,   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.  135 I know you have forgiven me, and I believe God has, but I can never forgive myself for treating you as I did." "Dear Anna," she replied, pressing me to her heart, "never think of that again." *  *  *   *  *  *  * Eva and Clara are still the same. Love is their ruling passion. I do not believe there is a garret or cellar in the eighbor- hood, inhabited by human beings, which they have not visited. Their homes, like Elm Grove, are the abodes of love and kindness. They seldom dine alone. Sometimes the guest is a plain farmer, who has brought his produce to market, Mr. Walker meets him and invites him home to dinner, where he meets with such a cordial reception, he never thinks of the contrast between his homespun coat and the fine broadcloth of his host. When dinner is over, if he has time to stay, he is entertained with music; and always carries home some token of love to his little ones. I cannot give you a better idea of the     ,'     136   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED love and kindness of these two families, than by quoting from a piece of poetry, published in the Troy Daily Whig, shortly after the death of Mrs. Nathan Warren, of that city. It was suggested to the author by the gen- erous benevolence of the children of that inestimable lady, who, like her Divine Mas- ter, "went about doing good." Like her, the bereaved, the friendless and poor, And those whom the vicious malign, They teach, as the ivy clings to the strong oak, Upon them for support to recline. And often, when gathered around the loved hearth, Cheered by all that their wealth can impart, They devise the best means to relieve the distressed, And comfort the sorrowful heart. And even when night's sable curtain is spread, And darkness is reigning around, By the couch of the sick, in some humble abode, May those ministering spirits be found. From this we learn that Eva and Clara had only exchanged their rural field of labor, for Xk    the less inviting but more needy lanes and alleys of a populous city.   CHAPTER XX. IT is eighteen years since Captain Jones was shipwrecked, and seventeen since, through the kindness of ilr. Southerland, he obtained command of a vessel. Notwithstanding his generous gifts, which have been neither few nor small, he has acquired a large fortune, which he intends to devote to the service of God. Wishing to abandon a seafaring life, he implored divine guidance where to settle. Providence seemed to direct him to the New World, where he could " worship under his own vine and fig tree, with none to molest or make him afraid." His business being arranged, he set sail for Boston, and arrived safely at Elm Grove, to the great joy of Mr. and Mrs. Southerland, who had long been urging him to come and reside with them.     CHAPTER XXJ. FOUR years after Eva was settled in her new home she went, as usual, to spend August and September at Elm Grove. Clara had always gone with her, but this time was detained in Boston a few days longer. So Eva and her husband and little Clara, three years old, the very image of her mother at that age, reached Mr. Southerland's a few hours after the arrival of Captain Jones. As soon as Eva had completed her toilet she and her little daughter went with her father to be introduced to the stranger. But as they entered the door he exclaimed, "Mary!" and fainted. When he came to himself, he was lying on the sofa, and Mr. Southerland sitting by, fanning him. He looked all round the room and then asked, "Where are they?"   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED.  139 "Who?" inquired Mr. Southerland. The Captain replied, "I saw my sister and her child just as I saw them on the deck of the vessel when it sunk." "You were mistaken," said Mr. Souther- land. "You saw  my daughter and her child." The Captain then requested to see them, and they soon came in, accompanied by Mrs. Southerland. The likeness was so perfect it seemed almost impossible to doubt the' identity. After tea they were sitting in the front porch, and the Captain gave the following account of his own life, to the time he was shipwrecked: "My mother was left a widow when I was two years old, and my sister three months. Two years after, she was married to Mr. Thompson, who was a father to us. He sent us to school and did everything it was possi- ble for a loving parent to do for our welfare     "O  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED and happiness. When my sister was eigh- teen, she married Mr. Garland, with whom she lived very happily for three years, when he died and left her a widow with a daugh- ter, Eva, two years old. Father died a year later, and then we decided to come to America. It was nearly six months before we could dispose of our property and settle up our business; and just seven months from the day father was buried, we set sail from Liverpool. We had been at sea but a few days when we were driven first in one direc- tion and then in another by contrary winds, and the sky was so overcast it was impossible to make observations. On the seventh day, our vessel struck a rock and sprung a leak. The boats were lowered and rafts made of everything available. My mother and sister and child were ready to get in one of the boats, when my sister requested me to go aboard first and take my niece. Just as I reached to take the child from her mother's   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  141 arms, the boat and ship parted, and before we could bring up the boat, the vessel sunk. My sister and child were dressed in white, because the salt spray spoiled their mourning, and they looked just as your daughter and her child did when I fainted. 'The shock was so great I fainted, and was unconscious for several hours. When I came to my senses, I was in a merchant ship, bound to Calcutta. You know the rest," he said, with -a h, addressing Mr. Southerland. When the Captain had concluded his nar- rative, Mr. and Mrs. Southerland were both convinced that Eva was his sister's child, and Mrs. Thompson, who was in Boston, with Clara, his mother. But neither ventured to say so before consulting the other. Happily, Eva was not present. She had gone to her room to see her child asleep. For she was too judicious to delegate a mother's duty to a hired nurse, and loved her child too fondly to think any duty a task; and besides, could     "2  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED she not do for her own child what her foster mother had so cheerfully done for her? When Mr. and Mrs. Southerland were alone, they consulted on the best manner to communicate the joyful tidings to the noble and generous Captain. After breakfast, the next morning, Mrs. Southerland invited him into the conservatory to look at some rare plants she had brought from Columbus, and while they were there alone, she made the following statement: "Soon after Mr. Southerland had sailed for Calcutta, I heard a vessel had arrived, bringing a young mother and her child who had been picked up at sea, floating on a plank; and that the lady was so ill she had been taken to the infirmary. I went to see them immediately, and was so much interested in them that I decided to remain until the mother recovered, and then take them home with me. But the poor mother died in a few days, and I adopted the child."   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  143 She then related all the reader knows about herself and Eva. He listened patiently, but it was evident his feelings were greatly ex- cited, and when she had done, inquired their names. When told, he exclaimed, "Dear Mary! she was my sister, and Eva my niece; where is she?" , Mrs. Southerland had in- formed Eva, who entered the room as Mrs. Southerland replied, "There she is." It is doubtful which were the happier-the uncle and niece, or their friends at seeing them so happy. As Mrs. Thompson was not ex- pected until the next day, it was Concluded to say nothing about her before she returned. The Captain was the happiest of beings, for he felt as if his sister and her child had been restored to him. The next morning, Mrs. Southerland said to the Captain: "I should not be surprised if you should find your mother, yet." His only answer was a deep sigh. Mr. Southerland and- Captain Jones had     "4  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED just returned from the village, when the car- riage, with Mrs. Thompson and Clara, drove up to the door. As the old lady alighted, the Captain exclaimed: "Dear mother!" and as he clasped her in his arms, she ejacu- lated: "Oh! Harry, my son."  But great as was their surprise at meeting, it was still greater when Mr. Southerland introduced Mrs. Thompson to her son as the good nurse who had been the means of saving his life; and the Captain to his mother, as the noble and generous friend who had done so much for him. But as soon as the Captain could command his feelings sufficiently to speak, he said: "Dear mother, it was Mr. Souther- land who raised your son from abject poverty to the position he has so long occupied; but I suppose he has told you all about it?" "No," she replied, "he has never spoken of doing anything for you; but frequently, with love and gratitude, of what you had done for him."   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.   145 The Captain. then gave his mother a full account of his life, from the time they were wrecked until he arrived at Elm Grove. And then requested her to inform himn by what means her life had been saved. "You recollect, my son, that I went down in the cabin for your father's miniature; just as I returned to the deck, the vessel sunk. I must have fainted, for I recollect nothing that occurred until I found myself in a com- fortable berth. A beautiful young woman was sitting by me with a lovely little girl, three years old, on her lap. I shall never forget the expression of that sweet face, and the pleasure beaming from her eyes, when I opened mine. I looked at her for a moment and then asked, ' Where are my children?' "'In heaven,' she replied, pressing her lips to my cheek, and'then added: 'God has taken them to dwell with Him, and sent us to supply their place in your loving heart, and when our work on earth is done we shall 10      "6  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED join them in their beautiful home above.' "While she was speaking, her husband approached the bed, and pressing my hand between his, said: 'We will try to supply their places.' There was something so con- soling in their words, and the sweet assur- ance that my children were with their Saviour, that I felt as if I would not recall them, if I could. "After a short pause, I inquired their names. 'Mine,' he answered, 'is D'Arcy Paul; my wife's name is Mary, and our little daughter's, Bettie. We named her for Bettie Raney, her mother's only sister, whom I hope we shall all see in a few days.' I then requested him to tell me how I had been saved. He replied: "'We reside in Australia, and have been to Ireland to visit my father's relatives. This vessel, like the one in which you sailed, was driven about by contrary winds, but, thanks to a merciful God, we are still safe.   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  147 About noon the day you were wrecked, the weather became calm, and the sun shone out unusually bright-at least we thought so. After dinner, we were sitting on deckl, talk- ing of 'the loved ones at home,' when Bettie called out, 'Oh! Pa, what is that?' I looked in the direction she pointed, and saw a mere speck on the surface of the water. I took out my spy-glass and discovered a plank, with two persons attached to it. I immediately informed the Captain,.who gave orders to reef the sails and anchor the ship. Two boats were sent out. I went in the foremost. Fortunately the tide drifted the plank towards us. A As we approached we saw a sailor holding to a rope tied round the plank with one hand, and pressing you to his breast with the other to keep your head above the water. He had tied one end of the rope round your waist and the other round his own. You were insensible, and he nearly exhausted with his noble efforts to     "8  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED save you. But after a warm supper and a good night's rest, he was as well as ever. It is from what he told us that we feel the blessed assurance that your dear children are in heaven.' "Poor fellow," I exclaimed, "if I could only reward him." "Dear mother," said Mary, "he has been well paid. He requested the Captain to put him on board of the first ship we met with, bound to the British Isles, or to France, be- cause he is the only son of a widow, and is anxious to get home before she hears of the wreck. "As soon as his wishes were known to the passengers, they packed a large trunk with clothes, and made up a purse of several hun- dred dollars for him. Fortunately, we fell in with a merchant vessel, this morning, bound direct for Liverpool." "I was able to be up in a few. days, and was quite well when we landed at Sydney.   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.  149 "I had resided there nearly a year and a half, when Mary's brother called to tell us that the Captain of an English vessel had brought a poor sick stranger, he had picked up at sea, to his father's, and requested that the best physician and nurse in the place might be employed to -attend him. Dr. Laird, he said, had been sent for, and he was on his way to the Intelligence office to find a nurse. I offered my services, but my chil- dren objected. But when I insisted on having the privilege of doing for another what they had done for me, they consented. I went immediately, and you all know the sequel." For a few days, nothing was thought of nor talked of but the mysterious Providence which had restored so many loved oes to each other. But the excitement was soon succeeded by a calm and holy joy. The noble Captain then proposed to pay Mr. Southerland for what he done for his mother     150  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED. and Eva. Mr. Southerland replied-: "I have already been rewarded a hundred fold, yet I wish you to confer one more favor. Stay with us, for our blessed Master needs just such a laborer in this part of His vineyard. J    CHAPTER XXII: DEAR reader, let us now leave our friends to perform their labors of love, and stimu- lated by their. good example, strive to per- form our own duties so faithfully that when life's toilsome day is ended, we shall hear the joyful "Well done . . . . enter into the joy of your Lord." How great must be that joy, for the Apostle says: "I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us." And again: ( Eye hath not seen, nor eai heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man to con- ceive the things which God has prepared for them that love Him." Then adds : "But He has revealed it to us by His Spirit." Yes, the eye of faith can discern and the renewed     152  SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED heart enjoy, while on earth, a sweet foretaste '2 of coming bliss.      The jasper walls, the pearly gates and streets of burnished gold, are often visible to the spiritual sight of the believer. Already the stream of life, "flow- ing forth from the throne of God," and the trees which "bear twelve manner of fruit," are presented to his enraptured vision. And his ear catches the strains of the ransomed throng, while his heart and voice, attuned to love and praise, join the celestial harmony. The joy of the believer is sometimes so great, that he exclaims: "If the foretaste is so precious, what must Heaven be!" or solil- oquizes thus: I am no longer dreaming, The day is drawing near, I see my Saviour's footprints, His gracious voice I hear; His loving smile is quelling My gloomy doubts and fears, His tender hand 's extended To wipe away my tears.   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.     153 I am no longer dreaming- By faith I now behold The sea of glass before me, And streets of burnished gold. The gates of pearl stand open, Bright angels bid me come And dwell with them forever, In tlheir eternal home. I am no longer dreaming- My heart is wide awake, For heav'n is drawing nearer, Its joys I now partake. The rills of life are bearing Extatic joys to me; If such the little streamlets, What must the fountain be! I am no longer dreaming- Life's tide is ebbing fast, My bark is swiftly gliding, The stream will soon be passed; Then angel bands will bear me Into the blessed fold, Forever, yes, forever, My Saviour to behold.     154   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED New  Year, 1869. Another year has passed away, New Year again has come, As sped the time on rapid wings, We've neared our final home. Now let us pause and humbly ask What path our feet have trod: If in the downward road to death. Or narrow way to God. Have we obeyed the great command: Love God with all your heart; And has our love for Jesus caused The love of sin depart? And have we loved our neighbor, too, As God has bid us love? And have our words and deeds been such As Jesus will approve? Dear children, have you heard the words, "To me let children come, For such my kingdom is prepared, For such my Heavenly home." It was the gracious Saviour spoke, As He was wont of old:   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.     155 He'll bear you in his loving arms, Into His blessed fold. Beloved pupils, one and all, Whate'er the past has been, Let 's now beseech our blessed Lord To cleanse our hearts from sin. And malke us pure as He is pure, As patient, meek and mild; Impress His image on our hearts And make us each His child. Then will the year we've just begun, Be brighter than the past: And far more blessed will it be; If it should prove our last. For then amid the ransomed throng Around the throne we'll stand, In robes of spotless purity With Christ at God's right hand. Dear Saviour, hear this humble prayer: Make these dear lambs thine own. And let us all forever dwell Together near Thy throne. 1     HX       156   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLEI And there are many others,* Lord, Which to our care were given- Oh! let us meet them all again, Around Thy throne in Heaven. ANNIE LANSING: Died Jan. 6th, 1869. A happy New Year, blessed child, To you has Jesus giv'n- A home of endless peace and joy, With seraphs bright in Heav'n. A crown upon your lovely brow, A palm of victory, A harp attuned to love and praise, Bright robes of purity. Oh! Annie dear, how blessed thus, From earth to pass away Ere sin had stained your guileless heart, Or lured your. feet astray. We miss you, but would not recall You to this world of care; By faith we view your happy home, And wish we, too, were there. * Former Pupils.   BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE.     157 Rev. Dr. SMALLEY, a faithful and beloved Pastor, died July 30th, 1858, aged 53 years. Farewell I Dear Friend, your ransomed soul Has found its long sought rest; That sweet repose, for which it sighed, On the Redeemer's breast: And from his gracious lips has heard, With more than rapt'rous joy, ' Well done, my faithful servant, now Enter your Master's joy." Your widow and your children mourn Husband and father dear, But Jesus will their sorrows soothe, And dry each bitter tear. Anid your beloved people, too, Will long their loss deplore, Most sadly grieving that on earth They 'll see your face no more. The lonely and the friendless sigh For joys you did impart, For your sweet sympathy could soothe And cheer the saddest heart.     ]58  ShADES OF SORROW DISPELLED. The sick, the aged, and the poor, Who did your friendship share, Will miss you sadly, and the young Their tender shepherd's care. Your fellow lab'rers in the Lord Mourn the beloved dead, The pillar from the church removed, The brilliant light that's fled. Although the light which cheered our path, From earth has passed away, Its radiance lingers in our hearts, Sweet harbinger of day- Of that blest day, when from the tomb The sainted dead shall rise, Clothed in immortal youth, to bloom Forever in the skies. Lines suggested by the happy death of Mrs. HARRIET SMTH, a devoted christian mother, August 30th, 1865. Aged 65 years. ",When the Chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away." 1 Peter, 5:4. Calm and lovely was the morning When her spirit tk its ffight,   SHADES OF SORROW DISPELLED     159 From this world of sin and sorrow, To the realms of endless light. Guardian angels hov'ring near her, Watch her last faint dying sigh; Then in joyful triumph bear her Through the regions of the sky. Sun and nooon, and stars receding, As they take their upward flight While new beauties still unfolding, Burst on her enraptured sight. Now appear the walls of jasper, And the gates of pearl unfold, To admit her ransomed spirit To her dear Redeemer's fold. While the blissful hosts of Heaven Joyfully exclaim, "She's come  "Welcome, welcome, sister spirit- Welcome to our heavenly home!" An unfading crown of glory Now adorns her lovely brow: 'Mid the throng of saints and angels, As before the throne they bow.     1;^-      160     BY THE SUNSHNE OF LOVE. Listen, they are sweetly singing Anthems of redeeming love, To the Lamb who 's safely brought them, To his blissful fold above. Kings and Priests to God He's made us, (Now exclaim the ransomed band), Out of every tongue and people, And from every age and land. May her children, trav'ling thither, Never lay their armor down, But, like her, contend for vict'ry, Till they gain a heav'nly crown. THE END. [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1870, by CLXYmsImrA lJOu, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Northern District of New York.]       
         
      
   
