
    ----CITATION----
        Disosway, E. T. (1840-1895). South Meadows .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6283
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               SOUTH MEADOWS. 
             
          
          
             
             
               SOUTH MEADOWS. 
               A TALE OF LONG AGO. 
             
            BY E. T. DISOSWAY.
             
             
                
                  
                     "Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this."
                   
                  -Eccl. vii., 10. 
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               PORTER AND COATES,  
                     822 CHESTNUT ST. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by PORTER & COATES, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 
            
               MEARS & DUSENBERY, Stereotypers. 
               H. B. ASHMEAD, Printer.
             
          
          
             
            THIS STORY OF THE GOOD OLD DAYS IS INSCRIBED TO MY SISTER ANNIE. 
          
          
             
             
            PREFATORY. 
            IT is somewhat incomprehensible that the delusion of witchery, which carried such consternation into New England and desolated so many homes nearly two hundred years ago, should have received so little attention at the hands of either the historian or the writer of fiction. Mr. Upham, in his admirable work issued several years since, has, it is true, given an exhaustive history of the subject itself, but the influence of this extraordinary delusion, and the insight it affords into the character and social life of the Puritan colonists, never seems to have been given due importance by the general historian. The novelist, one would think, could find in this dramatic period a very wide range for his creative fancy, but the field has been almost entirely neglected. 
            This volume makes no pretence to an occupancy of more than a small portion of this field; but it may be of interest as illustrating how insidiously the superstition entangled even the most intelligent minds, and led many into excesses under the belief that they were doing God service. Most of the facts here cited are historical, as are also most of the expressions attributed to Cotton Mather. Much that may possibly seem extravagant has been taken from the authentic accounts of the Salem witchcraft trials, and is in some cases a verbatim reprint. The case of Helen Fairfax is a well-known tradition in the celebrated Fairfax family of England. 
            
               October 20th, 1874.
             
          
       
      
         
            South Meadows 
             
            SOUTH MEADOWS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               ONE pleasant evening in June, nearly two centuries ago, the ship St. George from Old England was fast approaching Boston harbor. Every sail was spread to catch the favoring winds, and the long-pent-up voyagers hailed with delight the sight of land, which could be indistinctly seen through the deepening shadows of twilight. 
               A motley company were assembled on the deck of the weather-beaten craft, composed of divers ages and conditions, from the tiny babe in arms to the white-haired patriarch of threescore and ten, who had left his old home in hoary age, and like Jacob, set his face towards a strange land, there to close the days of the years of his pilgrimage. 
               The Puritan of humble means, quaint of speech and sober of garb, with his decorous family, stood by the side of his brother in the faith whose high-peaked hat, stiff ruff and silver shoe-buckles betokened a greater degree of worldly prosperity, Social distinctions are more easily forgotten on sea than on land. A common cause had exiled both from the home of their birth; a common faith bound them together; and each vied in deferential respect to the learned divine, whose garments, though fashioned ministerially, betrayed the dissenting messenger of the Gospel, who was returning to dispense the Bread of Life to his Boston flock, strengthened and invigorated by an ocean voyage. These elect brethren looked askance upon a few Episcopals near them, and eyed with special disfavor a misguided Anabaptist, who had been lured across, the sea by the hope of worshipping God and preaching his own convictions, according to the dictates of his conscience. In silent communion with his thoughts, he also, with others, leaned upon the taffrail, striving to catch glimpses of Boston, the old-fashioned town in the New World, and dreaming vaguely of his "churches in the air" and zealous converts, unmindful of either Puritan or Episcopal, who turned him over to the "uncovenanted mercies of God with Quakers and all other schismatics." 
               The light of the rising moon shone upon the glittering waves, and presented a fair scene to the eyes of the weary passengers, as they saw before them, or at a distance, the little islands embowered with foliage, the few ships riding at anchor, and the small craft darting like white-winged birds over the water. The stars came out in their appointed places as the vessel sped on, and the moonlight plainly revealed the faces of two young girls, who stood side by side, apart from their companions. The elder of the two, a girl of eighteen, with blue eyes and golden hair, detained a short, thick-set sailor, who had touched his cap respectfully in passing them, by asking, in a clear-toned, pleasant voice: 
               "Will we land soon, Jack?" 
               The sailor doffed his cap. "If winds and tides please we will anchor within an hour, mistress. We have breezes from the land now, and you've been starving for that, I misdoubt not?" 
               "I care little for land breezes; they do not please me," said the younger girl, whose childish face bore the traces of suffering, and whose voice in speaking was peevish and petulant. 
               Jack twirled his cap uneasily. "You would scarcely turn back to Old England now, mistress?" 
               "Indeed, if it could be done I would not gainsay it, if Allison were by my side." 
               "That would be impossible, dear Ida," returned her sister, glancing at their mourning garments. "We have nothing to call us back. Our home lies before us." 
               Ida's dark eyes filled with tears, her pale cheek crimsoned and her lip quivered. 
               "Nay, darling," said Allison, drawing her closely to her side, "I do not chide, but would only remind you that since return is impossible, regrets are vain and useless. We must strive to forget the past and live in the present, if we are to be happy in our new home. Have I not said this often?" 
               "Yes, and it seems only harder to bear. Never-never-it is such a dolorous word! Would that I had been left sleeping by the side of our dear mother in the peaceful graveyard! I should like to lie there, and know that the beautiful green moss was also slowly creeping above my poor body, for they say in the grave all headaches and heartaches cease." 
               "And leave me alone, Ida?" 
               Ida made no reply. She pressed her sister's hand and looked out wistfully upon the rippling water that remained between the ship St. George and Boston-town. The lights from the harbor and some of the buildings on shore gleamed athwart the bay when the ship dropped her anchor, and was safe at its destined haven. The Anabaptist had fallen asleep with his head resting upon the edge of the vessel, and perhaps in dreams realized the vague enthusiastic visions of his waking hours. Puritan and Episcopal were busily preparing for an early departure on the morrow, and final separation. The learned divine with bent head and clasped hands paced the deck with regular steps, cogitating over his sermon upon the coming Lord's day, when he, Deo volente, should buckle on his spiritual armor, and stand to his post with renewed zeal upon the walls of Zion. The silence and calm of heaven and earth rested like a holy benediction upon the ship, that lay upon the deep as a tired child on its mother's breast. The voices of the sailors were hushed; there was no creaking and straining of masts and cordage; no loud commands from the officers. Heaven smiled over the scene; the wind bore no suggestion of storm or danger, but was laden with the perfumes of summer, of green leaves and the buds and blossoms of June. 
               Ida's head drooped heavily on her sister's shoulder before she retired to the close cabin. Jack still lingered near them; he had bestowed many kind attentions during the long and tedious voyage; their friendless condition had aroused his sympathy, and he was eager to offer every assistance in his power, for under his coarse sailor jacket he carried a heart whose fine impulses if awakened might put to blush many a man of higher degree. 
               "On sea or on land, I'm yours to command, mistress," he said, gallantly. "I'll be cruising about Boston town for two months or more. It's hard work for a body who has neither chick nor child, mother, sister, brother or wife, to knock about alone. My old aunt has no use for me on land, and I feel as if I had fallen down like one dropped from a cloud." 
               Allison thanked him gratefully for his past kindness, and assured him that, although her uncle Ebenezer Fairfax would meet them at their arrival, and therefore she would not tax his good service further, she should never forget what he had already done. 
               "I will see that you are not left alone if your uncle be not there. My sea-legs do better on the water, it is true, but I will see that things are going ship-shape there as well as on the St. George." 
               He sauntered away, leaving Allison with the feeling, that she would have at least one trusty friend when she first placed her foot upon the soil of the New World. 
               Awaking Ida, and resisting her importunities to remain longer in the evening air, they retired to pass their last night on board the St. George, which now seemed unpleasant, as land was so accessible. The rippling waves invited and lulled them to rest; only a few hours remained before all who had been closely associated within the small compass of the ship's boards would separate, and each would follow the path marked out for the future. Some were bound South to the settlements of Virginia, others for the impenetrable wilderness of the West, undeterred by the cruelty and bloodshed which even at that early period marked the contest between the Pale-face and the Red-man, for the mastery of the continent. Strong hands, wise heads and brave hearts were needed in obtaining and in civilizing the wild territory. They were forthcoming; the crushed and down-trodden spirits in the old world sprang to the stature of men in the hew, and when the men were ready, Providence provided the place for the development of strength, freedom and religion. When giants are required, pigmies will not be created for an age that has no need of them. 
               At early, dawn, the voyagers disembarked; luggage was removed, the final leave taken, and while descending to the small boat which carried them safely to the shore, few, if any, felt regret at leaving the staunch ship which had outridden the storms and perils of a long and dangerous journey, and brought them securely to their destination. 
               But few remained in Boston town, the metropolis of the New World; among these, however, were Allison and Ida Beresford, the two orphan sisters. With their boxes by their side, they were landed upon the wharf and awaited the arrival of Ebenezer Fairfax, their uncle, under whose care and protection they were to be placed in future. Jack, true to his promise, remained with them, and there we leave the two sisters and turn to the home, which would soon be theirs in the family of their uncle. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               SOUTH MEADOWS, the farm of Ebenezer Fairfax, was not a garden-spot in the world when the owner first undertook to cultivate the stubborn soil; but years of hard labor and unceasing industry brought reward; and with careful management and the experience gained in the course of time, his acres yielded more abundantly than those of his neighbors, to which nature had given superior advantages. 
               The low, stone farm-house stood on a gentle rise of ground, which sloped gradually down to the pasture meadows on the left. On the right the descent was precipitous, and a cheerful brook, shaded by large chestnut trees, babbled noisily at the foot of the hill. The little stream wound its way behind the house, where, after bounding over a stone dam a few feet in height, it dashed and foamed, and then finally meandering across a mile or more of quiet field, was gathered together to turn the great wheel of Fairfax's mill. 
               The brook had numberless uses. The dairy stood over the clear, running water, with the milk-room, containing churns, cheese-presses, and innumerable bowls and pans, the peculiar property of Mistress Fairfax. 
               On the grassy slopes the family linen was bleached and washed. Here ducks and geese swam unmolested in the water, and the cattle drank long draughts as they stood knee-deep in the stream, under the spreading boughs of the chestnut trees. 
               Indications of thrift and prosperity were seen wherever the eye rested. Bees hummed around the flowers that were permitted to adorn the herb garden where the hives were kept; fruit trees lined either side of the long lane; the flowers planted and cultivated were such as were valuable for medicinal or other useful purposes, and not for mere ornamental beauty. The dwelling-house was built of substantial unhewn stone, and the large barn of the same material stood in the midst of a cluster of unpainted wooden sheds, like a grim fortress around which there were light outworks of defence. 
               The present generation usually builds for itself; our ancestors built for their children's children-carefully considering durability and utility, and giving no attention to ornament or beauty of design. Broad, flat stones served for steps to the narrow, low porch. The windows were deep-seated, with small lattices and heavy oaken shutters. Thick beams of the same crossed the unceiled, low rooms and broad stairway, whose steps would outlast by a century or more the feet that trod upon them. Stout iron bolts and bars were used in place of locks and keys, for means of protection to the inmates of the building, and remain to this day, though the hands that made and that used them have long ago turned to dust and ashes. 
               The grass on the lawn was uncut, save by the rough scythe, or by teeth of cattle who were permitted to browse there undisturbed. Dandelions, daisies, thistles and burdock grew in beauty side by side; and chickens and other poultry roamed at their own sweet will over the acre before the house. Lichens and gray-green mosses crept in and out of the damp crevices of the sloping roof, beyond the reach of the housewife, whose broom would speedily have swept away these signs of shiftlessness with a destructive hand. 
               On that fair June morning, as the travellers were leaving the St. George, Ebenezer Fairfax drove slowly down his lane in the farm-wagon. His horses' heads were turned towards Boston-town. He was a man of cautious mind and methodical habits; and as he drove he glanced at his broad and well-cultivated fields, and ran over in memory the various directions given to him as he left his wife Martha and daughter Ruth. Particular stress had been laid upon "the green taffetas gown and silk thread." 
               He had good reason for bearing this commission in mind on the day he expected to bring his two orphan nieces into his family, where no heartfelt, kindly welcome awaited them. His will was not to be gainsaid; when he set his face it was as a flint; he was not to be moved by the arguments of mother and daughter, but their secret Opposition to his wishes would sow thorns in the life upon which the strangers were entering. Prejudice was strong against them. They had been born in England and nurtured as "Episcopals." He must bear the "green taffetas gown and silk thread" in mind, certainly. 
               Something was wrong in the pasture meadow, for the white cow was poking her head through a gap in the fence; the whole herd would soon be in the wheat-field. He jumped from his wagon, and lustily called for Job, one of his hired men, to assist him in repairing damages. This being accomplished, as he was mounting the high wagon the second time he, discovered that the tiring of a wheel was loosened. Repairing this caused additional delay, and finally, with the sun an hour higher than he thought it would have been, he rode on more rapidly, making up for lost time; and passing beyond the limit of his own acres, his thoughts turned instinctively toward his nieces. 
               Duty had said plainly that he must assume their responsibility-he accepted the trust submissively, as he did every burden which it had pleased Providence to lay upon his shoulders, conscientiously and without flinching, serving God in his day and generation. As he drove through the country road, whisking the flies with his whip from the off or near horse, something in the balmy air, the blue June sky, the sight of buttercups and clover blossoms, the wayside hedges, carried him back to the days of his childhood, and stirred old recollections within him which he had fancied buried for ever in the lapse of years. 
               His knotted brow and stern mouth told of bitter memories. Thirty-four years before he had fought in the civil wars; he had endured punishment, and sacrificed almost all that life had given him for the sake of conscience. The past seemed now like a terrible dream of the night, in contrast to the calm peacefulness of the present. He rarely spoke of those evil days, believing implicitly in the overruling wisdom of God, who exercised a peculiar care over every act of his life. His Creator had bestowed upon him many blessings. The crosses he had borne were not too heavy for the shoulders of His unworthy servant, and would ultimately redound to His glory. With that implicit, unswerving faith, Ebenezer Fairfax was content. God's humble servant, he asked for no more than his Maker granted him voluntarily,-he was grateful for the portion, thanking Him for the past, and trusting Him for the future, should it bring good or evil, and looking not to any recompense or reward. 
               His face saddened as the memory of his sister Allison rose before him, a child of seven years, with fair hair and blue eyes, who clung to him, weeping, when they parted. Time had wrought many changes; she had married an "Episcopal," who dying in a few years, she and her two children were cared for by friends who provided for them; and at her death her children, at her request, were left to the care of her brother. "Blood is thicker than water"-so says the proverb-but time and distance are wonderful diluters. The separation of thirty years will wear away any family tie until only a very brittle thread remains of what may have been a strong chord; and not a spark of affection kindled in Ebenezer Fairfax's heart when he saw the two figures of his nieces, clad in mourning, standing by Jack's side on Boston pier. 
               High-principled, but undemonstrative; generous, but trained in the Puritan habit of self-restraint, which developed gravity into gloomy severity-educated under more genial, frank influences, the natural impulses of his heart might have blossomed into an affectionate and kindly manner. 
               As he approached the group, Allison's heart sank, and Ida exclaimed, as he came nearer, 
               "That stern, gloomy old man cannot be our uncle, Allison; I pray that it may not." 
               Allison made no reply, for her uncle's coming forward and putting out his hand to her decided the question. Something in her face reminded him of his little sister who cried so bitterly when he left home. 
               "If I mistake not, this is my niece, Allison?" 
                
               The tones of his voice were not so harsh. She made an involuntary motion toward him, to offer a warmer greeting, but he would scarcely have known the meaning if he had seen the movement, for kisses were an unknown commodity of affection in the Fairfax household, and were numbered among the frivolous and useless tokens of friendship. 
               "And this is Ida-my sister Ida," said Allison, holding the hand of her sister. 
               "Ida," he repeated, as if not well pleased with the name; "Ida, my niece, you are welcome. "I have been delayed by commissions in the town,"-he glanced at the bundle which contained the green taffetas gown,-"or we should have been on our way to South Meadows before this. However, the sun is not yet very high, and a drive of seven miles can be passed over before mid-day." 
               "The sun is hot, and our young mistress has had a long and tedious voyage," said Jack, coming forward and pressing himself into notice. Their uncle looked surprised, as Jack added, boldly: 
               "A cover to keep off the sun would not be amiss, since Mistress Ida's head suffers from the heat." 
               Allison hastened to explain that the sailor had been of much service to them during the voyage, begging her uncle not to think him bold or presumptuous. Although no word of welcome had passed his lips, their uncle was not disposed unkindly toward his nieces; but to the rough but kind-hearted sailor his distant manner and curt speech were tokens of inhospitality and unkindness. At Jack's suggestion, however, he immediately acquiesced in making the ride in the high farm wagon as comfortable as circumstances allowed. The luggage was placed in it, some cushions were found and disposed so as to make the ride easier for Ida, Allison forgetting her own comfort and convenience in her constant desire to make the rough places plain for her delicate sister. 
               Jack lingered as he bade them good-by. Allison gave him her hand; he held it tight in his hard palm, saying, in a low voice: 
               "I'm yours to command, on sea and on land. Send word to the Red Lion if ever you need my services, mistress." 
               "Thank you; I will never forget your kindness." Tears were in her eyes; and as the wagon drove away, Jack remained behind looking at it until it it was out of sight, and then rubbing his own eyes with the sleeve of his rough jacket, went to spend his time after the manner of sailors on land. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THIS story is of a day when "ye old Boston-town" bore no greater resemblance to the hub of the universe than the chrysalis bears to the resplendent butterfly. The infant city was in its cradle, but "bade fair to be very goodlie builded on ye South side of a bay, in ye which ye five hundred ships may anchor." 
               The buildings, facing each other after the London fashion, were of brick or stone or wood. Some of these remain standing, but the more perishable tenements of the poorer classes have long since given place to others more modern. 
               Crooked streets at that day were no novelty in the finest European city, having been originally marked out by any chance circumstance, and the cobble-stoned public thoroughfares of Boston were formed after the same fashion, and were not held contemptible. 
               Small farms, orchards, flower-gardens, vegetable patches, green grass, were pleasantly commingled within the town limits. In the little islands of the bay, farmers coaxed the soil into yielding produce for the Boston market. Old-fashioned taverns swung out their various signs where palatial hotels are now standing, and good cheer, entertainment for man and beast, could be found at the Red Lion, Golden Fleece, Rose and Crown, or Star and Garter. Great logs blazed cheerily on the hearth of the broad chimneys, the dressers were decorated with moon-faced pewter or tin dishes, platters, mugs and flagons. Upon the bright blue chimney tiles, stories in picture, from Scripture, were portrayed, so that "he who ran might read" the history told there in quaint figures and costumes. The green buffet in the corner held the highly polished brass candlestick, or a rare bit of India china, and the waxed floors were dangerously smooth if the notable mistress superintended the duties of housekeeping properly. 
               As Ebenezer Fairfax drove past the sign of the Red Lion, Allison noted it. Jack had spoken of the inn; it was kept by his aunt, who had "no use for him" when on land. His kindness to her awakened an interest in his temporary home, and she would have asked if this was the Red Lion mentioned by the sailor. She glanced at her uncle's stern face, but he was absorbed in his own thoughts summoned by the retrospection of that morning, and the question that was upon her lips remained unspoken. He was very different from the ideal uncle her fancy had formed from the description given by her mother; but if the rugged hard-lined face did not inspire any warm, impulsive affection, it created no distrust. 
               Ida also was studying his face earnestly, trying, as she scanned the severe lineaments, to discover a resemblance to the fair, gentle face of her mother. Ebenezer Fairfax saw her undisguised curiosity, and said, abruptly: 
               "Child, you are not like my sister Allison." 
               "Nay, I am a Beresford; my father thought so, my mother also, therefore it must be true; I am not a Fairfax." 
               Something in the tone of her voice struck him unpleasantly; his brow contracted as he said: 
               "The Beresford blood was no better." 
               "She only speaks of the likeness to our father," interrupted Allison. "Is it not so, Ida?" 
               "Indeed," replied Ida, wearily, "I know not what I have said, and I care less what was meant. I do know that my body is so weary; I wish now that I had died on the ship, it would be quite as well to have the waves rolling over my grave." 
               Her uncle bent a severe look. 
               "Better, child, fall on the knee of humility and thank Him who holds the winds and waves in the hollow of His hand, for the merciful preservation of one of His unworthy creatures. Art thou prepared to be ushered into the presence of Maker and Judge? Is the worm so well fitted for a place in the everlasting kingdom of righteousness? Are thy garments white and spotless, fit for the communion of the elect saints? Hast thou no fear that the darkness and the pit may be lying in wait for the soul that with idle and vain words disposeth of its destiny?" 
               He paused, and Ida, unaccustomed to any but kind and partial language, clasped her sister's hand, trembling and startled by this unexpected address. Her eyes filled with tears, and Allison exclaimed: 
               "Dear uncle, bear with her. She has suffered from her cradle, and life is hard when pain presses sorely upon us. Her Creator has set his mark of affliction on her; it is His will, but for our dear mother's sake, be patient with her child." 
               He glanced at Ida uneasily. Her face was hidden in Allison's arms. His severe expression relaxed and his voice softened. 
               "It is the will of the Lord. He giveth, and He taketh away; blessed be His name. I meant no unkindness. Child, my tongue perchance is harder than my heart; I am not used to mince my words, or set my phrases to tickle any ears with delicate or flattering language; but the life God hath given us is not to be lightly disposed of even in word or thought." 
               As he spoke, he started the horses up to a quicker trot. He was not given to much speaking, and was slightly embarrassed by finding that what he had said might be interpreted into an apology for the reprimand he had justly bestowed upon a froward child. The motion of the wagon prevented any further conversation, and he was silent during the remainder of the ride, being indisposed to further reproof or apology. 
               At the sound of the approaching wheels, Martha Fairfax with her daughter Ruth left their work and stood in the doorway as the wagon stopped. Ruth, peering over her mother's shoulder, was the more conspicuous figure of the two, for she was several inches taller, though both were thin, spare women. Their faces were not inviting; smiles seldom lit up a kindly expression, and they were not forthcoming at the first sight of the unwelcome strangers. From the small kitchen window, Sing Bird, an Indian serving-woman, turned keen, sharp glances upon the new-comers, and spun more softly. She was now a "hewer of wood and drawer of water" for the conquering white race, though her ancestors had been lords of the soil. 
               The master of the house assisted his nieces as they alighted, and then said, as he led them forward:- 
               "The Lord has mercifully preserved them from the perils of the great deep; they are still among the living to praise Him. You are welcome to my house," he added, pausing for some token from his family to confirm his own words. Mistress Fairfax stretched out her hand; Ruth did the same. A sudden impulse tempted Allison to throw her arms around her aunt, but the lifeless grasp of her hand and a second glance at her cold, impassive face drove the gush of feeling back to her own heart, which, fond and loving, longed to fasten its tendrils of affection where she would not be repulsed. 
               Job was summoned to carry the luggage to the little lean-to chamber which was awarded to the strangers. Ida glanced around the narrow, comfortless apartment, uncarpeted, unadorned and furnished only with the bare necessaries of a sleeping-room, and throwing herself upon the bed, burst into a fit of passionate sobs and tears. 
               "O Allison! our uncle does not love us. They did not wish us to come; we are unwelcome. How can we live with these gloomy, cold people?" 
               Allison's heart sank, but in striving to cheer and soothe her sister her own courage revived. She forced back her tears and the thousand dismal thoughts that assailed her at that moment. She believed that love would beget love. She trusted that time and persevering kindness would overcome any prejudice. It could not be expected that strangers and dependants should be taken immediately to the hearts of their unknown relatives. Gentle manners and fair words often masked hypocrisy; the roughest nut often contains the sweetest kernel. Ida struggled with her sobs as her sister begged her to remember their dependant position. Discontent and fretfulness would only make their burdens harder to be borne, and with a faith as strong as that of her uncle, she believed in casting all her care upon One who will care for those who put their trust in Him and who, moreover, hath promised to be a Father to the fatherless. 
               Leaving Ida somewhat comforted, Allison descended to the kitchen, the general working, sitting and living room of the family, where active preparations were being made for dinner, the mid-day meal. Her uncle suddenly left as she entered, and a conversation ceasing as abruptly, his niece surmised that she had been the subject of it, as nothing further was said, and her aunt for a moment seemed ill at ease. 
               Allison broached immediately the thought that was uppermost in her mind, by saying: 
               "Dear aunt, we cannot be idle drones in your hive. I am young, strong and active; I can be very useful in many ways. Do not fear to appoint me tasks; whatever they may be I will cheerfully do them, for I must work both for Ida and myself. She is ill and dispirited, and I must be careful and spare her from hard toil. She is unable to undertake severe labor of any kind." 
               "And why, Cousin Allison, should you receive ill usage from our hands?" said Ruth in a high key, rising and confronting Allison as she spoke. 
               "Nay, Cousin Ruth, I meant not that we should receive ill usage from any hands. Do not misunderstand me in this matter. We are poor; we are dependants upon the bounty and kindness of my uncle. I would not have it so, but will repay the obligation in part for Ida and myself by active assistance ance in household duties. I am strong, and can stand burdens which she would faint under." 
               Her delicate, slender figure behind this eager assertion. She raised her voice to repeat it-the spinning-wheel of the Indian woman keeping up its monotonous hum ceaselessly, though Sing Bird turned her dark eyes towards her mistress as she answered quickly: 
               "Come, niece Allison, I am a woman of few words, but I trust it has been vouchsafed me to know my duty. I try to follow the path appointed in Scripture for my rule of life, and while I do not discover therein an express command to support needy relatives, yet doubtless they are to be included in the Lord's poor. Such comfort and convenience as I can give shall be bestowed without more speech-making." 
               "And my time and labor shall be cheerfully given in return," said Allison, eagerly. 
               "We are called upon to minister to the necessities of the saints; under saving circumstances, the Episcopals may be classed among this number. We will not waste more words in the matter." 
               "Cousin Allison is an Episcopal?" said Ruth with some curiosity. 
               "I have been nurtured in the church of my father," replied Allison. 
               "The godly divine, Cotton Mather, includeth them with the elect, if they be purged of the old leaven; but verily, as he has said himself, 'if the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the sinner and ungodly appear?'" 
               Allison made no answer. She had determined to avoid this stumbling-block-the difference in their religious education-and her aunt, hearing the echo of a conch-shell from a distant meadow, an indication that the sun had reached its meridian, bade Sing Bird leave her wheel to nurse the fire, and directed Allison to assist Ruth in laying the cloth for dinner. The large iron pot sent out a savory scent of meat and vegetables, as the Indian woman blew the fire into higher flames. Ruth rolled the wooden table forward in the ruts made in the floor by its daily journeys to and from the corner, where it stood when not in use for meals. Upon it was spread the coarse linen cloth, white as the bleaching of a notable housewife could make it; and Ruth pointed out to Allison the pewter utensils in their places, with their several uses, and bestowed many a stolen curious glance upon her new cousin, as she moved about the immense kitchen under her direction. 
               The smoking mess from the large pot was placed upon the table, huge blocks of brown bread graced each plate, with a pewter flagon filled with cider or buttermilk, and the horn was sounded from the open door, which summoned Ebenezer Fairfax and his men from the labors of the field to their repast-all gathering indiscriminately around the same board in a new country where laborers were few and men economical of time, excepting Sing Bird, the Indian woman, and Csar, an imported African. These dusky servitors may have descended from a race of kings, but they received their separate portions meekly, and with no sense of humiliation, the African sitting on the large stone door-step with his well-filled platter, and the Indian in her corner, neither having any wish for the bidding to "come up higher." 
               The Quaker rule of letting the communication be "Yea, yea, and nay, nay," though carried out to some extent in the family, was not observable in the lengthy grace which preceded every meal. It came from a sincere and thankful heart, which prized the ordinary blessings of life more than the hungry men who stood silently, with bowed heads, awaiting the Amen. 
               Few of the courtesies, none of the etiquettes of society, were practised by the early Puritans. The rough school of experience in which they had been educated made them grave, sober men and women, believing more in inward and spiritual graces than if they had suffered and thought less. Life was a solemn pilgrimage; its time would be accounted for in the future of eternal reward or punishment, in which they devoutly believed. 
               When the short, silent repast was over, the men returned to their labors. Ebenezer Fairfax stood for a moment on the threshold of the door, and beckoned Allison toward him- 
                
               "Where is Ida?-a heathenish name, savoring more of Grecian idolatry than Christianity. The child must eat. Let food be carried to her chamber if necessary." 
               "The rocking and swimming in her head still distresses her. It is better for her to remain and rest in her room for the present," said Allison. 
               "But she must eat. She needs nourishment; ship diet and the stench of the bilge-water doubtless sickened her. Take her food to her room, and let her remain there until all discomfort is removed. This will not be disapproved of." 
               He glanced at his wife; she was silent; and Allison gladly obeyed him, carrying Ida's meals for a few days, to their little lean-to. She found her sister sleeping tranquilly; every trace of peevish irritability had vanished under the gentle hand of nature's kind restorer. She stood looking at her with a full heart; her eyes would have overflowed, but restraining this weakness she fell upon her knees by the side of her sister, and prayed silently for assistance in the path upon which she had entered, feeling that her way would be beset with anxieties and responsibilities she had never known before. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               ALLISON'S position in her uncle's family was speedily defined. The duties she cheerfully assumed made her very useful, and each day brought an additional labor. Ruth, who was naturally indolent, allowed her cousin gradually to take her place in the busy household, while her thrifty and industrious mother secretly indulged the daughter's idle habits so long as the daily routine of domestic duties was duly accomplished. Every extra service offered by Allison was willingly accepted. Her aunt soon regarded her as a useful and reliable addition to the family, and having accepted her position, Allison retained it unrelieved by any scruples of Ruth or her mother. 
               Her uncle scarcely noted the fact that his niece rose earliest in the morning and retired latest at night. He saw her at the kneading-trough, or at the churn-baking, brewing, washing or mending,-and was wholly unconscious that a thousand heavy tasks were imposed upon her. He unwittingly increased the burdens already too heavy for her young shoulders, by calls upon her time for various requests which he knew would be cheerfully complied with. 
               Ida, in a feeble way, endeavored to lighten, with her almost futile help, her overtaxed sister. She remonstrated in vain. Allison pursued her duties with undeviating faithfulness, believing that in time she should win the affection of the relatives upon whom she was dependent, not only for herself, but also for Ida, who was not regarded with the patience and kindness which her sister exercised towards her. Wayward, impatient, and with a keener insight into character than Allison possessed, her froward-ness and sharp petulance were difficult to control. The family motto of "Yea, yea," and "Nay, nay," prevented angry rebukes, but the silence which followed Ida's frequent outbursts of temper was ominous. In the retirement of their little lean-to Allison reasoned and expostulated, and succeeded in extorting promises for future self-control, which Ida strove faithfully to keep, until some great provocation made her forget her resolutions and the soft answer that turneth away wrath. 
               Two hundred years ago each family settled in the New World had its own record of Indian warfare and cruelty. Great-grandmothers now scarcely remember these dismal legends of midnight surprise, the fiendish war-whoop ringing out upon the air, the flames, torture or imprisonment by the wild savage; but this subject formed the staple of conversation versation with chance travellers who, coming from wilder, uncultivated regions, passed the night under Ebenezer Fairfax's roof. Ida listened to the stories of cruelty and revenge with her blood curdling in her veins, and went to sleep dreaming of the horrible scenes of treachery and Indian atrocities. She often shuddered at the thought that Sing Bird, one of the untamed race, was sleeping under their roof, and, for aught she knew, at that very moment might be plotting death and destruction to her benefactors. 
               As the withered old woman sat at her spinning-wheel, Ida stole many a furtive glance towards her, Sing Bird seeming to be only a part of her monotonous machine. She manifested a kind feeling towards Allison by offering to relieve her when carrying a bucket, a basket, or any heavy article that bent her slender figure, and Allison's grateful thanks and offered kindness in return for these little attentions were not lost upon the dark daughter of the forest. 
               Sing Bird had not been brought to a saving knowledge of her condition under the prayers and exhortations of Ebenezer Fairfax. She still clung to her belief in a Great Spirit, whom she had worshipped in common with her dusky race in the depths of wild woods, by the side of still waters, or roaring cataracts, or under the shadow of the everlasting hills. She never recognised herself in the "heathenish idolator," "the blind wanderer," or the "hopeless outcast," for whom so many fervent petitions were addressed, as she stood like a pillar, her face turned to the wall, indulging in many a stolen nap during the lengthy exercises of the family altar. The Apostle to the Indians had sown the good seed with indifferent success among the wild race with whom he labored patiently and earnestly. Some professed the faith and were baptized, but the "old Adam" still clung to ancient superstitions and traditions, and, like many of her race, with all the teachings of the missionary Eliot, Sing Bird had only grafted some portion of his doctrine upon the belief of her people; but Martha Fairfax could scarcely reconcile Scripture with her savage heterodoxy. These heathens must be left to the uncovenanted mercies, if a glimmer of salvation's light was vouchsafed to them at all. A heaven composed of Indians, Negroes, and Pagans was secretly as distasteful to her as it usually is to the Anglo-Saxon race. Heaven is so bright and light, these shadows and dark-visaged sons and daughters of mankind, these aliens of the wilderness and waste places of the earth, seemed to belong to another and less glorious retreat. 
               "Poor heathen!" said Ida to Allison, looking at the statue-like figure at the wheel. "I wish I did not dread to come near her; but when I catch a glimpse of her fierce, bright eyes, I can only think of dismal woods and dolorous deeds." 
               "The white man has proved a poor friend to the Indians. I cannot wonder that their hearts are full of revenge and cruelty." 
               "I saw her eyes sparkle, and her whole frame quiver with delight when the exploits of her people were talked of. Allison, I should like to know whether she was once young and happy. I would write down her history in my journal, for it is sadly wanting in matters of interest! It was but yesterday I wrote down on its page for that day that this family are like stones, or like the idols-having eyes which see not, ears which hear not, hearts which love not, and mouths which speak not in your praise. It would be better to write a part of Sing Bird's life in my journal than record the dreary days of my own." 
               An opportunity came when Ida could question the Indian; but she rather urged Allison to do so, her dread of Sing Bird preventing any familiar intercourse with her. Ruth and her mother, not having been perfectly satisfied with the green taffetas, at that late time decided to spend a day in Boston-town, devoting it to the purposes of shopping and laying in winter supplies; Ruth loving new toggery, and indulging herself in raiment as gay and costly as was consistent for a Puritan maiden. 
               Ebenezer Fairfax accompanied them, leaving the sisters at home alone. The duties of the house were carefully performed according to the numerous instructions of their aunt; and when the early dinner was served, Ida brought her knitting, and placing herself by Allison's side, awaited the tale she hoped to hear from the Indian woman, intending to write it down in the journal, which was held by the young as well as the old at that day to be especially instructive and useful. Her exemption from more active tasks left her many hours unemployed, and time hanging heavily on her hands, the duty of writing a daily account of what was passing in their lives became a pleasure and recreation. 
               In her impatience she dropped a stitch in the stocking she was knitting, and Allison rescued it from running into a long ladder, saying, as she restored it to her sister's nervous hands: 
               "See, Ida, how Sing Bird, who is no Christian, teacheth us patience. How often does her thread break, and yet no impatient words fall from her lips; there she sits, day after day, without weariness, or show of it, at her monotonous toil." 
               "One might as well be a bee indeed, and live in a hive. Buzz, buzz, buzz, for ever buzz. Will she not stop for half an hour? Sing Bird hath no rest except on the Lord's day, as my uncle's family calleth it." 
               The Indian caught the sound of her name. She understood English, but spoke it brokenly and with difficulty. The wheel ceased its motion; she rose, and stood in the door, near which Allison and Ida were sitting, and folding her arms over her breast she looked over the autumn fields, and then earnestly at Allison in silence. 
                
               "Your wheel says more to you than buzz, buzz, I know well. What does it tell you, Sing Bird?" asked Allison with a kind smile. 
               "Many thoughts," she pointed to her forehead. "Here they fly, like shuttle." 
               Her features worked with strong emotion; she stretched her arm towards the yellow fields where the harvests had been gathered. 
               "Yengeese come from far off land, over the deep waters. Sing Bird stranger too, she have no home." 
               "Why did you leave home? Where are Sing Bird's friends?" asked Allison in a gentle voice, while Ida drew closer to her sister, as she noticed Sing Bird's flashing eye and excited features. 
               "Sing Bird knows the heart of a stranger, her own beat so, too. Her wheel speaks, of many things; she here no longer, but far, far away in the wild forest, where she hear the waterfall, the bird's song, the war-cry of the braves." 
               Ida shuddered-a fiercer light glittered in the eye of the half-savage creature. 
               "So many years with the pale-face," she counted over her fingers twice, "so many. In winter, in Cocheco, the snow was red with the blood of our young men; but no scalps hung on their belts. The thunder was with the Yengeese. The Indian arrow is swift, but the Yengeese's thunder struck our people and stripped them like leaves from the trees. When Masondawit fell, our people were thirsty for Yengeese blood. They could not forget Cocheco. The eagle flies in the clouds, my people like the eagle, they see far from the door of their lodge. Manitou hears our prayer. The squaw of Masondawit did not forget her chief; she begged food and shelter from the pale-face; she crept in like a fox, and when the pale-face slept then our braves came in; then the blood of the pale-face ran like our people's at Cocheco. They remembered their sachem." 
               "Sing Bird betrayed the pale-face when they gave her food and shelter?" said Allison, concealing any uneasiness she might have felt. 
               "She remembered her sachem, she avenged his blood; a squaw is very cunning." 
               "But you believe in the God of the pale-face. Did not the good man Eliot teach your people of a God of love and mercy? Sing Bird would not hurt her friends." 
               "She remembered her sachem, she did not forget." 
               "But you have learnt how the Saviour died on the cross and forgave his cruel enemies. He died to save both red-man and pale-face. You would not injure your friends now?" 
               The fierce light faded from her eye; her hand fell to her side; her head drooped mournfully on her breast; she was silent for a few moments; when she spoke again her voice was low. 
               "The good Eliot taught my people that the squaws might rest under the big tree of life, in the happy hunting-ground-all sun and moon-no black night; all have eyes to see far off. Then Sing Bird think she will sit under the branches of the tree where her sachem rests. There she tell Masondawit how she made the blood of his enemies flow like a little river;" and the fierceness came back into her eyes. 
               "No; that will not do. We must forgive, and leave our revengeful, bad feelings in this bad world. We must forgive our enemies before we sit under the tree of life and see our blessed Saviour, who will forgive us." 
               "My brave sits under the branches; when Manitou call, she will follow his spirit. The good man say squaws too will find the happy hunting-grounds, so Sing Bird believe him." 
               "But why did you leave your woods? Why did you live with your enemies?" asked Ida, who, her curiosity and interest overcoming her fear, and seeing no disposition on the part of the Indian to introduce any murderous purposes, was resolved to hear the end of this tragical history. 
               An expression of bitter scorn swept across the Indian's wrinkled face. 
               "Let my mind forget the dream of the woods. Me no warrior. Sing Bird cannot pine and die like a bird in the cage. Friends are gone. When Manitou say, 'Come,' me follow the voice. The Yengeese are cunning like the fox, the red-man like the serpent, but the trail is gone. Sing Bird once like the light deer; her voice like the bird. Now her voice is like frozen ice; her step like the crawling worm; her hair like snow on the gray hills. Sing Bird sick; the pale-face took her in; she eat his food; she sit by his fire and spin and spin until Manitou calls." 
               She turned to her wheel as she spoke, as if the allusion recalled her to her duty, and starting it once more, sat by it, cold and impassive, like the presiding genius cut in stone or wood. 
               The sound of her voice, the flash of her dark eye, and her strange, wild story, occupied Ida's thoughts for the remainder of the day, and when her aunt and Ruth returned, she crept into her little lean-to room to write out Sing Bird's tale in her journal, finding that it had lessened her distrust and increased her pity for the half-civilized savage who formed one of the household. 
               The numerous bundles and well-filled reticules, as well as the complacent features of Aunt Martha and her daughter, when they returned, indicated that they had been successful and they were well pleased with their bargains. They had no extravagant wishes; their tastes were simple, but they were better satisfied if the pounds expended covered more than the margin they had allowed for them. The love of worldly things was not a predominant principle of the Puritans; they being more frugal from custom and the habit of economy, than selfish or avaricious. If their hard labors were crowned with success and rich harvests and fine flocks filled basket and store, they gave thanks for the same, and gave away of their abundance, not grudgingly, nor of necessity, while their families did not hesitate to enjoy the good things of life so far as was consistent with their professed religious scruples; but they denied themselves gaudy and vain extravagances, as became men and women who professed only a secondary interest in this life, and were bent upon laying up treasure in heaven. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE observance of the fourth commandment, on South Meadows farm, was rigidly enforced, as far as possible, according to the strict form of the letter. Cattle grazed undisturbed in the pastures-no sound more inharmonious than their lowing, the cackling of poultry and singing of birds breaking upon the sacredness of a day whose peace seemed to fall over beast as well as man. Every living creature was under the drowsy spell of the long Puritan Sabbath, which varied the monotony of the week, and to the imagination of Ida the hush fell not only on the inmates of the house, but upon every bird, bush, beast and fowl on the farm of South Meadows. The day was devoted to physical rest by law, and while the active duties of the household were suspended, and beast as well as men spared from labor and the busy wheels of care slackened, the spirit was left free and unencumbered by the toils and anxieties of life to rise in praise and prayer to the Almighty. The Puritans felt the need of this help. Those sacred hours were precious. They believed in a God who would hear and answer faithful prayer; and when their spirits crept into the quiet, long hours of the Sabbath, if they were not refreshed and encouraged by the way, they were not distracted and embarrassed by the cares and turmoils of weekday life, which encroach upon our modern Sunday, making it less hallowed and respected than the long and now derided New England Sabbath. 
               The Episcopals at that early day were regarded with suspicious eye by the Puritans. A touch of the Scarlet Woman and Babylon seemed to infect the garments of those who still worshipped in King's Chapel, the only church of the established form in the settlements. The Puritan folk, like burnt children, feared the fire; and the few families who belonged to the established church were held in disfavor. With Allison Beresford it was no question of conscience; so she quietly accompanied her uncle to the Boston meeting-house the first Sabbath she passed at South Meadows, and continued to do so with the inmates of the household, excepting Ida, who remained at home, being excused by her delicate health from the long drive and the, to her, tedious sermon. Sing Bird also spent the day after her own fashion. How to dispose of this "stranger within the gates," this half-heathen woman, sorely puzzled Ebenezer Fairfax. Her dim religious light had not prepared her sufficiently for the privileges of the gospel. She showed the strongest inclination to sleep through the lengthy services, and was therefore not benefited by her attendance upon the word. So she was left behind to attend to the slight menial offices for the day, these being very few and trifling. Everything that could be, was prepared on Saturday; cold meat, bread and vegetables forming the diet upon the Lord's day. The Indian woman's hours dragged by slowly, as she drowsed away the time, or roamed through the woods and fields, muttering her own thoughts in her native tongue, more at home under the broad canopy of heaven than beneath the roof of her mistress. 
               As the family were preparing for the ride to divine service, one Sabbath morning, several weeks after their arrival, Ida detained Allison by the gown. 
               "I shall teach Sing Bird her letters to-day," she said, in a low voice. Her uncle overheard her. 
               "Try it, child," he said, kindly. "I can scarce deem it a profane employment, seeing that good may be wrought, though I am often tempted to ask, like the unbelieving Jew, 'Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?'" 
               "But the Saviour was called a Nazarene," exclaimed Ida, triumphantly. 
               "Yes," said Aunt Martha, overhearing but imperfectly what had been said. "Doth not the Scripture tell us that man, understanding not, is like the beasts that perish?" 
               "Yes, but the Scripture also undoubtedly hath said, 'Ask of me and I will give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.' The latter portion of the prophecy hath been fulfilled in our day." 
               "Doth it not add, 'Thou shalt rule them with a rod of iron, and break them in pieces like a potter's vessel?'" returned his wife, decisively. "Make no further delay, or we will be reckoned among the tardy and the loiterers;" and Csar, who took kindly to any form of religion, after the habit of his race, whipped the team into a brisk trot. 
               The muezzin calling from his high tower could find no heartier nor more immediate response to the hour of prayer than that given by the early settlers to the call of the church-bell. Its notes pealed but upon the quiet air with no uncertain sound. 
                      
                        "Swung out and swung aloud, 
                        Telling to the village crowd; 
                        Called from their dwelling lowly, 
                        Maidens fair and old men holy." 
                     
                  
                
               The echoes of the first tones had hardly died away, before groups of single-hearted, faithful worshippers came trooping across green fields, over country roads, or from the few crowded streets of Boston-town. 
               The father led the way at the head of each little family procession, bearing perhaps, in his arms, his Benjamin, while the wife and mother walked discreetly by his side, or fell back from time to time, to rebuke those of her flock whose mischief or vanity had led them to indulge in a weak or trifling spirit ill-befitting ting the sacred character of the day. No loitering by the way was permitted; no worldly discourse indulged in concerning trade, capital or harvesting. Salutations with the head, eye or hat were allowed; more than this was held indecorous. From the more distant villages, the good wife sometimes rode on a pillion behind her husband; when she dismounted, the horse was left to browse upon the grass in the church-yard. Among the crowd of worshipers indications of wealth or higher degree were noticeable in the gold buckles, flowing wigs, silken knee-bands, and, rarely, a cocked hat. 
               Shining satin gowns were not uncommon, trimmed with demure ruffles, and large bows were worn on enormous bonnets. The women sat on one side of the church, the men on the other, and wandering glances, while not strictly forbidden, were held in disfavor. 
               The building in which the Mathers, father and son, preached to their devoted flocks, could boast of no architectural beauty. It was built of wood, and stood squarely on its foundation of grassy lawn. No sculpture adorned the rude doorway, arresting the eye of the passer-by; no carving relieved its plain simplicity. The high windows, set in deep embrasures, were colored only by the flickering rays of the sun which stole in through the branches of the trees, softening the garish hot light and lending the shadows of the foliage to aid the sombreness of the sanctuary. Overhead, huge trunks of trees, roughly cut, met and crossed each other, holding firmly in the time-honored walls. The sounding board swung above the pulpit, taking and echoing back the whiskers of divine love, or the thunder of the law, as it escaped from the lips of the celebrated preacher when strongly wrought upon, and the broad covered Bible felt the force of his nervous fingers as he emphasized the text. 
               In the choir gallery the singers stood out in bold relief, unconcealed by blue, crimson or purple damask. The bass fiddle led the way, in lieu of organ, as the entire congregation joined in Old Hundred, Corinth, or Dundee, making melody in their hearts, and singing with the spirit if not with the understanding. The book of psalms was used in preference to uninspired, compositions, and as being better suited for the needs of the church, and every member in all ages and circumstances. At first no instrument was allowed, but we read that the bass fiddle made its way through much opposition, and finally achieved a triumph. 
               The public form of worship was simple and scriptural, consisting of praise, prayer and the reading and preaching of the word of God. Without condemning the use of the liturgy, the Puritans believed that set forms for public worship were unprofitable and burdensome to, Christian liberty, and they dared not introduce human inventions which were not warranted by Scripture nor used in Apostolic times. Going to that source alone for direction, they could not believe that Paul, kneeling on the shore and parting with his friend at Tyre, read his prayer from a book, or that Paul and Silas used a written prayer in their midnight petition in prison, and as the Evangelists themselves differ in their versions of the Lord's prayer, they united in agreeing with St. Augustine and other ecclesiastical writers upon the freedom of using "different words, provided the same things are mentioned in prayer." Accustomed to the ritual and external graces of the Church of England, the bare walls and rigid simplicity of the Puritan house of worship struck Allison with a feeling of loneliness and discomfort; but although missing her own church liturgy, she believed that the same Lord is God over all, and in this spirit of charity, she found that she could raise her heart in communion with her Maker. 
               Ruth's eyes were stealthily regarding her cousin, as she followed quietly the example of her uncle's family-rising and standing through the long prayer, and sitting during the psalm-singing. 
               Doctor Increase Mather, escorted by the sexton, entered his pulpit from a side door, and every wandering thought vanished when he entered fully upon his subject, preaching the Word from a pure conscience with an unction from above, showing by his teaching the result of a life whose secret heart was guided and governed by firm religious principles. He had been educated in a stern school; his manner evinced his training. He had faithfully studied the creed and the fathers, and believed himself to be an honest expounder of the scheme of redemption and love of Christ. His great mission clothed him with severity and dignity, rather than with love and pity towards fellow-sinners. Men of intellect were humbled by his teaching, and women and children often trembled; but the power of his sanctified calling was illustrated in this vessel of clay, and its glory shone through mortal mould. The Puritans had suffered too much for religion not to be able to distinguish the chaff from the wheat. They demanded spiritual bread, and Increase Mather filled their hungry souls. 
               Allison Beresford drew a long breath when the sermon was ended. She had been lifted beyond herself and the surroundings of the plain meeting-house, and followed her friends from the place with the words of the speaker still sounding in her ear as the congregation dispersed in silence. 
               At the door Ebenezer Fairfax was joined by a tall, fair young man, who touched his hat courteously to the ladies, and exclaimed, in a louder tone of voice than the time or place sanctioned: 
               "The Reverend Doctor was much wrought upon this morning; his tongue was fluent, but over-long, I fancied. Indeed, Uncle Fairfax, I find he rarely fails on that point." 
               "It is unseemly for youth to set their judgment upon their elders," said Ebenezer Fairfax. The young man was not at all abashed by the rebuke, for he added, good-naturedly: 
               "And their betters, doubtless. It may be so, but, nevertheless, I found the preacher long-tongued; albeit he is a worthy man and devout divine." 
               "Better long-tongued than long-eared," murmured Ruth under her breath, while her father stood still and sternly confronted the flippant speaker. 
               "Joshua Campbell, it hath been said that thou hast gone over to the Episcopals. Let me hear from thy own lips if it be true.'" 
               "Nay, then, uncle,"-his color changed as he spoke, and he glanced at Ruth and Allison, who were within hearing distance-"I have not gone over yet to the Episcopals, nor to Popery; and yet I still repeat that the learned doctor was over-long this morning, although his discourse may have been filled with the arrows of conviction." 
               He turned away, and making another courtesy to the ladies, left the party. Allison looked after his retreating figure with surprise, as she asked: 
               "And who may this Master Campbell be, Cousin Ruth?" 
               "He is the son of my mother's sister," answered Ruth. 
               "Is he of Boston?" inquired Allison, wondering that she had never heard his name mentioned. 
                
               "Yes; he lives with my Aunt Carver, She is a widow. Her husband was an Episcopal." 
               "Your own cousin!" exclaimed Allison. 
               "He hath a farm touching our own, and he is to be my husband when I am of age. But I do not esteem this profitable conversation for the Lord's day." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE milk had been set in the pans, the poultry fed, and the dairy closed. The nights were growing long and chilly. Each season as it rolled around brought its accustomed labor, and in the month of October Martha Fairfax prepared the apples for drying, this fruit being an important item of diet during the winter. 
               The early evening meal was over; the earthen and bright pewter ware were restored to their places on the dresser, and Sing Bird pushed the deal table from the corner; the huge basket of apples was placed upon it, the high wooden chairs drawn around, and the dip candles lighted in their brass candlesticks, which were without spot or stain, and shone like burnished gold under the careful supervision of the mistress of the household. 
               Her husband placed his heavy oaken arm-chair nearer the blazing fire, and read portions of the Scripture aloud, pausing occasionally and closing his eyes while in meditation over some passage which had aroused especial interest. The spinning-wheel wheel kept up the incessant buzzing. Even in sleep the hand and foot of Sing Bird followed the well-known motion mechanically, for her head often drooped, and Ida could see, from her seat on a low cricket near the fireside, that her eyes were often closed. 
               Every hand was employed. Each one kept his own counsels, though their tongues were silent, save when Aunt Martha uttered a hint or suggestion upon the duty she superintended, or Ebenezer Fairfax read aloud a small bit from the law or gospel. 
               Ida left her low seat by the fireside, and, putting aside her knitting, begged to assist in the cutting and paring. Her request was readily granted; another pair of hands, though not skilful, were useful, especially as Ruth, very soon tiring of the task, left her place and sat upon the cricket which Ida had vacated. She folded her arms and looked steadily in the fire, evincing no attention or interest in what was passing around her. She had a headache, and could not endure the scent of the apples. Ida understood her cousin's way of shifting disagreeable duties upon the shoulders of another person; she glanced at her sister and then at Ruth, who, catching her eye, knew its meaning. Her brow darkened; she, would have spoken, but her father's voice arrested her. 
               "'And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through fire, and used divinations and enchantments chantments, and sold themselves to do evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger.' Hoshea's wicked reign caused the kingdom to be rent by the Assyrian, Shalmaneser carrying them captive, and hence the strange mixture of Jewish and Samaritan races. Thus it is that Doctor Mather prayeth continually that the lions be not sent amongst us to determine who are on the Lord's side. He liveth in dread lest his flock be lured from the law and gospel in following either Popery or the Episcopals, who have not been purged with the true leaven, as they still cling to the dross of their captivity." 
               Ida's pale cheek flushed, while Allison scarcely noticed the allusion to their faith, though her most precious memories were connected with an ivy-covered church, where the light from the colored windows painted the stained walls with glorious hues, and streamed upon the white robe and silver hair of the clergyman who had baptized and confirmed her. Allison never for one moment doubted the sincerity of her uncle's religious profession. She also believed that her Aunt Martha and Ruth served their Maker honestly, according to the dictates of their own conscience; but in her own heart she loved the Episcopal worship better than the Puritan, and could not understand the deep feeling of dislike and distrust evinced by the latter towards the church of her fathers. Her religion taught her meekness of spirit and forgiveness to men, if it did not teach a broad, liberal Christian spirit toward all sects. She would learn this in her present position, and must bear reproach in silence. 
               It was different with Ida, whose heart was still untamed. Though her words died away before she uttered them, her eye flashed. 
               "Some of the Episcopals are very wise in their own conceits, and confess to no blindness of eyes." said Ruth 
               "And why should they, Cousin Ruth?" exclaimed Ida, avoiding her sister's warning glance. 
               "My Cousin Ida's heart is with the Episcopals," continued Ruth. "She loveth forms and ceremonies better than the new leaven." 
               Her father seemed annoyed. "The name of Ida is not pleasant," he said. "It savors of heathenish and gross superstitions, of pagans and idolatrous sacrifices." 
               "I was called for my father's sister. She was a good woman, and is now a saint in heaven, if ever there lived one on earth," exclaimed Ida, with tears in her eyes. 
               "Superstition hath ever held the world in chains of ignorance," continued her uncle. "We believe in saints as we believe in heaven. Our acceptance and assurance here"-he paused, and then added abruptly: "What matters it? We are clay in the hands of our Master. If He needeth us for honor, it is to His glory; if to dishonor, His will be done. He will change the heart and open the blinded understanding, if need be. Aye, I have it here; my finger touched the text but how, 'and I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge away thy dross and take away all thy sin.'" 
               "Aunt Martha will object to that, uncle," exclaimed a clear, manly voice, and Joshua Campbell advanced from the door, which he had silently entered, and bade them good evening. 
               "Those were the words of Holy Writ," said his uncle, as he returned his courtesies gravely. 
               "I beg pardon, then, for my levity." 
               His tones were gentle and respectful, and Ebenezer Fairfax administering no further rebuke, the young man drew a chair near his aunt's side and entered at once into a lively and brisk conversation. 
               "There must be no drones in your hive, Aunt Martha," he observed, unclasping his own knife; and selecting a large apple to begin upon, he deftly cut and pared it with the rest of the busy party. 
               His aunt made no reply. She looked at Ruth; her face was turned away from the table where they were sitting. 
               "Ruth suffers from her head, to-night," said her mother, apologizing for her silence and idleness. 
               "One of the old aches, Cousin Ruth?" asked Master Campbell, turning and addressing her particularly. 
               "One of the old aches," returned Ruth. 
               "I am sorry. Is it very painful?" 
               "No." Ruth's curt reply cut the dialogue short, and resuming his knife, he detailed the news of Boston-town ton-town, with the latest accounts from Old England, adding his own lively and amusing comments, as he found that his aunt's grave expression relaxed, and that his mirth and good humor were reflected from the faces of some members of the family. Ebenezer Fairfax lent only a partial ear to the gossip of the day, until his nephew remarked: 
               "It is now said that his worship the Governor will speedily be removed." 
               "Would that a more godly man may be set in his stead." 
               "That may not be easily done, uncle. Godly men do not grow in every soil. These oaks of the Lord's planting, as Doctor Mather hath it, are not common-in this town at least." 
               "Rightly said," remarked Ebenezer Fairfax. 
               "The Governor carrieth matters with a high hand; some worthy citizens are imprisoned on false accusations." 
               "Beware of thy tongue, Joshua. It is a little member, but may stir up and kindle a fire whose blaze may destroy our peaceful lives." 
               "I will be careful, and see that it is not dangerously used in stirring up sedition and rebellion; we are not in Old England, where they slit the tongues of Puritans when over long." His eye met Ida's as he spoke. "Is it not so, little cousin?" he asked, smiling. 
               "The Governor rides out daily in great state. It is said that he contemplates using one of our houses of worship for his own Episcopal services. Perchance the key of Doctor Mather's church will be demanded." 
               "He has no right to the power he claims," said his uncle, sternly. "Haman was hanged on the gallows prepared for a Mordecai. This thing will not be tolerated." 
               "A proud spirit goeth ever before a fall." said Aunt Martha, carefully measuring the apples in a large earthen bowl. "He is not in a land where such tyranny can be excused." 
               "Is the Governor a very wicked gentleman?" asked Ida, who had been listening intently to their visitor. 
               "More wicked in New England than he would be in Old England. But how long have you been in this strange country, little cousin?" 
               He glanced at Allison, as if expecting her to reply to his question, but before she or Ida could speak, Ruth, who had remained silent until now, said, suddenly: 
               "Our cousins-not yours, Joshua-have been with us four months." 
               "Can it be? Yes, I remember, and thank you, Cousin Ruth, for reminding me of my remissness; I have neglected my relatives of late for good reasons, believe me." 
               Aunt Martha rose quickly. Some of the parings fell upon the floor, and as her nephew stooped to pick them up, she bade Sing Bird put aside her wheel, and reminded Ida that it was already beyond her hour for retiring. 
               "Ida!" repeated Joshua Campbell. "A sweet name hath been given you. The names of Scripture were well enough for Jews, but methinks the present race of Christians can better them." 
               "Ida is a heathenish name," said her uncle. 
               "And yet I have never found that I am holier or braver for bearing the name of a brave and valiant leader of the Jews. I am going, aunt, but you will find that I will repair my neglect of the last few months." 
               He departed, and Ruth bursting into a paroxysm of tears, her mother hurried to her and held her head tenderly against her bosom as she bathed it gently, and endeavored to soothe and allay her agitation. Ruth's sobs grew fainter, and finally she was led away to her own chamber, leaving Allison bewildered and surprised by the unusual excitement and unexpected events of the evening. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               "OUR child is sorely afflicted," said Aunt Martha the following morning. 
               "Does Cousin Ruth suffer so much pain?" asked Ida, resting her head on her hands and looking earnestly at her aunt's troubled face. 
               "Yes, she hath suffered greatly ever since her birth. This thorn in the flesh was given when she was but a small child, and it has not departed; her days have been often made wretched and her nights unrestful by reason of it. It is the will of the Lord." 
               "Oh, Allison, it is so with me," exclaimed Ida as Martha Fairfax left the kitchen. "I know well indeed, that never-ceasing pain can make me by day wish for night, and long during the hours of darkness for the daylight to dawn again." 
               "God has been very good," said Allison, placing her hand on Ida's bowed head. "For we see that the change of climate has wrought wondrous benefits in a very short space of time; it may be that you will grow as strong" and well as I am." 
                
               "The climate will never make my crooked ankle straight," answered Ida. "But it is strange that Cousin Ruth has not spoken nor suffered of this disorder before. Do you know, I fancied Master Campbell caused it to come upon her, last evening. He is a fine young gentleman, though I misliked what he said concerning the splitting of Puritan's tongues; surely it is false, it could not be done in Old England by good Christian men." 
               "I fear it has been done," said Allison. "Godly men and holy women are sometimes carried beyond the limit of pity and mercy in the exercise of their contrary opinions. It has been so in Old England; the Puritans were driven to the New World by the injustice and tyranny of those who had the power to oppress and persecute, and it is not strange, therefore, that they have learned to regard the Episcopal in a measure as an enemy; and look with great disfavor upon the forms of our Church." 
               "And yet heresy and schism should be punished; have we not been taught to pray for deliverance from these evils? And if the Puritans suffered, so even did the Episcopate under the reign of Noll." 
               "We have heretofore heard but one side, now we are hearing somewhat of the other. Good and bad are mixed through both, so it is in every human heart God is a just discerner. Christ was the only perfect pattern, and he was neither Puritan nor Episcopal." 
               "Master Campbell cannot be a Puritan. He hath no twang in his voice, he laughs out right merrily, and talks freely." 
               Allison made no reply; her aunt at that moment returned from the garden where she had been gathering herbs; her apron was filled with the savory leaves, and she bade Ida assort them and put them in their various bags, for winter use. 
               "The lavender for the linen press, with the rosemary and old-man. The thyme, mint, sage and sweet marjorum, may hang in the store-room. A few sprigs of lavender may also be placed in the great cedar chest with the woollens, for moths mislike the scent, it is said." 
               She spread the herbs out on the dresser and added: 
               "Master Campbell is a Puritan, one of the Lord's own peculiar people, a vessel of mercy, though of late inclined to frivolousness and idle words, but in no manner connected with the profession of the Episcopals. He knoweth not the use of the Book of Common Prayer, though slanderous tongues have had it otherwise; he leaneth not to Papistical forms and ceremonies, and set prayers. It is not seemly for modest young maidens to discourse over freely of young men. And Joshua Campbell hath been betrothed to Ruth since they were both in their cradles." 
               Ruth entering the room her mother stopped speaking and hastened to make her comfortable in the arm-chair, placing it in a quiet corner and bringing a pillow for her head. 
               "Nay, mother;" she pushed it aside impatiently; "come not nearer;" she closed her eyes wearily, and then opening them again and seeing her mother's patient sad face, and her cousins standing near her, exclaimed, angrily: 
               "Have I not been worse a thousand times? Go away, I want nothing. Will you not go, I say?" 
               Her mother turned from "her with a deep sigh. Allison trod softly over the sanded floor in making the preparations for dinner, while Ida quietly assorted the plants on the dresser, and no sound was heard but the hum of the spinning-wheel and the crackling of the wood in the broad fire-place. 
               For some time Ruth remained with her eyes closed. Allison thought her sleeping, when suddenly she screamed, "Mother! mother!" 
               Her mother was at her side instantly. "I can bear no longer the sound of the spinning-wheel." 
               Sing Bird instantly ceased her work, at a sign from her mistress. Ruth closed her eyes as if relieved, and her mother returned to her, duties, when a second time she heard her named called. 
               "Mother, I cannot bear the scent of the herbs. I am suffocating." 
               Aunt Martha silently assisted Ida in gathering the herbs together, and bade her carry them to a wooden settle outside of the kitchen-door, and finish her task there, while Allison moved noiselessly about, expecting that another complaint would soon be made. She was not mistaken; this time the sunlight, shining on the bright pewter vessels, dazzled her eyes, though they were closed. 
               "My herbs are being blown about by the wind," said her mother, with some anxiety. "Go, Allison, and gather them before they are scattered farther." 
               Allison obeyed. The brisk winds were tossing the light stalks about the garden. Stooping down to pick up the savory treasures, she did not see any one approaching, and rising, she suddenly confronted Master Campbell. 
               "So, Mistress Allison, you are searching for my aunt's favorite perfumes. I know how she holds what is contained in her linen-press more precious than treasures of silver or gold, or caskets of jewels. These odors are pungent and savory, I allow; but here is something fitter for a lady's nosegay, if it be worth her acceptance." 
               He held out a few bright wild-flowers, which had been culled on the road from Boston-town. Allison hesitated. 
               "Nay, they may not be so fragrant as Old England's posies, but they have a wild beauty of their own. Here is one wild rose, the last of the season; I have stripped all the thorns from the stem." 
               "I came to pick up my aunt's herbs, which the wind had scattered; I thank you for the flowers, Master Campbell, but"-she did not finish what she had in her mind to say when she began her answer! 
               "Then you will not accept my offering? It were better to have left the flowers growing as I found them; but I was thinking of you as they were plucked. They may die here on the ground"-he dropped them at Allison's feet. 
               "My Cousin Ruth is very ill," said Allison, in great embarrassment. "She suffered greatly last night and suffereth still." 
               "I am not surprised to hear it; her fit of dolours is always followed by severe pains and aches. Ah! here is my little cousin." 
               He held out his hand to Ida, who came for the herbs; and Allison hastily returned to the house, where she found that Ruth had again closed her eyes and relapsed into silence. 
               "How beautiful!" Ida picked up the despised flowers with great delight. "May I have these, Master Campbell?" 
               "I will remember you another time when I am gathering flowers," he replied, as he strode towards the doorway. Martha Fairfax met him there, and prevented him from entering. 
               "The Lord chasteneth our poor Ruth sorely. Her suffering hath been severe;" she sighed deeply. 
               "I am sorry. I came to seek my Cousin Ruth, to speak on a most especial business; but I doubt if it be a convenient season." 
                
               "If it cannot be deferred, speak; but if it can be, I would rather have it otherwise." 
               He looked relieved as he received her answer, and declining her invitation to remain, immediately turned towards the road, as if intending a hasty walk back to Boston-town; but seeing that his aunt was speedily engrossed in her household cares, he loitered in the garden, and evinced no further haste for immediate departure, as he detained Ida, who was busy arranging her flowers. 
               "I will put them in our own room, in a pewter mug; they will be pretty so long as they last, and when the leaves drop away, I will press some of the brightest between the pages of my journal. They have no scent, or I would put them in my clothes-press." 
               "And what do you find to write in your journal, little cousin?" asked Master Campbell. 
               "Many things. First, I wrote all the bad thoughts I had in one day; but my leaves would soon have been covered with them. Then I thought to put down my good actions; but then I had few things to write. Uncle Fairfax gave me the book to keep me from mischief and idleness, he said, seeing that my ill health made time often hang heavily on my hands. My father was a scholar, Master Campbell, and if I were a man I should also be a scholar; but women are made for other things, Aunt Martha has often said. And now I write only the portions of Scripture I have studied. I wrote out all of Sing Bird's story; it makes a pretty but over-sorrowful tale. Do you keep a journal, Master Campbell?" 
               "Not since I was a small boy; and if I wrote down all the depravity of my heart, I fear one book would not contain it." 
               "You cannot be wicked; you have a gentle voice and a kind eye, and you love flowers." 
               "But my love for flowers is not a grace vouchsafed by the Holy Spirit." 
               "Oh! I am thinking now of the primroses of Old England; if I saw one, tears would rush to my eyes; I could not keep them back." 
               Joshua Campbell took her hand, and lowering his voice, he said: "Do you have to keep them back so often? Are you unhappy or sorrowful in your new home? Do not fear to tell me; I am your friend." 
               "Nay," said Ida; "I have made no complaints. Allison says that we have a good home, food and shelter, and our friends, who do not give these things grudgingly or of necessity." 
               "Well, I am your friend from this time henceforth, and if you are in trouble, or distress, or unhappiness, remember that I may comfort or relieve it." Allison called her sister from the door, and Joshua Campbell, taking off his hat, turned this time in earnest towards Boston-town. 
               Ruth was weeping, laughing, and shrieking hysterically as Ida entered. She was in the "dolours terribly," as Aunt Martha said, while she bathed her temples, stroked her dark hair, and with great solicitude tude and anxiety endeavored to soothe and quiet the excitement that distressed her child. 
               The sounds could be distinctly heard outside of the door, and both Ida and Allison wondered at Master Campbell's departure at that moment, when his betrothed was struggling with pain. Why did he not at least remain until she had grown calmer, and the worst symptoms of her nervous disorder had abated? The mystery remained unsolved, and it was long before he paid another visit to the farm of South Meadows. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               I WOULD that Ruth's brows were less heavy and forbidding! 
               I said this to Allison, but she shook her head reprovingly, as she ever doth at my little frowardnesses. Surely the wish could not be construed into a great sin, albeit I would not have uttered it in the hearing of any of my uncle's family. 
               But now I have determined to set down in my journal all that may come into my silly pate as suits me best, seeing that my spoken words are deemed lacking in judgment. In my dear little book discretion would avail nought; therefore, I will write how different this household would be if I had the altering of the people in it! 
               Uncle Ebenezer should oftentimes wear a smile upon his rugged, stern face, and it would become it bravely, for it would remind me of a ray of sunshine falling upon the hoar old rock on yonder hill I see so plainly from my lean-to window. Some day I mean to walk up there and find if any flowers such as Master Campbell gave me grow under its great shadow. 
               I would have my uncle speak, ever and anon, a gentle word. His eye is never unkindly when it rests upon me, though he has never loved my heathenish name. I would also have him place his arm around Aunt Martha, and call her "heart's-love," "darling," or "sweetheart;" but here I stop, for she must needs change in a great measure before he could thus address her. 
               My aunt's sharp, dark eyes should look as if pity or sorrow had softened their glances. If she met sorrow, perchance thereafter she would feel for all unfortunates. The hard lines on her brow and cheeks might be smoothed out by a chastening rod, which might also change her set expression, and make her a cheerful presence in her home. The air is all November's, which creeps into our frames, chilling bones and marrow; balmy May comes not even once a year with Aunt Martha, and Ruth is like January all the year round. 
               She hath no May, no June, no buds and blossoms of kind words and charitable actions. She is ever in the bleakest season, but never in the Slough of Despond, as Master Bunyan hath it, in her spiritual state. No doubts and fears beset her path to heaven, while good Uncle Ebenezer daily meets lions so great and huge they beset him sorely. 
               Allison hath often said, "There is good in every creature made by God." I have not found any good in Ruth. She is a cruel woman. Men learn to be so; they war and fight with deadly weapons; they have been taught to love carnage and blood-shedding, like the beasts of prey. If my cousin were a soldier, she would never show pity; she would give no quarter to a fallen foe. She could not show mercy for the dying lying at her feet. 
               I have seen her pinch Tabby for standing in her path. She will beckon Watch, the dog, to her side, and then thrust him away without a crumb. She sayeth to Sing Bird, if her hand and foot are wearied and her back aching from her constant labor, "Go on, go on!" She would thrust and pinch Allison also if she dared, for she hates her; I have seen it as she watches her with her sullen, cunning eyes. Allison would judge me hard and unjust towards Ruth, but I pray that Heaven may not permit my cousin to exercise unlimited power over any human creature or dumb beast. 
               I could not change her piecemeal, but would willingly dip her in some bath from whence she might issue a new and different being, something more akin to a woman; she is unlike one now. Can I think of aught which disproves what I have written? 
               Yes. Men call women cowards; she hath the Heart "of a craven. She clings to me as we pass through a dark passage, or in the darkness of night. She will never be left alone; her chamber door is ever left ajar, and oftentimes Aunt Martha is summoned moned hastily to her bedside when she cries out in sudden fright, by reason of terrible visions and troubled dreams. 
               Allison has said that we are not all made in the same mould, like candles, but each after the pattern and wish of the Great Designer. I trust that the copy from which Cousin Ruth was fashioned may never be repeated. I write not with Christian charity; I have not been long-suffering and kind. I have now known my Cousin Ruth for over two years, but no eye save my own will read my journal. 
               I mistrust that she will ever marry Master Campbell; she is of age, and there is no rumor of the marriage. It would join broad acres, it is true; but not two loving hearts. Aunt Martha would judge this unmaidenly, and Allison ever avoideth the matter when I question her upon it. 
               Master Campbell is kind and gentle with me, as is his manner with every person. He has ever proved my good friend, as he promised; but I know not why it is that Allison mislikes him. She leaves the room when he enters, and is curt and short in all her discourse with him, until he hath grown as silent and unfriendly himself. 
               Once I took him to task for his discourtesy, when we were alone for a few moments. His fine spirits had flown, and he was dull as a burnt log, and I thought it best to advantage this time to reproach him for his cold and uncivil behavior; for he is never stiff-mannered with me, and I have ventured to speak to him more freely than I have spoken to any other person since I have dwelt in the colonies. 
               "Master Campbell," I began, "you do not like my sister Allison; you are kinder to me. If you knew her, you would love her as I do." 
               He must have been greatly angered, and I was frightened, for in an instant his face flared up like a flame; I have never seen his cheeks so glowing. He did not speak for the space of a moment or so, and his eyes were bent upon the floor. 
               "Hath she complained of my bad manners?" he asked. 
               "My sister never complains; if the Spanish Inquisitors were set upon her to lead her to dungeons and torture, she would never open her lips." To me the most terrible thing in the whole world is the Spanish Inquisition. 
               He laughed at this, and then said gayly: "I am not worse than an inquisitor, surely; and if I seem to be uncivil towards her, I am not the less her friend for all that." 
               "Is it because she is an Episcopal?" I persisted, for I knew not how to account for his strange behavior. 
               "No; the good folk of Boston-town have called me an Episcopal, because I have sometimes gone to King's Chapel, to satisfy my curiosity as to the manner of worship of the Episcopals." 
               "And what did you see?" I asked him, thinking of the ivy-covered church in Old England, with the blue-and-crimson window over the chancel. I can repeat the creed, and the commandments, and some of the collects, as I learned them there, when I was a very little girl. 
               "I saw the priest in his black and white vestments; I heard the chanting in a known tongue, and the organ-peals that seemed to come from the region of heaven." 
               "And did it seem wicked to you?" I asked, almost in a whisper. 
               "Nay; I came out no worse than when I went in. The Puritan has not said that the Episcopal is wicked; but let every man worship God according to the dictates of a pure conscience." 
               Aunt Martha came in just then, so I could say nothing more touching this question, and Master Campbell soon went away; but I will have some more conversation upon it, seeing that he doth not object to speak of the Episcopals. 
               When I told Allison of it she seemed much put about, and vexed me by making me promise never again to mention her name to Master Campbell. I like nothing so well as speaking of her, how she hath been mother, father, brother and sister to me; surely it is very hard to be forbidden to sound her praises to the only person who mislikes not to hear them, for I am sure, after all, Master Campbell was not so very much angered. 
                
               I had well-nigh forgotten to note down a strange thing which happened a few days since. 
               I was sitting, towards evening, in the doorway, with my knitting in my hand, waiting for Allison to return from the dairy, where she had gone to set the milk in the pans for the morning cream. In the dusky twilight I saw two figures approaching the house. I knew one was Master Campbell from his tall stature, his erect carriage, and a certain manner he hath of swinging his arms when walking. I was uncertain as to who the other might be, but when he came nearer I saw that he wore a sailor's garb. 
               "I met an old friend of yours on the road, and I have guided him safely to the place," said Master Campbell, but still I failed to recognise the stranger until he spoke, and then I remembered Jack, who was so kind to us on the ship St. George, in our journey from Old England. 
               I held out my hands and said I was glad to see him; in my delight my voice must have sounded over loud, for Aunt Martha came at once to the door, and said, as she greeted Master Campbell: 
               "This is unmaidenly--" 
               Uncle Ebenezer came in from the fields just then, or I should have received further rebuke, but he remembered Jack at once, and courteously invited him in for rest and refreshment, at which, though I was amazed, I felt very grateful as we all followed him into the kitchen. 
               Poor Jack was ill at ease; he turned and twisted in his high chair, and rubbed his face again and again with his gaudy handkerchief, when Allison came in and gave him a most kindly welcome. 
               "I thought the rough old tar would have been forgotten long ago," he said, after he had sat for some time without speaking a word. 
               "I set him right as to that as we walked along together," said Master Campbell. 
               "The little one's grown up like a weed; and there are posies in her cheeks now," said Jack. "But, mistress, you look like a root that has been kept in a damp cabin." 
               "That is the sober truth," exclaimed Master Campbell in such a loud, bold voice the blood flew to Allison's face, and her cheeks were as red as roses. 
               And now, since Jack has said this, I recall that she hath of late grown pale, resembling a lily more than the blooming English girl who set foot on these shores nearly three years since. 
               Uncle Ebenezer looked at her earnestly, and then asked: "Hast thou suffered in any way? I trust too much labor hath not driven away the hue of health, for, indeed, I now see that thou art not ruddy as formerly." 
               Allison's confusion increased, for all of our eyes were bent upon her, and she could only say: "I am well, uncle. I suffer no pain; my strength is not overtaxed. The new climate hath perhaps taken away some of my color." 
                
               "These are surely very unseemly questions," said Aunt Martha, very stiffly. "I am no heavy taskmistress, laying on burdens too heavy to be borne." 
               "Softly, softly, Martha. I made no accusations. But I would know wherefore this startling change hath fallen upon my niece. I hear from her own lips that she is well. Nothing further remaineth to be said." 
               Jack very soon departed. He is slow of speech, but his heart deviseth liberal things, for he brought beautiful gifts for Allison and myself from the distant countries he has visited since he last saw us. He gave Allison a rich and costly silk shawl from China, heavily wrought in leaves and flowers, with a fringe of the same, and a bordering of various and gay devices. She received it with many gracious thanks; but I fancy many a long and short day will pass before she will wear it in the house of worship when Doctor Mather preacheth and prayeth so long as the Spirit moveth him. I have oftentimes hoped he would cut both prayer and sermon in halves, for I count the beams over my head and the panes in the windows, and even the buzzing flies, the only living creature that doth dare to move in the sanctuary. I would willingly have his flesh weaker, however brave his spirit so that he might be compelled to desist. These are vain thoughts, but they are written for my own eye alone. If I were a fairy I would change myself into a fly, and tease and tire Doctor Mather, as he doth one member at least of his congregation Jack gave me a silken scarf, scarlet and green, and an idol made of ivory-a heathen god from India. Uncle Ebenezer sighed as he examined it, but Aunt Martha would not so much as touch it with the ends of her fingers; for she never hath included the Indians and heathen in her covenant of grace. I wonder where "their own place" can be? They have not been made meet for heaven by works of righteousness, and surely a merciful Father, who "sendeth His rain on the just and the unjust," will not banish them for ever from His glorious presence since they have ignorantly sinned and broken His laws. How can they hear without a preacher? 
               This hath puzzled my brain sorely. I once asked the question of Uncle Ebenezer. He looked in the fire before him a long time, and then replied 
               "We leave them all to the uncovenanted mercies of God." 
               I scarcely knew what it meant, but as I hid my heathen idol in the bosom of my gown, I thought, it it may be better to be left to the uncovenanted mercies of God than the covenanted mercy of man. I would sooner trust Him. But I am not a heathen. 
               Before Jack left, Uncle Ebenezer glanced at his Bible. He would have detained them for a family prayer, but Master Campbell urged that it was already late and the walk long; so they departed, but were remembered in his nightly petition. 
               He prayeth for each member of his family daily, but most especially and earnestly for the poor heathen woman, who turns her face to the wall and falls asleep, I doubt not, during the long season of prayer, for sometimes I twitch her gown to let her know that it is over. 
               I do not tire of Uncle Ebenezer's long prayers, for I feel in his communion with God he draweth near to his Maker, forgetting man and the vain things of life. I love him in spite of the changes I would make. The exterior alone repels me; but I know well it is the rough coat on the outside of the sweet chestnut which pricks and stings dangerously when handled unwisely. The kernel is good and his heart is in the right place, and ever beats true and faithful and honest-as the heart of every real Christian, whether Episcopal or Puritan. 
               My mother taught her children to believe this. Allison daily leads me to understand "that the same God is Lord over all, God blessed for ever more." There can be no difference inside of the gate of Heaven. 
               David prayed seven times a day, Daniel three, and Martin Luther three and four hours at one season without intermission, and surely Uncle Ebenezer may spend one hour at his family altar, and if any member grow weary, the fault is theirs and not in him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               YESTER-EVEN I sat near Sing Bird winding woollen yarn for Aunt Martha. The window was open, and as I looked out of the casement I saw that the sky was covered with thick clouds, and at intervals there came low mutterings of thunder, portending a storm. I like not the sound; it has ever frightened me; so I let the ball fall on the floor, and put my fingers in my ears to shut out the growling, angry peals which burst suddenly over our heads, reminding me of the Judgment-day, "when the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll." 
               Allison was busy with linen-mending; this is now added also to her numberless duties, and the sheets and clothing of the household make a brave show of her darning. She did not shake her head at me, for her own cheek grew paler as another peal, like the last trump, shook earth and heaven. I hurried from the casement, but Sing Bird still remained at her wheel, showing no signs of fear. I fancy she scorned us for our terror. 
                
               "Come away, Sing Bird!" cried Allison, as another peal shook the house and a flash of lightning darted through the kitchen. 
               She lifted her wrinkled hands and pointed over head: "Manitou speaks; so pale face say; why fear the Great Spirit? Manitou good; me no fear him." 
               She sat by her wheel. The men found shelter in the barn; Uncle Ebenezer ran in from the plough; the poultry crept under cover, and the birds that had been singing in the trees a few minutes before were silent in their nests. Even Aunt Martha was idle, and sat with her hands folded in her lap as she looked at the rain falling in heavy floods. Ruth crouched by her side, with her head on her mother's shoulder; she trembled with terror. Still the spinning-wheel moved at its work. In the pauses of the storm, when the rain and thunder lulled, we could hear its monotonous buzz, buzz, throughout the kitchen, until Aunt Martha, greatly to my wonder, spoke herself: 
               "'Tis the voice of the Lord-of thy Creator; dost thou not fear, Sing Bird?" 
               She lifted her wrinkled hands again and pointed upward: "Manitou a good Spirit; he no harm Sing Bird." 
               "Truly, this heathen woman possesseth remarkable faith," said Aunt Martha, looking around at her awestricken household. "But there is such a thing as tempting Providence," she began; but shortly checking ing herself, "What avails this, for these words convey no meaning to her dark and benighted understanding? She hath conceived but one idea of the Almighty, and that is, no harm can befall those who put their trust in Him." 
               "When will the storm cease, mother?" Ruth raised her head for an instant. 
               "The worst is over; its fury is spent. The thunder is dying away, and now I see the clouds breaking in the west." 
               As I too looked from the window for signs of clearing weather, I saw Master Campbell running from the barn to the house. He sprang into the room, and stood still with the rain dripping from his wet garments. I fancy Aunt Martha did not like this over well, for she believeth that cleanliness is next to godliness, though it be not Scripture teaching. 
               "It would have been wiser to have remained without until the storm passed over; you are drenched to the skin." 
               "That is true, aunt." He stood by the great hearthstone and switched the rain-drops over the fire. "You look like a flock of frightened birds. Cousin Ruth, I trust you are well." 
               She looked up and thanked him in a low voice; and, I thought, presently we will hear something of the dreadful aches that attack her chiefly after Master Campbell hath visited South Meadows. 
               "You have the youngest eyes in the room, little cousin," Master Campbell said to me. "Look in the west and tell me if the clouds be lifting, and whether the evil witches are riding off on the tail of the storm. There, do you not see a black fiend imaged in the air?" 
               He came, and, standing by my side, pointed to a cloud that for an instant truly bore a resemblance to the figure of a withered old crone. 
               "Sing Bird has no fear," he added, with his kind smile. 
               "She believes that the Great Spirit will not forsake his children in danger," I answered, for no one else spoke, and I thought with wonder of the Indian woman's faith. 
               "She will find it a more wholesome doctrine for the soul than for the body, I fear." He shrugged his broad shoulders. "Faith is a good thing, but we are not all mustard-seed; and sometimes I fancy it better to believe too little than over much. I cannot remain to hear your firstly out, Aunt Martha; do not preach a sermon to a poor cumber-ground." 
               "Have a care, Joshua Campbell, lest the Master coming suddenly, findeth thee without the wedding garment." Aunt Martha's voice was solemn, and her words sounded not only in my ears, but sank deeply into my heart. 
               "Heaven forbid!" he exclaimed, earnestly. "But now I am going. I have recent news from Old England. It is said that two more witches have been sentenced to die the death of the guilty. I pray that none may ride on clouds or broomsticks to this new land. I suppose they deserved their fate, for both of them were prodigiously old women, with hollow, red eyes, shrivelled skins, and figures bent with the weight and infirmities of fourscore years and ten. Verily, signs unmistakable, which Dame Nature unkindly sets upon all who live beyond their appointed years; so Satan clutches and makes them his tools, and gives them over to dark and mysterious wiles until they are released from further obligations to Beelzebub by drowning or burning." 
               I misliked his manner of speaking; strange doubts and fears crept into my mind. 
               "I deem these matters beyond my feeble judgment; it is wiser to leave them to the disposition of fitter persons. The Scripture telleth us, 'These things God worketh oft-times with the children of men;' and with that I rest content," said Aunt Martha. 
               "I repeat only hearsay," replied Master Campbell, putting his hand on the latch of the door. "But if you see Sing Bird riding on a broom, you may be assured she is bound for Egypt, that land of darkness, so long famed for magic and sorcerers. Keep her in at night, little cousin," he said, speaking to me, "so that she may not bewitch the cattle; and, above all, watch the gray cat lying on yonder hearth, and see that Sing Bird doth not change shapes with the dumb beast. They have a wise way of discovering these servants of Lucifer across the ocean. There they bind the witch hand and foot, and then she is thrown into the nearest pond. If she swim, she is doomed; if she sink, she dieth a happier death, and is relieved from all charges of mysterious intercourse with Satan." 
               Ruth raised her head, and brushing back her dark hair which had fallen over her low brow, she regarded Master Campbell before she spoke. 
               "I wonder not that you are reckoned among the godless and light men of the town. I mislike the senseless and light-headed tittle-tattle which is easily passed from mouth to mouth, and setteth aside in contempt the opinions of older, wiser and better men, who have ever gone and still do repair to the Sacred Scripture for edification, doctrine and instruction." 
               He seemed glad to have heard her speak in this way, though I wondered at it; for Ruth ever has kept, as it were, a seal upon her lips in the presence of her betrothed. He appeared in no way vexed, but caught up her words with great spirit, as he answered: 
               "It may be, Cousin Ruth, that I am godless with the least godly men of the town. I may also be light-headed and senseless, as it hath pleased my Creator to make me. Perchance I am fond of easily-passed tittle-tattle; but I thank God I am not fond of this dreadful drollery; and also that I am not a poor, miserable old woman, to be hanged or drowned for living to be old and miserable." 
                
               His voice sounded bravely. I am sure Master Campbell has as stout a heart as Faithful had in Master Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, though Aunt Martha and Ruth believe it to be still unregenerate. He bade us farewell and went his way, but he has raised many strange thoughts in my mind, which will not be put aside. 
               Allison does not believe in witchcraft-I have asked her-though she said many godly magistrates and ministers agree in making laws to prevents evilly-disposed persons from harming their fellow-beings by the practice of so-called mysterious arts and magic charms. 
               I have asked how can such things be? But she said this matter hath puzzled older and wiser heads than mine or her own. She advised me to let my thoughts dwells upon my books and my journal, and upon the portions of the Psalms I commit daily to memory. Nature hath a great book whose leaves are ever spread open before our eyes. It contains many pages of divers attractions; but my mind will not rest continually upon the blue firmament, the green earth and all the fowls and beasts and creeping things that inhabit it. Since I know it is all good and fair, and is upheld by the hand which made it and will preserve it by the word of his power, everything will follow out its appointed course as the Creator willeth; but what man has once done will not certainly be done again in the same manner and time. I know the sun will rise and set to-morrow morrow and the day after, according to the law of its Maker; but who can tell what cruelty or injustice may take possession of the heart of man, which has never entered it before, or how truth and error, right and wrong, may be perverted most strangely? Doth God indeed will that men shall discover wizards and witches among their fellow-creatures? 
               I read that Simon the sorcerer bewitched the people of Samaria, and that under the preaching of St. Paul "many of them which used curious arts brought their books together and burned them before all men." 
               I have promised Allison to think less upon his matter, and learn some verses before the coming Lord's day. I will write them down, so I can the better remember them. They were written by a holy and devout man, by name George Herbert: 
                      
                        "The Sundays of man's life, 
                        Threaded together on Time's string, 
                        Make bracelets to adorn the wife 
                        Of the eternal, glorious King. 
                        On Sunday Heaven's gate stands ope; 
                        Blessings are plentiful and ripe- 
                        More plentiful than hope. 
                     
                      
                        "Thou art a ray of mirth, 
                        And where the week-days trail on ground, 
                        Thy flight is higher, as thy birth; 
                        Oh, let me take thee at the bound, 
                        Leaping with thee from seven to seven, 
                        Till that we both being tossed from earth, 
                        Fly hand-in-hand to heaven!" 
                     
                  
                
                
               Had these words been written by a Puritan, it would have been Lord's day or Sabbath, but I like the sound of Sunday far better, for on that day the Sun of Righteousness arose with healing in his wings. I have already learned these lines by the same godly gentleman: 
                      
                        "The worst speak something good; 
                        Should all want sense- 
                        God takes the text and preacheth patience." 
                     
                  
                
               I have often repeated this to myself, when Doctor Mather had but just reached the fourthly in his discourse. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               I HAVE noted plainly that whenever Master Campbell inquires if Allison be ill or well when she is out of sight, or busy with household duties, Ruth greatly mislikes this act of courtesy. Her dark brows meet together, and two unlovely ruts fret her forehead, and her glance is black and mistrustful. 
               I have mentioned this to Allison, and she begged me, somewhat sadly, to think less of Master Campbell, and his comings and goings, or my silly imaginations would lead me a sorry game in my life. 
               I can hold my tongue tight between my teeth to prevent it from betraying me into foolish indiscretion of words, but I cannot close my eyes, and remain blind to what is passing around me, nor can I shut my mind up in a casket, where no stray thought may enter. 
               Allison believes that my books, my journal, and my light tasks can wholly engross my mind, in this quiet house, where scarcely a word above a whisper is uttered from morning till night, and Sing Bird's wheel, or perchance the boiling of a pot or singing of a kettle are the only sounds heard. 
               In spite of sweeping, dusting, mending and knitting, the five gates of my senses are ever admitting food for reflection, now that I am no longer a child to believe that the moon is made of green cheese, because its mother has said so. 
               It happens that my eyes being in no wise shortsighted, I can use them to other advantage than in distinguishing a rose from a pink, or taffetas from woolsey, although Aunt Martha invariably points out both to me, and says:- 
               "This is taffetas; that is woolsey, child." 
               In her store-room she takes down her bags of spices, and as she handeth each separately she says: 
               "See, niece Ida; this is thyme, this sage, this lavender, and the other sweet marjoram." 
               For three years this has been done, she bidding me each time to smell the various herbs, so that in future I shall be able to distinguish their perfume or scent. 
               If I chance to have in my hand Master Bunyan's Holy War, presented by my Uncle Ebenezer, she bestows one glances at the book, and then tells me, what I have already learned many times before:- 
               "Master Bunyan was a devout and holy man; the Episcopals cast him into a dungeon and kept him there many years." 
                
               I know this well, and have often hoped that the imprisonment of Master Bunyan in Bedford jail may have taught him to exercise more Christian charity to all who differ from him in opinion. 
               But alas! this it seems cannot be, for here in New England a Quaker man hath been put to death, an Anabaptist hath been driven from his home, where he hoped to dwell in peace and safety, and even a clergyman of our church, Master Burroughs by name, scarcely dares show his face, because he hath become greatly noted for feats of bodily strength. Master Campbell says he can lift more pounds weight than any single man in the colonies, and can fence skilfully with a trained man, though his stature is insignificant. 
               "These are not spiritual graces," Master Campbell said, "therefore some of our Puritan folk suspect him of having dealt with the Prince of Darkness, in obtaining this strength." 
               I knew from his merry eye that he jested, and I deem that he does not always regard the Puritan people as the salt of the earth. And may not the salt lose its savor? His mother favored the Episcopals, I have heard Aunt Martha say. In her eyes it would be the same thing as favoring the Pope of Rome; she believes that an especial Providence watches over the Puritans of this day, as God over the Jews of old. Allison says they have served God faithfully, and have never proved cowardly, nor turned their backs to the enemy. It hath ever been the one thing-men love their own opinions better than the law of God, or the love of Christ, and the innocent often suffer for the guilty in the horrors of a war for religion. But I find that more Puritans have suffered than Episcopals, and more Protestants than Papists. I asked Allison when will the cause of religion be righted? She made this answer: 
               "When the human heart is made pure and right in the sight of our Maker." 
               I think her heart is sanctified, by the light and strength she obtains on her knees in prayer, from Heaven, and she ever weareth on her face the outward signs of an inward and spiritual grace. 
               A few days since, when Aunt Martha and Ruth were both in Boston, Job, the hired man, came into the kitchen with his arms filled with fuel. There followed him a strange gentleman, whom we had never seen before; his eyes were bright and merry, his stature was small, but well knit and, compact, and his voice had the pleasant cheerful ring which I love to hear in Master Campbell's. Job put down the wood and went out as he said: 
               "These are they." 
               He greeted us courteously, and then, before we had time to wonder who he might be, he said: 
               "My name is Burroughs; Master Campbell advised me that two of my flock were under this roof. He hath said, that you were both in the fold of the Established Church." 
               I drew his chair nearer the fire, for the day was chilly, and the winds of November in this climate are searching and unpleasant, and he had been riding, for I saw Job holding his horse before the door. 
               His manner was kindly and agreeable. I felt my heart warm towards him as it hath never towards Doctor Mather; I remembered what Master Campbell had often said about his wonderful feats, and I could not refrain from indulging my curiosity; so I asked: 
               "Are you indeed the gentleman who can carry so many pounds, and leap higher and walk faster than any man in New England?" 
               "Men have given me this reputation," he replied. "And therefor I have heard it whispered that I am in league with the Evil one." 
               He did not remain long; he was passing from a distant village to Boston-town, and at Master Campbell's request had stopped to visit us. He spoke of a bright future for New England, when more Christian charity would be cultivated among the people. He also said that persecution would die away, and even the liturgy of our Church, which had administered comfort to thousands on earth and tens of thousands in Heaven, would be openly and speedily restored. 
               "They dare not drive out the Episcopal as they have the Quaker and Anabaptist," I said angrily, and my cheeks glowed, but not with the heat from the great hickory logs in the fireplace. 
               "Patience, my child, patience," he said. "All will come in God's good time. A brighter day must dawn, and Christ will enlighten the darkened understanding of our Puritan brethren." 
               "They also have suffered," said Allison, and I was put about to hear this urged just then. 
               "That cannot be denied, and moreover I now understand in a far greater degree than I could in Old England, how peril and persecution can confirm and strengthen faith in the human heart. The tree whose branches are lashed and torn by the rudest blasts, takes the deepest root; it will not be made to succumb to terrific storms. It bows and bends, but rises again when the fury of the gale is spent." 
               I was sorry when he rose to leave us. He put his hand upon Allison's head and then upon mine. His words are still ringing in my ears-"God bless you, my children. The peace of God which passeth all understanding rest upon you.-Amen." 
               My heart was melted; ah it is easy to win by love and gentleness. It seems now as if I had known and loved him for many years. Allison sat by the fire and thought over his visit in silence. I knew this was so, for when she spoke she said: 
               "Ida, I believe this would not have been acceptable to our Uncle Ebenezer." 
               "We are Episcopal; our mother was not a Puritan. Why should it be displeasing?" I cried. 
               "He still thinks of the wrongs he has suffered," said Allison, slowly. "One day he will not see through the glass darkly, but now I fear he trusts no Episcopal. Master Burroughs believes that all Christians, of any name or sect, are numbered among the peculiar people of God. God has vouchsafed to him the grace of charity towards all men, and if we will pray for a 'knowledge of the truth in this world,' we will see how God alone is the only Judge of our hearts, who can also open our eyes to the good in those who differ from us, perchance only in name. The Puritan has, not found out yet the true secret of Christian charity; but his eyes will surely be open when God is so faithfully served." 
               "Then my uncle shall never hear of Master Burroughs's coming. Listen, Allison. No wrong is done; no question will be asked. Why should we make a confession where there has been no sin?" 
               "That is not right, Ida. We are indebted to him for food and raiment and our daily bread. I have never deceived him. He has been a kind and faithful friend to us." 
               I was very angry then. "You earn your daily bread as Sing Bird does, or Job, or Csar. Are we worse than slaves? Have we no liberty?" 
               She sighed deeply. If Allison hath a fault it is a lack of proper pride and spirit. I have often said this. I repeated my words in so high a key that Sing Bird turned to look at me. Her thread was exhausted, and she saw tears in my eyes. How I longed to give way to the passion which was ruling my wayward soul! The spinning-wheel stopped, and the Indian woman tossed her arms over her head and muttered some things in her own tongue-a motion she often makes at her wheel. Allison pointed to her. 
               "Look, Ida; contrast your condition with yonder poor creature. Reflect for a moment upon the kindness and benefits Heaven has bestowed upon us; think of the wrong and misfortune meted out for her in this life; remember her sorrows, and do not forget the favors we have received, who perchance are not one whit more worthy." 
               My heart was softened, but I sullenly refused to speak, through I heard my sister murmur: 
               "Patience, patience; let it possess my soul." 
               I knew that she would speak to Uncle Ebenezer as she had purposed, and kept up a brave show of indifference until, my passion having spent itself, towards evening I went and, throwing my arms around her neck, begged her forgiveness. Alas! my feeble heart beats and strives in vain against my fate in life; Aunt Martha cannot subdue it, nor Uncle Ebenezer's truth, Ruth's spite, nor even pity for Sing Bird, who is more unfortunate than myself. 
               Allison told all to my uncle, and he said not one word, though she is sure he misliked both visit and visitors, but no mention had been made of it to Aunt Martha. I was pleased at knowing that much. 
               Master Burroughs is not held in good repute. His feats of personal strength are condemned as inconsistent with, and beneath, his calling and profession. 
               But he is not a Puritan; he is an Episcopal, and to me that seemeth to make the difference. 
               "Our clergy are not over-strict," said Allison, with a sigh. "They view these matters with other eyes." 
               "Truly, with very different eyes; for the Puritan weareth great green or yellow-jaundiced spectacles, through which he looks at the whole world, and of course it all seems to be lying in darkness at his feet. And these owls have been looking at Master Burroughs's character through their glasses." So I said, and I see now I was only pert, where I thought to have used wit. I chafe at what she said respecting; the clergy of our church. Would Master Burroughs win more souls with a sourer countenance and severer words? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               WE are left in no dreariment when Aunt Martha and Ruth spend a day in Boston-town. These seasons do not come often-rarely during the year; but the days are like Christmas or a holiday when Allison and I are left alone in the farm-house with Sing Bird, whose presence doth not disturb us more than a piece of the kitchen furniture. And yet Christmas in New England hath little in it of the Old England holiday-joy that I so well remembered; for this greatest festival of the whole year was ushered in with rejoicings, well befitting the commemorating of God's best gift to man. The church was decked with evergreens, and holly-berries peeped out from the dark leaves, as if glad to blossom at that time; the bells pealed as the village children sang carols, and old and young believed, as well they might, that it was the gladdest day in all the year. Surely, if the Saviour visited our earth, and took up his abode among sinful men, it cannot be wrong to celebrate His birth! 
                
               The shining of the bright star in the East, which guided the wise men to Bethlehem-the Glory which shone over the shepherds, as they watched their flocks by night, and "the multitude of the Heavenly Host praising God and singing"-have ever presented to my mind pleasant pictures. Truly, the Puritans are a curious folk, for upon all these things they turn their backs and close the eye of the mental vision, as it were. I have questioned Aunt Martha as to this, and she said: 
               "We are no longer commanded to keep feasts and fasts of new moons and old moons under the New Dispensation; nor do we care to bend the conscience to the petty ceremonies in which the Episcopal taketh so much delight and spiritual pride. We believe more in the abiding of the law of Christ in the soul, and less of outward forms and observances. All this, being but chaff, we reject, keeping alone the true wheat, for the other may be scattered, with no great loss, by the winds of heaven." 
               "But if we please to commemorate the birth of our Lord, it cannot be distasteful to Him," I said, for I miss those merry festivities sorely. "Many holy men and women have agreed on its observance." 
               "Have I not said that we care not to keep set days and seasons, and 'entangle ourselves again with a yoke of bondage,' from which we are rid? Our hearts should daily and hourly rise in praise or sink in humility of spirit in communion with our God, and in rejoicing for the gift of a Saviour. If we thus keep His presence ever in mind, we need not set apart a season for repentance or thanksgiving." 
               In spite of all this, I find the Puritan Christmas the saddest and heaviest day of all the year, by reason of the contrast with what it has ever been in the past years. The Puritan faith seemeth to me as a massive, dark, bare, utterly immovable fortress, set squarely, and with defiance as well, upon the earth. It cannot be moved not pushed for very heaviness; it resisteth battery by cannon, and the storms and winds beat against it in vain; but no flowers and blossoms dare to spring up under its gloomy shadow; no green moss covers it, the sunshine is frowned away; its dismal walls must ever chill the hearts of little children. It indeed may prove a tower of defence in the day of trouble, but it never, to me at least, appeareth like a goodly structure, or fair temple, pleasant to the eye and so inviting that all who pass by feel drawn to enter in and sit awhile to rest in comfort, as one may in the true Apostolic Church; while those who by any chance have crept under its protection have the vision so dimmed by the gloom that like bats they learn to love the darkness and care not for the sunshine and cheerfulness in the world outside. I know this to be even so, for I said to Ruth: 
               "If you had known the joy of Christmas in Old England, you too would long for the season as I did then;" and I told her how the churches were dressed with evergreens and holly-berries, and about the ringing of the bells and the singing of Christmas carols by the village children. 
               "Boys and girls, say you?" she answered. "But the Scriptures give no authority for the dressing of churches, the ringing of bells and the singing of carols. Truly, it would not be decorous for boys and girls to sing through the streets of Boston-town at midnight, be it on the twenty-fifth of December or the twenty-fifth of August." 
               "But," I said, "it was ever the Custom of the church in olden days, and the church-fathers sanctioned it. I have heard this often said." 
               "Nay, you may stick to this if you will," she said; "I care not to believe it. Much precious time must be spent over these vain decorations, which, as my mother hath said, after all are but a delusion for the mind and a snare for wandering eyes, diverting the spirit, in a great measure, by outward forms. And you may tell me many times, and every other Episcopal may do the same, but I will never believe that Peter, James and John and the other apostles went about from Jerusalem to Smyrna, dressing their churches with cedars of Lebanon, and ringing bells, and trolling out ballads upon the birth of our Lord. And was it after this manner that the early Christians spent their time in the Catacombs, think you?" 
               I could have laughed outright at this, but Ruth left me. Truly, she is fastened up in the gloomy fortress of the Puritan's faith, and careth not for blossoms that grow by the wayside and may be had for the picking. She returned soon, and, with a sober countenance, she said: 
               "The Puritan hath a festival upon our Thanksgiving day, when we may enjoy the good things spread for us on the table of the wilderness." 
               I called to mind then this feast of fat things, as well as lean-the pasties, the election-cakes, the comfits, the broiled, roasted and boiled fowls, which the whole household help to prepare for the high day of the Puritans. 
               "These can be enjoyed more than the jingling of bells and singing of wild youths," said Ruth; "and recall most sensibly the blessings of basket and store." 
               "But the Scripture doth not sanction it," I said; "and Peter, James and John did not sit down often, I fancy, to bountiful tables. I deem that, as all people must needs make a break somewhere in the year, the Puritan hath stopped here; but why, I know not." 
               "Indeed, then, there is more to it than that," she replied, with some sharpness; "and if you care to hear more about it, I have it all written out in a letter, by my great-grandmother, she that was Priscilla Carver, to her grandson Timothy, who then lived in Old England. I have preserved it in a satchel, which was given to me by my mother." 
                
               I was glad enough to read the letter, and Ruth brought it to me, and spreading it out upon her knee, said: 
               "A giddiness and faintness overcometh me when I look at the letters. Here it is, and you may decipher it for yourself, if you will." 
               I nothing loth, took it from her hands, knowing that, as Ruth is not over-fond of learning, she cared not to study out its characters. I will copy it just here in my journal, for a letter which is now fifty years old having survived half a century, it may be that I will live to piece out the other half. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MY WELL-BELOVED AND TRULY DEAR GRANDSON:
                            
                           "I salute thee tenderly, and praise God for my preservation of soul and body in this land of perils and privations. May His grace enable thee to resist the wiles of our cunning Evil Adversary, who is ever on the alert, and very nimble in tripping up unwary souls. I could tell many amazing things concerning this wild country, but leaving aside that which is only distressful, I will shortly relate a most wonderful deliverance the Almighty vouchsafed to his unworthy servants. 
                           "In the month of May, our people planted corn and other seed, and spended much toil and anxious care upon the barren soil. But no rain fell from early May until midsummer, either to minister to the earth or nourish the seed. Day by day our hearts failed us; the seed indeed sprang up, but like that which fell upon stony ground, it withered and drooped upon the parched earth. Each man, woman and child daily scanned the heavens, but if clouds were seen they brought no rain. The sun rose and set, and the crops wilted under the burning rays, and famine must have overtaken us had not the Lord stretched forth His arm and saved. The Indians openly rejoiced at our discomfiture, but they know not the God in whom we trust. 
                           "Albeit happiness lieth not in meat and drink, yet the body must needs be served, and therefore our leaders were sorely put about, and appointed a day for all to humiliate themselves by fasting and prayer, and beg the Almighty to spare His little flock in the wilderness. And this was done. 
                           "In the morning the winds were scorching, and the heavens were as brass. But we continued steadfast in prayer, and a Gracious Ear was bent to our petitions, and a cloud smaller indeed than a man's hand appeared; it grew and spread until it covered the whole face of heaven, and by even-tide, copious showers fell and refreshed the languishing crops, and with new strength they again lifted up their heads. Praised be the name of God, a rich and abundant harvest was gathered in, and now it hath been resolved that a day of yearly thanksgiving be set aside, to be devoutly kept in memory of our deliverance in time of trouble. This has been once observed, and will continue to be set apart after the harvests are gathered in, and will be remembered when this mustard seed, this vine of the Lord's own planting, shall have grown to so mighty a tree that people of divers nations may come and sit down at ease under its shadow. When I have space I will tell you of the savage Indians and the wild beasts it has pleased the Creator to make. They infest the forests, and have no fear of God or man. May His grace change the heathenish nature in His own time, and may His blessing also rest upon my grandson Timothy. 
                           "The peace of God ever be thine. I send thee a kiss, and so I rest in this hope. 
                           
                              "Thy grandmother, 
                              "PRISCILLA CARVER. 
                              "Plymouth, November 1623."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               And for this reason the Puritan holdeth a day of Thanksgiving. I cannot but say that the observance is praiseworthy, and if Christmas were deemed worthy also of notice another holiday could not harm them. When I was a small child, I was taught to read, and often it was said by my teacher: "Child, mind your stops." 
               It were better if the Puritans had more stops to mind, though I cannot see that Ruth hath ever objected to spend a day in Boston-town when a chance is given. 
               Uncle Ebenezer also accompanied my aunt when she last went to provide winter stores. Of late his mind has been greatly exercised as to the "calling of the Jews and the fulness of the Gentiles." He thinks that it may be even that despised but ancient race of God's people are setting their faces heavenward. They may slip in unawares with the elect a book hath been written lately to this effect, and Uncle Ebenezer, wishing to read this testimony on behalf of the Jews, went in search of the book. 
               "The Indians may also slip in. Surely they can be ranked among the Gentiles?" I dared to ask this openly, for whenever I think of poor Sing Bird I pray that she may also enter into the rest that remaineth for the people of God, seeing that her life below has been so full of weariness and misfortune. 
               "The Lord open their darkened understanding!" said my uncle. "I deem them over frail for an everlasting weight of glory, but who knoweth the unsearchable ways of the Almighty? Wonderful are his uncovenanted mercies, and it may happen that the Indian, Ethiopian, Quaker, Anabaptist and the like may finally meet and sit down among the saints." 
               I would have said, "Perchance the Episcopal, also," but a warning look from Allison silenced me, and I held my tongue. 
               "But," hew added, "all who are brought in by the manifold grace of God must, in a greater or less degree, possess the unum necessarium." 
               I wonder if the Episcopals possess this unum necessariuim, whatever that meaneth, for I did not ask him. 
                
               "The soul that hath been quickened by the Holy Spirit travels heavenward, but sluggishly. The natural depravity of the heart, clogged by reason of the earthly tabernacles of clay, impedeth the stoutest follower of the Captain of our salvation. And by reason of the quavering of the vile body, we run in the race that is set before us but feebly." 
               It gives me ever the dolours when Uncle Ebenezer is speaking of the elect; chiefly, I think, because it seems that so many of our fellow-creatures must be left hopeless outside of the gate of heaven. Our admission is based on the exclusion of such a number of poor, lost souls. 
               So he went that day to search for his book on the "calling of the Jews and the fulness of the Gentiles," and we remained behind very cheerfully. If it had not been for my lameness I should have skipped for joy. The hours passed too swiftly by, and when the duties were done Allison sat by the fire with her knitting, while I read aloud. 
               Suddenly Sing Bird's wheel ceased its motion. She moaned three times as if in great agony, and then clasped her hands over her head. Of late she has suffered much from ague. Her skin is of a lighter copper color, and her hands tremble, but she persisteth in keeping on with her spinning. 
               But now the wheel was silent, and Allison placed her hand upon the poor creature's troubled brow. She moaned and sighed, and shook her head, which has doubtless been made dizzy by the large quantities ties of physic she hath taken from time to time for the ague. 
               Allison brought a pallet and pillow, and begged Sing Bird to lie down and rest. This she did, rejecting the pillow, however, and rolling her head restlessly over the hard boards of the kitchen floor, for she is little accustomed to sleeping upon soft beds or pillows. 
               She still groaned. Her pain seemed increasing; Allison in vain strove to soothe and pacify hen. Something was on her mind; we could not discover what this might be for a long time. She muttered over a strange word many times, and pointed to the hill that is plainly seen from our lean-to window. How could we relieve her distress? Suddenly a thought flashed into my mind. I know how great a store is set upon certain herbs, considered very potent by the Indian. Birch bark and sassafras are held in high esteem by the leeches of this people. 
               "It may be birch or sassafras, or some wild herb, that she wishes," I said. Sing Bird's eyes sparkled; I repeated the question, and we found, indeed, that sassafras was what she longed for. "I have heard that it is considered a sovereign remedy for these ills," said Allison, "and we must try to satisfy her longing. I will go and search for it on the hill; it must grow there." 
               I would gladly have gone on the errand, but my infirmity hath ever prevented me from walking as briskly as other maidens of my years; so I saw Allison put on her hood and mantle, and although I was reluctant to be left alone with the sick woman, I could make no objection, but begged Allison to return as speedily as possible, and then went to the door and watched her depart. It was a most dolorous day. The sky was lead-colored, the trees had been stripped of their leaves, the grass and herbage was dead and dry, and the keen November air chilled me to the marrow as I closed the door. 
               I sat down by Sing Bird, and looked out of the window until Allison was no longer in sight. I could do nothing for the poor heathen who was lying on the floor, moaning and muttering and tossing her arms over her head. Her black locks straggled over her wrinkled, thin, dark face. A shudder crept over me while I looked at her prostrate figure, and I remembered all the tales I had ever heard of hags, witches, and elfish tricks. 
               Nevertheless, I tried to bathe her head with vinegar and lave her temples, but she rejected my offer of aid. She knows little, and cares less, for the soft and tender endearments and caresses that would sooth me in hours of pain. So there was left nothing for me to do but to sit by the window and watch for Allison's return. 
               The hand of the clock pointed at two when she left; now it was travelling fast on to four-two hours, and still she came not. I looked and looked until my eyes ached, but all in vain. I did not see the well-known figure I impatiently awaited. Could she have gone astray? That did not seem possible. Then I thought of the Indians, and the cruel, dark stories I had heard of their treachery and blood-thirstiness in the wild forests. Surely they would not dare to do a deed of horror within sight of our home. Perhaps a wolf, a terrible fierce beast, has attacked her. Each thought suggested something still more terrible. In my dread and anxiety I forgot Sing Bird's suffering, though she still rolled on the floor, and I remembered nothing but Allison's absence. When Job came in, bringing fuel for the night, I saw a few light snow-flakes on his rough jacket. 
               "Is it storming, Job?" I asked, and burst out weeping, my fears all rushing over me. "Allison has gone to the hill for Sing Bird, who longed for sassafras. Can it be that she has been taken by the Indians, or killed by some wild beast?" 
               "Dry your eyes," said Job, kindly. "No fear of either evil; she will soon return; and when I have put the cows under shelter, I will go and look for her." 
               I saw him go to the wood-shed, then to the barn, then to the spring for water, and in the meantime the snow was falling quite fast, and it was growing later and darker each moment, when I saw, to my great joy, Master Campbell coming up the lane. I was running out to meet him, but Job stopped him, and told him of my anxiety and distress of mind, for I saw Master Campbell turn quickly away and stride up the same narrow path Allison had taken two hours before. 
               I felt easier, since I felt that he could bring her safely home, and I hastened to do what I was able toward preparing the evening meal, and in so doing forgot in a measure my trouble, until the door suddenly opening, my aunt and Ruth entered; the fast-falling snow having deadened the sound, I did not hear the wheels approaching. 
               Aunt Martha gave but one glance around. She noted that all was not right, at once, and asked: 
               "Where is Allison? And, Sing Bird, why are you lying thus?" 
               I hastened to tell my aunt all that had happened, how on account of Sing Bird's illness Allison had gone to the hill in search of sassafras, and my great fear and anxiety lest night should overtake her; and lastly, that Master Campbell himself had gone to look for her, and doubtless would soon return. 
               I saw that I had raised a mistrustful spirit when I mentioned Master Campbell's name. Ruth laughed a low, scornful, bitter laugh. 
               "They doubtless will loiter and linger by the way," she said. 
               I thought I should have excited some pity or alarm for Allison's safety, but it was not so. Ruth hath never loved Allison. I did not speak, for my throat was choking and my eyes full of tears. 
               "Birch bark and sassafras will never cure thee, Sing Bird," said my aunt, in a stern, cold voice, "I fear at times that Satan himself hath taken charge of thee. Rise, and if thou art not strong enough to stand, go to thine own bed. This is no fitting place to lie like a beast." 
               Before Sing Bird obeyed, the latch was raised, the door opened, and Master Campbell, followed by Allison, came in. She looked troubled and frightened, but was never more beautiful than at that moment. Her cheeks were flushed, and her golden hair had escaped from the black fillet which binds them usually, and hung under the blue hood, which was partly covered with a wreath of snow-flakes. I did not wonder that Master Campbell's eyes were fixed upon her face, and not upon the features of his betrothed. 
               Allison did not speak for a short space. She seemed like a beautiful culprit, who is unable to utter a word in her own behalf; and Aunt Martha and Ruth regarded her with high displeasure. 
               "Why these black looks?" said Master Campbell, gayly; and I thought his voice was defiant as well. "I have brought a stray lamb back to the fold. Mistress Allison was going steadily on to Boston-town, when I found her and turned her face homeward." 
               "There have been wolves in lamb's clothing before this," said Ruth, slowly. 
               Master Campbell only turned to her mother; he did not speak again to Ruth. 
               "If I had not found her, doubtless night would have overtaken her before she could have discovered the right path." 
               "O Master Campbell! I am grateful," I exclaimed. 
               "We are all grateful," said Aunt Martha. "But I have been taught that it is indecorous and unseemly for young men and maidens to wander for hours in lonely places." 
               Allison sank upon a chair; the blood left her cheeks. But Master Campbell's face reddened; he cared no longer to dissemble his anger. He struck a great blow with his fist upon the wooden table. 
               "By heaven! When the pure and innocent are thus judged by professors, what can the vilest sinner expect from their hands?" 
               "I am not thy judge," Aunt Martha said, feebly striving to quench the fire she had kindled. "I have only uttered the opinion of the world." 
               He checked another angry exclamation. 
               "The less said, the sooner mended," said my aunt, "I have this maiden under my care, and I shall do my duty, Joshua Campbell." 
               Allison stole from the room. I should have followed her, but remained to see if the matter would now rest; for his hand was still clenched, his face flushed, and, when he spoke again, his voice trembled. 
               "See well to it how the duty is discharged," he said, harshly. "For thou must give an account to the God of the orphan." 
               He left without any further farewell. My heart sank like lead, for I am sure he will never cross this threshold again; and I am more certain now that he will never marry my cousin Ruth. 
               The tea was made of the sassafras for poor Sing Bird. She little dreams of the cost at which it was procured; but, as Aunt Martha said, it hath not cured her disease, and she still lies in her low bed, muttering and groaning. 
               Uncle Ebenezer heard nothing of all this; but Aunt Martha's manners have been curt and stiff ever since; and though Ruth hath not complained of pains and aches, she certainly hath been in the dolours, though she bought a new gown and enough cloth for a pelisse the day she went to Boston-town. Even these things have not been sufficient to chase away her displeasure or to drive the clouds from her face. 
               I have not spoken to Allison of the events of that sad evening. Traces of tears stained her cheeks when I went to our lean-to room; I saw them there in the morning, so I know well she bears a sore spirit in her heart. And I strive in every way to comfort and please her, as she hath all her life, since I was a sickly, pettish child, ever striven to comfort and cheer me. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               NEITHER sassafras nor birch bark can avail the poor Indian woman now; her days I fear are numbered and she will not rise again from her bed, which she has not quitted since the stormy evening that Allison procured the bark for her. She prepares the decoction with her own hands, having the ingredients carried to her by her own request; but thus far the means has not been blessed to her recovery, and this I know is no cause for sorrow to the poor creature, whose thoughts ever tend in the direction of the happy hunting-ground, where she believes her people already have assembled. Aunt Martha fidgets and turns uneasily towards the silent spinning-wheel; she loved its music, for it sang of industry, good housewifery, and a goodly store of well-preserved linen in her cedar press. But she does not repine, seeing that it is the will of the Lord to disable her busy servant. 
               Allison hath been made to rue bitterly that sad walk. Ruth hath not given her a pleasant word since, and although her mother is no more silent than it is her wont to be, yet her voice is harsh and distant. I knew that Master Campbell would not come again very speedily, and it has been so. I dare not question Allison, for I find this is a sore subject, and once she said: 
               "If Master Campbell had not followed me all would have been well." 
               Something further took place which will ever remain a secret, but I am no longer a child and must have my own thoughts, though I may never give vent to them with my tongue. 
               Surely the world is all wrong, or the wrong people are in the wrong places. Like a silly bird I would beat my own head against the wires of my cage, thereby greatly increasing my discomfort. Allison bids me pray for "the peace which passeth all understanding," and Uncle Ebenezer often speaks of prayer and humiliation, for benefits and sins; this, he thinks will give strength and righteousness to the undisciplined heart. He has been tried in the furnace, and hath come out as pure silver purged of all its dross, so Allison has said; she thinks little of her light afflictions; but I believe she is working out her salvation by the self-same path, albeit she is only a frail woman, who never battled for the Lord with powder and carnal weapons. 
               Alas! I cannot like the lives of my aunt and Cousin Ruth. They are too good Puritans ever to break a promise or omit the exercise of praise and prayer, but surely something more is needful in our lives. Did not the proud Pharisee do as well as he stood on the corner, and gave thanks devoutly for not being as other men? 
               If I marked my bright and pleasant days with a white stone, I would lay aside the blackest for that dismal November day when Allison went for the sassafras for poor Sing Bird, for since then a heavy cloud has seemed to hover over the household, and it is not wholly owing to the illness of the poor creature. Uncle Ebenezer discourses with her upon the welfare of her soul. He prays daily by her side, and when he rises she says: 
               "Me praying Indian, too. Me love God, me love Manitou." 
               Unless the heart be truly and sincerely changed, Aunt Martha thinks, prayer will not be effectual, for she has said it is the prayer of the "righteous man" that availeth. If this be true, when will the change come over the heart? Can it come without prayer? 
               Uncle Ebenezer says, "When the spirit calleth." 
               An honored guest is coming to pass the night under our roof. The guest chamber has been swept and garnished with snow-white curtains, the finest linen sheets from the cedar press were brought out to be used for Master Cotton Mather, son of the godly Increase Mather, who discourses over long on every Lord's day, to my thinking. 
               He has already preached excellently in his father's pulpit. Last Sabbath the discourse concerned the woman as being the first in the transgression, being deceived readily by Satan in the form of a serpent. It damped my spirits greatly, and inasmuch as he pointed out so distinctly the sin of our sex, the guilt of the human race seemed resting upon my own shoulders. I would that woman had not been the first to err, but if Adam had lived longer, perchance, he would have learned more courtesy, and assumed his own share of the sin. This ever to me has been a proof that man was not more noble than woman. 
               Uncle Ebenezer called this discourse "a stately structure." He admires the gifts with which it has pleased Providence to endow this young divine. His pedigree is ministerial on both father's and mother's side. He entered Harvard at the early age of eleven, and in six months acquired vast learning and outstripped all the youths of his class. He preached at the age of seventeen, and is not yet thirty, but his fame and name have become well known both in New and Old England. He speaks seven languages with fluency; one being Iroquois, beside Hebrew, Greek and Latin. Learning is his meat and drink, and doing good to his fellow-creatures the first object of his life. 
               My uncle believes that virtue is transmitted from father to son, from one generation to the succeeding. I have heard that President Oakes thus addressed this scion of a godly stock when he received his first degree: 
                
               "What a name! I confess, my hearers, I have erred. I should have said, what names! I shall say nothing to his father, since I am unwilling to praise him to his face; but if he should represent and illustrate the piety, learning, elegant culture, solid judgment, prudence and dignity of his eminent grandfathers, John Cotton and Richard Mather, names so eminent will unite and live again." 
               It is said he is charitable and lovely in his disposition, which flattery and adulation have not yet spoiled. He rarely mingles with his fellow-creatures, and the common pursuits of life are distasteful to a mind soaring above the things of time and sense. So indeed this visit will be highly esteemed and he should be courteously entertained. 
               I wonder if every footprint will be looked upon as holy ground. If I believe all that I hear, Cotton Mather possesses as much grace as that vouchsafed to the successors of our Lord's apostles. I have lately found a book, entitled "The True History of the Succession," which convinces me that my church is the only true and apostolic body; but this I keep to myself. 
               He is doubtless a holy man after the Puritan fashion, albeit he has not, received, through the laying on of hands, the grace and unction of the Holy Spirit, as others have done. His preaching, I fancied, savored as much of Cotton Mather as of the law and gospel. This too I will keep to myself. Allison thinketh my thoughts often crude and unadvised vised, and I well know they are ever wandering to and fro, like Satan. 
               And I have wondered if our coming guest can eat and drink all that hath been baked, brewed and boiled in his honor; it would not be to his edification nor to his comfort. 
               The shutters in the best room are thrown open and daylight freely admitted; usually it steals only through the heart-shaped holes cut in them. 
               I rubbed the high brass andirons and the handles of the shovels and tongs, until my shoulders ached and I could see my face reflected on them; though my features were broadened and lengthened, and I found myself very homely in this untrue mirror. 
               "Use the beeswax for the mahogany table and the wood-ashes for the fire-irons," said Aunt Martha. 
               I should scarcely have done otherwise, but I remain silent, ever fearing that my unruly member will betray me into spite and disrespect. 
               "And take a fresh linen rag to polish the mirror." 
               Aunt Martha thinketh that the young ever remain in statu quo, like the law and the gospels. 
               "Beware lest the ashes fall on the smooth floor; bring no dust in upon your feet, and mind, child, do not climb upon the chairs." 
               I was glad that she closed the door, leaving me alone in the best room, where I had begged to be admitted and assist in the preparations, instead of remaining in the kitchen; but why did Aunt Martha suppose I should climb upon the high chairs? The best room has ever been like the garden of Eden to me in this house; and though there has not been a cherub with a flaming sword to prevent me from entering, Aunt Martha has been quite as effectual. 
               Cousin Ruth cannot stand extra tasks, and she would rather, sit by the fire and watch us as we work busily at our different duties. She feels the cold, and it is more comfortable by the great hearth; but she takes good care of her gown, lifting and laying it carefully over her knees, so that the heat will not fade nor scorch the green taffetas, which she has lately had remodelled and fashioned more modishly. I think she will wear it when Cotton Mather comes, though I doubt if he take pleasure in maidens' gowns and the like vanities. 
               "It is in this way that Papists worship the Pope," I said to Allison, in the midst of our preparations. 
               "If the Puritans believed in saints, Cotton Mather would step up to a high place in their calendar." 
               "Never by his own consent, for he possesses the grace of humility in a large degree," she replied. "His mind was perplexed with many doubts and fears before he was ordained to the ministry; and he studied most closely the history of the church and fathers for the first three Christian centuries. He continues in his calling with doubts and fears, I have heard my uncle say often." 
               "The best Puritans have the most doubts and fears. How much better if all the world could believe in one Apostolic Church! That would end all dissensions and discussions." 
               Allison smiled. From time to time I have read her portions from my book on the Succession. She listens in silence, but hath not faith in the unbroken chain. She has not yet heard all of my book, and perhaps will some time be clearly convinced by its arguments. 
               I have pounded spices in the lignum vit mortar for the election-cake and pasties. The great oven roars and flames until white-hot, and greater preparations I have never seen, save for Thanksgiving day, that feast of fat things for the Puritans. The larder is brimful, and the "battle hath been scented from afar;" for all the vagrants or poor folk who have ever wandered in this direction have been hovering around the farm, and have not been dismissed either cold or hungry from our door. A morsel of brown bread and a flagon of buttermilk or cider is ever ready for the poor, if nothing better can be given away. 
               The spinning-wheel is still silent. Yester-even I went with Aunt Martha to take a lotion to the poor heathen. My aunt eyed Sing Bird with more dislike than pity, and when we left her, she said: 
               "The mystery of her disease increaseth daily. At times I am willing to believe that an evil spirit holdeth her benighted soul." 
               I thought that all of us at times are assailed by a wicked spirit, but I held my peace. 
                
               "The end cannot be far off. She is advanced in years." 
               "Do you believe in witches, Aunt Martha?" I asked, in a low voice, for this subject puzzles me sorely. 
               "I read my Bible, and believe what I find there." 
               Her tones were much sharper than her words, so I made no answer, but followed her to the buttery, and held the pans while she skimmed the cream from the milk. 
               Witchcraft and other mysteries that puzzle my brain are mysteries which Aunt Martha desireth not to look into. Her dairy and churning, baking and brewing, give her sufficient food for her thoughts. She searches the Scripture daily, "after the manner of the noble Bereans," she has said; but she loves not to encounter stumbling-blocks in the way of difficult questions. 
               I have seen her eyes dull and heavy when the book was in her lap, and sometimes, yes, many times, they are closed in meditation, which continues for half an hour or longer; then she starts, bestirs herself briskly, and puts the Scripture away in its place on the shelf. I have never yet seen her eyes closed when contemplating a good bargain, or in overlooking the household duties; and she hath ever been sharp-sighted in detecting my omissions and childish carelessnesses. But the body must not be neglected; the outer man needs nourishment and daily sustenance. Allison has said that Aunt Martha resembles the woman "whose price is far above rubies." It may be true. 
               Solomon's wise woman was perhaps like Aunt Martha. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               MASTER Cotton Mather's visit is over. I will write down all that I can recall regarding it, and concerning this godly gentleman whom Aunt Martha likens to Timothy of old, as he also has known and studied the Scriptures from a youth. 
               His father and grandfather were "like cities set on a hill" in the church of New England, and so far this descendant hath not hidden his light under a bushel. 
               The hesitation which impedes his utterance in the pulpit is noticeable also in private conversation. He oftentimes stammers and delays for the proper word, which does not come readily at his wish. I wonder not at this; his mind is cumbered with much weighty matter, and he hath but a smallish body to carry it withal. 
               But "Moses and Paul, Virgil and Demosthenes were stammerers," said Uncle Ebenezer. Surely this consideration must wonderfully encourage this good man in striving to overcome his infirmity. 
                
               "It was doubtless sent by Satan as a thorn to buffet him and prevent his preaching the Word; but his good old schoolmaster, one Master Corlet, accustomed him to deliberate speechmaking. No one stammers when singing, and with care he has acquired a habit of speaking with readiness." I had heard all this from Cotton Mather's own lips, but Aunt Martha ever forgetteth that others hear as well as she what is being said. 
               "The ministry hath gained a zealous watchman for the walls of Zion," said my uncle. "He abandoned the study of physic for theology, and did in his first sermon consider our Saviour as the glorious Physician of souls, wholly on account of the calling he had relinquished. He is deeply impressed with his unworthiness. He sayeth that these words cause an earthquake within him whenever his eyes rest upon the passage, 'They watch for their souls as those who must give an account.'" 
               Ruth wore her green gown. It doth not accord with her dun-colored skin; but Master Mather did not remark the gown or its hue, otherwise he might have compared it to the hangings in the Temple, for his mind is a storehouse filled with Scripture texts, which are brought out readily to bear upon every subject. 
               One day in each week he devotes entirely to prayer, strict fasting, and meditation on divine and spiritual things. He must feed on manna or angels' food, for he is very abstemious, and partook sparingly ingly of the various dishes which had been prepared in his honor. 
               He holds a list of all persons in whose spiritual welfare he is especially interested, and upon each one separately he bestows a separate prayer, so that his love for his Saviour and for his people is ever kept flaming and bright. 
               He also spends a set portion of his income in dispensing good clothing and physic to the needy and sick. 
               Surely he must be a holy and devout man, and, like Enoch, might be translated into the presence of the King of kings, for his daily walk seemeth to be with God. 
               Yet I do not feel like approaching Master Mather closely, nor confiding in him, nor appealing to him for sympathy. Like Moses, I should fear treading on holy ground. I think he would sooner commiserate with a sufferer than a sinner. 
               As he entered my uncle's house he paused a moment on the door-step, and then, uncovering his head, he said: 
               "Lord, melt our stony hearts." 
               In any other person this simple prayer might be deemed irreverent, or as breaking the commandment, but all of his ejaculations are uttered in a fervent, devout spirit, I doubt not. 
               So at the evening meal he was thankful for the "table spread in the wilderness;" and in his long thanksgiving he prayed "that the Lord might be unto us the Bread of Life, and an ample provision for thirsty souls." 
               He looked on while Aunt Martha carved a fowl, and exclaimed: 
               "Lord, carve a rich portion of thy graces and comforts for that person;" and as he greeted Allison, he held her hand, saying: 
               "Lord, give this maiden an humble mind; let her be most concerned for those ornaments that are of great price in thy sight." 
               I fancied this prayer was displeasing to Aunt Martha and Ruth. When I rose and crossed the room, he perceived my lameness for the first time, and he said quickly: 
               "Lord, help that little maid to walk uprightly." 
               Job, who is a tall man, entered the room with wood in his arms, and he said: 
               "Lord, give this person high attainments," adding, as he replenished the fire: 
               "May all our love and zeal be kindled into a great flame." 
               At every stroke of the clock he paused, and afterwards prayed that "we might so number our days as to apply our hearts unto wisdom." 
               And as he took the candle in his hand before retiring to his own chamber, he said, earnestly: 
               "Father of lights! Grant that our light may not go out in darkness." 
               His conversation, though full of instruction and spirituality, was, to my mind, over heavy. I would have crept willingly to my little lean-to chamber, while he and my uncle talked of the calling of the Jews and fulness of the Gentiles. I have never loved the Jew, and forget that I am a Gentile. He also spoke of the Court of St. James, and of the new charter which the colonies hope to secure, whereby many of their rights will be more fully sustained; and of the forty topsail vessels on the stocks in Boston harbor, and of recent measures respecting the building of a new town hall. 
               They discoursed somewhat of the negro race and the slave-ships. I would have questioned Master Mather in this place concerning the salvation of the Indian and the African, but it would have been considered bold for one of my years, and doubtless unmaidenly. So I sat and listened, wishing I was safe in my lean-to chamber, and not in the best room, sitting upon a chair so high my feet scarcely touched the floor. 
               But I wakened up instantly when they spoke of witchcraft and sorcery, and listened while this godly man related many marvellous tales, which made my flesh creep and my blood run cold. He has both known and seen holy people who have suffered torments from the vile arts of men and women who have sold their souls to the Evil one. Some have confessed this openly; Satan, it seemeth, has come to them in the guise of a black man, bidding them sign their names in a little black book. This having been done, power is given them to torment not only the bodies, but the souls of their fellow-creatures-the Evil one holding forth promises to be redeemed according as they serve him. One good woman was assaulted by many spectres with covered faces, who besought her to write her name in the little book, and tormented her in the cruelest manner when she resisted their solicitations. 
               Uncle Ebenezer shook his head. He could not believe that Satan possessed such power over mankind; he said, 
               "The evil imagination of man runneth into mischief continually. It would be a sorry day if New England condemned witches and wizards as Old England has done in the past. In the counties of Essex and Suffolk it is said that within the space of two years above two hundred persons were indicted for this crime, and above the one-half of them executed." 
               "God guard us from the devil!" exclaimed. Aunt Martha. 
               "None could witness the condition of those who suffer without sensible compassion," said Master Mather. "They may have entrails, indeed, but no true bowels of mercy within them." 
               Uncle Ebenezer deplored the evil. He even doubted the tales that were repeated concerning a certain Margaret Rule, who had been reported as being bewitched. He also said that it would ever remain as a blot upon the fair fame of Governor Winthrop that he had presided over the trial and signed the death-warrant of the first witch executed in New England. It had been proven that this person-one Margaret Jones-cured miraculously by a touch of her hand, or by the use of medicines unknown to the most skilful leeches of the day, and had made certain predictions which came to pass as she had said. 
               "Truly it were both unchristian and discourteous to doubt the word of one of our flock," said Cotton Mather, speaking again of Margaret Rule, whom he had seen. "She hath spent hours in fasting and prayer. Indeed, for nine days her tormentors would not allow her to raise a morsel of food to her lips, saving an occasional spoonful of rum." 
               "That alone would be sufficient to rouse spectral visitations, as well as to preserve her strength physically," said my uncle. 
               "Other matters have been related by credible witnesses. One saith that, without any exercise or will of her own she was lifted from her bed and suspended in the air at considerable height, and in order to pull her down several strong men exerted all their might." 
               "My eyes alone would believe these reports," said my uncle, stoutly. 
               "And what will be the punishment of the criminals?" asked Ruth. 
               "The public mind is not yet raised to a sense of its danger. The church and Christians have exercised the spirit of charity, but that ceaseth to be a virtue when we read our sin in the punishment. We may not suffer our members to be exposed to perils of both body and soul before we awake from our lethargic slumber on this matter." 
               "The Scripture is explicit on this point, 'Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live,'" said Aunt Martha. 
               "No good can come from this thing," said Uncle Ebenezer. "Let it alone. If there be such an evil it will die out." 
               But the godly divine differed from him. 
               "If it be? If it be?" he repeated. "Hath it not always been in existence since the days of old? The Israelites were punished for this sin by a special law. Did not Saul by wicked arts raise the spirit of the prophet Samuel? Job suffered from the presence of Satan in person, to whom the power had been given for his torment." 
               "We live under the New Dispensation. The days of miracles have ceased, as I understand the Scripture. The God of the Israelites wished to suppress the wise arts and vile, deceptive, false sorceries brought from out the land of Egypt, a land that hath ever been given over to darkness and superstitions. God wished to suppress this spirit of divination, which was sought by the Jews and was a relic of heathenish slavery. I have ever believed that Samuel was seen only in the imagination of the wicked King Saul. Miracles were wrought in the days of old to show the power of the Almighty to a rebellious and ignorant people. I have ever deemed a miracle a supernatural display of the power of God; surely, it cannot have fallen upon Margaret Rule!" 
               In my heart I believed what Uncle Ebenezer had said, although he differed from his learned guest. Perchance, when time has whitened Master Mather's locks as it has the gray hair of my uncle, he also will believe that God will not suffer his children to be tempted after this manner. If the minions of Satan can come at the beck and nod of any wicked man or woman, it would be far better to leave this dismal world at once than to remain in it, 
               "There is need of very critical and exquisite caution, and the only means I would now recommend are faith and prayer," said Master Mather, with a sigh; and I feel quite certain that he of his own free will would not make use of harsh measures until these had first been tried most patiently and effectively. He is a very earnest gentleman, and would root out all evil from the land. 
               My uncle looked in silence at the fire, while he continued this discourse; Aunt Martha also watched the embers, fearing the ashes would fly over the room; and Ruth fixed her dark eyes upon the speaker's face, and drank in eagerly all that he was saying. I have never seen her more interested in any matter than she appeared to be in the witchcraft question. 
               Before he retired, our guest prayed excellently, with his hands resting upon the back of one of the high chairs I had been forbidden to stand upon. In prayer his spirit seemed wafted away from earth on invisible wings into a heavenly atmosphere of spiritual purity, though as he ascended he bore away, as it were, each member of the household in his petition to the Father of all living. 
               Sing Bird was remembered, and from the manner of his prayer I deem that he believes that this heathen unbeliever may slip in through the uncovenanted mercies of God. 
               Aunt Martha, in speaking of Cotton Mather, said that his mind being ever in a heavenly frame, Scripture texts naturally come uppermost, and are thus ever ready on his tongue's end. Allison thought he was a godly gentleman, but she agrees with my uncle concerning witchcraft. 
               "Master Campbell once said that Cotton Mather was a devout man, but illy balanced," I said. 
               She paid no heed to this remark, though her cheek reddened, as she replied: 
               "I am very sorry for any creatures who are made to confess that they are sold to Satan. I cannot believe that a good God will allow his creatures to suffer in this way." 
               "Ay, but there have been thousands of martyrs who have suffered." 
               "Yes, but they suffered in the right. They suffered from the malice and wickedness of men." 
               "Surely, Satan prompted the persecutors." 
               "Many erred through ignorance, thinking they were doing God service. I hope Master Mather will change his views in time. He is young and believes that he can point with one hand to the good, and with the other to the wicked; but God alone knoweth the salt of the earth. I read in my Bible that 'our souls are precious in His sight,' and also that 'He giveth his angels charge concerning us;' and as Aunt Martha has often said, 'with that I rest content.'" 
               Yester-even Aunt Martha bade me go to an old chest in the dark closet, near our lean-to chamber, and search for a bit of perfumed beeswax, which she needed, having placed it there with the store of linen. I liked doing this well enough, never having had as yet a peep into the great chest; so set about my task as lightly and busily as a bee looking for honey, thinking, after all that has been said and done against poor old Mother Eve, I could scarce find it in my heart to blame her so greatly, seeing that it is always a pleasant thing to look into matters of which we have been in ignorance before. Though it may be that in her case curiosity overbalanced her judgment, and brought mischief upon all the race; yet the natural desire of increasing knowledge, and adding information to the stock we may already possess, cannot always be condemned as productive of evil. But this has little to do either here or there with the dark closet. 
               I lighted a candle, carried and placed it by the side of the chest with care, and then held up the heavy oaken lid, and, fastening it securely back, I stretched my neck and peered over into the neglected depths of this old receptacle. I put my hand in, and pulled out bit after bit of linen, yellow and limp with long lying by in the dark, thinking first of the hapless Lady Genevra and her sad fate, for she might well have been concealed in a chest no larger, and then as it would happen a text of Scripture crossed my mind. I have recently heard so many fall from the lips of Master Mather, and this one concerned the laying up of treasures in heaven rather than upon earth, "where moth and rust do not corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal." 
               Not finding the beeswax, I drew forth more linen, until I touched the bottom of the chest, and feeling some hard and stiff thing, I felt indeed that I had discovered a treasure when I saw that I held an old book in my hand. The paper was coarse, the binding but rough; I thought it might be parchment, but holding it near the candle I saw that it was a printed pamphlet, and on the outside of the discolored brown pages I read the names of Edward, Helen and Elizabeth Fairfax. 
               I forgot my errand, and that time sped forward while I loitered, and sitting down on the crumpled old linen I drew the light more conveniently near, and read almost through the little book. I could well remember the beginning, for I have a ready memory; but this strange story being over long, and not willing that it should be forgotten, I ran quickly to my lean-to chamber, and returning with my journal I wrote down these extracts: 
               "On Sunday, October 28th 1621, Helen Fairfax, eldest daughter of Edward Fairfax, gentleman, of the town of Illsley, England, was found in the parlor by her brother in a trance." 
               "Helen Fairfax, a maid of twenty-one years, of person healthful, of complexion sanguine, free from melancholy, of capacity not apprehensive of much, but rather finding it difficult to learn things fit, slow of speech, patient of reproof, of behavior without offence, educated only in my own house, and therefore not knowing much." 
               "Item.-Elizabeth, my younger daughter, an infant of scarce seven years, of a pleasant aspect, quick wit, active spirit, able to receive any instruction, and willing to undergo pains." 
               "Item.-Upon Wednesday, the 14th of November, Helen saw a black dog by her side, and after a little sleep she had an apparition of one like a young gentleman, very brave, his apparel all laid with gold lace, a hat with a golden band, and a ruff, in the fashion. He did salute her with the same compliment as she said Sir Fernandino Fairfax useth when he cometh to the house and saluteth her mother. The brave gentleman furthermore said he was a prince and would make her Queen of England, but when she said, 'In the name of God, who art thou?' he vanished, proving by this to have been a minion of Satan who could not stand before that solemn name." 
               Helen and Elizabeth were bewitched by a woman called Sharp, whose white cat tormented them in divers ways and in many disguises. This woman was tried, but escaped punishment. Anne, an infant, was born, but died at four months. Her death was laid to the wiles of the woman Sharp's wife, through witchcraft, and the little book was a published history of the trial of that weak or wicked creature. I could not finish my extracts from it, for Cousin Ruth's voice sounded in my ear: 
               "Child, would you fire the house?" 
               I quickly turned, my cousin was regarding me, not wholly with disfavor, but with curiosity as well. 
               "It is only an old book I found in the chest," I said, closing my journal and putting back the book towards the place in which I had found it. 
               "Nay, give it to me; surely if one can read it another may. Is it comfort for believers, or meditations for professors?" 
               "It is neither the one nor the other." A great pang crossed my heart; I know not what it was, but I would have given all I possessed to have concealed this book from my Cousin Ruth. I held it back. 
               "Nay," she said, sharply. "Are you, then, the only scholar of the house? I will see it, and carry it below, and ask my father to give the book to me, since I have but few, and it pleaseth me to have this. Where is the beeswax?" 
                
               I put my hand once more in the chest and found it at last; and Cousin Ruth taking that and the book also, left me to restore the linen to its place. 
               But my thoughts were all whirling and wandering back over the distance of sixty years to one Helen Fairfax, a fair maid, who was found on a Sunday afternoon by her brother in a trance. 
               Did that same Fairfax blood run in my own veins and in those of my Cousin Ruth? My flesh crept, I shuddered. What would Allison say to this tale?-for I knew that my great-grandfather was Edward Fairfax, a gentleman of Illsley, England. And since this had been, could it ever be again? Why should we not believe what our great-grandfather thought to be true? Surely I am no better, no wiser, no fitter to look into dark mysteriee. 
               I tumbled the linen back with no care as to folding, closed the chest, and hastened to the kitchen, where my cousin sat with the book in her hand. My uncle came in at the moment I entered; he walked to the fire, and Ruth spoke out at once: 
               "Father, may I not keep this book?" 
               My uncle gave it but one look, then he took it from her hands and cast it into the flames; and while we looked on amazed, the fire leaped up into a bright blaze, the coarse, time-stained paper crackled, the words Edward and Helen Fairfax gleamed out for an instant in scarlet characters, and then shrivelled away into dead dry ashes on the hearth. 
               "Father, I begged it as a gift," said Ruth, with a whimper, like a child who is crossed in its will. "I had but just begun the tale-and it was well told-" 
               "Peace-peace, my daughter!" My uncle's voice was stern and cold, but his face was paler than is wont. "Who has brought this dismal record to light? I thought it had been consigned to dust and ashes long years since, and perished with the days that have gone by for ever." 
               Ruth covered her face with her hands, but I would push the matter further, just as Mother Eve did thousands of years ago. 
               So I said boldly enough, though my knees trembled: 
               "Was my great-grandfather, Edward Fairfax, the father of the fair Helen Fairfax who was bewitched?" 
               He did not speak for the space of five minutes. I knew he had not forgotten the question, and still waited for my answer, and at last it came: 
               "Yes, child; Helen Fairfax was his daughter. It has pleased Heaven to mix a black, dolorous thread in the history of our family. Who was innocent? Who guilty? It doth not become me to judge. Heaven appointeth the fate of each. I ask no more for my portion than is meted out to me as my just award. One day all mysteries will be solved; upon that I rest; and now I lay my command upon you, my daughter Ruth, and you, my niece Ida, not to gossip idly over this matter, nor let it serve as chitchat chat for godless tongues and thoughtless, unregenerate minds. Let it be buried more securely than it hath been for thirty years." 
               I dared question no further; but I rejoice, I know not why, that Ruth did not learn all that befell the fair Helen; she is a slow reader and not over-fond of study, and had not quite finished the first page when my uncle seized and destroyed the book; so she cannot treasure up the pretty tale as I can, for my memory is sounder and better seasoned, as it were, by constant exercise in learning by rote, beside half of it copied in my journal. 
               Allison received this curious intelligence as if for-sooth it were no new thing; she did not so much as ruffle an eyebrow, for it seems the new tale is but an old one to her, and she remembers having seen the picture of Helen Fairfax in England, drawn by a skilful artist. 
               And why had she not told me of this? Because she said it would work me no good, and perchance create distrusts and odd fancies and disordered dreams, for she believeth not in witchcraft, no, nor ever will. 
               It is better for Ruth not to have known the fate of the bewitched woman, for her nature is weak and distrustful and given to superstitious fancies, while I perhaps think more highly of myself than I ought. 
               Seeing that our great-aunt was of indifferent health and spirits (so Allison said family tradition hath it), she could easily be persuaded to believe in the fancies and vagaries of her disordered imagination, which produced fantastical and diabolical visions. 
               "Truly, she must have been both cross-grained in mind, perverted in temper and spirit, and of a most unlovely countenance, and greatly misnamed when called the fair Helen," I said. 
               "I know not how that might have been; but this I once heard, that in figure and features I greatly resemble my most unfortunate and unhappy kinswoman," said Allison. 
               If that indeed be true, she could not have been repulsive in bodily appearance, I am certain, for Allison hath all of the beauty of the Fairfax family on this side of the water. I have heard others say as much as this, and I hear it with no envy. 
               As she said, the story could have wrought no good; but still one would not be held in ignorance for ever concerning family traditions. When I was a young child, such dark surmisings and doubtful mysteries might have filled my mind with secret uneasiness and troubled my rest; but now surely I am old enough to open my eyes and look around the world without blinking, and so I do not regret having dragged out the family skeleton from the oaken chest where it had been hiding and sleeping for thirty years and more; and I am glad, moreover, that I took a good long peep at the ugly spectre, though Aunt Martha awaited the beeswax in high dudgeon; and I am also glad that my uncle burned the book before Ruth had time to con the tale, for I am sure she has holden nothing more than the blazing dying letters of Edward and Helen Fairfax; and I have no fear that the old chest will prove a Pandora's box, out of which evil has flown. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               STRANGE and terrifying rumors daily reach us from the town of Salem Farms, where it is said witchcraft has broken out, and rages like the measles, small-pox, or any other contagious disorder. Nearly every family bewails the affliction of a member, and the number is still on the increase. 
               The minions of Satan set upon the victims, scratching, biting, pinching them, and throwing fantastic visions before their open eyes. Some fall into fits, which are said to have something diabolical in them. They become deaf, then dumb, then blind, and sometimes all these disorders come together upon them. Their tongues are drawn down their throats, then pulled out upon their chins. Their jaws, necks, shoulders and elbows are out of joint, and they make piteous outcries of burnings, of being cut with knives, the marks of these wounds committed by invisible hands being plainly seen. 
               Uncle Ebenezer has said "that there be as many lies as lines in all these tales." He has ever held out stoutly against this thing, though Aunt Martha believes that he will be classed with infidels or Sadducees for so doing. But he acts with reference to his duty to God, and in charity to his fellow-men. I declare to Allison that I will cling to my uncle's belief, as she hath ever done-and yet I wish that some wise scholar would write a book against witchcraft, setting therein the arguments my uncle has made use of, and adding others which his own wit or wisdom might suggest, since so many witch-books have been written by men of fame and learning. Men quote glibly, it is said, from those written by Sir Matthew Hale, Richard Baxter, Sir Thomas Browne, and others of note, at the trials of those accused of sorcery. 
               I try not to believe, but I tremble when I wake in the middle of the night, or see a shadow from the moonlight stealing into our room, and think of the fair Helen Fairfax. If I hear a noise, the creaking of the shutter it may be, or the rustling of the trees in the wind, I cover my head; but although I shut my eyes, I remember all that I have ever heard concerning the poor tormented souls. When daylight dawns these fancies flee away and I am bold enough, and say to Allison: 
               "Children and ignorant folks may be frightened by such tales, but I will not believe in them." 
               Sing Bird's disease has not been alleviated nor mitigated by all the nostrums and physics that have been administered. Yester-even she showed such strange symptoms that Aunt Martha openly declared that she must be bewitched. Job came in and looked at her. 
               "If she were a dog or a horse, I should judge she had been poisoned," he said. 
               "Perhaps the herbs and roots taken in the decoctions she has made with her own hands contain poison, but have not been sufficient to kill," said Allison. 
               "Nay," he answered. "No Indian quenches life in that manner." 
               "She may have taken it unwittingly, then," said Allison. 
               "I doubt that, but it may be." Job went his way. It seemeth that he would rather take pleasure in gossiping over a case of witchcraft in my uncle's household than let the poor creature suffer and die in an ordinary manner. He found other matter for his thoughts and tongue when he discovered that the finest red heifer had a knee badly swollen. 
               When I first knew Sing Bird she was an object of terror to me; but I long since grew used to her homeliness; and as she evinced only kindness towards me, my repugnance entirely vanished, and I thought nothing of her fierce eyes and dark skin, lined and wrinkled like a dead November leaf. She is a very miserable object now. Her head and body are swollen, her eyes almost closed. She lies on a strip of old carpeting, with no pillow under her head, and with a blanket over her shaking shoulders. At times, with the rending of the pain, she rolls and twists her body into a ball, with many painful contortions. 
               Allison called her by name, and offered her a palatable draught, but she refused it; turning away with a groan, and muttering some words in her own tongue. 
               Allison again urged her to drink. She placed the vessel to her lips, but could not swallow. 
               "There are symptoms of a change," said Aunt Martha, coming in and looking over Allison's shoulder. Ruth stood by her side. "How long will she last, mother?" 
               Sing Bird opened her eyes, she looked at us all, and then stretched her hands over her head in her old fashion. 
               "Manitou no call. Manitou no love Sing Bird," she muttered, and Aunt Martha's brow darkened. 
               "Truly this soul has not been given as an inheritance for the asking. She speaketh when death is near of the false god of her people; our prayers and instructions have fallen short, for she is not thinking of her Saviour and the paradise of saints." 
               "I have heard that in the hour of death the aged remember only the days and associations of youth," said Allison. 
               "Sing Bird," cried my aunt, in a sharp, loud voice, "Sing Bird, canst thou not think of the Christian's God?" 
                
               "Listen," she added, as the poor creature opened her eyes. "Canst thou not say, 'Lord have mercy upon me, a sinner?' The thief came in at the eleventh hour." 
               "Manitou calls. Sing Bird follows," she murmured. 
               "Verily she is struck with death," said my aunt, in a low voice. "Lord have mercy upon her benighted soul!" 
               The dark arms fell by her side, a convulsion seized her frame, her eyes started wildly, she foamed at the mouth, and then her whole body became stiff and rigid. 
               "This was brought about by the sound of the Lord's name," said my aunt, in great alarm. I would that some holy man were present at this moment to struggle and wrestle in prayer, and exorcise the evil spirit that I can no longer doubt has taken possession of her." 
               "I have seen children in convulsions affected in this way," said Allison. "A sailor on board ship had also these symptoms for a few minutes. It will soon pass over; it can be nothing worse." 
               "Years and experience have taught me nothing, niece Allison. I have learned that the elder should instruct youth." 
               "My cousin could doubtless tell us many things of which we are ignorant, if she chose to open her lips," added Ruth. 
               We left them standing by Sing Bird. I could not bear the scene; it was too dolorous. Allison would have remained, knowing that Sing Bird loved her better than her mistress or Ruth, for they thought only of hurrying her from the dreary earth she leaves without sorrow. Wherefore should she grieve, seeing that she has not a single tie to bind her heart to this world? 
               I hope she will go to the happy hunting-ground and find her child there, and see the bounding fawns, the gleaming waters, and all things that she loveth best; and I hope Manitou may come to her as our blessed Lord, and bear her peacefully and safely over across the dark river where there is no bridge. I wept and clasped Allison's hand. I saw her brush aside a tear, as she said: 
               "I pray that the Father of all the living may hear her in the last sad hour." 
               She went to the kitchen and busied herself there, I to our lean-to room, where I threw myself upon my bed and wept hot, passionate tears. Peace did not revisit my heart until my sorrow and indignation were spent, and then I prayed earnestly for grace, such as all true Christians are taught to believe they will receive for the asking. 
               When I went below I heard that Sing Bird yet lived. Aunt Martha said to my uncle: 
               "She was struck with death before noon. It would be as well to bid Job dig the grave this afternoon in the west end of the paddock, away from the brook. 
                
               I shuddered, for it was "preparing a grave for the living;" and I was glad when he answered: 
               "I will defer that until the soul hath left the body, for she hath no contagious disease, and there can be no fear of infection." 
               "But if an evil spirit possesses her it will escape and find a lodgment elsewhere," said Ruth. 
               Uncle Ebenezer frowned. 
               "Her soul will soon stand naked in the presence of her Creator; let us be careful that our judgment be not rash and unadvised, lest the same measure be meted out to us again." 
               She dared not answer this rebuke, though I well knew she misliked it. Just then Job came to the door and said: 
               "The red heifer will not live through the night; her spasms and fits are increasing. It were better to put her out of misery;-and the brindle cow shows signs of the same disorder." 
               My uncle rose, and with a rueful face, went to the barn. These were doleful tidings, for the brindled cow is as the apple of Aunt Martha's eye; she has often said money could not buy her value. She called Job back and talked with him in a low voice. I knew not what she said, but after some haggling, Job agreed to her request or command, for as I looked from the window where Sing Bird used to sit with her spinning-wheel, I saw Job with a spade on his shoulder going towards the west end of the paddock. 
               So her grave is dug before the weary spirit has ceased fluttering in her worn-out body. All this has damped my spirits exceedingly, and I am ever on the alert for some new disaster, seeing that troubles and misfortunes come not singly. 
               Nevertheless I will try to put sadness aside. "What the eye sees not the heart does not rue," it is said; but I cannot shut out the figure of the lonely dying Indian woman, though I am forbidden to go near her again. It seems cruel and inhuman to leave her alone when life is sinking apace. She is deemed no more than a cat or dog, which, being no longer useful, is considered as a mere cumber-ground. 
               Allison disapproves of this command. She is silent; she does not weep, but she beareth a stately carriage and a sad face. Whenever my eyes rest upon the spinning-wheel my tears gush out freely. Surely, tears are not forbidden in the Scriptures. No, for our Saviour himself wept over the grave of Lazarus. Methinks there are hearts whose tears, if ever shed, speak as little of sorrow as dew forced from a marble sarcophagus. 
               I never loved Sing Bird so well, but I do not mourn her loss; she will be at rest. We all must die, but all the world seemeth so woful and dismal under the dominion of death and the grave. 
               Uncle Ebenezer visited her when her returned from the barn; I know he prayed long and earnestly by her side. When he came from her room he said: 
               "Though she hath received Christian baptism from Eliot, she is only a half-tamed creature; much of the old leaven remaineth in the vile vessel of clay. The wild vine hath not been well grafted." 
               I was glad that he did not speak of witchcraft. He does not believe that she is possessed with an evil spirit. 
               "How is the red heifer?" asked my aunt. 
               "It will soon die and be out of misery. A merciful man is merciful unto his beast." 
               "And the brindled cow?" she questioned in great anxiety. 
               "She hath bad symptoms, and they are increasing. A change for the better may come over her tonight." 
               "I know not how to provide butter and cream if she die." 
               "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." Uncle Ebenezer took down his hat from the peg and went out. He does not like the loss of the heifer, and that of the cow would be harder to bear. 
               Soon after we heard the firing of a gun, and I knew that all was over with the heifer. I thought it would be as well to put the poor Indian woman out of her misery also, since life ebbs away so slowly. I dare only write this in my journal. 
               Aunt Martha and Ruth carry long sad faces since the death of the red heifer, though they ever believe that the will of the Creator is best for the weak creatures of dust. "Whatever is, is right." Is all wrong right? 
                
               Sin came by man; by man came also the resurrection of the dead. Will saint and sinner arise and stand side by side at the last day? Then Sing Bird must rise from the grave they have already made for her, and stand perchance by the side of Ruth and my aunt. 
               This I think would not be to their liking. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               SING BIRD is dead. Her spirit passed away in the lonely hours of the night. 
               "All that could be done for the poor creature we did," so said Aunt Martha. 
               They carried her to her grave in the paddock. Poor woman! she hath not even a few feet of the earth allotted her race in the town burying-ground, where the bones of Indian sachems, teachers, and converted red men are lying, who were christened into Christ's Church and died in the faith. 
               Misfortunes come not singly. The brindled cow cannot live. She gave daily sixteen quarts of milk, so we must needs deplore her loss greatly. I believe that Ruth believes this to be the work of the Evil One, for she said, with a sneer: 
               "The malicious spirit will surely find a lodgment elsewhere, perhaps he will bring seven worse than himself into his new dwelling-place." 
               I would ask where she gains so much knowledge. Uncle Ebenezer, who is older, wiser and better, believes not in these mysterious rumors and doubtful tales with which the air is rife. But she might in turn reply, that many of the holiest and wisest men of all ages have given willing credence to such reports, so I hold my tongue between my teeth lest it betray me into foolish, senseless wrangling, albeit I am convinced that these people have been given over to believe a delusion and a lie. 
               My eyes fill with tears whenever I look at the silent spinning-wheel and remember Sing Bird's desolate grave. In the evening I walked out in the meadow, and my feet involuntarily turned towards the spot where she lies; but when I came near the newly-covered grave, all the drearisome thoughts concerning the cold, dark tomb came upon me with all the doleful preparation ever made for our lifeless bodies-those dismal mementoes of mortality. I rejoice that the Indian woman has escaped from the toils and cares of a world that has been but a sorry one for her; and even if she findeth not her chief in the happy hunting-grounds, where she hoped to meet him, rest and peace must certainly await her in the other world, seeing she has suffered only sorrow and servitude in this. 
               With my mind thus occupied, I walked slowly away. My eyes were bent on the ground, like the man in Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, who never looked upward, where he might have seen a glorious crown suspended over his head. A voice in my ear startled me, and Master Campbell said: 
                
               "Is yonder the spot where the Indian woman lies?" 
               I answered that it was, and that now it seemed to me it mattered but little where her weary body reposed, if it were true that the freed spirit soared at once to a place of blissfulness and peace. 
               "We may well rejoice that Heaven has taken the law in its own righteous hands, and spoiled the schemes of sinful ignorants." 
               His face was very sad, and his voice was angry and harsh, as he added: 
               "But God is a juster judge than man. 
               "Has anything worse happened, Master Campbell?" I asked. A great dread seized me, my knees shook, my hands trembled. 
               "Yester-even that poor woman was accused of witchcraft. Last week a horse died in the neighborhood; the red heifer sickened soon after, and then the brindled cow. These misfortunes, with the ill tidings from Salem Farms, have turned men's brains so they can no longer plainly discern truth and falsehood with the sober common sense given them by their Maker; and now I hear that my Cousin Ruth has of late complained of strange feelings." 
               "That is true, but she has suffered in a measure ever since her childhood; I have heard my aunt say so." 
               "The neighbors were not slow in believing that Sing Bird had dealings with Satan, and wrought all this mischief by spells and mysterious incantations. The officers have but now left the house, where they came to arrest the poor creature and accuse her of witchery." 
               "You cannot believe this-I will never, never be convinced," I cried. Though I spoke boldly, my heart misgave me. I leaned upon the fence which encloses the paddock, as he answered, stoutly: 
               "I believe it not; but I find that the entire household are being brought around to it, save Mistress Allison, whose lips have not been opened to speak on this subject. My aunt is quite certain, from signs she has of late observed, that Sing Bird placed her name on the little black book three months since; She is willing to testify that the gray cat slept by her side during her last illness, and that the Indian woman was ever searching for plants and herbs to make decoctions that no Christian woman could taste or even smell." 
               "This is all true; it cannot be denied. But she could not write; how could it be proved, then, that she signed her name in any book?" 
               He laughed scornfully-"A mark answered the purpose as well. If they had come before the spirit left the body, she would: have been delivered over to the officers of justice, put in the pillory at Boston, flogged, or perchance dragged through the nearest pond, or left to starve and die in prison. The devil's minions are loose, certainly, and at these present moments seem roving at their own sweet will." 
                
               "Thank God for taking her from all this!" 
               "Amen!" said Master Campbell, and I followed him to the house. Uncle sat in his arm-chair gazing into the fire with a troubled face; Aunt Martha went hither and thither very unrestfully, as if greatly exercised in mind; and Ruth sat near the window, her head resting upon the deep casement. As we entered the room Allison left the kitchen. 
               Master Campbell drew a chair near Uncle Ebenezer, and said: "So these birds of ill omen are flown." 
               No one spoke. He looked fixedly in my uncle's face, and continued, very earnestly: 
               "Uncle Fairfax, can it be true that you also believe in this puzzling and terrifying superstition? Are we to be falsely accused, dragged from our homes to prison and torture by the malice and spite of our enemies? Surely the Prince of Darkness hath not received this power from our gracious Creator. Have you weighed all the dangers and perils that may follow this madness?" 
               Uncle Ebenezer shook his head. He paused a long time as if in great doubt, and finally said: 
               "Nephew, I am all in the dark. I pray for light. My reason sayeth ever, 'Believe it not; it is a delusion and a snare;' but Cotton Mather, the Scripture, and godly men urge otherwise." 
               "Ay, and sustain their arguments by solid Scripture proof," said Aunt Martha. 
               "It is even so," he answered, very sorrowfully. "They sustain their arguments by Scripture proof; and the law of Moses decreed that no witch should live." 
               "The law of Moses-not the law of God nor of Christ. Think you this would be suffered if our Saviour now walked upon earth? The rules given for a stiff-necked and idolatrous Jew cannot guide the Christian of our day and generation," said Master Campbell. 
               "It indeed seemeth to me like putting new wine into old bottles," said my uncle. 
               "It is in no wise like the teachings of our Lord. We are living under a new and more enlightened dispensation. Let this thing be buried with the dark superstitions of the people from whom it sprang." 
               "Hath your study of Scripture excelled that of Cotton Mather, and other godly and learned gentlemen?" asked Aunt Martha. 
               "Thank Heaven, it hath not! Bear with me, my aunt, a few moments, for this matter weighs heavily upon my heart. I have confidence in the judgment of my uncle, tempered as it is with years and experience. This extraordinary disorder or delusion is daily on the increase. Lives will be sacrificed, misery spread, and dire confusion wrought, before men will listen to the dictates of reason. We must either believe, or disbelieve and set our faces as a flint against this mischief, and beware of lighting a torch whose flames will be inextinguishable." 
               Ruth raised her head. 
                
               "A second Daniel come to judgment! Why hath not Allison remained here to profit by these fine arguments? Joshua Campbell would doubtless find her a ready listener and apt believer." 
               His face flushed, but he took no other notice of her sneer. 
               "Some of the accused have confessed their guilt," said my uncle. "These things are incomprehensible; my mind and brain are sorely puzzled." 
               "Many things are incomprehensible in every act of our daily life," said Master Campbell. "Is not the act of walking a never-ceasing mystery? A mysterious disease has broken out in this community-why should men ascribe it to Satan's influence, and consider other contagions and plagues as judgments from the hand of the Almighty?" 
               "There are different views as to the manner of its treatment. But the evil itself-"began Uncle Ebenezer and paused. 
               "It exists; of this I am certain," said Ruth, in a low voice, while her head still rested on the casement. "It must be so; for last Saturday, in the evening, sitting by the fire, my mother asked me to go to bed. I told her I would first go to prayer, and when I went to prayer I found I could not utter my desires with any sense, or open my mouth to speak. My mother did perceive it, and came toward me. After this, a little space, and I did according to my measure attend to my duty; but now it is clearly revealed that the heathen woman wrought this confusion, for in looking upon her while she lay upon her bed, her shuddering and shivering made me to shudder and shiver also, and when she closed her eyes I closed mine likewise."
                     The actual words of a witness in one of the Salem witchcraft trials.
                  
                
               "It is even so," said her mother. "And the Lord hath been very merciful to us, poor cumbergrounds that we are, in speedily removing the plague from our house with His own hand." 
               Master Campbell looked steadily in the blazing fire in silence. No one spoke another word until Job opened the door and said: 
               "The black colt showeth symptoms of the same disease." 
               My uncle sprang up hastily and left the house, followed by Master Campbell, and as they left Aunt Martha exclaimed: 
               "Alas! I thought but now our house was purged of this evil, but it seemeth the curse clingeth to it still. I am full of amazement and perplexity." 
               I thought of a text of Scripture that might be used to her edification at that moment: 
               "If any lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not." 
               I fear in my aunt's petitions she asks to have the plague removed, not thinking that her understanding may be darkened. It were better to pray for more light, with her husband-for my uncle has never been wise in his own conceit. 
                
               The Lord will withhold no good thing from them that ask Him. 
               Surely, at this time of doubt and perplexity, it were well if godly and learned men, together with sinners and ignorants, should pray for light. Then perchance they would see their duty more clearly, if grace and knowledge were vouchsafed. 
               Allison is sorely distressed by all that hath happened, though she believes not yet in witchcraft. Not yet-I write these words slowly and with a heavy heart; must the time speedily come when we can no longer refuse to believe that Satan is unchained and walking to and fro in this land? 
               Poor Sing Bird sleeps at peace in her grave in the paddock. That is well, at least; but the red heifer and brindled cow are lost, and the beautiful black colt is hourly growing worse, If it had happened before these rumors were brought from Salem Farms, it would have been a dire misfortune indeed; but Satan and his minions would not have been accused of making the mischief. 
               My uncle hath great skill in horse-leeching; he surely will be able to save the black colt; it hath never failed before. 
               If it die also-and Job has said it will not recover-I fear he too will be brought over to believe in witchcraft. I find myself ever on the point of praying that the life of the animal may be spared; He who marks the falling sparrow might not deem it a vain and trifling request. But Allison has said: 
                
               "Pray that grace may be given for our day, whatever the day may bring forth, and place all our care upon One who hath promised to care for us." 
               This is best. 
               This may be best for Allison, and best for me, but what shall we say for the poor creatures who suffer from witchery and false accusations? The whole army of martyrs endured torments and tortures, all perishing in a righteous cause, glorifying our blessed Lord and Master, who suffered for sinners Himself. But the martyrs built up our most precious faith, their blood being the seed of the Church, whereas in this cause men and women suffer in vain, no good being brought out of the evil now abroad in the land. And who can say what dire mischief may yet be wrought if all men believe Satan to be let loose? 
               What hath happened before in the family of Fairfax may come to pass again. The fair Helen was bewitched, set upon by the minions of the Evil One, so she believed; her poor body hath long since turned into dust and ashes in the quiet graveyard, and it may be ere this the accuser and accused have stood face to face where only "righteous judgment is judged." 
               Ah, me! if one could come back and speak at this moment, it might be better for all who are dwelling in New England, since the sorely wronged and foully accused must needs attest their innocence. Allison is ever saying "the Lord reigneth," and Uncle Ebenezer believes that we are vessels of clay in the hand of the Potter, some fashioned to honor, others to dishonor, and if it be indeed that he should be deemed a dishonorable vessel, with Allison my uncle would say, "this is best, seeing it is the will of the Lord;" although Allison believeth not in this dismal doctrine of election, as he doth. 
               "I would that our Lord walked through the streets of Salem, as He walked in the olden days, when He cast out devils, and cured the lame, halt and blind." I said to Aunt Martha, as I held the skein of yarn that she wound into a ball. My hands trembled; poor Sing Bird had spun the threads before her last sickness came upon her. "It may be that these are not the same kind of evil spirits." 
               "Hold it steady-hold it steady, child; a slack hand will never make a thrifty house. It maybe as you think, Ida; the devils that were cast out at that day may never darken our homes, but this we do know upon good authority of Scripture, that these evil spirits did possess power over men, and also that our Lord empowered His disciples to cast them out, in His name, after He had left the earth." 
               "It may be that the cure was wrought upon disordered intellects and lunatics; for surely without reason man is lower than the beasts which perish." 
               "I cannot tell-I dare not say. I would give little heed to these unrestful matters, were it not for the loss of my perishing beasts," said Aunt Martha. She rose and carried the ball of yarn to her storeroom, and Ruth, who hath a trick of hearing and seeing such things as I desire most she should not hear and see, spoke out: 
               "Wherefore was the command given to enter the herd of swine in the country of the Gadarenes? If evil spirits were ordered to enter into the bodies of brutes in the day of Christ, it need not be deemed unworthy of belief at this present time, seeing that our Lord himself approved and countenanced the act which caused the loss of the animals, who ran violently down a steep place and perished in the sea." 
               It was but yester-even that I searched out to find what Matthew, Mark, Luke and John have said on this matter. I am greatly amazed that these four gospellers had not found occasion to record other things relating to the life and acts of our Master and Teacher, which would have been put to a far better use. 
               "They were simple, unlearned men; the multitudes that followed were not the wise and well instructed, for we read that the 'common people heard him gladly;' and the miracle may have been given in order to show the ignorant people that Christ possessed power over dumb beasts as well as over man and the elements; they knew that 'even the winds obeyed Him.' The possessed begged that the evil spirit might enter into the bodies of these brutes, and the wild prayer of a lunatic was doubtless granted in this manner." 
               So said Allison; but this I am not inclined to readily believe-not that I would doubt in any manner the power of our Lord over man and beast; but in my secret heart I misdoubt if this happened at all. Our Lord said "Go," in answer to the prayer of the poor man. This has Matthew written. "And forthwith Jesus gave them leave." So says Mark; while Luke confirmeth it in these words: "And he suffered them." 
               It might well happen that a herd of swine, frightened by a vast multitude of people, should have fled and precipitated themselves in the sea; but I deem that our Lord thought little of the brutes and more of the restored man, who sat at his feet, in his right mind, listening to the words of his Saviour; while the people dispersed to spread the dismal tidings that a thousand swine had perished, and I would that Matthew, Mark and Luke had forgotten to chronicle the fate of these dumb animals, while recording the miracle wrought upon the poor man; for these same swine have ever since given much uneasiness to simple believing minds, as well as to the wise and godly, and made as much mischief in Salem Farms as they did formerly in the country of the Gardarenes. 
               Meanwhile Ruth was awaiting my answer to her questions, as, all these thoughts coming and going in my mind, I had well nigh forgotten her until she said: 
               "Ah! your ready tongue has nought to say; ordinarily it is over-glib in interpreting and confuting Scripture." 
                
               I flamed up at this, and would have spoken out boldly enough; but Allison coming in just then, I was silent, for she is ever warning me against needless and endless discussion with Ruth; so I held my peace, much against my will, and vexed as well, for Ruth was greatly elated, thinking I could say nothing to this, and as she is but a dullard, while I-- 
               Well, it were unbecoming in me to write down my thoughts in this place, even though no other eye than my own should read them; but when out of hearing, I said to Allison: 
               "Ruth can never be called the fair Ruth Fairfax for her scanty marks of comeliness; and as to wit. I think the Evil One himself would scarcely choose her for a minion; but I will not be brought over to believe in witchcraft; the black colt and every beast on South Meadows Farm may die first." 
               "Speak less, and think more charitably, of poor Ruth," said Allison; "and do not pride yourself upon your superior wit and understanding; but strive and remember for all these advantages you must render a stricter account." 
               My face was all aglow at this, for I knew that although she would never see my journal, yet Allison nevertheless has detected the vanity of my heart. Truly, if my defects and virtues were all weighed in a balance, many of the virtues would be found wanting. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               MISFORTUNES come not singly." These are the truest words I have written in my journal. The black colt is dead, and my uncle now believes with Cotton Mather and a host of holy men wise in learning and Scripture, that sorcery and witchery pervade the land. O how my heart rejoices when I think that poor Sing Bird has escaped from wicked calumny and sleeps now peacefully in the paddock! I shudder at the narrowness of her escape; for she barely slipped through the clutches of the law, by the grasp of death. 
               I have ever misdoubted before that there are worse things than death in life, in my great horror of the damp, cold grave, but I now learn by sad experience that this may be the truth. 
               This same witchcraft is making a mighty bustle in the land; it is on every tongue and in every man's and woman's thoughts. My uncle doth not speak of it openly, but in reading his Bible I can see that he turns oftenest to the chapters in Genesis, relating to the miracles wrought by the Egyptians, and the chapter in Leviticus, where the law is found commanding that the wizard or witch shall be stoned to death. I know his mind is ill at ease, for although no other misfortune has since overtaken him, the loss of his black colt weighs heavily on him. He ponders more over Samuel raised by wicked Saul than upon the words of Him who said: 
               "I am the Resurrection and the Life." 
               When he returns from Boston-town, he relates the progress of the disorder that was brought from Salem Farms, where the spell first fell upon the people. I speak of it after this fashion because Allison and I will not yet believe in the existence of witchcraft, though we only dare to say this under our breath in our lean-to chamber. 
               She is ever finding texts from Scripture to comfort and confirm her in our faith and belief, though the mystery is daily increasing, and many unaccountable and unreasonable reports are gathering fast. 
               We read of unclean spirits in the New Testament, but they possessed no power over any save the persons into whom they entered, and Satan was put to flight and disgrace in his conflict with our Saviour. He resisted the adversary, and has showed us also a way of escape when sorely tempted. 
               "As thy day, so shall thy strength be," said Allison. 
               There is a holy calm upon her face which leads me to think of the peace of God which passeth all understanding. It is in her heart, albeit she may not be reckoned among the very elect by Aunt Martha and Ruth; but one day- 
               Well, I will not write down the ugly thoughts that blacken the fairest chambers of my soul. There let them lie, they shall not darken my journal. I tremble, for though I know the devil may not come to me in the form of a black, red, green, yellow or blue man, I also know our wicked adversary goeth ever about as a roaring lion, seeking unwary souls. 
               Ah me! I did not foresee what I have to write here, but my heart doth rue it nevertheless bitterly. 
               Yester-even I went to the buttery for my aunt, to help her skim some milk. While doing this Job came to the door, and seeing me alone, he came in and stood by my side and said: 
               "My mistress knows well there is no milk like that the brindled cow gave. I doubt not witches had a finger in that piece of misfortune." 
               "Job, I do not believe in witchery. Do you have faith in all these wonderful tales we hear daily?" 
               "Do not question me; I am not learned in the Scripture; I dare not go against Master Mather and all the other godly men of New England. They are appointed to teach me; they lead, I follow." 
               "The blind may be leading the blind," I answered, using a text that came to me just then, not I trust in a light sense, for Allison has warned me against quoting Scripture over freely. I asked Job if he had ever seen a witch. 
               "I have seen what men called a witch," he said. "A poor, lone, lorn woman, who had passed beyond threescore years and ten. She dwelt in a little hut near the forest, with a black cat for her company. She was accused of dealings with the Evil One. But who can say? I once saw her gathering sticks for firewood, and the smoke issuing from her chimney came from piney wood; but there were those on her trial who did swear that it was blue, and smelt of brimstone." 
               "Surely they did not arrest her for dwelling in a lonely hut with a black cat?" 
               "Yes, and more than this I could tell you. They cast the miserable old dotard into prison; there she died." 
               I thought of Sing Bird, how much better off she was than if she had lived on until these distressful times. 
               "Now the young are accused as well as the old; the rich and wise together with ignorant and poor folk." 
               Job fumbled with his hat; he went to the door, then returned, and, looking up into his face, I saw evil tidings written there. He was lingering, yet feared to speak, and I urged him to tell me the doleful news, whatever it might be. 
               "You remember the gentleman who came on horseback," he began. 
                
               "Not Master Burroughs!" I cried, and let the spoon fall quite into the pan of milk. "Oh, Job, he is a good honest gentleman; no one can find it in his heart to write out his condemnation." 
               "The same old tale," he said, sorrowfully. "He, along with five others, was hanged upon Gallows Hill; Cotton Mather being present mounted on horseback. When Master Burroughs was cut down, his body was dragged to the grave by the halter, together with that of John Willard and Martha Carrier. The earth did not cover them sufficiently it is said--" 
               "Tell me no more," I cried, interrupting the horrible story. 
               "The hearts of many of the spectators were melted within them, for these all died protesting their innocence as in the presence of the God before whom they would shortly appear. They entreated also that no more innocent blood should be shed, forgave the accusers, spoke with affection of their judges and jury-many of them being upright, sincere men in all their circumstances." 
               "God forgive Cotton Mather, and their other enemies." I could say no more. 
               "He prayed with them to the last," said Job. "At the request of the condemned, he hath endeavored to comfort and befriend both Proctor and Willard since they were imprisoned-visiting and praying with them daily. Master Burroughs was a pleasant gentleman; I have still the silver piece he gave me for holding his horse. But I had wellnigh forgotten my errand." Job drew a slip of paper from his hat and hastily handed it me, saying: 
               "Do not let it be seen. The mistress is coming." 
               I put it in the bosom of my gown. Aunt Martha reproved me for my carelessness in letting the spoon fall into the milk; and seeing that I was trembling and white, she bade me run in to the fire and warm myself. I went quickly to my lean-to room and examined the little billet. It bore these words: 
               "Meet me behind the barn when Job is milking. I have a word to say in secret." 
               It was signed with a large C., so I knew by that it was from Master Campbell. I went to show this to Allison, but not finding her in the kitchen, I decided to follow my own judgment in this case, thinking she might deem a meeting of this sort clandestine. So I determined to use my own discretion in this matter. While I reasoned I heard my name called, and I thrust the bit of paper in my gown, intending to burn it in the kitchen fire. 
               Cousin Ruth sat by the window in Sing Bird's old place. She does not spin, but loves to sit where she can spy out what may pass on around the house and in the garden. 
               "Mother hath called twice," she said, as I stooped to throw my billet in the flames. "Run, quickly, Ida! she calleth again." 
               I did as she bade me, but I found that Aunt Martha had not called once. I returned; Ruth was standing near the hearth, and when she met me I noticed that her face flushed very red. I told her that I had not been called. 
               "My ears deceived me strangely," she said, going back to her former seat, and I thought no more of this until evening came. 
               I was very impatient at the laggard hours; and when at last I saw Job taking out the pails for milking, I told my aunt I would go and gather the fresh-laid eggs from the barn; and, throwing a shawl over my head and shoulders, I ran out. 
               At first I saw no person but Job, but when I stole behind the shadow of the barn I saw a figure approaching. It was not Master Campbell, and I shrank away; but a voice I recognised called me, and, looking more intently upon the stranger, I saw, to my great amazement, that it was Jack, our sailor friend. 
               "I cannot stay long," he said. "Master Campbell daren't show his handsome face here, for he has had hot words with some of the women folks. But he sent me, and says, 'Beware! beware!' That is the word, 'beware!' and say naught about him that was hung for being a wizard. Beware, and be on your guard, for danger may be coming." 
               "What danger?" I asked. 
               "Maybe he's wrong after all. But beware, and in case you need me, a friend to command, on sea or on land, I'll be found at my aunt's, the Red Lion. I'll be stopping there a month, and when I sail again Master Campbell is going with me. Beware, and be on your guard!" 
               He was gone before I could collect my scattered wits, and I would have sat down to ponder over this visit, but Job recalled my senses and advised me to hurry back to the house, and taking up my basket I did so. When I entered I placed it on the dresser, and looking up I caught Ruth's eyes fixed upon me. Her baleful, suspicious glance made me shudder, and Jack's words rang in my ears: 
               "Beware, and be on your guard!" 
               I now believe that she suspects that I went out to meet Master Campbell, and I mistrust that my little billet was not burned as I supposed. It must have fallen on the hearth. She knows all-I am sure of it. 
               I confessed this to Allison; she did not reprove me; she was not angered; she was only very sad, and advised me to be wary when any mention was made of Master Burroughs's sorrowful and untimely death. 
               My uncle has spoken of it since, and I hear that some learned and reverend gentlemen are much dissatisfied with these proceedings, namely, Simon Bradstreet, Thomas Danforth, Increase Mather and Nathaniel Saltonstall, while others of equal note and ability urge and forward this dreadful persecution. 
               "It must have been as Master Noyes, the Salem minister, said, 'a sad thing to see five fire-brands of hell hanging on Witch Hill,'"
                     A literal quotation.
                   said Aunt Martha. 
               A trembling and faintness comes over me whenever I think of the dreadful sight. Master Burroughs died blessing and forgiving his enemies. If I go to heaven when I die, I expect to find the good man among the holy army of martyrs. 
               I have not so much as mentioned his name to any of my uncle's family. It is only in our lean-to room that I throw my arms around Allison and ask her when these evil days will cease. 
               "In God's own time"-that is ever her answer. 
               She remains long on her knees at her morning and evening devotions, and if the adversary of souls seeks admission he will find the gate of her soul so well fortified with pure and undefiled religion, he must needs beat a hasty retreat and find a lodgment elsewhere. 
               Master Campbell's message still rings in my ears. My nights are disturbed by troubled dreams and suspicions are thrust upon me in my waking hours. Sometimes Job appears in my nightmare, holding in his hand a little book, and saying, in a low voice: 
               "Swear! Swear!" 
               Then the fantasy of my dream changes, and Ruth is before me, riding on a broomstick long enough to touch the sky, and Sing Bird's face peers over her shoulder, smiling maliciously, and stretching out her bony arms as if to embrace and carry me away with her. Thus one dream chaseth another through all the night-watches, and I would fain dispel these fleeting illusions, but this may not be while the air is rife with rumors of new witcheries and horrors. Although I believe not, yet my blood curdles and my hair stands on end when I hear of them, and I feel a great dread, like that of Christian in John Bunyan's book, when he passed through the dreadful valley, fighting against unseen demons and distorted hobgoblins. 
               Allison will say but the one thing: 
               "Believe not that God has given this power to Satan; weak, malicious, ignorant and unbalanced minds use it as an instrument." 
               Why will not Simon Bradstreet and Thomas Danforth, and the other godly men who believe not in witchcraft, cry aloud and spare not against these dreary deaths? If Increase Mather would raise a warning voice, striving to make the crooked straight, and rough places plain, surely it would be heeded, coming from the lips of one the people have ever held in reverence. My mind misgives me sorely at times, but being young in years, my judgment, at the best, may go far astray, hearing that one godly man inclineth to this belief, and another to the contrary; but wishing that sorrow, misery and suffering may be lessened, I would put down by the firm hand of the law all persecution and injury. But in that case many innocents must needs suffer, who lie ill at this present moment, if there be any truth in witchery. Ah me! it is a deep puzzle, which leaveth the brains in a Slough of Despond, whether they be in the giddy pate of youth or the hoary head of age. 
               How would it be in the minds of all if Cotton Mather himself were accused? Would he also share the same fate as Master Burroughs and those unfortunates who have perished by ignominious deaths? Martyrs indeed, men may call them in after days, but I deem a martyr's fate not over pleasant; if I were placed in the power of the Spanish Inquisition I would surely recant, or far sooner take up arms and fight bravely and desperately for life and truth, than resign myself to willing torture from the hands of cruel and unjust men. 
               "'My grace is sufficient for thee. As thy day so shall thy strength be.' Strength from above is vouchsafed; the soul is under the shadow of the Almighty's wing; the Creator who formed and fashioned us will care for us still, whatever earthly ill may betide; so we need not fear those who have power over the frail body-a moment's pain and an eternity of bliss. Such was the faith which upheld the spirit of the martyrs in bodily pain and peril." This is what Allison has often said; she could better meet such a direful fate than I. The pain of body would cause me to shrink back in affright; but if it came to her, she could bathe her hands in the flame like the dying Cranmer, and die blessing and forgiving her enemies, while I am as sure Ruth would stand by and pile on the faggots: though if her own turn should come, she would beg for mercy rather than suffer, however good the cause. 
               Having been baptized in the faith and signed with the sign of the cross, Allison will never "be ashamed to confess the faith of Christ crucified, and manfully to fight under his banner against sin, the world and the devil, unto her life's end," believing that all such are delivered from wrath and received into the ark of Christ's Church, and being "steadfast in faith, joyful through hope, and rooted in charity" (would that all men and women were so rooted), "may so pass the waves of this troublesome world, that finally they may come to the land of everlasting life." 
               I would that Master Campbell had been more explicit, or else had been the bearer of his own message. Of whom should I beware? Surely my words and manner of speech are ever guarded with care of late, though hitherto I have sometimes been reproved for frowardness and flippancy. I am not a dumb machine, and in truth were it not for my journal, my heart at times would break for very heaviness. 
               The peace which passeth all understanding hath not visited it; if it were a dwelling-place for the Holy Spirit, it must needs be filled with love, joy and peace, and have no place for dolour and anxieties; and I would gladly await whatever a day may bring forth, with calmness and patience. Surely Master Burroughs rested upon a "sure rock of defence." Who shall say that his soul was deserted, seeing that at the last he was tranquil and resigned, and died blessing and forgiving all who had wrought him grievous injury and brought him to this sad death. Even so died Ridley, Latimer and Cranmer, and a host of saints, who now cry: "How long, O Lord! How long?" I fear that I ever confound the pain of the body with the anguish of the spirit, which is the better part of our nature and that which demands the greater care. 
               My uncle keepeth his own opinions concerning this perplexing matter; reason swayeth him on one side, and all these circumstantial horrors we daily hear on the other. He hath never spoken of the fair Helen Fairfax, believing that the true knowledge of her life and death perished in the flames with the little pamphlet which recorded it. I cannot speak of it. He commanded silence; and Allison made the same request; and my journal alone has learned the sad tale. Allison ever sayeth: 
               "Put these thoughts from your mind; long dwelling upon them breeds doubts, fears and superstitious distrusts, which are only mischievous." 
               But, as I have said, her heart is filled with better, purer, higher things; while my cousin is ever perturbed, restless, uneasy and agitated, like the waves of the sea, ever casting up mire and dirt; and though I would fain pity my Cousin Ruth for her small wit, ill-favored person and ignorance, I ever fail to create for her any sincere affection. 
               And little she careth either for my pity or love, or for that of any other, so long as she grasps in her own hand that which she most longs for; and in order to accomplish her purpose, she spareth neither man nor beast, and yet ever deceiveth herself in the belief that her heart is regenerate, though my uncle is filled with doubts and fears, and trembleth lest the gates of heaven should be closed against him at last. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               I HAVE ever misliked the cunning glitter in my Cousin Ruth's eyes; I sometimes think a demon lurks in her glance. Heaven forgive me if I judge her over harshly, but she has never loved Allison. 
               Yesterday she sat by the window with her open Bible on her knee. Suddenly she, closed the lids with a sharp click, and called loudly to her mother, who sat near her darning my uncle's yarn hose. 
               "I can read no more, the words are all flying away from before my eyes. But now I looked out upon the garden; then I fastened my eyes on the words of holy writ, and red and green spots came dazzling and blurring all over the sacred page. What can this mean, mother?" 
               "It meaneth that the sunlight is stronger than the light of this room," I said in great haste, and also with some contempt at her ignorance. "It has often happened when I have been reading or writing." 
                
               "That is true; I am no deep reader nor scholar, but it has befallen me," said her mother. 
               "I am no dullard, and it hath never happened to me before." Her voice was very spiteful; I glanced at her but once, and felt no desire to meet her sharp eyes again. Soon after I ran to the barn with a message from Aunt Martha to Job, who was shelling corn. He had chosen a warm sunny spot for his task; I love the sunlight, and I lingered and watched him as he rubbed the corn from the ear. 
               "This will bring good luck," he said, putting carefully aside a red cob. "The witches won't touch that." 
               "Why not, pray," I asked. 
               "It is said they fear and dislike the color. See, I have guarded the stock against further mischief." 
               He pointed to a heifer in the barnyard; I went nearer and saw a red cord tied around its neck. 
               "Look in the pig-pen, also, Mistress Ida." 
               I did so, and saw that both young and old were decorated with a scarlet thread, some having it around the neck, others fastened on a leg. 
               I laughed merrily at these odd necklaces, but Job was very grave; he did not smile when I said: 
               "What virtue can there be in scarlet yarn?" 
               "It can do no harm. I thought at first of tying up the poultry, but it would take a year of Sabbath days for that." 
               "I will tie one around my wrist to keep off witcheries," I said, still laughing. 
                
               "I have stitched a hazel sprig in my waistcoat. Don't trifle, mistress; if it can't do good, it surely can work us no harm." 
               I turned and faced Ruth, who had been sent by my Aunt Martha with a message to Job; I did not see that she had been standing near us and listening to what had been said, and I repeated to her: 
               "He has tied up all the pigs and stock with red yarn to keep off the witches." 
               I laughed again, for it seemed very childish to me, and savored more of heathen superstition and flummery than of Christian practice. 
               "You have no fear, then, of the Evil One?" she said. 
               "Oh no, 'precious in the sight of the Lord are the souls of His saints,'" I answered quickly. 
               "Then you number yourself among these? Those who have been in the way many years dare not venture to speak with such assurance." 
               "Rest satisfied that it is childish frowardness only," said Job, looking at me reproachfully; but, not liking his manner or his words, and wishing to display my cleverness and vexation, I said: 
               "I may not be one of the very elect, but perchance I may come in for some of the crumbs of grace that fall from a rich man's table." 
               She was angered. I noted that, but I cared not at the moment, although Job gave me another warning glance. 
               "Thou knowest well, certainly, what it is to be fed from a rich man's table," she replied; and I understood the taunt she meant to convey in saying this. 
               "Ay; I would far rather be the beggar than the rich man," I cried. 
               "Come, come," said Job, with a frown; "this is not respectful speech, albeit I am not the one who should say so. Don't mind the child," he said, turning to Ruth. 
               "All the years since creation would not put wisdom in some pates," I retorted, never thinking of the soft answer which turneth away wrath, as I ran back to the house, while Ruth slowly followed and sat down in silence. I cared not for her anger, but knitted away very diligently, though my heart thumped heavily in my bosom, and the blood was hot in my cheeks. 
               When Uncle Ebenezer came in he brought fresh but more doleful tidings from Salem Farms and Boston-town, as well as from other places, concerning the progress of witchcraft. 
               "What is now most needful is a firm hand and clear head, to distinguish between the true and false accusations." 
               "There will be no further danger for the stock. Job has no need of a firm hand and clear head in distinguishing the afflicted from the sound, for he hath necklaced them with scarlet yarn, and hath stitched a witch-hazel wand in his own waistcoat." I said this boldly, but could have bitten my tongue for doing so as soon as the words had passed my lips. This unruly member hath often given me food for penitence and grief; I hope I may not have to rue what it has betrayed me into saying this day. 
               I must leave my journal. My name is called, and there is bustle and confusion below. I pray that no new misfortune has come upon us. 
               I have scarcely the heart to set down what has happened. Poor, miserable, dull idiot that I have been! My pertness and cleverness have wrought mischief. Alas! why did I not heed Master Campbell's warning? I wrote that another day I would bridle my tongue. The time is past when such a resolve would have done me good service. My brain is whirling; my heart is faint. Can I remember the beginning of this sad business? 
               Cousin Ruth is bewitched; I doubt no longer that an evil spirit has her fast in his foils. When I was summoned to the kitchen, I found her lying on the floor, a most dismal spectacle. 
               Her whole frame was gathered, shivering and writhing, in a heap; her eyes rolled piteously, and turned in their sockets until the whites only could be seen; and ever and anon she gasped out as if choking for breath. 
               "Pins are being thrust through and through my heart." Then for five minutes she spoke no more, but her shivering and shuddering continued until she called out again in great agony: 
                
               "They are in my tongue-scorching, red hot pins and needles! Oh! oh! how fiercely they burn! Take them out! Help! help! Father, mother, take them out!"
                     A literal quotation from one of the witchcraft styles.
                  
                
               She hung out her tongue like a thirsty animal, but refused water when they brought it to her. As I looked at her, I doubted no longer in witchery, but I noted with a shudder that whenever Allison approached her, the pains and convulsions increased. 
               Uncle Ebenezer leaned against the chimney corner; his eyes were closed, and his lips moved in prayer. My aunt drew Ruth's head upon her lap and tried to soothe and allay her distress, though her own face was blanched with terror. 
               My wits were not all astray. I pulled Allison by the back of the skirt and beckoned her from the room, and said: 
               "Touch her not, for Heaven's sake; keep from her; do not let her eyes rest on you, for she knows not what she is doing and saying." 
               "Would you have me abandon poor Ruth at this time?" she asked. "This is surely the opportunity for offering kindness and commiseration." 
               "It must not be offered by you. O Allison, my heart misgives me! Remember Master Borroughs,-think of the warning,-the innocent have already suffered,-what has happened in other households may come upon us-Ruth has never loved you. Think of all these things and beware-beware!" 
                
               She stooped down and kissed me. A tear fell on my brow as she said: 
               "My own conscience assures me that I have no need of fear. Ruth has only one of her bad turns; it will pass away as the others have passed away, and all will be well." 
               "But if it pass not away? And if she accuses any one of tormenting her? I am young in years, but at this moment my heart suffers with terrible misgivings." 
               "My innocence, then, must be my protection," she answered, and again kissed me fondly, and went to the chamber where Ruth had been carried in my uncle's arms. 
               I followed her; I could not bear to have her out of my sight. 
               At the sound of footsteps, Ruth, who was lying on her own bed, unclosed her eyes. She saw nothing, but the writing and terrible convulsions began again to deform her frame and distort her features. 
               I saw my aunt glance at Uncle Ebenezer, who was standing at the foot of the bed. Before I knew how it was, he seized my hand with an iron grasp, and beckoning to Allison, he led us from the chamber and shut fast the door. 
               Allison's face was very white, but that of my uncle terrified me exceedingly; his keen gray eyes looked straight into mine, as if he would fain have read the innermost secrets of my soul. I quailed not, though I felt faint and dizzy, and my knees trembled. 
                
               "I forbid both from entering yonder chamber. Go not to my daughter's bedside, nor within sight of her eyes nor sound of her voice." 
               Allison, like a lamb led to the slaughter, was dumb, but I would speak; I asked him whether we had angered him, and why we were treated in this rough fashion. 
               "Seek the ground of thy heart; examine thy thoughts; look well if there be any wickedness therein," he answered, and left us without uttering another word. 
               Alas! never was any day longer or more miserable. The night was broken by Ruth's groans and sobs and cries, now low and wailing, then rising high and higher into shrieks of despair, as she cried that the demon was rending soul and body. 
               My uncle wrestles in prayer by her side and in the solitary closet; but the spirit is not appeased nor exercised by these measures; the vexed soul of his daughter is only more troubled; she refuses meat and drink; no healing draught nor wholesome medicine has been administered. Allison thinks that her brain is all in wild disorder, and her sufferings are partly in the imagination only. 
               It may be that the unclean spirit, in seeking rest, has found a dwelling-place in my Cousin Ruth. 
               I know not what will come of it; the household is in a disturbed and anxious state. Aunt Martha is pale and will not quit her daughter's side, and my uncle weareth a look I have never seen before upon his features. We cannot say what a day may bring forth; I am only sure that the future is full of sorrow and trouble. The quiet, peaceful days which I despised in the past, were brighter than any now in store for me. I would fall asleep cheerfully and not unclose my eyes from slumber until all this grief and trouble have passed away. Will it vanish like the morning cloud and early dew? 
               I crept shuddering to my lean-to chamber long before my bed-time. I read my epistle and gospel for the day, but they did not give comfort nor hope to me in this hour of need. I remained on my knees over-long, but my words "flew up, my thoughts remained below," and if it be true that such petitions "never to Heaven go," my prayers were useless. 
               I put my arms around Allison and wept bitterly; she did not chide me not chide me nor bid me check my tears; she was very calm, and I asked her if she felt no fear for the future. 
               "The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon Him; yea, all such as call upon Him faithfully." 
               And with this she rests content. 
               "I have tried to call upon Him," she said, "and I believe that He is about my path and about my bed, and spieth out all my ways." 
               Alas! this brings me no comfort. The apostles and prophets and martyrs believed this; they praised God on earth, and now, a glorious company, praise Him in heaven; but this brings me no comfort. I can see no bright lining to the stormy cloud, which is now waiting only for a little before it will burst upon us. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               THE blow has fallen upon us; the dark cloud is broken that has been hanging over our heads. Ruth accuses my sister Allison of tormenting her by devices obtained from Satan. Day and night her pain and anguish of mind and body are unceasing; she tastes no food, save a few spoonfuls of brandy, and sleep will not visit her eyelids. 
               She shrieks at the mention of our Creator's name. When Uncle Ebenezer prays by her side, she foams at the mouth, her eyes roll in their sockets, her teeth chatter, and her whole frame is convulsed with paroxysms of agony, with shakings and shudderings, and her symptoms increased when my uncle held the Holy Scriptures before her saying: 
               "In the name of our Lord and Saviour, I command you to come out of her." 
               Aunt Martha has gone through so much in the last few days she looketh ten years older; trouble has aged her fearfully within this short space of time. And my uncle remains on his knees the greater part of the day, agonizing in prayer. I dare not approach him, he is so silent, gloomy and stern, and ever avoids speaking with me. I pray, pray, pray through the live-long day. I say in my heart, "Vain is the help of man;" unless God be on our side we must be given over to darkness and despair. I strive to think over many Scripture texts concerning the care God has ever exercised over his people, but my heart has always been hard, proud and dissatisfied; wherefore, then, should I in turning to Heaven in the day of trouble expect my petition to be answered, when I have ever deemed prayer a burden and duty rather than a pleasure and privilege? 
               I trust the anger and punishment of Heaven, if it come, may fall upon me alone. 
               At night I put my fingers in my ears to keep out the doleful sounds proceeding from Ruth's chamber; at break of day I rise and run from the house for a moment's escape from this dolorous place. This morning I met Job driving the cows to the barnyard for milking. 
               "Oh, Job!" I cried, wringing his hand. "Tell me what can be done. We are friendless. Who will help us? Where shall we turn? If they accuse my sister she may suffer as others have done. Tell me, Job, what can I do in this extremity of danger?" 
               "There is but one thing, and that I fear Mistress Allison will not do." 
               My tears fell on his hard hands; he brushed them away, and said: 
                
               "She must leave this place; she must go tonight. The friend who warned you will not forget her now; of that I am certain, for I have a message from him." 
               I understood. Master Campbell had not forgotten us. Allison shall go; she shall flee away from her vile accusers this very night. 
               "You must meet him here at the same time and place as before. If she go at all, it must be this night or never." 
               "You do not believe her guilty, Job?" I asked, but he only shook his head. 
               "I know nought, I know nought. I can say nought, but that I wish she were miles from the farm of South Meadows." 
               "And where can we go? We have no friends." 
               "That matter will be settled, I doubt not." 
               I was thinking, "she will never consent if she hears Master Campbell's name." I felt that in my heart, but dared not say so to Job. I said only: 
               "To-morrow will be too late?" 
               "Ay, a deal too late, I am thinking, for the plan that has been concocted." 
               "If she will not go-and Allison is not easily persuaded-if she remain, and the accusation is not removed, what will be done?" 
               Job made no answer. 
               "She is innocent; she cannot be found guilty. The accusation is foul and unjust." 
                
               "Others have been deemed guiltless, and have suffered." 
               I remembered Master Burroughs and the poor old woman Job had seen condemned with no proofs of crime. I trembled, and my tears burst out afresh as I asked: 
               "Is the same punishment awarded to young women, Job?" 
               "No mercy is shown to witches," and saying this she strode away. My mind, however, is more at rest, seeing that a way of deliverance has been opened, and that my prayers have been heard and answered. 
               I will contrive to get Allison to the place at the appointed hour. I will decoy her, if need be, by strategy, and then bid Master Campbell or Jack, if he come, to seize and convey her to a place of safety against her own will if she will not consent. She shall not be accused and tried before men who have lost the natural wit bestowed upon them by Heaven. If the hearts of her judges and accusers were as innocent and pure as her own, they might see that she is guiltless and free from malice and falsehood. Why was I not born a strong man? I would then carry her away in my arms to a retreat of safety, in spite of any resistance she might offer. But she shall go, nevertheless. I will pray on my knees, not that "Thy will be done," but "In this thing, O Lord, grant my request." 
                
                
               It is all over. My prayers were vain; Allison would not leave my uncle's house without his knowledge. Her only friends ere this are far away, and she is left to face the danger which she knows to be advancing surely and steadily upon her. 
               I kept my secret all day. I rolled a few garments together into a parcel, and secretly hid it in the loft of the barn. When night was coming on, I said to Allison: 
               "Let us go out into the open air. I am longing to escape from the dolours of the house." 
               She readily consented. We walked out in silence over the frosty fields by the side of the barn. The night was still and cold; the air made the blood tingle in my veins as we walked swiftly on. I knew that her heart was heavier than my own, as she did not know that relief was at hand. I peered through the fast gathering darkness, until I saw two forms indistinctly; and when I found they passed around behind the barn, I knew that they were our friends. 
               I stooped down to tie the latchet of my shoe, saying as I did so that she must wait until it was fastened. I fumbled with it, and no sound was heard louder than the dry November leaves stirred by the dull wind. I lowered my head until I heard a step close by, and looking up saw Master Campbell. Allison started with surprise, and drew herself back proudly, as she spoke with a sorrowful voice: 
               "Master Campbell, why are you here? Is it thus you keep your promise?" 
                
               "I have broken my word in order to snatch you from perilous danger, from a fate worse than death." His voice trembled, and Jack, who had been lingering behind, stole up close to my side. 
               "It is all arranged; Cotton Mather and his associates, misguided men they be, come to-morrow to accuse and try you for the crime of bewitching my Cousin Ruth. I have learned this in time to save you. Do not delay; every moment is precious." 
               "Leave me, Master Campbell," she said, in sad but gentle tones that pierced our hearts. 
               "Leave you to the blind, misguided, besotted prejudice and superstition of these fanatical men, who think they are doing Heaven service in serving the devil? Never! Disgrace and infamy are in store; perchance ignominious punishment and death; escape, before it be too late. I plead not for myself; it is your life I would save." 
               "Where shall I fly? Alas! with whom?" she asked. 
               "With me. Jack is here. The preparations are made to receive you at my aunt's in Boston. There you shall be concealed until the fury of this blind storm has been spent. Then, and not until then, you will be able to return in safety, if such be your wish. Ida will, go with us. My aunt knows all. Do not hesitate; come at once, I implore you." 
               Allison wept bitterly. "Nay, my friends. It is the guilty who flee away like a thief. My uncle hath ever been kind; is it thus I would show my gratitude? He is a just man; I cannot find it in my heart to believe that he will suffer the innocent to be punished. He has a tender heart; he loves me. Leave me, Master Campbell. This cannot be." 
               Master Campbell seized her hand, and bade her reflect that the innocent had not escaped. Many still languished in prison; she could not expect that a special providence would be extended in her behalf. He also said that she had not yet learned the true temper of the Puritan metal, for if conscience, however misguided, bade it cut sorely and sharply, it looked not to the quality of mercy. 
               "Heaven helps those folks mostly that help themselves in these times," said Jack, and I would have added my pleadings, but Master Campbell drew her away some distance from us, and there they stood. I could hear his eager, impetuous voice, though I understood not his words, and Allison sobbed aloud. 
               Then they came back, and I, thinking of the bundle I had placed in the hay-loft, requested Jack to run and bring it to us; but Allison stopped him and took my hand. 
               "Come, dear heart, we have already lingered too long; I will be needed. Come, Ida, delay no more. Farewell, my kind friends; I trust that all will be well." 
               Then I knew that she had resolved to abide, come what would, at South Meadows; and I fell on my knees and besought her that she would save herself. I conjured her by all she held dear-by the love she bore our dear lost mother; and last of all, for her own sake. Alas! that was the poorest, weakest plea of all. 
               She would not be persuaded. Her tears fell thick and fast; and when she turned to lead me back to the house, I bade Master Campbell and Jack carry her away in spite of herself. 
               "Dearest, this can never be. Leave me at once, my dear friends, for with my free consent I will never yield to this purpose." 
               I cannot remember what I said then. I looked back and saw them watching us as she led me away. I know I reproached and upbraided her bitterly, and accused her of having no commiseration for me in my pitiful distress. She made no answer, but when she entered the kitchen I saw by the bright firelight that her face was deadly pale. 
               My heart smote me; she was bearing the burden that no other could lift from her shoulders. It was useless to waste words; she would be guided alone by her conscience. 
               Uncle Ebenezer sat by the hearth in his oaken arm-chair. His face was turned towards the fire, and his hands were clasped upon his knee. Allison went straight to him and stood by his side. He did not look at her until she said: 
               "Uncle!" He started, but did not turn his head. "Uncle, is it true that Cotton Mather will come here to-morrow and try me for the crime of witchcraft?" 
               "Ay, it is even so," he murmured, still looking in the fire. 
               "Do you hold me guilty, uncle?" He did not speak; he dared not face her. 
               "Have pity upon me," she cried, and in a wild, distressful way that is not like herself. "Do not believe that I have sold myself to the Evil One. Before Heaven I swear I am innocent; as free from guilt as you. Dangers threaten me; am I to meet them alone? Will you not shield your orphan niece from falsehood and disgrace?" 
               He did not look at her. She knelt by his chair. He wished not to become softened, but involuntarily he passed his hand over her hair, smoothing it gently. His lips moved in prayer. I covered my face with my hands and wept. 
               "Have I been undutiful? I have no other protector; for my mother's sake, save me in this terrible hour." 
               His stern expression relaxed; his lips parted as if he would have spoken kindly. 
               At that instant there came from Ruth's chamber an awful shriek. It echoed through the silent house, and chilled the blood in my veins. Then came another, and another. 
               "The voice of the charmer-charm she never so wisely," he muttered. The stern look came back, and rising he left the room, exclaiming in heartbroken accents: 
               "My child! my child!" 
               Alas! alas! I can pray no more, for the heavens are as brass. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               VAIN, indeed, is the help of man. Though my uncle's lip quivered and his hand trembled, he pushed Allison away from his side at the cry of distress from Ruth's chamber. He will steel his heart against pity and compassion until it be as hard as the nether mill-stone. I knew that mercy was banished, and my glib tongue, ever ready to speak, failed me; I could not utter one word. I felt that all was lost. Sleep did not visit my pillow through the long wretched night. Tears are useless, and their source seemeth frozen; I can weep no more. Allison remained long on her knees, and afterwards fell asleep as peacefully as a babe on its mother's breast. No ill dreams or powers of darkness disturbed her repose. Surely if the great tempter came to assail her he would flee abashed at the whiteness of her pure soul. 
               At the first peep of day I rose, and throwing on my garments hastily, I ran out in the cold morning air to find Job, for I believe him now to be the best and only friend we possess in this place. 
               "Oh, Job," I cried, "Our plans have all failed. We have fallen upon troublous times. Will you not stand by us to the last?" 
               I clung to his hard hand as if it were my only anchor of hope. He tried to cheer me. 
               "Softly, Mistress Ida. Who can tell? The worst may never come. Certain it is, a purer, a more innocent lady hath never been accused of witchery." 
               "But that will not save her. They will question, but not believe her answers; and if she will not confess to a lie she may be tortured." 
               "It may not happen," he said. 
               "It will happen," I cried; "and neither God nor saint will interfere in her behalf." 
               "Let us hope for the best," he answered, striving to dissipate my despair in a measure; but the tones of his voice convinced me that he cherished no hope in his own breast. 
               "God may protect the innocent. It will serve thy cause better to remain cool and temperate; hot words and passionate spirit will perchance add fuel to the flames. He that ruleth his own spirit-" 
               "I care not for Scripture texts," I cried, interrupting him. "I have prayed to no purpose; God has not answered my prayers. The wicked have their way and the righteous are punished. I see it all plainly now. Ruth has ever hated my sister; revenge venge hath urged her to Allison's destruction. But mark my words, I shall follow wherever she is taken-to shame, or prison, or death; I will share it all with her. 
               "Beware, lest that hasty tongue lead thee into greater mischief," he said. "Cotton Mather and his council must not hear these rash words." 
               "They shall hear them. If Cotton Mather and his godly advisers pronounce Allison a child of Satan, and doom her to torture and punishment, I will swear that I have signed the little black book and sold myself to the Evil One. Then they will not separate us. I will say also that I have willingly tormented my Cousin Ruth, and will also torment them if it be possible in the same fashion." 
               "Poor child! poor child!" said Job. 
               "Yes, and if other accusations are made, I will swear that Cotton Mather himself and all of his godly brethren have aided and abetted me in this thing-whatever cometh into my head. I will say boldly, that they have caused all the mischief wrought by Satan!" 
               'This will only harm thy sister. Govern thy tongue carefully, because this useless raging will only be additional proofs of her condemnation." 
               I listened no longer, but left him and wandered to the spot where we had parted with Master Campbell. Oh, if we had only gone with him, and were now safely concealed in Boston-town! 
               The rising sun dispelled the morning clouds, Nature put on her robe of light for the coming day. It was cheerful and bright. The peaceful day is not in keeping with my sorrow; the sky is not over-cast; would that it were, for it might seem to pity my misery. Perchance it will be the same to-morrow, and the day after, until the face of heaven is black with the storm that will ere long burst upon us. Why does it not respond to my heavy heart today? I would far rather the morning had brought drenching rains and howling winds; perhaps they would have cooled the fire in my burning head and aching heart. The little fleecy clouds were all setting towards the east; a sure sign of clear weather, I have often heard it said. 
               I am deserted by heaven and by man; the sun still shines, mocking my sorrow, and smiling in the face of all the wretchedness and crime committed on earth. 
               I sat on the stile, which is over the fence leading into the paddock where Sing Bird was buried, Allison found me there. She was very pale, and I both sullen and vexed when she said: 
               "Come to the house; Uncle Ebenezer wishes us to assemble for prayer. He is waiting for you." 
               "I do not wish to pray, or to hear his prayer," I replied. 
               "Come," said Job, who had also, been summoned to attend this means of grace. "Come, honest prayer can do no harm." 
               I resisted no further, but followed them into the kitchen, where all save Ruth were assembled. My uncle opened the Scripture, and after reading the psalm, De Profundis, he prayed at great length for each member of his household, dwelling over long upon many unnecessary things, though I gave little heed to his words, for my heart has not risen in prayer for twenty-four hours, and I will not use the hollow mockery of mere form. I was glad when he reached that part of his petition where he gives due thanks for the blessing of basket and store, for I knew the end could not be far off, and more glad when the "Amen" was uttered and the weary meaningless ceremony over. 
               I wandered, dejected and spiritless, about the garden until I heard that Cotton Mather was in the house, and that my sister was summoned before him. I crept in and listened to this examination. Allison protested that she was innocent before God and Heaven, and denied the charges wholly. Aunt Martha seemed beside herself with grief. Uncle Ebenezer has enclosed his heart in a case of adamant. They placed Allison within sight of Ruth, and her distress was so great and convincing that even my hard heart was moved to pity her. She tore great locks of hair from her head and cried out, in those dreadful dismal tones that are truly demoniac in their sound: 
               "Pins and needles-red-hot needles are thrust through and through my head and in my heart! Save me, father! Help me, mother! Deadly serpents are raising their fangs! Save me! Save me!" 
               When the name of the Lord was mentioned she became worse, but whenever Allison was in sight every sign and bad symptom increased with fearful violence. If she raised her hand, Ruth did the same; or made any movement of her body, Ruth imitated it immediately. Aunt Martha held Ruth in her arms, she wiped the damp moisture from her brow, and Allison, stepping forward where she could plainly be seen, said firmly and boldly: 
               "I am no witch. I have no familiarity with Satan or his minions; I know not what a witch is. I am guiltless of my cousin's suffering. I am a poor, helpless, innocent creature. May God have mercy on me, seeing that men have none!" 
               She raised her eyes to heaven, as if appealing for confirmation of this declaration, and all noted that Ruth also turned her eyes upward until the whites alone could be seen. 
               Master Mather's face bore an anxious expression; he seemeth to regard my sister with great pity. There is no harshness in his voice; since I have seen him with Allison I trust her fate more willingly in his hands; and as they stood face to face, the accused and the accuser, for the first time, I thought I would not have had them change places had this been possible. Her trust is in God, and she believes that He will never let her be confounded while her own heart is conscious of its innocence. 
                
               Uncle Ebenezer and Cotton Mather held a long and secret consultation, and then Allison again was summoned before them. I would have gone with her, but my uncle forbade it, and she begged me to acquiesce gently to his will. 
               "Be calm, dear heart," she said. "It is not so terrible. Cotton Mather is a just man; his manner is mild and gentle, and now my worst fears have been disarmed. He has said that he comes with the Word of God and prayer, I dread neither of these weapons." 
               So she left me. An hour passed away, and when she returned she was more cheerful than before, and told me that it was arranged that she should return to Boston-town with Master Mather. He would take her to his own house till her innocence was fully established, and Ruth had recovered from her disorder. 
               "He hath been very kind. I will go willingly," she said, "since Master Mather hath been good enough to say that he misdoubts my guilt. Pray for me without ceasing. Poor Ruth dislikes me; it is plainly seen that my presence distresses her, and doubtless if I am no longer under the same roof, her antipathy will be removed." 
               I was vexed, seeing her so calm and placid when she was about thrusting her head into a den of lions, as it were; for, although Cotton Mather may regard her now compassionately, how will it be with the other godly gentlemen, if she be brought before them on trial? Master Campbell said the Puritan is merciless. 
               I ran to my uncle and pleaded with him; I wished to be taken to Boston with my sister. He resisted my importunities, and Master Mather bade me compose my mind and tranquilize my heart with the balm of prayer. Allison besought me to be calm for her sake. 
               "It will all be well, dear heart," she said, as she bade me farewell. "I shall soon return; if I am not permitted to do so, you will come to me. They will not separate us long; of that I am certain. Have I not ever said that Uncle Ebenezer has a noble, kind heart?" 
               I saw her depart on a pillion with Master Mather. I watched them until a turn in the lane shut them out of sight; then I went into my own lonely lean-to chamber, where I have been ever since. And now that this thing has certainly come to pass which has been haunting me for days, I have made a firm resolve, which I shall carry out this very night, if I live so long. 
               My uncle hath not love enough for us in his heart to preserve her from danger and disgrace; otherwise he could not have allowed her to leave the shelter of his roof with a stain resting on her fair fame. If pity were in his heart, it would have been aroused when she appealed to him for mercy and protection. I will not trust to his tender mercies, for they are cruel. My aunt cares not for the motherless girl who has been four years a faithful and obedient servant, or she would have opened her lips in her behalf. Her heart is stony. The only tenderness she hath in her nature is for Ruth, her only child; and Ruth accuses Allison of being the cause and maker of all this woful mischief. I pity poor Ruth; her misguided reason and distorted brain have brought her to this pitiful condition. She has never loved Allison, but she knows not what evil has been wrought by her fantastical imaginations. I do not love my uncle; I care nought for my aunt; I would willingly never lay my eyes upon Ruth again. This night, under cover of darkness, I will steal away from this roof; it shall never again shelter me; I cannot sleep beneath it, knowing that the master and owner has ejected my sister from her only home, and exposed her to the judgment of harsh and cruel men. I will no longer accept benefits or charity from such hard hearts. 
               I will be quiet and patient until the time comes; no living person shall know my secret. I will walk to Boston-town, and follow Allison to prison or to death. We cannot be severed; we have lived together, and no one shall now separate us. I do not so much as lift my eyes to Heaven; prayer dies away upon my lips. The blessings of Providence bestowed upon me are naught to me now. No Scripture passage affords me comfort. They have taken her away. Had Allison only prayed for deliverance, all might have been well. I am not righteous; therefore it may be that my petition was ineffectual and has not availed anything. I will leave my clothes, save these I wear, behind me; my uncle shall have them again, they were his gifts. I care little what misfortune befalls me now in the world; if I can only reach Allison's side, they shall not drag me from her. My uncle will discover all when I have gone, and understand that I thrust back upon him the kindness which vanished before the presence of danger and sorrow. I will leave no clue behind me; perchance he may think that I have become distraught and thrown myself into the mill-pond. That may give him a pang; but, no-his heart is chained to his conscience; it will respond to no other call. Heaven forgive him-but I have said I would pray no more. Farewell, little lean-to. I wish the hours would creep on faster, so that I might sooner escape from this hateful roof. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               COTTON MATHER believed that Satan had caused the singular disorder that prevailed at Salem Farms. His connection with the witchcraft delusion is now regarded as a stain upon his fair fame, and otherwise irreproachable character, and in the light of the nineteenth century, the honest men, who spent hours of conscientious praying and fasting over the unfortunate victims of a mysterious epidemic, were themselves given over to believe a lie and delusion. If Cotton Mather was superstitious in this matter, so also were many of his brethren of the Christian Church at that day. In some respects the world has since then grown wiser; but men discover the mistakes of their predecessors only by the development of years-and the wisdom which has not been gained suddenly, is often the result of bitter experience. We may be wise in our own conceits, which two hundred years hence, may also be classed with the ignorant errors of the past. Only the virtues of faith, hope and charity can stand the test of time, and the exercise of the greatest of these was in a measure neglected by good men, whose minds were still fettered by chains of superstition, forged for them by their ancestors. Old England had provided severe laws against witchcraft, and her Puritan children in the New World carried out the rules of the mother country. 
               Cotton Mather had taken the afflicted, or accused persons, in several cases, to his own house, for the purpose of exorcising the demon, or inducing the guilty to confess and relinquish the fearful practice of tormenting their fellow-creatures by the power obtained from the Evil One. The public mind was actively on the alert for new manifestations, connected with the disorder prevailing so extensively at Salem. Farms and other places, and when it was rumored that a veritable witch had been taken under the special care of the worthy divine, as great an excitement pervaded the community as if the colonial charter had been granted by the King. 
               Ebenezer Fairfax was well known as a citizen of honor and integrity, as well as a consistent member of the church, and the general curiosity increased, when it was reported that the culprit and afflicted were both inmates of his own household. Much to the annoyance of Cotton Mather, the news had been spread far and wide, and his efforts to avoid unnecessary exposure, and shield the misery of an unhappy family from greater publicity, were in vain. 
                
               The picture of a devout and learned man, undertaking conscientiously and in good faith to expel or exorcise the Prince of Darkness from a young woman by the power of prayer, now excites ridicule. We cannot realize the universal belief in sorcery-a relic of the Dark Ages-which at that day ran through every nation, often bursting out in foul deeds of cruel injustice, and ignorant sacrifice of the innocent. 
               Those who had heard by some means that the afflicted and the witch were to be brought face to face in the house of Cotton Mather, repeated the rumor, and a miscellaneous crowd of youths, busybodies, do-nothings, and fellows of the baser sort, collected near the house of the minister, hoping to gratify their curiosity by obtaining items of information, or a glimpse of some of the parties concerned in the sad tragedy. The silent crowd, like a snowball, caught and detained the passers-by, but if any surmises were made, they were neither loud nor lively. This was a sober business, in which each person felt a personal interest, as what had befallen one, might happen to any other, and this would be no comedy, if enacted for their benefit. 
               A short, thick-set sailor was among the foremost of the spectators. Standing upon a stone, he thus raised himself to a level with his tallest neighbors. Jack, supposing that Allison Beresford was to be carried to the home of Cotton Mather, resolved to make a final effort for her, by exciting the sympathy of the people. 
               "I have seen this witch, mates," he began in a low but distinct voice, as his hearers pressed closer and listened eagerly. "She is a fearful beldame, with a scowling eye and nose like a pot-hook; she beareth a black cat upon her left shoulder; she hath a wart over her right eye, also under her chin." Every ear was bent in his direction; he raised his voice so that all might plainly hear. 
               "She hath poisoned the cattle, and bewitched the daughter of a godly man. Mark me, friends, if it be not as I have said, a grievous error is made; the innocent will suffer, and the guilty will go free. Look well to it, for I have seen this witch many times. A cat on her left shoulder, a wart over her left eye, also one under her chin. If the description fails, then the godly Master Mather himself is deluded by Satan. Friends, mark me! distinguish the witch by these signs." 
               A murmur of disapprobation arose at this bold language, and it might have swelled formidably, but the sound of approaching wheels diverted the attention of his audience, and Jack, dismounting from his rostrum, also eagerly pressed forward with the others to obtain a sight of the supposed witch. 
               Cotton Mather's brow darkened as he opened his door, and saw the crowd of idle gazers, and he said, as he assisted Ebenezer Fairfax and his wife in carrying the almost unconscious form of their daughter Ruth to his house. 
               "Truly the ancient Athenians have many imitators in the folk of Boston-town. May the reed which they have come out to see be shaken by the power of the Holy Spirit." 
               "My heart knoweth its own bitterness. Cannot these persons be dispersed? I would that no stranger intermeddled with my grief at this moment," said Ebenezer Fairfax. 
               "Disperse! Disperse ye, idle children of the marketplace! If favors are to be demanded or desires granted, come at a more convenient season!" 
               The idlers fell back at Cotton Mather's words, but only a short distance, where they could still look on but not be seen so prominently. 
               "Said I not so?" exclaimed Jack, mounting upon the stone as the door closed, without his having succeeded in gaining a single glimpse of the supposed prisoner. 
               "This was no hag. I can swear to that, for have I not seen the witch with mine own eyes?" 
               "She has doubtless bewitched thee also," said a voice in the crowd. "For this was a young woman, and there was no cat on her shoulder, either white, black or gray." 
               "Ah! did I not say it? Master Mather with all his schooling, hath this time mistaken the witch. And beside, how can a holy and devout gentleman know the servants of the Prince of Darkness?" said the sailor, who was no longer listened to with attention, for all were expressing their own comments and opinions upon what had been seen. 
               "Can the Evil One dwell in so youthful a form?" murmured an old man, trembling with years and infirmities. "I have heard that only the aged gave themselves over to Satan." 
               "Master Campbell misliketh this scene," remarked another, pointing to a young man, who, leaning against a tree, was regarding the crowd at a short distance. "It hath been said that he is a scoffer Verily Satan can disguise himself in any form, even as an angel of light, I have heard, and this maiden, though young, may yet wear the livery of the Evil One." 
               The sailor descended again from his step, and, going to Joshua Campbell, he whispered: 
               "Cheer up! cheer up! or else you also will be accused of having been bewitched by a fair face. Keep a steady head in this foul wind; all is not lost; the clouds will blow aside, though the squall is upon us." 
               "What are the fools gaping at? They have seen Master Mather's mansion before. I will await my uncle; I must speak with him to-day." 
               "He shall learn a bit of my mind as well," muttered Jack, sauntering near the gate, waiting also for Ebenezer Fairfax to issue from the house. 
               They did not wait long before he came, having left his daughter and turned homewards. His face was stern and sad, but his figure was erect and upright, as if no burden Heaven was pleased to place upon the shoulders of his servant was over heavy or too hard to be borne. 
               "Master," said Jack, detaining him for a moment as he passed, "I am no schollard in the Scripture, but a text or two has been running in my head latterly. Have I not often heard these words from the lips of holy man: 'Judge not, that ye be not judged?' and also, that a merciful man is merciful to a dumb beast who cannot speak for itself; and will ye not show mercy to a human who declares her innocence with the tongue given by the Maker?" 
               "Get thee to thine own business! Detain me no further; and practise the Scripture thou canst quote so glibly!" returned Ebenezer Fairfax, in a harsh voice. 
               "My betters must preach as much and practise as little as they please, then. Where is the need of learning aright?" 
               Before an answer was returned he glided away, and was lost in the crowd who stood watching, with open eyes and mouths, the figures of Ebenezer Fairfax and his nephew, as they walked rapidly away from the spot. 
               The sailor for the third time mounted the horse block, while his listeners again closed around him. 
               "Which of you all has a mind to be hung, drawn, drowned or quartered for dealings with the Evil One? Has any man an enemy?-let him look well to the matter. See to it, men and women, that ye be not the next one which our worshipful ministers deem worthy of punishment. If ye have cracks in your doors, holes in your windows, stop them up, for suspicious eyes are peeping through. Ye are watched. If ye have a lame foot, beware! If your eye be squinted, beware! Starve your child to death, if it be deformed, or a worse fate will befall both of you? Kill every cat, white, black, yellow or gray. They be used as instruments against you. Throw them to the bottom of Boston Harbor; dead cats tell no tales." 
               "The cat o' nine tails hath a tale for thee," shouted a voice in the audience. The speaker heard it, but was not at all disconcerted, and proceeded: 
               "Ay, it may be that I will bear it more readily than ye will receive the judgment awarded to wizards; look well to it that it can be borne without flinching. I tell all within the sound of my voice-I swear by all held solemn, that a mistake hath been made; this young woman is not the witch that should have been arrested." 
               A glimpse of the town beadle, invested with the insignia of office, here interrupted the speaker; his listeners dispersed quickly in different directions, and before the beadle reached the stone block only a few boys and women who had been hanging like a fringe upon the outskirts of the crowd remained, and found themselves suddenly the principal occupants of the scene. 
                
               "How is this?" The beadle shook his stick at one or two urchins who hid themselves behind their mothers' gowns. "Is a turbulent and ill-conditioned assembly to disport and riot in the very face and presence of this godly minister? Where is the fellow who hath raised this disturbance?" 
               No one answered. Jack not waiting to be dispersed, had betaken himself to flight, and the children slunk away under cover of their mothers' protecting garments. 
               Whatever thoughts were uppermost in Ebenezer Fairfax's mind, he gave no utterance to them as his nephew joined him and walked for some minutes by his side in silence, until they reached the tavern in which his horses were stabled. There he paused. 
               "Will you return to South Meadows to-day?" asked the younger man. 
               "Such is my intention, if it be the will of Heaven. Misery and affliction have come over me. I do not avoid this; I say, though my head is in the dust, and my heart in deep waters, 'It is the will of the Lord-let Him do what seemeth to Him good.'" 
               "My Cousin Ruth is no better?" 
               "She is worse; soul and body are barely kept together. No art of leech can fathom or arrest this mysterious disorder; there is no relief for the sorely distressed and bewildered spirit. In the Lord alone do I put all my trust; He is stronger than the powers of darkness." 
               "Is not God as near and as able to hear and answer prayer at South Meadows as in Boston-town, under the roof of Cotton Mather?" 
               His uncle regarded him with displeasure. 
               "What further have you to say, Joshua Campbell?" 
               "I would ask that in pity for an orphan, your heart may not be so steeled against her as to deliver her over the judgment of men who may condemn her to death." 
               "I have never been deemed cruel and unjust save perchance by my niece Ida, who, I hear, has found shelter under your roof." 
               "I make no accusations; I ask you to remember mercy. I have indeed taken the child under the shelter of my aunt's protection and kindness; wild horses will not drag her back to your care." 
               His uncle's face grew very pale. He struggled with the violent passion which agitated his, features, and after a pause replied: 
               "Go home, and in confession and penitence ask the Lord to open the eyes of thy benighted understanding. Thy feet are standing in slippery places; infidelity and skepticism struggle for a heart which is not wholly devoid of manly graces and virtues; may it become a fit dwelling-place for the Holy Spirit." 
               He turned away; his nephew would have detained him longer, but he added: 
               "Nay, I have neither time nor inclination for other words. I ask wisdom of God touching this and all other matters; follow my counsel. Farewell!" 
                
               He was gone; arguments were useless with this conscientious servant of the Master. Severely just, immovable as the everlasting hills where duty ruled. 
               "Truth and innocence do not always prevail; the scales of justice lean with the hand that balanceth them," muttered Joshua Campbell as he went his way. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               A WEEK passed away, and Allison Beresford remained in the house and under the immediate influence of Cotton Mather, and still asserted that she was wholly innocent of the charges brought against her. Cotton Mather had only made use of prayer and exhortations to confession; these having failed, he felt that it was necessary to resort to other and more severe measures. His faith was strong, and his prayers, though puerile and ill advised, were earnest and urged by honest conviction. When they failed to receive the desired answer, he believed that Satan still held his servant in thraldom, and that good would come out of evil, and the cause of truth ultimately prevail. 
               The symptoms of Ruth's disorder were unabated, and in the wanderings of a deceased brain she openly accused her cousin of causing her pain and affliction. Free confession must be obtained from the witch before she could be relieved; and as a last test it was resolved to place the accused and accuser face to face in the presence of reliable witnesses; and for this purpose Ruth had been conveyed to the house of Cotton Mather. 
               Having a firm faith in a wise, overruling Providence, and conscious of her own integrity, Allison calmly awaited the result of her trial. She had no fear of Cotton Mather-convinced by her intercourse with him that his zeal, though misguided, was excited by an excess of pity and compassion for all unfortunates. A heart more ignoble or unprincipled might have given way to his gentle importunities and confessed to guilt, which existed only in the imagination. Others had been urged to do this. Some through terror, many in their perplexity and consternation, had been brought over to the belief that they were indeed the cause of inexplicable misery and suffering, and perjured their weak consciences by an acknowledgment of such crimes. 
               The light stole in through the hearts cut in the heavy wooden shutters of the room in Cotton Mather's house in which the trial would take place. It was as cheerful and attractive as the ordinary comforts enjoyed by the Puritan allowed, but the sunshine straggled in feebly, flickering upon the sombre carpet, polished andirons, and bright blue chimney tiles. 
               Cotton Mather was seated by a small round table; an open Bible lay before him. Judge Stoughton and Samuel Willard, two elders of his church, men of years and discretion, sat one on either side. Sin could not be tampered with; justice must be administered istered. These were not men who were easily swerved from the path of duty; their characters were upright and unblemished, and they served God to the best of their ability, according to their day and generation. 
               "This case hath called for extraordinary prayer," said Cotton Mather, as they awaited the arrival of Ebenezer Fairfax. "I have acquainted four ministers of the town with it, earnestly desiring them that they, with some other praying people of God, would meet at my house, and there be earnest with God on the behalf of this poor family." 
               "Has no confession been made?" asked Judge Stoughton. 
               "Far from it. I have asked my judgment these questions: Whether it be not possible for the devil to impose on the imagination of persons bewitched, and to cause them to believe that an innocent person-yea, a pious one-does torment them, when the devil himself doth it. Or whether Satan may not appear in the shape of an innocent and pious, as well as in that of a wicked person, to afflict such as suffer by diabolical molestations. The answer to that question must be affirmative." 
               "How hath the afflicted suffered since the removal of her tormenter? from spasm fits, or spectres and the like?" said Judge Stoughton. 
               "Her suffering hath been chiefly bodily. My heart is filled with excess of pity for both maidens. Oh, let our hearts rise into a high pitch of importunity tunity, and beware lest we practice witchcraft to discover witches! While we fight devils let us be filled with compassion for poor mortals." 
               "I would prescribe fasting and prayer with patience before any harsher means are tried," said Samuel Willard. 
               "Yea," returned Cotton Mather. "An exceeding tenderness towards the accused, especially as she hath borne an unblemished reputation." 
               "Perchance the devil himself hath charmed the tongue of his minion," suggested Stoughton. 
               "She useth the name of God. She readeth her Bible and the Book of Common Prayer," returned Cotton Mather. 
               "Then she is an Episcopal. They are ever bound more to the letter than the spirit of the word," said Judge Stoughton. 
               "This is not strange," interrupted Willard. "Many of the minions of Satan who have brought about this dire mischief in the land have worn an apparent garb of innocence and holiness outwardly, but in the case of the afflicted I have seen, the name of anything good and holy would not be endured. In the case of the Godwin children, their shrieks and hallooings drowned the voice of devotion. And those children, the parents said, had ever loved every good thing in a measure that proclaims in them a fear of God. I have heard much of their odd pranks. They flew like geese through the air, having just their toes now and then on the ground. One of them flew the length of a room, twenty feet long, none seeing her feet touch the floor at that time. They threw themselves down stairs and jumped into the fire and water. Verily, their perils and dangers were so many, I have been led to consider whether these little ones had not angels, in the plain sense of our Saviour's intimation, sent to them for deliverance." 
               "All this thou hast seen?" questioned George Stoughton. 
               "Nay, not all, but so much that I count that man ignorant if he suspect, and I shall count him downright impudent if he assert the non-existence of things which so many have had such palpable convictions of." 
               "The Scripture asserts, and experience confirms, that witches are the common enemies of mankind, and set upon mischief. Otherwise, why is it written, 'The witch shall die?'" said Cotton Mather, as if arguing the question against his own opinions. 
               "We have," he added, "the return of the several ministers who were consulted by his Excellency and the Honorable Council upon the present witchcraft in Salem Farms, embracing the question in all its bearings. The Lord give us wisdom for our statutes and the exercise of righteous Judgment! The return hath strictly defined and pointed out the punishment of the accused. But, my brothers, this is the direst spectacle we have had in contemplation tion; the witch, if she be so indeed, is of tender years and of very comely appearance." 
               "The devil seeth to that; God Almighty looketh at the heart," said Judge Stoughton. "Favor is deceitful and beauty vain." 
               "It is true; but hear me further. The heart of our worthy friend, Ebenezer Fairfax, is torn by conflicting emotions. Affection holds him back; duty urges him on; like God's servants of old, he hath gone to his Master for wisdom. Let us be just, but let us also be pitiful." 
               "While the evil spreadeth like wildfire, and the devil roameth at his will, as he did in the land of Uz," answered Stoughton. 
               The door opened as he spoke, and Martha Fairfax, with her husband and daughter, entered. Ruth was borne in her father's arms; he gently deposited her in an arm-chair, supporting her fainting form, while his wife held her head, and from time to time wiped the moisture that settled upon her pallid brow, though the day was raw and chilly. Fasting, sleepless nights, the excitement of her nerves, and constant use of stimulants, had left Ruth pale and emaciated; her eyes were closed, but when she heard her name she opened them wide, and flashed a wild, bewildered glance upon the sympathizing group who were looking with pitiful interest upon the bewitched maiden. She closed them immediately with a deep groan, as if pained by the daylight. 
               "Brethren," said Cotton Mather, "let us pray." 
                
               All rose, save Ruth and her mother, who, kneeling, supported her daughter's head, while the sighs and moans of the afflicted continued without intermission. The speaker's soul mounted on the wings of prayer, and in the petition there was an eager, earnest entreaty that the Evil One might be driven away, and that Allison, his minion, who had been induced to further the designs of the arch adversary, might make an open and free confession of guilt for the relief of her suffering cousin. The Puritan mind was slow in acknowledging a possibility of being in error; and in the prayer there were few earnest entreaties for light and wisdom to guide them in their counsels, and if any doubts perplexed them, they were dispelled at the conclusion of the petition, and each one felt better prepared by its unction and power to resist the wiles of Satan and judge righteous judgment. 
               "I would ask," said Elder Willard, at the end of the prayer, "if a skilful leech hath been consulted, and if physic hath proved ineffectual in this case? It cannot be denied that the maiden is sorely afflicted." 
               "Alas!" said Martha Fairfax, with tears. "Nothing can be swallowed. For the space of two weeks she has not secured an hour of healthful slumber, nor taken a spoonful of wholesome diet. She snatches a few moments of fitful and uneasy rest, ever disturbed by odd fantasies and horrible visions. Her body is wholly wasted away by the disorder of her spirit." 
               "Whom hath she accused?" questioned Samuel Willard, with great sympathy. 
               "My niece, Allison Beresford; she alone." Ebenezer Fairfax had taken his position. His voice was cold and stern; he would not be shaken by any rising waves of passion or affection. 
               "My daughter hath suffered greatly since February," continued her mother. "She has had pains in her head, back, and all over her body. She has been pinched by the apparition of Sing Bird, a heathen woman who, I now fully believe, did long since bind herself over to Satan before her decease. I have seen the black and blue marks with my own eyes. And now my husband's niece is ever standing by her side; behind her is the devil, in the form of a black man, or a great hog, or a little dog. Once he was seen in the form of a yellow-bird; and all these guises come ever with the personal apparition of my husband's niece Allison. When she was removed the evil continued. The pinching and choking have, indeed, ofttimes been augmented. My husband had talk with my niece, how the name of God and the church and religion was dishonored by her means; but she seemed in no wise concerned on that account, but only to stop the mouths of people who would say this thing of her. She told us she did not think there were any witches; and we could not blame her as to that, as she hath made a profession of Christ, albeit an Episcopal, and rejoiced to go and hear the word of God; though I knew an outward profession would not clear her from being a witch, since witches have crept into the church. She had more discourse on this matter, and ever made her profession a cloak to cover all." 
               She sat down, weeping bitterly, and Cotton Mather, rising, added: 
               "From former argumentations, we have seen that Scripture aideth and instructeth us in all things necessary. We have fallen upon troublous times-for our many transgressions, we do suppose. It may be a method by which, in the severe but just transactions of God, He even now sometimes may permit Satan to personate, dissemble and thereby abuse innocents and such as do, in the fear of God, defy the devil and all his works. The great rage he is permitted to tempt holy Job with; the abuse he does the famous Samuel in disquieting his silent dust, by shadowing his venerable person, in answer to the charms of witchcraft, and other instances from good hands, may be urged; besides the unsearchable footsteps of God's judgments, which are brought to light every morning to astonish weaker reasons and to teach us adoration and dependence. We cannot go into God's pavilion, clothed with clouds of darkness round about. Praised be His holy name, who preserveth the souls of His saints, should the body be given over into the cruel power of Satan! We have mortals among us like Judas, who have eaten the sop of Satan. The Scripture is imperative; the witch shall die." 
               "Mercy is an attribute of Jehovah," murmured Samuel Willard. 
               "My friends, I would fain move your hearts to pity," said Cotton Mather; "but in this case justice perchance may struggle hard to be heard. The maiden is young; I have said she was comely; she hath also apparent innocence and guilelessness. Alas! we know over-well that the Prince of Darkness is capable of assuming many and divers garbs; he dareth to put on the livery of an angel of light. In wrath remember mercy, but our souls may be moved to an undue compassion. If we believe-and who can doubt?-that detestable arts have been practised upon this afflicted person, we also believe that some person must be brought to account." 
               A groan from Ruth gave assent to his, words. All remained in silence until Judge Stoughton exclaimed: 
               "Let the accused be brought forth and face the accuse!" 
               Cotton Mather rose and left the room, and in a few moments returned, leading Allison Beresford by the hand. Standing before the judges, he placed her face to face with her Cousin Ruth. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               THE easy bearing and calm manner of the supposed witch might have disarmed her judges, had they not been previously advised that Satan in this child of sin wore the guise of an angel of light. She paused, uncertain of her position in the little assembly. 
               "Stand opposite the afflicted person, Allison Beresford," commanded Cotton Mather, "and acknowledge at last that thou hast been tempted, like Eve the mother of all living, by the same serpent, to sin against thy soul, for purposes of thine own we wot not of. Speak, maiden; renounce the devil, and make full confession of thy guilt." 
               At the sound of her cousin's name, Ruth opened her eyes; her lip quivered; her face darkened and became distorted with painful twitchings and contortions. The spectators were watching each closely. Allison made no answer. She raised her eyes to Heaven, as if appealing for aid and protection; her lips moved in silent prayer. Ruth watched every motion; she raised her eyes also until the whites only were visible; her lips also moved, and when Allison looked down, she lowered her own again. All this was plainly seen and noted. 
               "Speak; confess that thou hast been led astray. Prayer and fasting may yet lead thee back from the vile path thou hast entered." 
               She opened her lips; she sighed; she vainly essayed to speak, but at the moment language failed; her words seemed frozen; and Ruth, to the great horror of all, followed every gesture involuntarily in dumb show. 
               "Surely, this is strong proof," said Samuel Willard, sadly. "Verily, I would have doubted this had my own eyes not witnessed it." 
               "Let us not rush to hasty conclusions," said Judge Stoughton, and then turning to Allison, "Let not shame prevent thee from an open acknowledgment of sin. Give over at once this devil's vile amusement." 
               Her courage returned, and she said in a distinct, clear voice: 
               "I am no witch; I have no familiarity with the devil. Before Heaven, I am as innocent as any in this place. I know not what a witch is." 
               Her words were scarcely noticed; every eye was turned upon Ruth, whose features became fearfully disfigured at the sound of her cousin's voice; great beads of perspiration stood upon her brow, and she sighed and groaned as if in agony of body and spirit. 
               "Remember! Renounce thy dealings with the Evil One," cried Cotton Mather, with unusual sternness; "torture this distressed soul no longer. Canst thou deny the charge with such proof before thy eyes?" 
               "I am no witch; I cannot lie, even to please godly gentlemen," she returned, proudly. 
               "We are empowered to deliver thee to prison; yea, the law commands us to sentence death upon the abettors of this mischief. As guardians of the public weal, and in consideration and compassion for the afflicted, we would in duty arrest this horrible crime." 
               A long silence followed this exhortation by Judge Stoughton, broken only by Ruth's sighs and groans. Cotton Mather felt himself faltering in the administration of justice. 
               "It may be that Ebenezer Fairfax has somewhat to say," he said, delaying the sentence of the prisoner in the hope that some favor might be exercised in her behalf, although the proofs of guilt were strong. 
               Ebenezer Fairfax rose; he fixed a steady glance upon his niece. 
               "My friends, it hath been said to-day that we cannot enter God's pavilion clothed with thick darkness and clouds round about. I would fain sift this matter to the bottom and find the dregs of sin if they be in it. Human nature cries, Spare! and I am too weak in spiritual graces to cut off the right hand which offends the salvation of a soul. Satan hath led my niece into dark and intricate mazes of guilt. Great sorrow hath been wrought, but-" 
               He hesitated, and then continued as if pausing to bring forth fresh arguments to urge his mind to a righteous conclusion: 
               "Nay, I will speak freely. I would not condemn the accused, my sister's child, to death. Imprisonment may drive the powers of darkness from her frail soul. Her sex is ever weak, prone to fall as the sparks to fly upward. Let this measure be adopted; I would for the present advise no other. The Scripture, it is true, has said, 'The witch shall not live,' also 'A man's foes shall be they of his own household.' Am I too weak? God hath smitten me heavily. His will be done." 
               "Let her be sentenced to two weeks' imprisonment, with prison fare, and a daily examination and attendance from a prudent and godly adviser," said Cotton Mather, secretly relieved that the sentence was not heavier, nor decided by himself. Others who had been condemned on less evidence had suffered the extreme penalty of the law; and, as he led Allison from the room, a prayer of thankfulness rose in his heart, if it did not escape from his lips. 
               Allison looked appealingly into her uncle's face as she passed him, but his eyes were bent upon the floor, and his set, firm expression convinced her that entreaties for mercy would be vain and useless. His heart was very heavy as he turned homewards with his wife and daughter. He had looked for a different ent result of this trial. His prayers had not been answered according to his desires. He would have had it otherwise. 
               "Not as I will, but as Thou wilt," he murmured, placing the burdens and sorrows of life in the hands of the Almighty Disposer and Controller of every event. Human nature urged her claims strongly; he had not been as clay in the hands of the potter; his will was not wholly bent to the storm which was trying his soul. In vain he strove to banish the picture of his orphan niece, in a damp, dark, comfortless cell, with prison fare, and spiritual comforts and exhortations administered by Cotton Mather. 
               "Can it be that Satan hath secured so firm a lodgment in so fair a vessel?" asked Elder Willard, as the door closed upon the retiring forms of the Fairfax family. "Truly, what I have witnessed with my own eyes this day passes ordinary belief." 
               "It was the same with Eliza Williams, of Salem Farms," replied Judge Stoughton; "but she was brought to acknowledge the fact that a thing with ahead like a woman, with two legs and wings, which afterwards changed into other shapes, and bade her pinch children, and, if an opportunity presented, to kill them with a knife, came flying towards her on sticks through the air." 
               "Was she as comely, as distressful in exciting compassion, as this person?" asked Elder Willard. 
               "Nay, she might have reached the age of fifty. In figure and visage she was lean and ill-favored, and a defect in her vision produced a similar squint in the eyes of the bewitched." 
               "And was she condemned?" 
               "She was; stoutly denying her guilt to the last. I visited her in prison," added Cotton Mather, "and wrestled in prayer by her side; if it had not been for the charge of witchery I could have found no cause for complaint in the poor creature." 
               "Bread and water is meagre diet. The prison is damp and comfortless at this season; this young person seemeth fragile in body," resumed Elder Willard. 
               "If she still holds communion with the devil, he will see to it that she does not suffer. If she should by any accident be found innocent, the afflicted maiden will shortly recover," replied Judge Stoughton. 
               "So young, so fair, and yet so frail!" murmured the compassionate elder. 
               "The bright eyes and fair skin of a woman hath often caused great mischief," returned Judge Stoughton. "Beware of her toils!" 
               "From the first of this sad business my pity hath been sorely moved," said Cotton Mather. "Satan is ever at my elbow, urging me to tamper with my duty. It is a distressful case; but God will not cast away a perfect man, neither will he help the evil-doers." 
               Elder Willard started, rubbed his eyes as if to dispel a gathering illusion, and murmured to himself, as he left the house: 
               "It may be-it may; but my heart is strangely moved to pity." 
               Soon after Allison Beresford, in charge of Cotton Mather, was conveyed to the town jail, and placed in solitary confinement, and the great door clashed harshly on its hinges, closing upon another victim of man's obstinate credulity and ignorance. 
               Joshua Campbell saw the divine issue from the sullen, silent building, where he knew the prisoner was consigned. 
               "I will save her yet, in spite of herself and her superstitious judges," he muttered, gazing at the grim walls. "I will snatch her from their clutches if I die in the attempt." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               WITHIN the narrow space of her prison cell Allison Beresford for the first time fully realized that vain indeed was the help of man. Her uncle was pitiless; he had steeled his heart against the calls of compassion and mercy. She knew him too well to believe longer that his duty would succumb to any affection he had for his niece. His wife, wrapped up in the misery of her daughter, was indifferent to Allison's fate, and moreover firmly believed that Ruth was bewitched, and her illness the result of Allison's dealings with the Evil One. Cotton Mather would exhort her to the daily exercise of prayer, and urge her to confession, in hopes of driving Satan away and obtaining relief for Ruth. He would spare no toil nor pain in her behalf. He would rescue her from the Satanic power; but if not successful, if Ruth did not recover, if her lips remained sealed, she might expect the punishment which had already fallen upon many equally innocent who had been accused of witchcraft. She was ignorant of Ida's fate; but an impulsive, impatient child would be of no avail in extricating her from her dangerous position, though she would willingly risk her life to save her sister. In the quiet prison she had time for reflection. The one friend who would have served her manfully and devotedly had been repelled. Joshua Campbell's offers of assistance were declined; by accepting them, she would have placed herself under an obligation that could not be cancelled. She had walked straight on in the path of honor and strict integrity, and found that it ended in the gloomy walls of a prison. 
               To Allison Beresford the only deliverance from her present situation depended upon her cousin's recovery. She puzzled over Ruth's mysterious disorder, but her reason had not been nourished like that of the Puritans, upon religious metaphysics. They would peer beyond the veil, and boldly open, if it were possible, the clasp of mysteries; she believed simply that God would take care in his own way of all who put their trust in him. This comprised the sum and substance of her doctrine. Faithlessness and disbelief in God and Satan will doubtless prevent our age from stumbling in the quagmire in which the early Puritans floundered. Its grotesque and disastrous consequences stained the fame of Christian men and women, whose faults needed pruning and whose virtues cultivating. Feeling our own weakness and shortcomings, we should not willingly add contumely upon God-fearing, honest est characters, hoping that in our turn we may be leniently judged by coming generations. 
               Science and animal magnetism have partially solved the obscure problem of the witchcraft delusion; years hence it may be explained more clearly. We cannot believe that all who proclaimed themselves bewitched were cold-blooded hypocrites; would not have been carried to the length of giving over their fellows to punishment and death. Some were, doubtless, hypocrites; others were ignorant; a few, perhaps, used accusations of witchcraft as a cloak to cover a malicious and revengeful scheme; but civilized human nature, on the whole, would recoil from such atrocity. 
               Misguided views, combined with a nervous disease of singular nature, produced unfortunate and unnatural results. The subject was a tangled mystery to Allison Beresford. She could not doubt that Ruth suffered physically and mentally, neither could she deny that she possessed an unhappy and mysterious influence over her unfortunate cousin. 
               She could not fathom what had perplexed the wisest men of the age-her uncle was just; her aunt not wilfully weak nor wicked, Cotton Mather and his associates were conscientious persons. The only alternative remained of believing that another, more unfortunate than herself, because guilty, had obtained this influence over Ruth, though she strove to reject such suspicions which might also criminate the innocent. 
                
               The long and tedious hours of the day in her prison cell were followed by painful sleepless nights. Her rough bed, damp quarters, and improper diet, in a few days stamped their effects upon a frame naturally fragile and accustomed to regular and active exercise. A cough that had troubled her the previous winter returned; it racked her frame and disturbed her repose, though Cotton Mather, when he visited her cell, found her calm and peaceful and uncomplaining. Finding at each succeeding interview that exhortation to confession was useless, he devoted the time more assiduously to prayer for this lamb, albeit not of his own fold, who seemed bent upon playing with the evil flames. His heart was filled with pity; he would rescue her if possible from her perilous position. 
               "Far be it from me to put in practice the Malleus Maleficarum of ancient days," he said. "It is well known that the office of judge hath been thrust upon me; I have not willingly sought it, and if the word of God and prayer be not efficacious in this case, alas! whither shall I turn? In Scripture, we read, 'If the eye offend, pluck it out.' I would fain stretch forth my hand and snatch a frail creature from the paws of sin and death. In this I cannot be blamed." 
               "Words and arguments are useless," returned Allison. "I have asserted my innocence; Heaven can judge of the purity of my heart. I cannot explain how these strange things have come about, but I ever doubt that Satan has been permitted to wreak such ruin and mischief, since a calm and tranquil spirit has given me perfect peace of mind during my imprisonment, and I no longer fear what misguided men can do." 
               "Are thy prayers never clouded by the fumes of self-deception? Canst thou repeat the Lord's Prayer without stammering?" 
               "Nay," she answered; "it affords me daily comfort, and if by any means my tongue should stammer in uttering the sacred words, I am not the first or only stammerer in the world, Master Mather." 
               "Truly, I can attest to the contrary," he said; "for I was afflicted with the infirmity in my early youth." 
               "And you did not ascribe it to the influence of Satan?" 
               "No, but sent by Satan as a thorn in the flesh, to buffet me sorely at times. Happily, my good old dame taught me to overcome the impediment in a great measure." 
               "I have heard that in Old England, during the Long Parliament, three thousand persons perished by legal executions for the crime of witchcraft-" 
               "Sir Mathew Hale and Sir Thomas Browne, gentlemen learned in arguments metaphysical and theological, approved of all that was done," he interrupted hastily. "Alas! does this thought of three thousand lost souls in perdition afford you comfort now?" 
                
               "I would say that if the best Puritans condemned these unfortunates to death in Old England, I doubt if mercy be awarded to thirty in New England, who are in their hands." 
               "And what shall we say for all those who suffer in most distressful plight? Can you explain the suffering of Ruth Fairfax, or advise means for her recovery?" 
               "God has smitten her with a mysterious disease. I am no physician; otherwise I should endeavor, by the use and skill of medicines, to arrest the disorder. He who hath afflicted, may restore in his own good time. I may not live to see it; my times are in His hand, and His will be done." 
               "Allison Beresford, beware! Your feet may be standing upon slippery places; 'let him that standeth, take heed lest he fall.' Others have sinned and confessed their guilt." 
               "Heaven help them in either case! All this wearies me, Master Mather. I would not be shaken from my belief, neither would I willingly lose my confidence in my God, seeing that men have utterly failed me; more than this I cannot say. I speak for myself, not for others, and still rest upon an Arm mighty to save." 
               "It were useless to remain at this present time," said Cotton Mather, rising as he spoke; "but I will remember you in my most zealous prayers; in the words of the prophet Daniel, 'O Lord, hear! O Lord, forgive! O Lord, hearken and defer not, for thine own sake, O God!'" 
               "Truly it is a pleasant thing for the eyes to behold the sun," he murmured, as he went his way. "The weak reasoning of this maiden moveth me strangely; and yet Samson was caught in the snares of Delilah; the heart of Solomon was weakened by the arts and wiles of woman; and the most unworthy servant, Cotton Mather of Boston-town, hath not a nature of adamant. O Sun of Righteousness, may Thy wings indeed bear healing upon them!" 
               A week passed away, and his interest and sympathy daily increased, though he had as yet received no earnest of his zealous prayers offered both in the prison cell and in his quiet closet at home. The bright light of an autumn day was lighting up the outside world as he one morning entered Allison's place of confinement. The mist of Indian summer crept over the hazy landscape; nature was in a balmy, kindly mood. It was well to be out in the open air, and enjoy the gentle influences of the transient, dreamy season-the lull that comes before the sleep of winter fastens its fetters securely. The dingy, dim room and damp chill contrasted harshly with the life outside the prison walls. 
               When his eye became accustomed to the change of light, he noted that her cheeks glowed and her eyes sparkled with unusual brilliancy. "What power sustaineth her?" he soliloquized. "A week's confinement finement hath in no wise diminished her strength nor changed her comeliness." 
               She listened with indifference and apathy to his appeals; her attention was wandering. The answers given to his questions showed that her mind was bent upon other things, and, with a slight feeling of indignation at her obstinacy, he shortened the interview and prepared to depart. She sank back listless and dejected upon her hard couch; her attitude and bearing enlisted his sympathy. When would the Evil One relinquish his hold upon this frail daughter? 
               "Thou knowest well I would not be over stern in dealing with thee," he said. "I have endeavored to shield thee from worse disgrace and infamy; perchance it would have been better to have meted out a severer measure of justice at once." But he added with strange inconsistency: "Can I ease thy bodily comfort in any way? The Lord knoweth it is not in my mind to deny reasonable requests." 
               "I am content. I ask for no comforts; but bring my sister Ida to me; I will beg no greater favor." 
               "Thou canst not expect surely to have this request granted. Her innocent soul must not be contaminated; pitch cannot be touched without defilement." 
               "I have no more to say, this being the only wish I have on earth." 
               The door closed upon his retreating figure. "And yet her obstinate heart is very far from heavenly desires," he murmured. "What an excellent vessel for all good spiritual wishes and conditions, but, alas! perchance a whited sepulchre in very deed!" 
               He threw off the shiver received within the damp prison walls and walked on briskly, taking the sunny side of the narrow street. Suddenly a hand was placed upon his shoulder, and, turning, he faced Joshua Campbell. 
               "I would ask what fate awaits Allison Beresford, who is now imprisoned in yonder building?" asked the young man, pointing to the prison. 
               "Time and Providence will decide. Prayer hath wrought many miracles; in the old days no remedy was more efficacious." 
               "And yet Josephus, the Jewish historian, tells us that prayer was ever accompanied with the use of the natural means Providence placed in the hands of the Jews. You are a learned scholar, Master Mather, and this could not have escaped your observation." 
               "Josephus had ever an inconsistent mind; he truckled to the great; he hath been called a liar. But I have not time to discuss the character of Josephus. Farewell!" 
               "Stay," said the young man, forcibly detaining him. "Let the prisoner know that her sister Ida is well and safe under the shelter of my aunt's roof, and has no uneasiness save on her sister's account." 
               "This day she requested that her sister might be brought to her cell." 
               "And this was refused?" 
                
               "Ay, for good reason; we would not give another lamb to Satan and his arts." 
               "That thought had escaped me; there might be danger, certainly." 
               "But why is the child no longer under her uncle's protection?" asked Master Mather. 
               "He will answer that question," replied Joshua Campbell, carelessly; "I have neither the time nor desire to do so. I would know why Allison Beresford is persecuted and falsely slandered. Is it because she is an Episcopal and a friendless orphan, or is it that she is rich in beauty and goodness, and deficient in filthy lucre?" 
               His face was all ablaze; his eyes flashed fiercely. Master Mather, amazed at this unusual and unexpected address, revolved very slowly in his mind a fit and scathing rebuke to this hot and hasty young man, who added, before the answer was fully prepared: 
               "Remember, for all these things thou must give an account. Beware lest Satan, having so bewildered thy senses and beclouded thy presumptuous intellect, lead thee into a deeper quicksand than was ever found for witch or wizard!" 
               He strode off before Cotton Mather had sufficiently recovered his presence of mind to administer the forthcoming rebuke, and the divine went his way, murmuring to himself: "Perchance she hath also bewitched Joshua Campbell. The Lord open the eyes of his understanding that he may more clearly discern the nature of spiritual things. Have I gone astray from the doctrine of God and the command of the Scripture?" he soliloquized. "If not, I am willing they should imagine me as obstinate a Sadducee and witch-advocate as any among us. They may address me as believing nothing reasonable. Glad I should have been if I had known none of these victims. But were there not two testimonies that George Burroughs, with only putting the forefinger of his right hand into the muzzle of a heavy gun, a fowling-piece of about six or seven foot barrel, did lift up the gun and hold it out at arm's end? Shall this victim ever be counted as a martyr? Have we indeed deceived ourselves? Can it be that the truth is not in us, in this land spangled with churches evangelical? But I have seen with my own eyes; I have heard with my own ears. I have not believed willingly an idle tale borne on the breath of scandal. It may be no man living ever had more people under preternatural and astonishing circumstances, cast by the providence of God into his own peculiar care, than I have had. Alas! they have resorted to me as their spiritual adviser. I have not readily condemned the guilty; in wrath I have ever striven to remember the attributes of mercy which God so signally displays towards the worms of the dust. In visiting the afflicted our main design has been to prevent the accusations of the neighborhood. Alas! these troubles from the invisible world are too deep and dark for ordinary comprehension. It may be that errors on both hands have attended them which will never be understood until the day when Satan shall be bound after another manner than he is at this day; but, for my own part. I know not that ever I have advanced any opinion in the matter of witchcraft, but what all the ministers of the Lord that I know of in the world, whether; English or Scotch, or French or Dutch, are of the same opinion with me. The Lord grant that we all may not darken counsel by words of wisdom!"
                     Cotton Mather's own words.
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               THE struggle between duty and affection was over at last. It had brought a heavy weight upon the heart and deepened the hard lines on the face of Ebenezer Fairfax. With trembling hope and solicitous anxiety he watched by his daughter's bedside, and hailed every symptom of returning health with thanksgiving, ascribing it to the prayer that had been offered in behalf of the afflicted girl. 
               For nearly two weeks, Ruth remained in a lethargic state of stupor; stimulants alone kept soul and body from parting. Then a change came; a slow improvement almost imperceptible at first, but hope was gradually entertained of her recovery. She no longer refused nourishment; medicine was duly administered, and her parents with anxiety now had hopes of her ultimate restoration to her usual health, though she was regarded as one who had been raised from the dead. 
               In the meantime, the verdict was suspended. The prison doors must not be flung open until the patient was certain of recovery and there were no fears of a relapse. Ruth remained for days in a comatose state, half asleep and only partially conscious, yet taking nourishment and medicine willingly at stated intervals, and showing no sign of bodily pain or mental anguish. Yet it was not deemed advisable to inform Allison of Ruth's altered condition, as fears were entertained lest she should again exercise the influence she had possessed over her cousin. 
               Cotton Mather believed that he had adopted the wiser plan, and looked forward with pleasure to the hour when he might release Allison from prison; but continued his visits and prayers, omitting no, means of securing her temporal and eternal salvation, and remaining oblivious to the fact that her constitution was seriously impaired by the close confinement in the damp prison and by unwholesome diet. He had explained that Ida was under the protection of Master Campbell, and questioned Allison as to any feeling of malice or ill-will she bore toward Joshua Campbell, for Cotton Mather had not forgotten the reproaches of the hasty young man, and, guiltless himself of any but kind feeling towards the prisoner, he had been unable to understand Joshua, Campbell's irritation. 
               "Heaven forbid!" she exclaimed, with great agitation. "It cannot be that he has accused me of witchcraft?" 
               "Nay; his manner in speaking was excited and over hasty, but no such charge was made. His words were kind, doubtless, in intention concerning thy welfare." 
               "He has been my kindest friend. I shall never forget his goodness; and I trust when I am called hence he will still regard my sister Ida with friendliness." 
               "Speak not of being called hence, for there is now little fear that the penalty of the law will be carried out in thy case." 
               "I speak not of the penalty of the law, which often sheds innocent blood," she replied. "There is another Higher law beyond the control of ill-advised and misguided men!" 
               "You deal in riddles. Verily, the cunning of the old serpent I believe hath left his trail on all thy sex." 
               "I believe a release will shortly be granted, and in the courts of a Just Tribunal, my sentence will be awarded," said Allison." 
               "Poor mortal! And doth the adversary tempt thee to believe that a ready admission will be furnished to any who may knock at heaven's gate?" 
               "My Bible tells me it shall be opened to all who knock, and that the just shall live by faith, and that Christ died to save sinners, and that the Spirit and Bride say, Come!" 
               "The Evil One hath ever had a trick of quoting Scripture over glibly to serve his own purposes," murmured Cotton Mather. 
               "I have inherited a fragile constitution from my mother. It has often been impressed on my mind that I should not live long, and now I know surely that I shall never recover from the disease which has settled upon me since I have been within these damp walls." 
               "And Satan whispers that angels will bear thee hence, and that without repentance and confession," he exclaimed, with some indignation. "Alas! poor bird, caught in the snare of the fowler!" 
               "I sleep ill at night. My head and body are racked with pains and aches, my chest is sore, and there is a burning there which never leaves me." A fit of coughing interrupted her; she raised her handkerchief to her lips, and when she took it away he saw that it was stained with blood. 
               Was this merely a device of the devil? Cotton Mather was bewildered. 
               "But I rest content," she continued. "Truth shall spring out of the ground in spite of man, and righteousness shall look down from heaven. Master Mather, I have no friend but my sister; bring her to me. I have no other wish in life." 
               "Not every house is founded upon a rock. 'Not every one that sayeth Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father in heaven.' Beware, lest the dreadful condemnation, 'Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity,' fall upon you." Cotton Mather was puzzled. Was the Evil One standing by his elbow, darkening his reasoning and leading him astray by undue compassion? 
               "You would see your sister. It cannot be; it hath not been thought best," he said. 
               "So I feared; yet I believed that this last prayer might be granted," she murmured, with great sadness. 
               "Let this comfort you. The child is well, and doubtless happy. She stole away from her uncle's house by night. Master Campbell hath taken her to his aunt's house, and she will not return to her uncle, and he will not increase the scandal by harsh measures. Her obstinacy is reprehensible and indecorous, but I have heard that Master Campbell, who hath a hot spirit not as yet tempered by divine grace, will never give her up, and her aunt is content that the matter is thus settled." 
               "Then the good Lord has granted my prayer, in a measure, in His own way; it was not mine, but doubtless is best. I have no-further disquietude." Cotton Mather regarded her with much pity. 
               "My stray lamb, my heart yearneth over thee; whether moved by Satan or by bowels of compassion, I cannot determine; but I am marvellously wrought upon. I will see Ebenezer Fairfax, and if it be deemed best your request shall be granted." 
               He was troubled as he left her. "Were she old, wrinkled, toothless, and shrivelled as Goodie Tibbits, would my brain be driven hither and thither like a ship with a broken rudder? Like Pilate, I would fain wash my hands of this matter. But I mislike that ominous comparison; and yet the Jews who slew our Lord were blind. Lord, save thy servant from presumptuous sins!" 
               He lost no time in communicating with Ebenezer Fairfax, and was greatly relieved upon hearing that the favorable symptoms were increasing. Ruth's sleep was regular and sound, all fever had left, and she suffered no longer from the racking pains and aches, though she was faint and her strength exhausted. 
               "It cannot be that we have been mistaken?" said Ebenezer Fairfax, anxiously. "Physic duly administered may have wrought this blessed change." 
               "Satan buffeted by prayers can resist no longer. Praise Him to whom be all glory and honor. I doubt not that the dark wings of our spiritual adversary have spread for a final flight," said Cotton Mather. 
               "I would have my niece removed at once from confinement," Ebenezer Fairfax continued. "The season is damp, and the prison cell is not over-healthful." 
               Cotton Mather was rejoiced; youth and, beauty had not prevailed by their seductive arts, justice was administered alike, on the young as well as on the old. He also added his persuasions to Allison's request, hoping that Ida might be allowed to visit or remain with her; but Ebenezer Fairfax was determined on this point-his resolution was made. 
                
               "She shall not see her; I have disavowed this obstinate and perverse child. She hath cast herself upon the strangers' protection, let her abide with them; their people may be her people, their God her God." 
               Cotton Mather did not argue the point; he knew the nature of the man before him, entreaty would be in vain; but with a lightened heart he left the farm of South Meadows behind him, and rode on to Boston-town, to secure the immediate release of the prisoner. 
               He found, a respectable and devout old woman, who was willing to take charge, of her until other arrangements could be made. Being as deaf as a post, it was unnecessary to explain the circumstances of the case, and before evening Allison was removed to her new quarters, and surrounded with such comforts as the house of the widow afforded. 
               It was not until he saw her in the broad light of a cheerful room that Cotton Mather noted plainly the ravages made by two weeks' close confinement. The work of months had been speedily accomplished; the seeds of consumption, lying dormant in her constitution, sprang up, nurtured in the damp, chill air of her cell, into rapid growth. The hectic blossom bloomed in the white cheek. The scourge of New England claimed this English flower, and a practised eye could read at once the surest symptoms of the insidious disease. 
                
               "Poor lass! poor lass!" said the widow, looking at Allison with a pitiful glance. "Your worship will send for a leech-a skilful one, I pray, or she may not be long for this world." 
               He struggled against admitting the palpable proofs of a fact that he would far rather have disbelieved. Wholesome food, light, rest and the comfort of a home perchance would work a miracle in her favor. 
               "The conflict with Satan hath been bitter and long," he said; but the widow, who could see but could not hear distinctly, did not comprehend him, and only repeated: 
               "Ay, ay, send for a leech, and let it be a skilful one." 
               Her advice was followed, and the result of the physician's examination filled Cotton Mather with sorrow and dismay. A severe cold had settled upon the lungs, there was great inflammation, and the worst fears might be apprehended for this case. 
               "Skill and care may arrest the disorder. I pray that the silver cord be not yet loosened nor the golden bowl broken," he exclaimed, with deep emotion. "The Lord heal our sin-sick souls!" 
               "Skill and care will avail little, I fear, in the present state of her system," said the physician. "Her days, I believe, are numbered, and she believes this also." 
               "Spare no pains-deny no comforts. This case hath puzzled me sorely. I placed it in the hands of the Almighty; could I have done better?" 
               "The hand of man might have aided Providence. How comes it, Master Mather, having studied medicine and the healing art, thou wert blind to the plain evidence of the senses?" asked the physician. 
               "It is the soul that I have sought to save; the body was lost sight of in my great desire to secure her everlasting salvation. But man is prone to err. Thou hast faith, surely, in an all-wise and overruling Providence?" 
               "I have, and less faith in the weak judgment of man; but make no delay in granting a wish expressed by my patient. She hath a sister; let her be brought here immediately, and in easing her mind you may comfort her body." 
               With a heavy heart Cotton Mather left, intending to follow this request; but before he had gone many steps a messenger met him, despatched in great haste from a dying member of his flock, and this at once turned his thoughts, as well as his feet, in an opposite direction. 
               Soul and body were parting, the dying man's moments were numbered, and he remained by his side, administering words of consolation and comfort until the spirit sped on its last final journey. 
               Returning from this sad errand he met Elder Baxter, who detained him with a lengthy list of good reasons for calling an extra church meeting, as certain breaches in the foundation needed immediate attention, and time slipped nimbly by as the subject was discussed. The name of Fairfax in connection with the church business under consideration recalled Allison's request, and he again started onward to fulfil it until he was arrested by Master Farnet, the town clerk, who wished to discover his private opinion respecting certain public matters and the defences of Boston-town. 
               This matter disposed of to his satisfaction, a new thought prevented him now from putting his original purpose into execution. It had escaped his mind that Ebenezer Fairfax had especially forbidden any communication between the two sisters. He could not conscientiously, in the face of the command of Allison's lawful guardian, bring Ida to her without first obtaining her uncle's consent. 
               "Imprimis-I have given my word to the uncle," he cogitated as he went home-"Secundus-to the leech. Therefore I judge that the first promise exonerates me from the second. To-morrow this matter shall be settled, with the help of my conscience." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               CONSOLING himself with this reflection, and believing that men are short-sighted, and that physicians may do much towards baffling the power and arresting the progress of disease, Cotton Mather retired and slept peacefully after the varied incidents of the day. No ill dream disturbed his rest; his conscience being void of offence toward God and towards man. 
               Day was dawning. The streaks of light in the eastern horizon announced the coming day, although the sun had not risen, when a loud knocking at his street door startled him in the imprimis of a discourse which had been wandering through his half-conscious brain. Putting his night-capped head from the window of his chamber, he demanded the name and errand of his early visitant, who in return inquired if Cotton Mather was within. 
               "I am, but not properly attired for the day," he answered cautiously, withdrawing his head with its unministerial ornament, but still, like Ossian's hero, sending his voice ahead. 
                
               "I have been bidden to say that Allison Beresford is dying. The physician hath said, 'Come without delay if you would see or speak with her again.'" 
               The messenger departed, and Cotton Mather stood still by the open window as if transfixed by the evil tidings. He lived on the mountain in spiritual things; he had no fear of death. At times, to his expectant soul, death and the glory of heaven seemed only a step higher. His communion with his Maker was dear and intimate. Why should he dread for any one the coming of his loved Lord and Master? 
               But now his knees were weak; his hand trembled as he made his hasty preparations to obey the summons, although the promise he had made the physician wholly escaped his memory; his face grew pale as he exclaimed: 
               "Why doth my conscience smite me sorely? Have I removed my feet from evil? Have I turned to the right hand or the left? Doth not the labor of the righteous tend to life? My soul is melted within me because of this trouble; it reeleth to and fro; it staggereth like a drunken man. Verily I am in the depths of woe. Have I indeed not spoken righteousness or not judged uprightly?" 
               He hurried through the streets. The people of Boston-town were not yet fairly aroused. The quiet streets, and calm, peaceful air of early morn sickened and oppressed him. He glanced up at the windows of the widow's house with anxiety as he approached it. 
               "It may not indicate the reign of death," he murmured, looking at the unopened shutters of the neighboring dwelling-houses; but before he raised the door-knocker, the door suddenly opened, and the physician confronted him. 
               "Alas! physicians cannot work miracles," he said, offering his hand. "Those days are past." 
               "Allison Beresford! Is she living?" inquired Cotton Mather, hurriedly. 
               "She died soon after I had despatched my messenger for you. I have been sitting near her bedside during the night, and I have never witnessed an end more tranquil and resigned." 
               Cotton Mather closed his eyes. He leaned against the wall for support. His lips moved in silent prayer. 
               "I wish her last request had been granted. She had but one desire, and that was that she might see her sister. It may have been thought unadvisable, but when the debt of nature must be paid, I judge it is kinder to let the dying have their wish." 
               "Forgive us our debts," murmured Cotton Mather. "I am faint and ill; the suddenness of the tidings and the early air hath given me a shock. We are but clay in the hands of the potter; why should weak human vessels question the wise decrees of the Creator?" 
               "She intrusted me with messages for her sister, I will deliver them in person," said the physician, adding, as Cotton Mather remained silent: "She also, in dying, bade me say she bore no malice nor ill-will toward any creature on God's earth, and that she was innocent of the crime alleged against her, and rejoiced in hope of a blissful life hereafter." 
               "Verily the waters of Meribah have proved this soul," said Cotton Mather. 
               "When I closed her eyes, I said, in the language of Scripture, 'Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his.'" 
               "I have prayed that the Lord might have mercy on this frail soul; he hath heard my prayer. I trusted in Him, and he has delivered a soul from death. Blessed be his name," exclaimed Cotton Mather. 
               "I doubt if Satan ever found lodgment in this pure soul," said the other. "If sin appear in this guise, I would willingly be deceived." 
               The town was fairly awake; the morning sun shone brightly, when Cotton Mather, an hour or two later, turned homewards with a heavy heart. The pursuits of day had commenced, and the industrious citizens prepared for their various avocations. The oaken shutters were opened; a cheerful bustle pervaded the busiest streets, and rough wagons were rolling over the noisy pavements filled with produce for the Boston market. Through it all Cotton Mather walked on, slowly collecting his thoughts, which still seemed rather wandering in dreams than in the wide-awake light of actual day. 
               Several acquaintances passed him without receiving any recognition or exchanging the ordinary civilities of courtesy, when suddenly the figure of Ebenezer Fairfax arrested his footsteps. He bore good news; his heart was lighter and more cheerful than it had been for many a long, dreary day, and he had started from home at an early hour to relieve himself of a heavy burden of responsibility. 
               "A fair day! a fair day!" he exclaimed, cheerily. 
               "Yes, a fair day. The Lord maketh his sun to snine on the just as well as the unjust," said Cotton Mather. 
               "I never saw promise of a fairer," added Ebenezer Fairfax. "And I bring more good news. My daughter is clothed and in her right mind, as it were. She eateth with visible pleasure, and sleeps well and healthfully; every unfavorable symptom hath departed." 
               "Heaven's name be praised, my brother," said Cotton Mather. 
               "To Heaven I ascribe all the praise; but I fear we have been over harsh and severe in our judgment of my niece Allison. I came to see that every restriction is removed." 
               "My brother," said Cotton Mather, laying his hand upon Ebenezer Fairfax's arm, "every restriction hath been removed." 
                
               "I rejoice to hear this, for her punishment hath tried me, God only knows how sorely." 
               "I would say," interrupted Cotton Mather, "she hath been released from every earthly restriction. It is the will of the Lord." 
               The elder man looked steadily down into the face of his companion; he saw that Cotton Mather was pale. His voice trembled, as he exclaimed: 
               "Speak plainly. This is no time for riddles." 
               "Allison Beresford is dead!" 
               He paused, and Ebenezer Fairfax started at him vacantly as he repeated the word. 
               "Dead-dead." 
               He did not comprehend its meaning at that moment. 
               "She passed away at day-break. The leech, a skilful man, was with her to the last, and he said that her end was peaceful and calm, inasmuch as her soul was filled with hope of eternal life, and a blissful reunion with her friends who have died in the Lord. Satan, baffled and vanquished, hath plumed his dismal pinions and taken his everlasting flight from that tried spirit. Perchance, in wreaking malice and revenge for his defeat, he hath greatly battered and weakened the fragile tenement of clay, in which he had obtained but a temporary lodgment. Heaven hath taken care of the stray lamb, and in my own mind no doubt remaineth but that dying grace was bestowed, though she persisted in affirming to the very last her innocence. The leech believeth that the prison damp and close confinement developed the seeds of disease; but man's judgment ofttimes faileth in respect to bodily disorders. It is a sore blow, but David of old and Job-" 
               His companion interrupted him. 
               "Stay, Master Mather, I pray. I can bear the will of Heaven as a servant of my God, but I cannot bear what thou wouldst say at this moment. The consolations of the Gospel are rich and varied. They are doubtless sufficient for the chances and changes of this mortal life; but speak not of David and Job at this moment, for it seemeth to me that the blood of my sister's child calleth to me from the ground." 
               "My brother, are we not commanded to cut off the right hand or foot if it offendeth?" 
               "Ay, the Scripture sayeth that also; but it doth not comfort nor content me at this moment. Say no more, but lead me to her." 
               A groan of unutterable anguish burst from him as he stood by the beautiful, lifeless form. 
               "The peace of God, which passeth all understanding," reigned in the living heart; its seal was imprinted on the features of the dead. All misery and disgrace were forgotten in peaceful rest. 
               "Father, forgive me! I knew not what I would have done," exclaimed Ebenezer Fairfax. 
               Death had set the captive free. The superstition and blind zeal of the age would unhesitatingly have delivered her over to death. But another hand was outstretched-a stronger arm rescued her from the scaffold or the stake. In this presence her judges stood still, and knew that "He was God." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               IDA'S JOURNAL. 
               TO-DAY I sat by the grave of my sister Allison. This I can do now without tears. The air was very soft, stirring the foliage of the trees only gently; the sky was blue and calm above me, and my heart was sad, but no longer filled with rebellious repinings. 
               Ten years have passed since she was taken away from me, and I have tried to tame my restless heart and bend it to the will of God as I could not in my childish days when it chafed and resisted what was unalterable, and I pray that grace may be given me so that I may bear the circumstances and changes of life with patience, believing that all things work together for good to them that love the Lord. 
               All the associations of the past came thronging to my mind as I sat by the grass-covered grave. Those dismal, dark days, Ruth's strange disorder, the accusation against my sister Allison, her trial and imprisonment, and her death. I recall the night I stole away from my uncle's roof and found my way to Boston, where Master Campbell, meeting me providentially, conveyed me to his aunt's house, which has been ever since a home indeed to me, and no estrangement nor misunderstanding hath ever chilled or changed the kindness and pity which was then offered and is still continued to me, and which I can never fully repay. 
               I think my heart would have broken and my reason might have been shattered if I had been forced to return then to that hateful place so filled with dolorous memories of the past; but it was not required. I think my presence would have been a reminder of one person whom they would have forgotten. I lived in the hope of seeing her again. I believed all would finally be well until my uncle came to me suddenly one morning and said, in a low voice that chilled the blood in my veins: 
               "Come with me-come with me. Thou shalt see her, for her blood lieth at our door!" 
               He was pale and agitated. I thought perhaps his wits had gone astray, but I grasped his hand and he led me out through the streets until we came to a small house, with closed windows. He opened the door and entered; I followed him and stood in a darkened room where I saw Allison shrouded for the grave. 
               My memory fails me, for I can remember no more. All was lost and blank for weeks, then my reason returned with a dim sense of great and direful loss, and months passed away before I could bear to have the sad story told. 
               Accumulating years and changing conditions of life ever wear away the sharpness of sorrow and dull the edge of grief; but at that time the burden of my affliction seemed to crush me to the ground from which I cared not to rise. 
               My sister, my friend, had gone before me into the dark, unfathomable future, whither we are all bound. I stretched out my hands, they could not detain her. I gazed up into the deep changing blue of heaven and saw empty space. I called and waited in vain for a voiceless echo; no answer came back to my desolate heart; no clue gave me comfort or token of her welfare. My feet would fain follow her beyond the confines of the mysterious precincts that held the spirit's tread, but the heavy clogs of clay, which had dropped from her disenthralled spirit, clung to me still and weighed me down to the dull earth. The wind wafted me no tidings, the voice of the waves was mute, the sky was as brass. The living green of leaf and foliage comes, spends its brief day and falls and dies. The insect world sports in the air; it breathes, it lives and moves and has its being, and perishes. The flower of the field, the fruit and herbage, grow to beauty and perfection, and then wither away. So had she passed from my sight to where we cannot penetrate. O voiceless, unfathomable, cruel mystery! O terrible, distracting fate! O woe inevitable, dogging each mortal footstep step, whom none dare combat, none can overcome; enemy unconquerable, against whose unerring dart there can be no refuge; pitiless King of Terrors, whose fiat spares neither youth nor age! She had been taken, and I left to my sorrow. 
               To-day I look up to the broad placid sky above me, unfathomable as the mysterious decrees of the Creator, and say: 
               "Thy will be done!" 
               I prayed that God would forgive those who had been the cause of Allison's death, but for years I could not; and when they sent me word that my uncle was dying and desired to see me again, I refused to go to him until Master Campbell and his aunt led me to thinking differently of this matter, and I went again to the farm of South Meadows. 
               I passed beneath the hill where Master Campbell had told me the sweetest wild-flowers grew. I saw the sheep browsing on the sunny slope on the left side of the house; the cows were in the pasture; a young red heifer grazed in the paddock where Sing Bird, the poor heathen woman, was buried. 
               The stone dairy was unchanged; the brook wound round the hill and dashed over the same pebbles, singing the same old song that sounded very musical in my childish ears. Poultry strayed around the barn-yard, and a gray cat slept in the sunshine on the stone door-step. 
               It seemed as if all things had been standing still. The years had left no trace of their coming and going; but I had passed over a fearful chasm which divided my past from the present. I felt like a stranger who moves among familiar things unknown and unwelcome. Job came out to meet me. Time had dealt more hardly with him; his hair was gray and his face wrinkled. He did not know me at first, and when I spoke, calling him by name, he scanned my features earnestly, but did not speak. I saw tears in his eyes, and knew that I held a place in his memory still. 
               How the old time rushed over me in a flood of dreary recollections as I crossed the cleanly kitchen! The spotless floor, the broad hearth, the shining ware on the dresser, the tall clock, the silent spinning-wheel in the corner, and the empty arm-chair by the fireside! 
               My uncle was on his death-bed. When I entered his chamber, Aunt Martha and Ruth stood side by side near him. I looked not at either, but fastened my eyes upon Uncle Ebenezer's altered face. Years had left their traces there, and at one glance all my old resentment vanished, and the sting of my sorrow was taken away for ever. He saw me, and held out his hand, saying, faintly: 
               "Come nearer, child; come nearer. The sand is flowing fast." 
               I could not speak. 
               "Few and evil have been the days of the years of my pilgrimage; they are stained with dark blots; but I would die at peace with all my fellow-creatures." 
               "Forgive me, uncle; I was a wayward, rebellious child," I cried, my tears falling upon his cold hand; "forgive me." 
               "I have to ask forgiveness," he answered. "If I sinned and erred in false judgment, the Lord pardon me. I hope to obtain mercy for my numerous shortcomings. In the New Jerusalem I shall see as I have not seen-if I am, indeed, among the very elect." 
               I was greatly distressed, and again begged to be forgiven for all the disquietude and anxiety I had caused him; but his mind wandered; he was not heeding me. He murmured, faintly: 
               "We have seen through a glass darkly-darkly, O Lord; but then, face to face." 
               Aunt Martha stepped forward. She was in dire sorrow, but she said, in a firm voice: 
               "My husband, why trouble your conscience with any further thoughts on this matter? The godly Cotton Mather and many of his associates have afforded rich consolation and assurance from Scripture that all was done in the fear of God." 
               "The consolations are all yea, yea; nay, nay," said a familiar voice, and Master Mather stepped forward from the shadow of the bed-curtains. I had not noted before this that he was in the chamber of death. He took from his pocket a small book, opened it as if to read, but holding it in his hand, he said, in a distinct, slow manner: 
               "My brother, the end is nigh. Calvin-" 
               The name aroused my uncle's attention. He opened his eyes, and looked slowly from one to another. 
               "Calvin!" he echoed the name faintly; "Calvin! Who is Calvin?" 
               "Dost thou not remember Calvin-that godly, righteous follower of our Lord Jesus Christ?" 
               The light of life stole once more into his dying eyes, and animated his features. 
               "Speak of Him! Speak of Jesus Christ our Lord!" 
               The words were low, but so distinct we all plainly heard them; and they were the last uttered on earth. In a few moments the disembodied spirit flew to its future home, where there is neither Greek nor Jew, bond nor free, but all one in Christ; and the imperfections and mistakes of humanity are left to the judgment of a merciful Father. 
               Cotton Mather closed his book; his lips moved in silent prayer. I offered my hand to Aunt Martha as I left the room; she accepted it passively. She was not thinking of me at that moment, and I paused near Ruth. A shudder crept over me, but I could not hesitate long in the presence of death. I offered my hand to her also, and met the glitter of her dark eye, and felt no desire to prolong our interview. 
               I have not seen my aunt nor Ruth since then; our paths in life do not cross, and it gives me no regret. They still live at South Meadows. I am glad witchcraft is no longer the fashion of the day, for my cousin's strange manner and odd ways, perchance, might be ill-judged and lead her into trouble. These increase with time, I have heard, stamping a character which hath not attracted friends nor suitors, though she possesses many fine acres in her own right. 
               I care not to know whether the cause of her mysterious disorder ever puzzles her brain. Deep pondering and lengthy argument have not yet settled this question among godly and learned men. The tide of ten years hath turned up fresh waves, which are wellnigh wiping out the old superstitions concerning witchcraft and sorcery; but the scars of that time remain in the hearts of those who sorrowed from the loss and persecution of innocent friends. The deep grievance still rankles in the bosoms of all who suffered in those dismal, dark, fanatical months. 
               Some were drowned, many hanged and others died in prison from exposure and neglect within damp walls. The number is not known, nor will it be until the last trump shall sound, calling the dead to life. Their names and memories are cherished still in the hearts of the bereaved in that most dolorous season; but men speak in low tones, and each looketh askance at his neighbor, when this thing is now spoken of, as if one would say to another: 
                
               "The fault lieth at your door." 
               I have been told that whenever Cotton Mather toucheth upon the subject, however lightly it may be, a frown rests upon the faces of his congregation; so he has ceased to dwell on the sore topic, though he yet believes in his heart of hearts that all was done to the glory of God. He still preaches excellently, though his life has not been exempt from many private troubles. Affliction has laid her chastening rod heavily upon him; his children have strayed away from the right path; and, although honors have been bestowed for his learning, he wears a sad countenance, and disappointment and trials have given him great inward disquietude. I have ever avoided hearing the word of God expounded from his lips, not that I mistrust his integrity, but the sight of Doctor Cotton Mather revives sad memories that I would fain forget. Beside, I am an Episcopal, and attend King's Chapel, though Master Campbell mislikes the joining of Church and State. 
               In the calm peace of the quiet hour, sitting by Allison's grave, I felt that all sorrow, though grievous and heavy to bear, is good for the soul, as it weans us from things terrestrial and brings us longings for those celestial. The young who are early called escape much dreariment here on earth, and sooner walk the golden streets and sing the song of the redeemed; and what causeth the heart to bound with greater joy than the hope of meeting those who have gone before? 
               It is only when this thought crosses my mind that glimpses of glory are vouchsafed through the dark storm-clouds that so often darken the face of the natural world and make the eternal home dearer than any we have on earth. 
               As I sat near the grave, I heard a step coming behind me. I thought it was Jack, who has given up the sea, and lives with his old aunt at the Red Lion. 
               I strive to lead him to think of heaven and the hereafter, but he has many doubts and fears concerning his own unworthiness, and he cannot understand why the wicked flourish like a green bay-tree, and the servants of the Lord are cut down and perish; he desires, however, to ride safely in the port of heaven, and we have reason to believe he is steering in the right course, albeit he has chosen it late in life. 
               I said, as he came nearer: 
               "It is a blessed thing, Jack, to die in the Lord." 
               It was not Jack, but Master Campbell, who had come to meet me, and finding the evening so pleasant, he sat down by my side. We talked of Allison and many other things, until the sun set behind the bank of dark clouds in the west and the chill air made me draw my shawl more closely around my shoulders. 
                
               "It is a sad place," I said; "but it seemeth to me that from the very grave of the past new hopes arise. Brother, is it not so?" 
               "Nay, Ida," he said, chiding me, "do not call me brother again." 
               At that moment I had quite forgotten that I had promised to become Master Campbell's wife. 
             
            FINIS. 
         
       
   
