
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Isabel Mortimer, or, The Southerner's Revenge .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6871
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Isabel Mortimer, or, The Southerner's revenge
             
                  ISABEL MORTIMER:   OR    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.   CINCINNATI: I. M. RULLISON, PUBLISHER.     ISABEL MORTIMER;   OR   SOUTHERNER'S REVENGE.   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.   CINCINNATI: H. MA. RULISON, PUBLISHER, NO. 141 MAIN STREET. 1558.      H. M. RULISON. In the Clerk's Offie of the District Court, for the District of Ohio.   ISABEL MORTIMER; OR TIR - SOUTHERNER'S REVENGE.   CHAPTER   I. I WAS a predestined beauty; that is, my c fond mother had settled it before I came t into this breathing world, that I was to be the paragon of babies-a sort of Venus in t short clothes,- accordingly, my infantile ] wardrobe, was all expressive of this desired end. The lawns and embroideries, the laces Land ribbons, intended to adorn my diminu- tive belleship, were all of the most expensive and elaborate kind; some of them, indeed, are still in my possession, for my father dying soon after my birth, and my mother righteously resolving to devote herself to her incomparable and only baby, to the exclusion of all future partnership in the business, there were no new little claimants to these fineries, which were preserved with studious and persevering care. My mother being an heiress in her own right, upon her marriage, her property was secured to herself and heirs, and though my lamented father died insolvent, his widow was left in flourishing and affluent circumstances, owing to the thoughtful pro- vision aforesaid. It will not be expected that I shall de- scribe the ills, pains and triumphs of baby- hood, it is enough to know that I survived the teirible dosings, joltings and other bar- barous treatments so freely administered to helpless infancy, and that as I grew in years, my mother had the satisfaction to observe that I grew also in beauty. This fact-of   my beauty-was early and duly impressed on my flexile mind. I was coaxed and wheedled into doing right, with promises of a new dress and ribbon, and invariably told, that crying spoiled my beautiful eyes, and distorted my angel mouth. Even at that early age, when most,children care more for sugar-plums and sweet-cakes, than anything else in the world; my heart w:;i filled with pride and vanity, and to enter : room gracefully, as a little lady should, and listen to all the foolish flattery poured into my mother's ear concerning me, was the dearest delight that could be afforded. As my fond but weak parent could never bear to have me from her side, my educa- tion was conducted under her own eye, at. least, that part of it she esteemed most essential to my success in life; which con- sisted, in learning to thrum on the piano, that I might display a pair of small white hands, and, more particularly, to dance gracefully, that my tall slight figure might be exhibited to the best advantage. To be sure, I learned to read and write indiffer- t ently, and could with the aid of a geograph- - ical dictionary, tell the capital of my native. state; but, not being fond of such dry - studies, I was allowed to skim over the - surface of everything, and at the age of i seventeen, when introduced into society, r- was as ignorant and accomplished ak young to lady as you would desire to meet. It must s, not be surmised that I attained this critical re age without having tried my girlish arts f and juvenile coquetries on the masculine (9)     figures that fell in my way; but I was too closely watched by mamma, for anything more serious than a sly pressure of the hand, or a melting glance of the eye, to have been exchanged between my youthful admirers and my own silly self. But at seventeen, I was to be free! Balls and parties, theaters and amusements of every description, were to take the place of mas- ters and-books, missish teaparties and long walks. All restrictions were to be removed; for, at so advanced and experienced an age as seventeen, surely, a clever young lady must know all that is necessary for her complete happiness in life and be capable of securing it; at least, sh -ought to if she does not. It was my first party. Oh, the delicious remembrances of that first party! when wild with excitement, and intoxicated with flattery, I seemed to float aloft in ether, rather than to walk soberly, like a common mortal.  When giving me up to the world, my mother had made but one stipulation, and that was, however charming or delightful the party or play, midnight must find me at home preparing for repose. This she was absolute in, and her reason consoled me for what I at first considered a piece of unwar- rantable tyranny; this was, that my beauty should be kept fresh, anc unimpared by late hours and overtaxed p aysical exertion. Young as I was, I had a faint notion that she was correct, although to most young persons loveliness seems perpetual, and youth eternal; still, upon all subjects bear- ing, even remotely, on my -Personal appear- ance, I was precocious beyond my years. For the reason above named, on the morning following my first party, I descen- ded at the usual hour for receiving visitors, bright and blooming as if I had not danced, fluttered and flirted until midnight the even- ing before. I had gone to bed the night previous, with a full conviction that I was irrevocably in love, and had risen with that conviction only deepened, snd confirmed in my mind. I blushed andisighed as I thought x over the last honied words which were whispered in my ear, as a gentle but strong arm lifted me into the carriage that bore me away from the scene of my first intoxicating pleasure; and then, as I remembered his promise to call in the morning, I rose to   steal a las llook at the superb mirror which adorned my mother's reception room. The thousands of times I have since seen myself reflected, have not erased that brief glance from my memory, when a happy, innocent girl looked out at me, with a brief triumphant, half timid air, as if not quite certain conquest must follow in her path. Her hair was a dark brown, silky and curl- ing; eyes hazel, large and liquid; complex- ion rose and olive; arched smiling lips, and a haughty, well-defined brow; the figure tall and slender, but round and fully devel- oped, and step elastic and graceful as a fawn's. I did not know the worth of all this then, but I know it now, when so little remains of such priceless wealth. But to return; the door-bell rang, and the person to whom I had thus unceremo- niously given my heart, stood before me. The gentleman was a stranger in the place, and had been introduced at a party by a citizen, who had been fascinated by his elegant appearance and engaging manners, while both were sojourning at a fashionable watering-place. Mr. Clarence Huntingdon, for such was his name, was possessed of decidedly the most faultless exterior and prepos- sessing manner, that ever fell to the lot of one individual. He had  a certain veni, vidi, vici air, that to me was perfectly irresistible, and having brought his artillery of glances, smiles, and nameless glances, to bear on my inexperienced heart, had carried that weakly-protected fortress in the shortest possible time. On the morning alluded to, he riveted the chains which had held me the evening before, and a tumult of strange emotions seemed at war within me, while listening to his modulated and musi- cal voice, during that morning's brief visit. My mother, to whom I straightway com- municated the strong impression made by the pleasing stranger, was a little alarmed at the madness and strength of my passion, and counseled me to hold my affection  in restraint, as she was not at all preparea to yield up her darling to an utter stranger whose family, and even whose personal character, might be anything but desirable. To this I replied indignantly, that no one, possessing a spark of discrimination, could fail to discover that Mr. Huntingdon was a gentleman in all his relations and bearings.   Thus, day after day, and night after ter night slipped away; Mr. Huntingdon wasle my chosen oopnmpanion on every occasion of exercise or pleasure. We rode, walked, M danced and sang together, and at the close sp ,f a month, I had learned to watch his eye er and catch from its meaning glance tie th purport of his thoughts ere they were re Lttered. It was true, that he was at least I ewn years my senior, and my superior in all i mental acquirements; and especially, si knowledre of the world, in regard to b \whih I was a perfect child. By his strong  will he had gained a thorough mastery of sl mine; by his cool, equable temper, he had e: subdued my heart's disposition, and I was r :as wax in his hand, ready to be molded tt into any form he should desire.    t lMy mother, after some faint opposition, n gave way before the spells of the master; t who seemed to know all the avenues to the v human heart, and was finally nearly as v much in love as her giddy daughter. All  my coquetries were put to flight;.the prac- F ticed airs and attitudes, which were to have conquered hearts for me, were for- gotten, and the strong desire to be worthy, ,nd wholly possess, the affections of my lover, made me, for the first time in my life, natural, unaffected, and forgetful of self. We were to be married; the day for the ceremony was named; in the meantime, Mr. Iluntingdon was to return .to his southern home, which he had pictured as miniature paradise, to prepare for the reception of his bride. How my heart throbbed with agony at the thought of a fortnight's sepa- ration! and when, the evening before his departure, he folded me in his arms and. passionately urged me not to forget him, but to remain true to him, and ever cherish his image in my heart, let what might hap- pen, I laughed hysterically at the idea, vow- ing that not death itself should step betwgen us. I never saw him again! He was a pro- fessional gambler, and a married man  lHe had trifled with me, hoping in some covert manner, to obtain possession of my fortune; but becoming convinced that my mother was too keen, where my pecuniary interest was concerned, and dreading the exposure that daily threatened him, he con- tented himself, on the eve of departure, with borrowing five hundred dollars, under pre-   tense that the bills of exchange he had di- rected to be forwarded to him had miscarried. It was a very bitter and cruel blow. My whole strength of youth, health and spirits,'fell down before it. It was months ere I recovered from the low, nervous fever that preyed on my once buoyant form and reduced me to the verge of the grave. 'Then it was, I remembered my almost impious vow, that the grim phantom him- self should not separate us: and with a fee- ble cry at the terrible barriers that actually stood between me and the deceiver, and a 'shudder at the awful gulf I had so narrowly escaped, I resolved to cast all my anguish. remorse and grief into oblivion, and live to triumph over my weakness. Need I say that, though difficult, with the aid of a mother's doting love; the novelties of travel and renewed flatteries of the gay world, this was at last accomplished; at what expense of all the generous and beau- tiful impulses of heart and soul, these pages shall hereafter exhibit. C APTER II. NOTHNG could have induced me to have remained in my native place, after the untoward events just related. Consequent nly, my mother disposed of her personal e property there, and we removed to a ro- f mantic village in the interior, intending to h to vary our residence by occasional visits to - the cities of New York and New Orleans. s  Mrs., Mortimer, (this was my moth- d er's name), had learned a severe lesson in I, vigilance and discretion, through her dar- h ling Isabel's mortification and disappoint- p- ment, and had since carefully garded her v- cherished daughter from the approaches of ?p those bold adventurers, who, unfortunately, as our society is constituted, are permitted o- to intrude -their presence upon the most 1 fastidious and exclusive. We were scarce- ne ly settled in our new abode of L., when I ay -became acquainted with a Mr. Gwynne, a ny young man of good family, thorough edu- ry cation, and what was far better than he either, fair natural talents. He was in the n- law, and had, young as he was, (then ith scarcely t ty-five), een returned mem-, re- i er for hb dstrict. His figure was slight     but gracefully proportioned, and his large Pray eyes were the most expressive and Beautiful I had ever seen. There was an habitual look, not exactly of sadness, but something near akin to it, on his fine manly countenance, yet, when his features were lighted up in debate, he was handsome as Apollo, and his whole being seemed tq glow with the fire and enthusiasn which lent over- whelming strength and fo'ce to his words. I liad sworn in the depths of my wicked, frivolous heart, never to love aught in shape of man again; but to strive, with all the attractions bestowed on mnc by heaven, to win affection and then cast it from me. In short, to visit upon the sex universally, the pains of mortified pride, and wounded love, of which I had been the victim. This resolution I wisely kept to myself, for I had an instinctive sense of that horror in which such a character would be held, if it stood out avowedly before the world; for, however hollow, false and heartless that world may be,-it has the good taste to be shocked at any unvailment of the gross hypocrisies practiced in its midst; ever offering a mock worship to unadulterated principle and heroic feeling. Mr. Gwynne was am ng the earliest visitors to my mother's hospitable mansion and with my usual quickness and penetra- tion, I soon fathomed, ndt the depths of his glorious intellect, but the shallower margin, which enabled me to adapt myself to his refined taste and poetical fancies. Men are wise on every subject but woman; there, where they are most interested and have most at stake, they are oftenest and most lamentably deceived. Let a man's fancy be captivated, and his judgment is at once taken prisoner, and not released until passion has been gratified, or treachery reaches him a blow that instantly dispels the glowing dream in which he has lived, moved, and had his being, since first the enchantress subdued hinm. I had lately read the history of Sampson, with a relish that could be only accounted for, by the revolution my sad adventure had made in all my feelings. I resolved, like a second Delilah, to shear these proud sons of Adam of their boasted strength, and humiliate them even as I myself had been humiliated. My early education had certainly fostered vanityv and coquetry, but it was the farthest I   from my mother's mind, to make me heart- less and cruel; these were accomplished by my own proud spirit. Every spark of tenderness seemed crushed out of my nature, and at the age of nineteen, I was mistress of all the arts, self-command, and callous feeling, of a thorough woman of the world, at forty. But adieu to this digression. Vivian Gwynne, soon began to pay me those unmistakable little attentions, which seem like airy nothings in themselves, and yet speak whole volumes to the heart of woman. I saw the impression Iwas gradu- ally making, and watched and waited my opportunity to increase my hold on his affections. He was proud and sensitive, and I affected softness and humility; he was an ardent admirer of the true and beautiful, and I was his pupil in all the tempting studies through which he was lured-unconscious of his danger or my unsleeping thirst for vengeance, which only seemed whetted by the superior worthiness of the victim. There was none of the folly or flippancy, characteristic of ,the modern beau, in Vivian; he was wise, cheerful, passionate, tender and sublime by turns, but always dignified-always Vivian!  At last the long-looked for declaration came. It was summer, and we were sitting at an open window, where the moonlight streamed in and fell like a mantle of silver around the form of my lover. There was an unusual light in his flash- ing eyes and a rich color in his face, that won from my curiously-scanning mind, an admission to his high claim to the noblest beauty of man. He had been silent for some minutes and held in his hand a rose I had given him a short time before. "You look," said I, in a low voice, "very happy-as if the world went well with you-as if you were on especially good terms With fate-is it so?" He turned on me a lightning glance of mingled love, admiration, and worship, as he whispered in low, thrilling tones- "Do you love me?" I blushed involuntarily, and tried to look arch and unconscious, as I gave a slight negative rejoinder. "Then," he continued, in the same heart-searching tones, "I am not happy-   not on good terms with fate-for you are my fate-my destiny!"         Is A soul of iron would have melted then, th and I allowed him to clasp'my hands, and be gather from my blushing, downcast looks, al what interpretation pleased him best-and fr that night we separated, he believing his love had met a full return-and I to seek a g sleepless pillow, planted with thorns, for Ii the wickedness I had been guilty of in b misleading so noble and lofty a nature. hi My mother was delighted with the pre- w sent aspect of things. Mr. Gwynne's family were unexceptionable,-his fortune double e: that of mine, and himself a son-in-law, an p emperor might be proud of. But in vain  she sounded me; in vain sought to extract an admission that there was anything more n than friendship existing between us. It r did not suit my purpose to take her into my a confidence ; indeed, with all my selfishness i and insincerity of character, I felt ashamed r that my mother, whom I knew to be impul- I sive and honest in her affections, should s learn her daughter's unworthiness-her  little claim to the regard and tenderness  lavished upon her. The summer sped swiftly away, and as I I look back through the long vista of years, that season seems the fairest and holiest of  my life; not for any positive enjoyment that accrued to myself, but for the contempla- tion of it in others. Unprincipled as I was, and marble cold, I could not watch the growth of a great and disinterested passion in another, and that other a being such as I have described Vivian Gwynne, with entire absence of feeling and interest. There were times, even, when after listen- ing to his eloquent words and lofty aspira- tions, I have clasped my hands in wild excitement and prayed to be made worthy of him. But an hour afterward the evil thoughts would return, and the old thirst for revenge come back, with redoubled vigor, and I grew more hardened and cal- lous than before. As I have said, the summer sped swiftly aw y, and as the cold weather approached, we concluded our arrangements for a win- ter's sojourn in the city of New Yorl. Vivian 'was much opposed to this visit, and even my mother would gladly have relin- quished the plan, but I was resolute, and, as usual, had my wishes fulfilled.   "I shall be with you at Christmas, Isabel," said Vivian, as he handed me to the carriage that was to carry us to the boat; "until then, memory must. feed love, and only in her smiles shall I find respite from the cold void around." I returned the pressure of his hand, and gave him a little triumphant glance, which he returned with a look of painful surprise; but just then the coachman hallooed to his horses-the wheels whirled around. and we were borne rapidly away. Whatever slight emotions of regret I had experienced on account of the deceit I had practiced, vanished in the bustle and ex- citement of the metropolis. We had secured a suite of rooms at the most fashionable hotel, and were soon sur- rounded by the butterflies of fashion, who are ever ready to sport their gaudy wings in the sunshine of fortune. I carried with me to the depths of- dissipation, into which I soon plunged, the same calm, self-as- sured, emotionless spirit, which was now rightfully mine, carefully and artfully dis- guised by an appearance of deep feeling and arch simplicity. It soon became the fashion to toast Isabel Mortimer.; her dress, her carriage, her looks, were the principal themes of gossip-and as it is usual to treble the fortunes of moderate heiresses, mine was not exempt from this fashionable mode of multiplication. From the host of broadcloth votaries, that soon surrounded me, I again seleeted one on whom to smile more tenderly than the rest, knowing that while I meted my favors equally, I should fail to touch the - heart of any one in particular. The lew - candidate was a young officer in the navy, i Captain George Marshall, a fine, brave, frank-hearted fellow, whose natural ele- 1 ment seemed to be the sea, and whose fa- ,t vorite home seemed to be the quarter-deck d in a storm. I have good reason to remem- L- her him, as he was the teacher of some severe and unwelcome lessons I have not y forgotten to this day. 1,  Adapting myself to his tastes, I became i- a spirited horse-woman, rode hand-gallops, k. and talked enthusiastically of the oceai d and a sailor's life. High-hearted and in- n- genuous himself, he had no thought of d, distrust, and soon loved me with all the fervor of his manly nature.     My motler, blinded by her fondness, 'n nd at last forced to believ there were no more intimate relations ejisting between Vivian and myself, than those of sympathy ,of tastes and feeling, again rested the ark of her pre frence on the gallant captain. It is difflicult to describe the ptate of feeling (,xi stinl- in my bosom at that time. I had a sort, of inditferent admiration for the good ,ualiie s of Captain George,--as I playfully t:llted limn,-and as much veneration as I wa;s capable of, fr the hi. her and more brilliant genius of Vivian. But my heart 1was completely iced over, it warmed no more to the honied phrases of the one, than to the passionate and eloquent appeals of i he other. And as Christ as had already arrived, and, with its hearty cheer, and manly greetings, my other! lover,-I had ample opportunities for deciding that nei- tiller of these, my declared admirers, had produced a shade of change in my settled purpose,-that of subjuga'ting all nouns masculine, that should fall in my way. The captain and Vivian met constantly in my mother's drawing-room; the latter having slightly the advantage of a resi- dence under the same roof with myself, was always by my side, when the former arrived. Each thought hinself the posses- sor of my affections, and was consequently polite and affable to the other. New Year's day arrived,! and as yet, the rivals were unaware of the pecular relations in which they stood; but on that fatal day, there was to be a sleighing party, closing with a ball at the mansiqn of a country gentleman, twelve miles 'from the city. This party had been a projected thing of several weeks, always providing a. snow- storm should fall in season; and when a promising storm set in, on 'the last of De- cember, there was universal rejoicing in our geay little world, and loud congratula- tions on the part of Captain George, whom I had promised to accompani in a fairy-like sleigh, purchased for the occasion. On New Year's eve, Vivian,-not aware of this arrangment,-encgaged me as his com- panio in the morrow's ride. I laughed heartily when I thought of the dilemma, in which I bad vantonly placed myself; but I knew an explanation must i'ome sooner or later, and fancied that the mlorrow would be as  iood a time as   any.. Beside, I was weary of these two, and longed for a new conquest. They only now kept each other at a distance,-for rumor had already given me both,-.so I was resolved to disentangle myself without further delay. \ The morrow  came, it was clear, but bitterly cold, and when the appointed hour arrived, and both sleighs drove up to the door of our hotel, I would much rather have remained by the glowing fire, than have encountered the keen north wind, and the two angry and astonished faces that greeted me on descending to the drawing- room. "How's this, Miss Mortimer!"  ex- claimed Captain George, as soon as I entered, "( Mr. Gwynne says, you liave pro- mised to accompany him to-day." "Mr. Gwynne certainly speaks truth," I coolly replied, "I did say that I would ride with him; has Captain Marshall any objections?" I shall never forget the look of surprise and indignation, with which this was re- ceived. But the demon was fairly in possession, and kissing the tips of my furred gloves to the irate gentleman, I sauntered gayly from the room, saying, "Come, Vivian, we shall be late, and Captain Marshall's bays will pass us on the road, a circumstance I should not survive, I promise you." "What caused this strange misunder- standing between yourself and Captain Marshall?" quietly asked Vivian, when we had cleared the city and come within sight of the rest of our party. ' There was no misunderstanding," I answered, in a tone of great levity; "I promised to go with Captain George, weeks ago, but a lady may change her mind, I fancy, may she not-?" ( Certainly not, in a case like this, and I am heartily sorry I was not aware of the circumstances sooner, for your friend has a right to be offended at us-boti." "Really, Mr. Gwynne, you presume a little too much on my good nature. I can- not allow you, or any other gentleman to call-me to account or pronounce judgment on my actions." Isabel!" "Miss Mortimer, if you please, now, and hereafter."   "Isabel I What change has come over my you? how  can you speak and act so in  strangely,-so heartlessly?"      ove "Mr. Vivian Gwynne, I have said before, the that you presume too much. Will you have ne the kindness to recollect, that there are ab sno relations between us, which can warrant to these liberties of speech on your part?"  "Great heaven! are you mad? Or amat I the dupe of a soulless, heartless coquette? bo Are all my dreams of happiness to fade tha away into this? Speak, for heaven's sake! and tell me what it means."      ha "Simply this; I am tired, yes, wearied to bu death with Captain Marshall's heroics and m your sentimentalism. You have both said pa to me all you know and the repetition must an be as fatiguing to you as it is to me. So- take care, Vivian! O, my God! these horses are running away!" In his excitement my companion had reined in the spirited animals so tightly, that their mouths were cut and bleeding, and taking advantage of a momentary a loosening of the reins, they started off at a re full gallop, bearing us past the vehicles ce ahead,-dashing into the huge snow-drifts, t then out again on the smooth, frozen road, a with a fury that was perfectly uncontrolla- to ble. Onward we went like a rushing whirl- n wind,-the sharp breeze cut across my n face like a stinging lash, there was a dull, t ringing sound in my ears-a'violent shock- c and I remember no more, until I opened r my eyes in a strange apartment, where a were a number of persons standing around, c some chafing my hands, others bathing my brow, while one half frantic being, kneel-  ing by my side, accused himself of murder- s ing her who was dearer to him than life.  At the first symptoms of returning con- sciousness, the physician, who had been hastily summoned from the neighborhood of the catastrophe, ordered the room to be cleared of all but himself and the landlady of the small inn to which I had been car- ried after the accident. * Vivian, who had fortunately escaped unhurt, strove to speak to me, but the good doctor was resolute and I had the satisfaction of quiet, at least, though it brought no repose to my heart or brain. In' truth, I did not relish the as- pect of affairs, in the least. I had, in the first place; missed the most elegant party of the season, (no slight loss to one like   myself, who li-ved upon public almiration); in the second, I had been so injured by the overturn of the sleigh, which had struck the abutment of the bridge, landing me nearly ten feet below among the ice and snow, but fortunately sparing my limbs, as to render it unsafe for me to remove from my present distasteful quarters, for a week at least; then again, there was a dim fore- 'bodirtg of further evil, I could not shut off, that haunted me like a nightmare. During the evening, my mother, who had been immediately sent for, arrived; but her agitation and alarm, only made me more nervous and restless, so that the night passed away in painful and sleepless tossings, and the morning found me in a high fever. CHAPTER   III. Ten days dragged their weary length away, before I was in fit condition to bear a removal, and even then the motion of the s carriage was almost unendurable, but de- termining to reach my own apartments at all hazards, my mother, as usual, yielded - to my obstinacy. Once or twice during - my illness, I had thought it strange that y no mention had been made of either Cap- , tain Marshall or Vivian, and after being - comfortably pillowed on the sofa in my own d room, I said carelessly, "What has become re of my devoted friends-of course, they I, have been inconsolable for my absence?" y  To which my mother replied, "That I 1- had, indeed, been missed very much in r- society, and that many kind inquiries and regrets had poured in upon her, to which n- she had scarcely found leisure to reply." en  "But, mamma," I said, laughingly, "you od take my remark in a very general way, be while I was thinking only of individuals. dy The truth is, I should like to know very ar- much what has become of Mr. Vivian ad Gwynne, who chose to risk my life by his ak awkward horsemanship, and also, Captain le, Marshall, who, I have an idea, was not in Lst, a very good humor with me when this or ugly accident occurred."      i as-  I had kept my eyes fastened on lier the countenance, as I said this, and was not a rty little surprised to see it changed in a very ike unusual manner, while she seemed to hes-     itate and measure her words before utter- ing a reply. An indefinite feeling of alarm at once seized me, not that I had softened toward either of the named gentlemen, but I felt as if I was in some manner con- nected with some painful event that had happened to one or both of them. So I remarked in a steady voice :- "You might as well tell me the truth at once, mamma, for I am resolved to know it. Whatever mystery there is connected with these persons you are bound to tell me, or, I give you fair warning, I shall come at the knowledge through other means." "My dear Isabel," she exclaimed, with much emotion, "I am fearful for your health; indeed, there is 'nothing serious; the physicians say that Mr. Gwynne will recover, and Captain Maishall is in daily and nightly attendance on him." "Mr. Gwynne is ill then?"I said, aston- ished, "I did not know that he received any hurt." "Neither did he, my love, from the accident, but--" "But what?"I impatiently repeated. "Do not excite yourself, Isabel, nor accuse yourself unjustly; there was a duel; Vivian was wounded so severly that the seconds hurried Captain Marshall from the ground, and Vivian was conveyed home by the surgeon in a state of insensibility; for a few days his situation was critical, but he is now much better and is considered out of danger. Whatever misunderstand- ing there was between the gentlemen has, no doubt, been cleared away, for the cap- tain has been with him constantly for sev- eral days and is most unremitting in his attentions. Here then, was some nice little food for reflection. I was certainly horror-stricken for a moment. I could not doubt the cause of this lamentable affair, and as I had never intended matters should assume so serious a light, and natural feeling was not quite destroyed, my compunctious visitings were neither few nor far between. Further, I learned, by dint of cross-ques- tioning, that the papers had made the whole thing public; that my conduct had Deen pretty severely commented upon, and my illness thought, by many, to be a mere feint, to furnish a plea for seclusion,   until the matter should blow over. I was not allowed the poor consolation, even, of being thought innocent, but had been already tried and condemned at the tri- bunal of public opinion, while I was suffer- ing some of the consequences of my heart- less folly. It was with vexation, too, that I thought of the excellent understanding which now must exist between the rivals, and it did not need the contemptuously sarcastic letter, with which Captain Mar shall favored me, soon after my recovery to enlighten me as to the position I occu- pied in his estimation. . To be so coolly. and suddenly abandoned by the flatteries of the world, was something I was not formed to endure; and instead of these les- sons proving at all wholesome, they acted like poison on my perverse nature, and destroyed what little good my first remorse had awakened. I was now more firmly resolved than ever, to prosecute my mis- sion,-that of captivating and conquering the sterner sex,-but I also resolved. that future campaigns should not be conducted so clumsily as this last, nor end quite so hazardously to myself and others. It was toward the middle of February, when we withdrew quibtly from the scene of my discomfiture, and took our flight to Washington, hoping in the whirl and excitement of the capital, to forget my chagrin and achieve fresh victories which should more than atone for all I had suffered in the past. There I found the. story of the duel had preceded me, and that the singular and incongruous ele- ments which compose society in that place, were for .once in harmony upon one sub- ject, and that was myself. All were on tiptoe to see the young and' beautiful heiress, (youth, beauty and fortune all magnified by rumor), who had caused a duel, and nearly the death of one of her adorers. The belles, to be sure, curled their pretty, lips, when my arrival was i announced; mammas bristled and frowned, and spoke sharply against the sin of coquet- ry; gay gallants curled their whiskers  haughtily, and inwardly vowed the flirt i should suffer for her past misdeeds; grave I senators smiled, shook their heads, and said , dueling was a bad practice, and wondered X what a sensible man could see in a petti- coat, to make him fight for one; but all   a;greed that my presence was an indispen- pre sable thing at the Russian minister's party, Jew which was to come off on the week follow- des ing my arrival. Accordingly, invitations cos to this effect were forwarded to both my tin mother and myself, by his Muscovite high- ce ness. As my health had not entirely recovered pe from the shock of the events of the last few wt weeks, I confined myself to our own apart- co ments at the hotel, with the exception of a I daily drive, when I took-good care to be so al buried in furs, vails, and shawls, that not we one of the many curious eyes that watched R our entrance and exit from the carriage, co should be gratified by a glimpse at face or E figure, until such time as I should choose, ar and that I had already decided, should not tl be until the evening of the party alluded to. th People called this affectation, but it was q only a skillful stroke on my part to keep public curiosity whetted, and my name on  the lips of the fashionable world; beside t the advantages I should reap from regular hours and undisturbed rest, thus preserving .w my bloom and best looks for the trium- p phant evening, for such I had determined it 1 should be. In the meantime, the cards and t calls showered upon us, were responded s to by mamma, -who lamented publicly, m as, in fact, she did privately,-my apparent I inability to return the social courtesies ten-  dered us, thus creating a sort of sympathy a for my delicate health, which was ascribed  by her to the serious accident alone, though 1 some romantic individuals whispered, that ' my illness was occasioned by a disappoint- i ment of the heart, and that since the duel, I had given up society altogether, making it doubtful whether the gossips of Washing- ton would be favored with a sight of the interesting invalid, after all. It was the evening of the party ; it was conceded by everybody that this was the most brilliant party of the winter. It was at the latest moment-long after the assem- blage of all other guests-that our names were announced.. The -honorable repre- sentative from my native state was our escort for the occasion. I entered the magnificently decorated rooms, leaning on his arm, and looking- with my eyes modestly cast down-the picture of amiable and artless innocence. Instead of bein dressed, like a majority of the young ladie   "N MMJX1 D X AgA.. A , present, in heavy satins, dazzling with jewels, and loaded with ornaments of all descriptions, I wore a robe of delicate, costly lace, over another of thin silk, faintly tinged with pink; my arms-which were certainly very beautiful-were half bare, the sleeves being looped with pearls,-a pearl necklace with a diamond clasp, and a white camelia in the glossy ringlets of hair completed my costume for that evening I heard the buzz and suppressed whispe allowed to a crowd of well-bred men an women, as I passed along to where his Russian lordship chose to welcome and compliment me in the choicest of -his bad English, to which I replied with a blush and smile that did wonderful execution, thawing at once his ice-bound heart, while the belles around trembled for their con- quests and flirted more openly than ever. "What a charming, modest and unaf- i fected manner," whispered an English gen- , tleman, with short whiskers and red cheeks. "r if she is a coquette, I am no judge of r woman," and a few minutes after, when - presented to me, he entertained me with a t long history of his travels on the continent- i the thousands of beautiful women he had d seen, and ended by broadly declaring that I , was the loveliest specimen of the sex he it had ever laid his traveled eyes upon. To L- all which I listened demurely and smiled y archly. The Englishman was evidently d captivated; he hated dancing, called it a h bore, yet engaged me for the first quadrille, it which was then forming in the adjoining t- room. 1,  It is unnecessary to report the many silly (r things said to me on that memorable r- evening; it will be sufficient to say my sue- re cess was complete as I could wish. I bore my triumph so modestly, with so little out- as ward show of pride or annoyance, that even lie the ladies whom I rivaled were forced to as own I was not the heartless, fashionable n- flirt, that I had been represented. es  Weeks and even months flew by: im- re- mersed in a constant round of gayety, time ur fell so softly and pleasantly, that like the he poet, I thought he only trod on flowers. on Contrary to my former course, I allowed no res one person to pay me more particular atten- ble tion than another, but received general ng admiration from every eligible-quarter that ies offered; the consequence was, that without     any commitment on my part, further than a' few tender glances, and an occasional sigh, each confident individual thought himself the object of a full-grown, though uncon- fitssed, attachment on my part. I tried to avoid explanations, but they would come; lhen I would express myself surprised, sorry, that I should be so unfortunate as to awaken hopes I could not fulfill; would i'ler friendship to the disappointed and crest-fallen lover, who was always glad to accept this compromise, in order to escape the mortification which an opposite course would occasion, by making known his re- jection to the world. I found his Russian hghness, who was on the shady side of forty, and my English friend, two of the most difficult subjects to manage. The bear of the north, was. perfectly savage when I refused to share his ice-palace with him, and, at the same time, intimated my preference for a republican government. He said I should be the pride of St. Peters- burg; that his master, the Czar, would delight to caress and honor me as the wife of one of his favorite servants. In return I professed my inability to endure a cold climate; my horror of the knout, which I understood was sometimes administered to his imperial highness's favorites; but if he, the minister, would give up his country and become a citizen of the United States, I would become his bride. This, of course,  I knew he would not, or could not do, and that I was perfectly safe in making the conditions. The Englishman,-whose heart I really believe was touched for the first time,-for I had flattered his self-love until he could scarcely exist Qut of my sight, was furious, and left Washington cursing America, and threatening to write a book which should annihilate this upstart, vulgar people, who did not know what was for their own good, even when they,-the English,-were kind enough to point it out to them. CHAPTER IV. TritE ciose of May found us domiciled '.nce more in our rural i home at L. I had bidden adieu to Washington with a light heart and a merry one. Nothing had b     lo    occured to mar my peace or exhibit me in a true light to that gay world, without whose approbation I was nothing. I had parted from each rejected lover with a sigh and an intimation that a cruel destiny, and not myself, was to blame for the extin- guishment of their hopes; acting, to the last moment, up to the letter of the hypo- critical course I had prescribed, bearing away a thousand regrets from persons whose generous confidence I had so shame- fully abused. Some natural feelings of shame and remorse, led me to wish to shun Mr. Gwnne, and the members of his family. But I soon found this impossible, in regard to the latter, in so small a place as L. Knowing that we must meet, unless I be- came a prisoner in my own house, 1 con- cluded to brave it out, and act--as if I alone had been the injured party. In this my mother's honest and indignant heart greatly assisted. She could see no faults in her darling, and as I had carefully concealed from her the part I had played toward Vivian, while in New York, she thought me cruelly wronged by both the gentlemen and popular opinion, and conducted herself according to this belief. It was not so easy to hoodwink others, and I found myself rather coldly regarded by those who had been most lavish in their offers of friendship, previous to the New York fatality. Vivian was much beloved by his fellow-citizens and constituents, and when he returned among them pale, mutilated, and entirely divested of that agreeable cheerfulness that once characterized him, they felt bitterly toward the author of their favorite's unhap- piness, and had I returned at that time, it is more than probable social opinion would have been too strong for me. As it was, I had sufficient to contend with, but opposi- tion always had the effect of making me the more stubborn, and when my mother- on account of some slights that had been offered me-proposed to abandon the neigh- borhood, I was only the more determined to stay and live down the whole affair. I had heard, incidentally, that Vivian had given himself up to his books; that he seldom, or never, went into society, and that Captain Marshall had extorted a prom- ise from him to accompany him, in the fall, on his next cruise to the West Indies.   Not carin? to come in contact Nwifh one lou I had so heartlessly injured, I, like himself, res edlullously avoided those places where we fea should be likely to meet; and it was not sad until the latter end of September, when we I  were making our preparations for passing ha the winter at New Orleans, that I encoun- tered Vivian Gwynne.  Nearly a quarter of a mile from L., there si was a narrow causeway leading across the mE country to a small village, which was more in or less dependent on our larger town for supplies, cut off as it was, from any nearer of avenue to the public. roads. On either dc side of this causeway, willows had been of planted, years ago, and they now met and th formed a green and shaded roof overhead. fe This had always, from our first residence p at L., been a favorite walk of mine; it was lonely, shut out from the sun, and was very  beautiful and romantic. I had often walked b there with Vivian, in the early days of c( our acquaintance; all summer I had longed c to saunter down that long aisle of willows, h and had only been deterred from fear of s meeting with him. This day, I had settled s to go there, thinking it so late in the sea-.  son, that no one but myself would be  seized with a mania for walking, and espe- cially at so late an hour in the afternoon as s that I had chosen.   - Flinging on my bonnet and shawl, for ( the air was quite chilly, I started out and 1 soon reached the willow causeway, as it was called. Here I saw the havoc autumn  was making among the leaves, and fell to thinking how delightful it would be to exchange these bleak regions for the more congenial South; so wrapt was I, in thought, that I was not aware of approach- ing footsteps, until they were close upon me. Then, upon lifting my eyes, they rested upon the form of Vivian Gwynne, who stood directly before me. A sudden start, and quick suffusion of cheek and brow with crimson, betrayed to him my consciousness of his presence, though I immediately turned away. In that one glance, however, I saw the empty counte- nance, the marble brow, the melancholy eyes, and sad expression, that haunted me from that time forward--that haunt me still, though long years have come and gone since then. Neither spoke, and it was not until fear from the lateness of the   hour forced me to return, that I summoned resolution enough to retrace my steps; so fearful was I, of again encountering that sad, pale face- so cowardly was I, that I did not dare to contemplate my own handiwork. By November we had arrived at New Orleans. We were established in expen- sively furnished lodgings, and had our meals served from a fashionable refectory in the neighborhood. Wealth, that golden key to the treasures of this iworld, unlocked, at once, the inner doors of society to us, and a second round of intoxicating pleasures commenced, to the exclusion of all other thoughts and feelings, except those relating to this pursuit. Residing at New Orleans, was an old friend of my mother's, Madam Desmond, by name, who had been her most intimate companion at school--who had inter- changed words of eternal friendship with her, when both were at an age to lay great stress upon constancy, affection and other i sentimentalisms, which had my most hearty contempt. We found Madam   Desmond, who had been left a widow in rather low circumstances, residing in the house of her son-in-law, a wealthy planter and educated gentleman, who had been fascinated by her daughter Fanny, as he had seen her going and returning from school. it Fanny, herself, was a fair, delicate, blue- n eyed, fin en-ringleted child of eighteen, to with aboutas much knowledge of the world o as her infant, and quite as helpless. She re had been married two years, and already in Colonel Bradford had begun to tire of his h- toy. Fanny's innocence-her childish an beauty, white skin and blue eyes, so difle- ey rent from the dark-orbed belles of the south. e, had won his pampered fancy and gratified en his taste for the picturesque for a season; nd 'but when the baby was born, and Fanny ny persisted in devoting herself to it, to the I exclusion of all amusements that would in- ne terfere with her maternal duties, he began te- to weary, and wish he had not been in sucl oly haste to wed the pretty, spiritless girl, whD me could prefer the society of a puling, infanl me to that of himself and brilliant associates. ind Further, Colonel Bradford was a man of it violent and intense passions, refined, it is the true, by education, travel and association,     but, neverlteless, the volcanoes were there, with only these thin crusts between them and the world, ready for an outhreak, when occasion should call. With all the high and chivalrous feeling of the south, :nd a good deal of the haughtiness of the old English stock from which lie descended, he delighted to do the honors of his magni- ficent residence-to play the grand seignior to northern strangers who lived more quietly :and loved more coldly than he. Accus- tomed to command from his birth, and looked up to by his slaves as something little short of a demigod, there was a minoled air of condescension and courtesy in his hospitalities, that was not unbecoming his own superb self, but would have sat with an ill grace on a less handsome, or a less graceful man. It was in Mrs. Bradford's reception room, that I first met her lusband. He went through the forms of introduction with the easy air of a thoroughbred man of the world, and the full gaze of admiration he bestowed upon me, absolutely made my heart flutter as it had not done for many a long day. I looked at his wife, to see if she had noticed him, but she had just rung for her treasure, to exhibit it and extort those meaningless phrases, which are yet io precious to a young mother's ear. The little waxen curiosity made its appearance in the arms of an ebony nurse, who placed it in Fanny's arms with a, "Lor', bless its little heart, it be's asleep, missus!" The colonel laughed Ind looked annoyed; but I rose, and bending over the really beautiful child, kissed; its little rosebud lips, just as it opened al pair of violet eyes, only bluer and more innocent looking than Fanny's own.   ! ' Stop!" said the -colonel, with an air of exaggerated gallantrv, to his wife, as ,h!e was about kissing the child herself, top; I insist on laying the first offering on that altar, perfumed by the breath of the belle of the north, that I may, at least, catch a breath of the incense that has pre- ceded me." The elderly lady-mothers laughed at this extravagance; Fanny clapped her hands in glee, while I blushed not a little, beneath the burning glance of the gentleman, as he took the infant in his arms and pressed his lips where mine had so lately rested.   Madam Desmond, who was not remarka- ble for her penetration, was much grati- fied with the impression produced by her friends, and urged mamma to a renewal of their former intimacy, remarking that, "Miss Isabel would be such an acquisition to Fanny, who scarcely went out enough to keep herself in fashion." These civilities were cordially seconded by the colonel and Mrs. Bradford, and:the former offered him- self as an escort to the public places of nmusement, entreating us at the same time to accompany himself and Fanny, who, he was sure, would give up one evening to' her new friends, to the French opera, on the following night. Having acquiesced in this arrangement, we returned to our lodgings; my mother, with her usual good nature, praising Madam  Desmond, Fanny, the colonel and baby, and I am not sure the black nurse did not come in for a gene- rous share of her commendation. As for myself, I at once mentally decided, that Col. Bradford was the handsomest and most captivating man I had ever met-that he was not mated in Fanny, and that if he chose to fall in love with me, it was not my fault, and Fanny must look out for herself. With such reflections as these I studied the toilet for to-morrow night, and finally retired to sleep, and to deemn that Captain Mar- shall had killed Colonel Bradford, and the ebony nurse had poisoned the baby, because its mother refused her a red silk gown she had long coveted; From these feverish slumbers I was awakened at a late hour, the next morning, by my mother's attendant, who held before my half-opened eyes a bouquet of flowers, such as can be gathered only in the South. If I had a weakness in the world, it was for these same frail children of the dew and sunshine, and it was with unfeigned delight that I took the beautiful group in my hands, to admire each separate blossom. Nestled in the heart of a half unfolded rose, was a tiny gold dove,'with diamond eyes, and ruby beak, in which was a card bearing the following words: "The birds and blossoms of the south, welcome the fairer flower of the north!" A thrill of gratified vanity ran through omy frame, and involuntarily placing the flowers to my lips, I inwardly resolved to smile most tenderly on the gallant inventor     of so tasteful and elegant an offering. My mother was in renewed ecstasies over the desion and arrangement of my incompara- ble bouquet, and suggested, what I had already decided upon, that I should wear the ornament and the flowers on that par- tiular evening, as a compliment to the husband of my new friend; she added, ( That of course, if so costly a gift had been presented by a single gentleman, it could not have been accepted, but coming from a married millionaire, there was no doubt as to the propriety of receiving it." Our friends arrived at an early hour in the evening. Fanny looked exceedingly lovely, was full of playful gayety, and her guileless heart seemed to be overflowing with kindness and love, so much so that I shrunk abashed from the pure atmosphere around her. The ornament accompanying the flowers had been approved by her, and she smiled sweetly when she saw it, claspr ing a string of pearls around my throat-the only decoration beside the bouquet-which rested amid the snowy folds of lace on my bosom - worn on that evening. In the carriage, I would not permit Fanny to ride on the forward seat, as she positively desired to do, but took immediate possession of the vacant- place, while the one by my side was soon filled by the colonel. At the opera, our party attracted much attention, and between the scenes several gentlemen, friends of Col. Bradford, were presented to us, who, by their adroit flattery and gallant bearing, completely established my pre- vious convictions in regard to the superior attractions and endowments of southern men over those of the north. CHAPTER V. RAPIDLY, indeed, did the days glide away ;.Fanny and I were inseparable, and I could but notice that her husband's admi- ration of myself,-which I certainly encour- aged by all the passive graces and covert arts I knew too well how to practice,- increased daily, until at length, I was myself awed by the intensity of his passion, which he was at no pains to conceal from myself. It was not, however, until the   close of winter, that lie ventured to over- step the bounds which I meant should re- strain him from any plain declaration of attachment to myself, which I felt must abruptly end our acquaintance. At that time, Fanny,-ever anxious to contribute to the pleasure of her friends, -gave a large evening party in her magnificent saloon, which was brilliantly decorated and illuminated for the occasion. There were assembled all the best French families of the city, some of whom were related-to the young hostess on her father's side, as well as several distinguished persons from the different states, who, with their wives and daughters were whiling away the last'dreary month of winter with the seductive gayeties of New Orleans. "Remember, you dance the first set with me, according to promise, Miss Wor- thington," whispered Col. Bradford, as 1 passed him to reach a sofa near Fanny, where she wished me to remain until her reception of the guests should be over. I only answered by a bow, and an in- telligent smile, which was returned with interest.' "Now, then," said the same gentleman, a half hour afterward, as the music com- menced playing the preparatory march, "'Now, then, fair lady, you are mine at least for some brief moments; alas! that envious fate should have decreed them to be so brief." This was said in a tone, and with a manner that startled me, and yet gave an indefinable thrill of pleasure. At the conclusion of the set, my coln- panion drew my arm in his, and we bent our steps toward the conservatory, which opened into the saloon, where I easily recognized the beautiful companions to some flowers I held in my hand. Beside an orange tree in full bloom, we paused. The scene was like one of fairy land. Terminating the vista was the dancing saloon, with its starry globes uf light, georgeously dressed men and women, resplendent with plumes and jewels, while the music, which was exquisite, was playing some low, sweet strains, as a symphony to a fresh cotillion which was forming on the floor.  All around us were walls of green, dotted with innumerable blossoms of every form and hue; the air was heavy with voluptuous   perfumes, and the faintly colored lamps'Thi which were scattered here and there, threw lov atone of-softened splendor over all. A in  strange feeling of softness stole over me; an the irresistible languor steeped my senses, and was when my companion pointing to the orange bri flowers, said sorrowfully; "O1h, that it had been mine to place a Cr bridal wreath on that brow," I did not sea frown or feign the anger I could not feel. the Emboldened by my silence, he caught my ro hand---suddenly, and pressed it repeatedly ad to his lips, until footsteps, in an adjoining ro path, warned us of the approaching in- th truders.                ba The rest of that evening passed away in dr a sort of dream, and when my head fell upon my pillow, it was with a half-con-  fessed regret that the only man living whom I could love, should belong to another. D' The next morning, with the earliest al possible hour allowed to visitors, came i Col. Bradford. A feeling of caprice, and, at it may be, remorse for the pain I knew my in conduct must cause others, led me to pre- tend illness, resulting from the fatigue of fr the evening previous, as an excuse for not p seeing him. My mother, who was bearer of the apology, returned in a few minutes, t laden with regrets at my indisposition tI hopes that a day's rest and quiet would 1 find me entirely restored, and a handful of i flowers, conspicuous among which was an sprig of orange blossoms, I felt assured t had been gathered from the identical tree f we had stood under the night before.  t All day I lounged on the sofa in my I chamber, almost determined, at one mo- c ment, to fly the city and its enchantments,  and reproaching myself, the next moment, with cowardice, and weakness of heart and purpose; finally; exclaiming aloud that nothing should frighten me from the place, or deter me from pursuing the course I had marked out, not even the tears of a broken- hearted wife, or the reproaches of a fond and disappointed mother, both of which threatened me in the distance. A drive had been planned for an early day, the following week, to a plantation owned by Col. Bradford --their country retreat, when the hot summer and fears of pestilence drove them from the city. It was now the beginning of March, and the weather was quite warm and spring-like.   This morning proved to be particularly lovely; there was scarce a cloud to be seen in the broad expanse of blue above, and the cool breeze, sweeping up from the lake, was tempered by the golden sunshine, that brightened and adorned the budding earth. The dark waves laving the margin of the Crescent city, were dotted with graceful sea-gulls, which were only disturbed by the hoarse voices of the boatmen, plying from vessel to vessel with their slight barks laden with the sweet-smelling fruit of the tropics. I had, from my window, marked the beauty of the day, and in spite of the bad passions waking within, I felt a sort of dreamy sympathy with nature, and my heart bounded with pleasure as the vehicles drove to the door. There was the family coach, with Madam Desmond, Fanny, the nurse and baby already seated, and a little behind was a light one-seated calriage, to which was attached a pair of the prettiest ponies -imaginable, driven-by the colonel himself. "Come, Mrs. Mortimer," called Fanny, from the coach door, "you are  our t property; the colonel will drive Isabel." r  I made some faint show of resistance to this arrangement, (we had not met since - the evening of the party), but Fanny only i laughed, and declared, "That she must f ride with the baby, and neither ljer mother a nor mine would trust themselves behind d those vicious ponies, so there was no help: e for it." The colonel stood passive while -this arrangement lasted, and when at length y I gave him my hand to assist,me to the - carriage, he bowed gravely, lifted me in, s, placed himself lightly at my side, and t, gathering up the reins, the little ponies id dashed ahead, and soon left coach, street at andcity, in the background. e,  Not until then did he speak to me. ad Forcing the horses to slacken their pace, n- he turned toward me, and exclaimed: ad  "How have I offended you?"I was ch silent. "Cruel girl," he uttered, throwing his arms around me, and drawing me ly passionately toward him, "will you not [on speak to me?" ry  Release me, Col. Bradford!"I ex- of claimed; " how dare you treat me thus " It  "How dare I? because I love you- the love you with all the fervor and depth of ke. my nature-because you haste interwoven     yourself with all the tissues of my life, and I can no more exist without you or your love, than flowers can exist without the sunli,ht or the air that overshadows them." "You forget yourself strangely,'  I hurriedly replied, for fear crept in at my heart, and the preference I had begun to feel for this man, changed to an indefinable terror, " you forget yourself, you forget who you are, and all the relations which should restrain you!" "Curse them!" he exclaimed, still draw- ing me closer to him, "I was insane to bind myself; but we will laugh at these bonds, my beautiful friend; love knows no law, nor should he-we will be free as the air around us, and such devotion as only the most passionate heart can feel, shall be yours, if you will but own for me a tithe of the affection that burns here for you." My alarm had now arisen to its utmost height; for however much I had trifled with feeling and genuine affection, I had lhad no idea of bringing such shame and insult upon myself. A pure, platonic friend- ship, with Col. Bradford, had been the utmost I had contemplated, in my weakest moments; I was utterly unprepared for a scene like this. All the deep-rooted, satanic pride of my being was aroused; it may not have been the indignation of in- sulted virtue, so much, as the idea that any one ,dared to address the language of guilt to Isabel Mortimer, and invite her to plunge into eternal infamy, for the grati- fication, too, of one of that sex, which had so long been the object of her contempt. "Release me instantly!' I exclaimed, in a voice of suppressed passion and terror, "or I will repeat to Fanny,l word for word, your infamous proposals: snd in future, do not dare to look at me. Oh, my God! that I liad power to with r you with my scorn and abhorrence!" "It is too late, sweet Isabel, to put. on these airs of coldness and disdain; you should have discouraged mne at once, and not fed my passion for you, which you could not help perceiving, until I have lost all command of myself. You will soon learn to think differently. You will learn that we are all children of earth, and while here, are subject to earthly passions, which are not wrong in themselves, as cold priests and grim moralists would .lave us believe,   i but lead to the most perfect bliss attainable h lere, when met in warm, congenial hearts, I like yours and mine, Isabel!" and he held me forcibly in his arms, as he kissed brow, eyes and lips, until so deadly a feeling of loathing took possession of me, that I thought I should have fainted. In the meantime, our horses had scarcely gone out of a walk, and at this instant the sound of wheels behind us, accomplished what all my entreaties, struggles and threats had failed todo. Itwas sheer inability to move, from the tremor and weakness produced be my fright, anger and shame, that prevented me from springing from the carriage, when I felt myself free, and thus escaping from my tormentor, at the risk of limb or life. As it was; I could only sink back, close my eyes, and try to still the fierce throbbing of my heart, and cool my cheeks, which were absolutely scorch- ing with the hot blood that rustled indig- nantly through my veins. The fresh morning, the sunshine, the bright waves, dimpled by light, that were musically flowing in the distance; the blue sky, the green trees, all were a mockery to me - they seemed to rejoice over my wounded pride, to shine and dazzle more brightly, because of the blow I had received. A few moments more, brought us within sight of the long rows of white-washed huts, each with a graceful China tree be- fore the door, which constituted the homes of the slaves on Col. Bradford's planta- tion. About a quarter of a mile further, arose the pillared roof of the mansion, itself; sitting in a bower of orange-trees, and surrounded by groups of the splendid magnolia, which gave their name to this abode of elegance and wealth. I have seldom seen a more lovely or inviting spot, than Magnolia Hall; the grounds so beau- tifully laid out, and elaborately cultivated; the wealth of green shrubs and flowering vines; the dainty, little white-shelled paths winding in and out, crossing and recrossing each other in that maze of bloom and verdure, at once captivated the eye, and elicited admiration for the taste and in- genuity of the owner. My feet had scarcely touched the ground, when the coach arrived, bearing the re- mainder of our party. Having alighted,   -falny led the way to the lofty apartment, and with windows to the floors, opening out on slu a wide, green lawn, bordered with beds of aw Sfowers, which were already in bud, and Sta decorated with taller shrubs, that stood t like fair sentinels over the silence and soli- s tude that reigned around. Not far before a  is, the blue waters of lake Pontchartrain, an leaped and dazzled in the sunshine, while at our back, a primeval forest bounded the ne distant horizon.            aw We were scarce  seated, when  myn mother, who had been narrowly watching to me, said quickly: "You are ill, Isabel, I am certain of it;  your color has changed from scarlet to a W deathly white, and you tremble with cold." tr All was instant alarm with Fanny, whose sympathetic heart was always alive to the se least pain or suffering in another.  al ' My dear friend," she said, compassion- tl ately, "the colonel has frightened you with st those vicious ponies; an hour's rest in my t little sanctum will restore you. Trust her a: to me, my dear Madam; (addressing my y mother), and she shall soon recover he f bloom, I promise you," then drawing my n arm within ler own, she led me into a fancy little boudoir, where her own and f her husband's taste had been exercised to a the utmost, in fitting up a miniature palace.  "rTlere," said she, heaping the pillows  to rather on a luxurious couch; "rest you E tlere, my darling, until your nerves get t quieted again, ant then you shall have such X a cup of teal" Gayly flinging a snowy spread over me, and kissing my cheek, which was indeed pale, she went from the room, closing the door softly behind her. I was no sooner left by myself, than I burst into a flood of tears. The events of the morning pressed heavily on my mind; I felt contaminated, in having been forced to listen and reply to a guilty passion-in having been pressed to the bosom, and received the kisses which belonged to another-and that other the pure and gentle-hearted Fanny. A revolution of feeling had taken place in my mind. Instead of thinking, as I had once, that she was no mate for him, I felt that she was worlds too good and fair for a being of such dark; ungovernable passions, as Col. Bradford has shown himself to be. At last, wearied with thinking, sighing At I weari   and sobbing, I fell into a light, uneasy slumber. From broken dreams, Hwas awakened by a slight noise at the door. Starting to my elbow, I saw Col. Bradford -turn the key, and then come toward me. I sprang instantly to my feet, and uttered a piercing scream. The savage laughed, and said satirically: "That was admirably executed, but you need not repeat it, as I am the only audience you will be likely to have; unless, indeed, the mocking-birds should chance to stop their songs to listen to you."' "What do you mean? you base and wicked man! -Where is my mother? Where is Fanny?  I will go to them!"- trying to pass the door. "Bl Not yet, little trembler!" placing him- n self before the door; "I assure you they are not in this house, and what is more, - there is not a soul within hearing; all your strufgles will be of no use, except to agi- y tate and make you more helpless; so come r and lean your head kindly on my bosom;; v yield yourself to what you cannot escape, r for I have sworn by the heavens above, to y make you love me!" a  "Love you!"I contemptuously repeated, d for anger had completely overcome fear, to and I did not credit him, that we were e. alone in tie house, "love you! I hate you : vs beyond everything! there are no terms mu strong enough in which to convey to you et the scorn and loathing I feel for you-base ch and cowardly as you are; I would sooner die, than endure your presence for another e, moment!" ed  The hot blood mounted to his brow. lt he was the -first time, probably, that he had ier ever been thwarted; certainly, the first of time that he had ever listened to such ied language addressed to himself. ed,  "If you were a man," he said, in a to thick, suppressed voice, "I would kill you; sed but being a woman, ahd so beautiful, why, ses you little fiend, I will only love you the her harder, as you shall find directly." A  He came toward me with outstretched my arms, I shrieked and retreated; he only ice, laughed at my screams, and Aas about that seizing me, when my eye caught the glitter r a of sharp scissors on a table near. I Ons, caught them eagerly, and turning round, be. with all the force I was capable, I plunged ling. them in the bosom of my assailant.     I saw a little red stream ooze over the white linen that covered his breast, as I withdrew the weapon-heard him exclaim "You infernal tigress!" then a sickening sensation stole over me-a sound of many waters boomed in my ears-my limbs relaxed, and I sunk, fainting and powerless, to the floor. CHAPTER VI. WuIEN I again opened my eyes, I was in the same tasteful little apartment where Fanny had left me. I was not lying on the floor where I had fallen, but on the couch before mentioned. At first, I could not remember what had passed, but slowly recollection returned, and I looked feebly ,around, to see if I had murdered the hus- band of my friend. But no, there was no one in the room but myself. I put my lhand to my head, to try and collect-my thoughts, but drew it hastily away, for my face was dripping with what I at first fancied was blood, but which proved to be cold water. Again my eye glanced around the room, in search of some evidence that  it was not a horrible dream under which I was laboring. No, there, on the floor, lay c the fatal scissors, their bright points stained i with crimson, I gave a shudder, and im-  mediately relapsed again. A sharp click,  'like the spring of a lancet, and a smarting  sensation in my left arm, once more recalled me to life.              t A tall, elderly gentleman, stood over me,  with an open lancet in one hand, and the  other holding my outstretched arm, from 3 which the stream of life was issuing freely. i By his side, stood Col. Bradford, his blue v frock-coat buttoned to the chin, and his face pale as death; looking anxiously, first at s me, and then at the physician, for such the b stranger evidently was.        t "She must have been much frightened," 1 whispered he to the colonel, ' to have o remained so long in this state."   n "She was," returned the colonel; "the  horses were more than usually restive, but h there was really no danger, except in her b imagination."             t Then seeing me open my eyes, he said, p softly:                tj   le  "My dear Miss Mortimer, I hope you I have recovered; you have certainly fright- i, ened me, as much as my unfortunate horses g did yourself." y  I only heard a sigh, and closed my eyes, s that I might shut out the sight of one wlho s, had caused me so much suffering, botl of mind and body. "She will do very nicely now, "said the Doctor, binding up my arm in his linen handkerchief. "n a few hours she can return to the city, but let it be in the coach by all means, and not behind your fractious n ponies, colonel." "Pardon me," said the latter, arresting his steps, "I shall have to be indebted to a you for further service, Doctor. Miss Mor- I timer and I are alone here; will you be si kind as to ride to my overseer's, where you will find the rest of our party, and desire Mrs. Bradford to hasten here? you will break this matter gently, so as not to frighten the ladies, if you please ;" turnino the Doctor -from the room. I suppose I must have looked alarmed :t the idea of being again left alone- with mn host; for he said, bitterly, so soon. as tlhe Doctor's footsteps passed from the stair- case: "You need not be frightened, you have effectually cured me of any lingering weak- ness for yourself. By heavens! I am ha;lf afraid to remain near such a bloody-mindcd, beautiful little fiend. Suppose you had killed me?" I made no reply, but attempted to rise, that I might leave the room. "Lie still!" he thundered, "I am going to get rid of this red witness of my infernal folly and your abominable stubbornness"-unbutton- ing his coat and pointing to the linen which was perfectly saturated with blood. "Had I followed my own instincts of self-preservation, you might have perished here alone; but though my love died with that blow you gave me, I could not see you lying still and deathke, without an emotion of pity; a word I think you never knew the meaning of. Remember," he continued," "you were overcome by fright from the horses, this morning, and when, alarmed by your long sleep, I sought to convey you to the overseer's, where the rest" had preceded us, you were in a fainting fit; this will save us both some trouble and   confusion and you need fear nothing further h from me." As he turned to leave the p room, his foot struck against the scissors, n which still lay upon the'floor. He stooped, ii picked them up, and looking back at me, t said with a revengeful smile; "If I ever am d in danger of forgetting this morning, here t will be a sharp  remembrancer."  He  passed out at the open door, and a half hour a afterward my mother entered pale and terri-  fied, for her anxiety had exaggerated her b fears, and made her nearly wild before she  could reach me. From her I learned, that dinner had been prepared for us at the  overseer's; as the colonel's house-servants t were all at the establishment in the city, and Magnolia Hall was entirely vacated during X the winter months. Fanny and my mother y had thought it best to allow me to remain  quiet, at the colonel's suggestion, who staid behind to fetch me when I should awake. I In all this, I recognized a deep-laid plan on 1 the part of this misgoverned man, whose toils I had barely escaped, and an emotion  of gratitude pierced, my heart, the first I  remember to have experienced, for my -providential rescue from ruin. Fanny soon made her appearance, and could scarcely forgive herself, for having been the cause of my suffering, by inducing me to ride behind the dreaded horses, which she declared the colonel ought to sell. It was late in the afternoon when we returned to the city. I occupying Madam Desmond's place in the carriage, who had the baby, while the nurse took a seat out- side by the coachman, much to that elegant African's distress, who thought it an in- fringement of his dignity, to ride through the city with a female on the box-beside him.          ; The fashionable festivities of the New Orleans season; were to close on the last evening of March,by a private masquerade ball, at the residence of a Spanish gentle- man, who had long been a resident of the Crescent city. For .a week or two, I had been dwelling on the novelties and pleasure this ball was to afford me. I had even been so imprudent as to describe the dress I in- tended to wear to Colonel Bradford, who had acquainted me with his in return. It being impossible, without violating truth and etiquette, to avoid going to the ball,   having accepted the invitation some weeks previous, and my health affording no plea now for declining, I had to set about devis- inrr a new costume, in which I might be thoroughly disguised from everyone. I decided at last to represent Diana, and when the night arrived and I presented myself before mamma, dressed in my new char- acter, she was in an ecstasy of approval of my taste and the fanciful fulfillment of it, by her maid and myself, who were the costumers on that great occasion. "Shall I do ma?"I asked affectedly, glancing at myself in a full length mirror that hung opposite. "Do! You look more beautiful than 1 ever before saw you; it is a pity to hide *your face under that ugly thing you hold in your hand." This was my doming mask, which was- made of black velvet. fitting closely to the face and extending as low as the mouth, which latter, with the chin,-were partially revealed by a frill of black lace that hung over them. The dress was composed of voluminous folds of dark blue gauzy mate- rial, which swept the floor on all sides. It was spangled with innumerable silver stars. confined at the waist by a belt of the same hue, clasped in front by a blazing star, set with brilliants, which belonged to my mother in her early days. The sleeves were ample and flowing, lined with white satin, as, indeed, was the whole dress, which glis- tened like fleecy clouds through the deep blue that floated over it. Falling back ov, r my hair-which was gathered up in a simple Grecian knot behind-was' a white, filmy vail, of almost .cloud-like delicacy, over which a shower of the smallest stars was scattered in careless profusion; the whOle was confined just above the brow by a cres- cent moon of silver and pearls. Crossing t the left shoulder, was a narrow silver ribbon, holding a fairy little. quiver, loaded - with silver-tipped arrows, and in my hand was a bow, gilded in like manuler, with one I tiny arrow already poised against the silver i cord, ready for a flight if Diana should will. When I entered the ball-room, most of ) the guests were assembled, and a motley- t looking company it was. Safe under the h kind protection of my mask, I felt none of ,that tmbarrassment I must otherwise have     done, from the novelty and strangeness of the scene. The host, who received each guest separately and unhasked, that design- ing persons might not impose on his hos- pitality, had handed me over to a monk, who said in an affected voice, that he had no objection to the company of so fair a huntress." After becoming accustomed to tle scene before me, I looked nervously around, to see if I could discover Colonel Bradford; but no dress like the one he had described to me was there, and I expe- rienced an inward relief, hoping that he had had the delicacy to refrain from coming on my account. Once or twice it flashed across my mind, that, like myself, he might have "hanged his dress, but this thought, as it gave me no little uneasiness, I was glad to dismiss and enter into the enjoyment of the evening. "Most chaste Diana," whispered the monk at my side, " you are more pensive than usual; has the cruel boy Endymion, stolen your voice as well as heart?" I started, for there seemed to be familiar tones in that voice,-tones like those of my 'irch enemy,-for such I now considered the man, who, bound by the most sacred ties to another, had dared to breath his unholy vows to me. "It ill becomes a monk," I replied, in a feigned voice, "to speak of wordly things in so light a manner; I pray you, betake yourself to your devotions, or I shall send an arrow through your cowl." "Hard-hearted huntress! where should  ^ poor world-forsworn monk breathe his prayers, if not in presence of the fair-browed i night? Your stars have kindled up my  devotion, and not all the arrows in your s silver quiver would stay me from kneeling ( at my shrine-that is, when a proper I opportunity offers."  This was said in a light, playful tone, t that completely mystified me again. And i ] thought that it was only my fear that had v magnified a resemblance in this voice, to I any I had ever listened to before; 'o accep-  ting his proffered arm, we glided down the t room to where, a group of dancers, who n were among the most amusing part of the s oompany, were preforming their grotesque c measures, for the entertainment of the a lookers on.    f  "What, ho! Diana!" exclaimed a Turk, h with a long, flowing black beard, "Why - do you herd with that miserable monk, - when I am ready to make you queen of , my seraglio, on the banks of the Bosphorus, 1 whose glassy tides shall mirror all your a stars?"  "Profane infidel!"I replied, "it is thus r Diana punishes," sending an arrow at his I turban, where it lodged, amid the laughter of those around.  "Still true to your murderous instincts!" I whispered a well known voice in my ear; I turned hastily around,-there was no one near but the monk, who stood motionless at my side. "Did you see any one pass me at this moment?"I -asked nervously of my com- panion. "There were many passed thee, O! Diana," he mockingly replied, "which of the princes, nuns, pages, heroes or kings, did your goddesship mean?" '"It is no matter," I answer, affecting a levity I did not feel; "but, good monk, this scene wearies me, and it is time for a cres- cent to disappear; so pray conduct me to the Jove who rules this realm, for I have lost my way, and you will all be benighted in consequence." He made no reply, but drawing my arm within the folds of his black doming, walked hurriedly away. Dazzled by the lights and colored dresses overcome by sudden terror of falling once more into the hands I had so lately escaped, my head swam and feet faltered, as we emerged from the large saloon into a smaller apartment, where the host wai summoned to attend me. The monk offered to go himself in search of my car- riage-a service I thankfully accepted. He soon returned and bidding my cour- teous entertainer a good night, I sprang into the vehicle, and was glad to hear the wheels rolling through the silent street. Here, I fell into a deep reverie, from which I was awakened by the sudden cessation of that rattling noise caused by stony pave- ments, and looking out of the window, I saw by the starlight, that we had left the city, and were driving at a rapid pace over a smooth turnpike. I called loudly to the coachman, but no answer was returned,-I   tried the doors, but both were fast; wild a with affright I fell back on the seat, and d wringing my hands, wept bitterly.   s I thought of my mother, waiting to 1( embrace and kiss me good night-tokens a of love, she had never omitted bestowing n on me before retiring to rest, it mattered i1 not at what hour I returned, from the s scenes of pleasure which she did not share. r I thought over all my folly, cruelty, friv- t olity, heartlessness and pride. I compared c the little pleasure I had received to the t evil I had done-to the pangs both mental and physical that had overtaken me in my  miserable career, and owned, in that hour 1 of terror and repentance, that the whirlwind  I had reaped, was of the seed of the wind I had sown.  CHAPTER   VII. An hour passed away-one long hour of intense agony, and then the carriage paused. The door was quickly opened-a strong arm lifted me out as if I had been a child, and carried me up a short flight of steps into a dimly-lighted room. Placing me on a sofa, the owner of the strong arm bade me not be fiightened, as I should suffer no harm, and immediately assed friom the room, locking the door behind him. I did not see his face, though I had torn the mask from my own, in the carriage, but the apartment was so faintly lighted and the night had grown so dark without, that his features were completely concealed from my eyes. I had not to wait long, however, for soon the door opened again, and a venerable looking man, dressed in the vestments of an Episcopal clergy- man, entered, followed by another tall, dark looking person, with heavy beard and moustache, and long, black hair, hanging over his brow, nearly concealing his face. This person immediately approached me, and taking my hand, asked me to rise. The clergyman drew near, and commenced reading from a book in his hand, the mar- riage service. I struggled. to withdraw myself from the powerful grasp that re- strained me, but in vain; emotion deprived me of utterance, I. staggered and should nave fallen, but a second time thait strong IICIrrirru uvv------ ---- ----   arm was thrown around me, and my head drooping on his shoulder, I lost all con- sciousness of the scene around me. How long a time had elapsed, I know not, prob- ably, not more than a few minutes, for the minister still stood there, the prayer-book in his hand, while I was stretched upon the sofa-the tall, dark man, holding water to my lips, and sprinkling it every now and then over my face. Observing that 1. opened my eyes, shuddered and closed them again, he said: "Do not be alarmed, you shall return as soon as you recover, but you must not forget that you are my bride, that I am your truly wedded husband." "I am not your wife!"I exclaimed, horror lending me strength, "I have uttered no vows, niade no promises, and you. (turning to the gray, old man, who looke, camly on), cannot sanction so dreadful a lie as this!" The grim mouth of the dark man smiled, as he said, "You may spare all appeals in that quarter, for the reverend gentleman is i deaf as a post, and thinks we are two fond a lovers, who have stolen from our friends at the masquerade, in order to be made happy after a legal fashion; and I shall take r good care that he shall not be enlightened I on the subject." With that he again lifted y me in his arms, and once more descending r the steps, placed me in the carriage and h seated himself at my side. I felt his e arms encircling me, I shrieked and struggled y to free myself from his grasp till overcome k by terror and weakness, I fell into a swoon. y  When I opened my eyes, I'was in a bed it in a richly furnished room, and the motion d assured me that I was on board of a ves- d sel-beside the bed, stood a breakfast- - table, loaded with all the luxuries and k delicacies of the south. I sunk back on d the bed confused, bewildered, and utterly g unable to tell how I came there. A dull, e. heavy pain oppressed my brain, and, for a e, few moments the effort to recall the past e. was vain. I closed my eyes, and one by ad one the events of the past came thronging r- back to my mind, every act, every word w and feeling of my past life was as viv'dlv e- pictured to my vision as the scenes (Of d panorama; and, as the faults, the errors; Id the frivolity and heartlessnessof my conduct ag r arose before me, it seemed that,. for the fi;st     time, I saw them in their true colors-not as a weak, vanity-blindecd woman, did I now extenuate them, but as one who has passed the valley of shadows. I saw not, as through a darkened glass, dimly, but clearly and distinctly, and my heart was filled with remorse and repentance. A motion by my side, startled me from my reflections. I sprung from the bed, and turning, saw Col. Bradford slowly rising f'om the bed where I had so lately reclined. 'f Ha! my pretty bird, yeu need not fly from the arms of your husband, where you have been contentedly reposing all night; for, however your sober waking thoughts may differ from the delicious, intoxicating dreams of love, it is now too late to regret; you are mine, mine by. the most sacred oaths, mine by the ceremony of the church, mine by possession and enjoyment, and I would advise you to make' the best of it, and fly not from, but to, t e arms of your husband and lover 1" "How dare you, Col. Bradford," said I "address me in this insulting manner, you, the husband of my friend, the father of her child? Base, cowardly and revengeful as you are, you dare not so far violate the laws of God and man, as to trample on the bonds which unite you to Fanny, to gain one who despises, detests, and abhors you. Take me home, I command, I entreat you, if there is a spark of pity, of honor, or honesty in your heart. I implore you restore me to my mother, and I will forgive this sorry jest." "Jest!" said he, in a scornful, mocking tone, " the jesting has been on your part alone, you, to gratify the caprice of a mo- ment, to minister to a devilish spirit of vanity and coquetry, by your wiles and artifices, lured my heart frbm her whom you now so deeply pity. It may have been sport to you, but it was a bitter reality to me; your dazzling charms!, your magnifi- cent beauty, but above all, your artful attentions, and deceitful flatteries, excited a love in my breast, stronger than life, and lasting as the soul-wife, child, friends, country, all are as grains of incense, which I freely cast on the altar of my idolatry, without one pang of pity, or one throb of regret. You awakened, nourished aal strengthened this passion, till it has grown *o strong that, like a mountain brook, which,   'small at the source, gains strength as it [ advances, until nothing can resist its onward ; downward course.' Our fates are fixed; mine you are, mine you shall be, till death separates us? it remains with you to decide whether in that far off sunny clime, to which we go, your future will be as bright, and blissful, as wealth, love, and the most untir- ing devotion, can render it,-or yodr days pass in seclusion more strict than the con- vent, and lasting as life!" "Monster," I replied, choking with rage and despair, "you may immure me in dun- geon walls- you may tyranize over, and trample upon me, for I am- weak, defense- less, and a woman, but be sure the day of reckoning will come, and that I will yet be revenged, deeply and fully; and now," seizing a knife from the table, "approach one step, lay one finger on me, and I will let you feel the strength of a wronged and outraged woman's hand," "Ha, ha! my pet tigress," said he, "vou never looked more beautiful and queenlike than now, with that case-knife stretched to heaven in such tragic, artistic style! but you will find the point less sharp, even than the scissors, However, since you are in such a gentle mood, I will leave you for the present, The table is before you, should you want anything, ring the bell and your wants will be attended to instantly; everything here, including my unworthy self, is yours, au revoir." So saving, 1. closed the door and I was alone. I sunk to the floor, heartkbroken and de- spairing, I felt that life had became a deso- late waste, to me, without one green, fiesh oasis, whereon the eye might gaze and be refreshed-shame, like a vulture, would forever fasten on my heart, and I could never again raise my eyes upward to the bright skies. I pressed the knife which 1 still retained with a convulsive grasp and raised it aloft, determined at one blow to terminate an existence which had become a burden too heavy and greivous to be borne-suddenly a change pame over the spirit of my thoughts, and looking heaven- ward, I swore by all that I :held dear and sacred to live, to endure shame, outrage and wrong, without a murmer or coniplaint, animated by one hope, one wish, one object, lTe hope of-vengeance.     CHAPTER   VIII. I liad now an object to accomplish, and I determined that no scruples, no womanly timidity, no sacrifices, should divert me from the fulfillment of that object, and conse- quently, when Colonel Bradford made his appearance in the evening, I endeavored to control the distgust, the loatFing, and rage with which his presence inslired me. "Well, my pet tiger," he exclaimed, as he entered, "I hope now that you are in my power, beyond the hope of rescue, you will make the best of it, and, in time, mov,ed by my repentance, my kindness, and anx- iety to anticipate your slightest wish, and minister to your every desire,be induced to pardon the violence 1 was compelled to use to gain that without which life instead of a blessing would be a curse--hink that you are in a measure responsible fbr my violence: before I saw ypu I was, if not happy, at least contented, and even when you came I might have admired you, and thought of you as of some beautiful vision which for a moment illumined my pathway-but I should never have dreamed of loving you, if you had not excited that passion in my heart by your insidious- ttentions and coquetries. At the time you dreamed not of the strength of the love which you exci- ted, you came between me and Fanny-you damned up the affection which like a gentle brook flowed from my heait to her, till that brook became a raging torrent sweep- ing everything before it. I know you must feel indignant at the force qsed to make you mine, and I cannot expect you to love' me now, but may I not hope that time will soften your resentment, and that my deep, sincere love., my unwearied devotion, and the sacrifices I have made, will induce to forget rpy violence and regard me with pity and kindness if not with love4"; "Do you dare sir," I replidd "talk to me of love after the cruel wrong you have done me-while I am still suffering from your  brutality?-there was, I confess, a time when I admired you, and if circumstances  had been different, I might have loved  you--but now I can only hate and detest  you,-for the errors of a girl can be no  justification for the horrid cruelty of your    [conduct, and even if you should now make all the atonement in your power and restore me to my mothei, I could never forget, though I might pardon and conceal, your dastardly outrage on a poor, defenseless girl." "You are still excited and indignant and I will no longer intrude on you; in a week we will reach our destined home-while here everything in the vessel is at your command, you have but to issue your orders, and they will be obeyed-this room is yours and I will not force my presehce on you, but trust to time and my unwear- ied devotion to alleviate your anger and induce you to regard me with forbearance and pity, if not with love," so saying, he bowed, and withdrew. Six days afterward the vessel came to anchor, and in the evening I was taken ashore in a small boat-a carriage was in waiting, we rode all night, and, as the first faint streaks of daylight illumed the east, we entered a gate, and drove up a long, winding avenue, bordered with trees, shrubs and flowers, to a large, low house, embowered amid shrubs and vines. I was conducted to a room where I found a number of dresses, and all the articles necessary for a lady's toilet. The next morning I arose early and wandered through the garden which sur- rounded the house, And- amid the variety of strange plants and 'beautiful flowers which grew with all the luxuriance and beauty so peculiar to these sunny climes, I almost forgot that I was a captive-a servant approached to inform me that break- fast awaited. I declined going to the break- fast room and breakfast was accordingly served in my apartment. The day by this time was half over, and overcome by the heat I reclined on a sofa, and sunk into a deep, calm, happy sleep, in which all my woes and misfortunes were for a time forgotten-when I awoke the silver moon was shining in soft and melancholy beauty into the room. I arose, dressed myslf, and wandered once more through the garden- thoughts of my far off home, of my mother distracted with grief for the loss of her idolized child, stole over my mind, and I resolved to fly and abandon all my cher- ished hopes of vengeance, and in the quiet   of my native village, with no society but my i mother's, hide my shame, and atone, by I sincere repentance, and active good to all X around me, so far as was in my power for all the errors, faults and crimes of my past life. The garden wad inclosed by a high vall, and I could not, without the assistance of a ladder, hope to escape here, I hastened to the gate and laid my hand on it, when a- strong hand grasped my arm, and a voice which did not seem unfamiliar to my ear exclaimed, "Thus far you may go, fair lady, rand no farther. You are at liberty to wander at will through the house and gar- den, but if you attempt to pass beyond, you will be deprived of this privilege; and now., as it is getting late, and the night dews here are unhealthy,' especially to strangers, I would advise you to seek your room." Without a word of reply I turned and walked to the house and to my apartment. Days and weeks passed without. any occurrence - worthy of notice, and I was as far from the accomplishment of my vengeance as ever- I saw Colonel Bradford but seldom, and when I did he was as respectful and atten- tive as possible. Never have I witnessed devotion such as his; he seemed content to be allowed to be near me-my wishes were all anticipated, my slightest word seemed to thrill with a strange power his whole frame, and if t spoke to him in a tone of kindness his eyes sparkled and 'his face lit up with rapture and happiness. - There were times when I almost forgot my vows of vengeance, Awhen in dreams of pure and perfect happiness in this land of fruits, of flowers, of delicious perfumes, of warmth, sunshine and beauty, with one loved being by my side, whose every thought, wish and pulsation was in unison with mine, I forgot the stern realities of the. present-but such dreams were brief and transitory as they were bright and beautiful, and bitter indeed was the awakening-then all my vows of vengeance came back with vivid force, and I resolved that the atonement should be full and complete as my wrongs had been deep and irreparable. Several weeks passed without presenting an opportunity of accomplishing my object, when one evening, as I wandered through the garden, I saw Col. Bradfard stretched beneath the shade of a large tree, evidently asleep-he had taken off his coat and placed   it under his head-by his side were his pistols and a bowie knife-for a few moments I stood gazing on him irresolute what to do ;t there laid the being who had so cruelly wronged and outraged me-the instruments of death within my grasp- I had but to seize the knife, strike, one blow, and he who lay stretched before me, in the silence and helplessness of sleep, would pass into that sleep which knows no awakening, yet my heart shrunk with horror from the deed-the cold sweat stood in large beads on my face and hands, my limbs shook as with palsy, my hair seemed to raise and bristle on my head-for a moment I stood incapable of motion-with a mighty effort I threw off this weakness, seized the knife, raised it high in the air, and with all the force of my arm, plunged it deep into his body; the fury of a demon seized my heart-again I raised my fren- zied hand; as it descended a blow from behind sent the knife whizzing from my hand and I fell senseless to the earth. When conciousness returned, I tried to rise, but found that my hands and feet were stretched out and firmly fastened; a heavy chain, bound around my almost naked body, fastened me to the bed in such a way as prevented the least motion. My limbs felt as if they had been stretched on the rack until every sinew and muscle had started from its fastenings;-darkness, the most impenetrable, prevented my seeing anything around me-horrid recollections of the hor- rid tales of, the cruelties, the outrages and the torments inflicted by the old Spaniards on their victims-visions of cruel men, of horrid instruments of torture, of bleeding victims and ghastly wounds, appeared to be faintly shadowed through the darkness. The howlings of agonized wretches, shriek- ing, groaning, and crying for mercy,- rang in my ears, and thrilled my frame with horror and dread. The noise of creaking' hinges aroused me from these dreadful , images, and sounds of terror, to still more acute, because palpable and actual, terrors: four large negroes entered, one bearing a torch which lighted-up the small dungeon-like room, the bed to which I was i firmly bound, and revealed the ferocious I countenance of the negroes. For a few F moments they stood in silence before me; 1 the ghastly light of the torch revealed their     ferocious features, their huge lips and beastly mouths, their black eyes inflamed with passion and lust, their frames trembling and crouched like the tiger when about to spring upon his prey-the foremost took one step and placed his hand upon my breast. I shrieked, I striggled, but vain were all my efforts to release myself-a second negro dragged the first Away, a struggle for precedence ensued-the light was extin- guished, and I was again in darkness sounds of a mortal contest, of curses, of blows, of growls and of agonizing cries rinrgig inl my ears-a fall, a groan, and silence ensued-one of the combatants arose and with some threatening words and curses approached and laid his hands upon me, pressed his beastly lips against mine till Ihis hot breath, burning iwith the poisonous, sulphurous fires of hell, scorched and suf- locate-d -me-I shrieked, I struggled with the energy of despair, till the very heavens seemed rent with my agonized cries, and my sinews torn from their fastenings and my bones from their sockets-still the hand -otfthe black demon was upon me, and his nmad grasp bound me firmer than the iron chain, till, finally, insensibility relieved me  ftr a time from my suff(rings. How long I continued in this state of leadly stupor it is impossible for me to tell. The next recollection I have of that horrid scene, is of being turned with the bed, until I was almost in an erect position; before me stood Colonel Bradford with a torch in his hand-beside him stood a large, power- ful man, in a Spanish dress. I cannot recall' the revilings, the curses, the taunts and jibes Colonel Bradford showered upon me ; I was scarcely sufficiently recovered from  the stupor caused by m. sufferings, to com-  prehend them at the time, and the agony of the preceding scene vas too deep, and  tile impression left too ^ivid, to enable me  to r call with distinctness the following ( e-ts--they unfastened, my hands and feet  and the' chain around tny body; forced a i strong, burning liquid ddwn my throat; led, v to die, alone and in diarkness-but death I came not-in spite ofI my bruised and + lacerated body, of my shame and despair, 1 I lived; and impelled by' the dread of again a falling into the hands of my vindictive  *     I ,   O   enemy, I crawled and dragged myself, until morning's dawn, away from the hated spot. Unable to proceed further, and fearing to be again taken, I crept into a thicket and fell into a deep sleep, from which I did not awake until the sun was sinking in the west. Gathering some berries and fruits from the bushes and trees, I atq enough to allay my hunger and give me strength for the renewal of my flight. Three days I slept in the bushes, and three nights jour- neyed on; my only nourishment the berries I gathered on the route; on the morning of the fourth day, I reached the seashore. For weeks I gained a scanty subsistence from the bushes and trees. Early one morning I discovered, to my inexpressible joy, a vessel approaching the shore; she soon cast anchor, and directly three boats, each having a few sailors, and a number of ncgroes, pulled for the shore. The negroes were left with a guard, and the boats returned to the vessel; when they  landed their second cargo I approached, and begged them to take me on board the vessel. I was truly a pitiable looking object, and even the hard hearts of the slavers were moved with pity and compassion. Fearing that if I told themn the truth I might be delivered again into the hands of Colonel Bradford, I told them the vessel on which I was, was wrecked, and, after clinging for days to a plank, I had been washed ashore and for some weeks had gained a scanty subsistence, and wandered along the coast daily, in hopes of seeing a vessel. In-consideration of my weakness, and my suffering condition, few questions were asked and they readily agreed to take me to  New Orleans, where they intended going so soon as delivering the slaves, only exact- ing from me a promise that I would not betray them. That evening the traders came and received the slaves, and we set sail for New Orleanshere we arrived safely in a few days. The aptain sent for a hack, and accompanied We to the hotel where we had lodged. So changed was I, in a few short months, that no one recog- nized me-my hair had become streaked with gray; my cheeks, lately so round and rosy with health and life, were shrunken and haggard; and my whole appearance' denoted old age. I inquired for my mother,   and learned that, distracted and heart-bro-'  ken at my sudden and unaccountable dis- e appearance, she had survived only a few t weeks. I took possession of our effects, I ,ant for the captain of the slaver, rewarded f him and his crew for their services, and in i two weeks reached home!        c  A month has now elapsed since my  return to this, the home of my youth, my E innoce n and happiness. Broken down in E constitution,; with the horrors of the past, t like coals of living fire, burning constantly i in my brain; without an, aim, without a  hope, and without a friend in the world, I i have now but to perform the last act in the E terrible drama of my life. The last month i has been one of repentance, remorse, and; i I hope, of usefulness. Not a visitor'has  crossed my threshold since my return, save  the poor, the wretched, and the suffering. The wealth once used for frivolous amuse- ments and wicked pleasures, has been ap- propriated to the relief of the needy and to the support of the sick; and, to the extent of my ability, I have endeavored to atone for the errors, the faults, and the crimes of the past, by bestowing that com- fort and happiness on others, which I can never know. A few words more, by way of explana- tion, and my tale is ended. I learned, since my arrival here, from a letter written by Colonel Bradford, on his death-bed, that he had concoctediand carried into execution his nefarious plans, by the assistance of a Spaniard, who, by birth was noble, and by wealth, education and position, had been a gentleman; but by gaming, drinking, and licentious conduct, had lost his wealth, and been cast out of the society in which he formerly shone; and in New Orleans sought to escape the disgrace which attached to him 'at home, and'retrieve his fortunes. He had met Colonel Bradford, and received pecuniary favors from him on various occa- sions, and had finally become his overseer and assistant, whenever one was needed. -Colonel Bradford related to him my flirta- ' tion, and his determination to be avenged. The Spaniard, willing to do anything in his power to return the favors received, and, at the same time, anxious to so place Colonel Bradford in his power as would prevent a refusal of any favors he might ask in future, proposed that some clergy-   man should be procured, who, for a consid- eration, might be induced to marry me to the Spaniard-- that then, being his wife, he would, spite of any resistance my friends might offer, take me to Cuba, where he possessed a place, which, from the fact of its lonely situation, he had been unable to dispose of; and that Colonel Bradford should join us there, and adopt such me.- surek, to repay me for trifling with his affec- tions, as might seem best. This plan modified by Colonel Bradford, so as to escape publicity, or the possibility of inter- ference on the part of my friends, was adopted and carried out to its full extent, with the addition of unheard of, and almost incredible atrocities. The Spaniard's object was to place Colonel Bradford entirely in his power, and availing himself of his rage at my attempted assassination, had gained his consent to attach me to the bed and abandon me to the lust of the brutal negroes. Not only did he consent'to all, but, as I have before related, came to witness my shame, and taunt me in my tortures and degradation. The place was lonely and unfrequented, and when they thrust me out to die, they had no idea of my ever being able to move from the spot where I fell. When all was over, and they separated for the night, remorse and repentance seized the heart of Colonel Bradford, and with the first dawn of day, he came to succor me if alive, and endeavor to atone, as far as in his power, for the hellish wrongs he had inflicted on me-if dead, to perform the last offices of burial. Great was his surprise and consternation when he found his victim gone, and, after diligent search, could find no clue to point out how or where. Maddened by anger and fear, he cursed the Spaniard as the cause of all his atrocities, and of the shame and punish- maent which must follow if I should survive to reveal his crimes-a quarrel ensued- Colonel Bradford received a blow, whichi felled him senseless to the earth-already weakened by the wound I inflicted, he felt that there was no hope of his recovery- then, for the first time, he felt the wicked- ness of his conduct, and how dispropor- tioned was the horrible revenge he had inflicted, to the wrong of a young, giddy, and thoughtless girl. He hastened to New     Orleans as fast as his strength would permit, and learned tha t I had ieached there and gone home-He wrote that life was fast ebbing away, and ere my eyes rested on the words he was then tracing, his would be closed in death. He wrote in the most imploring terms, beggingn I would forgive him, a dying man, for the foul wrong he had done me. I have forgiven him as I hope to be forgiven when I stand before the Great Judge, who knows all tie trials, tempta- tions, and repentance, as well as the crimes, the evil thoughts and deeds of those who stand before his awful judgment seat. My tale is told-if this should warn one thoughtless, giddy votary of fashion, or deter one young, innocent, and pure heart, from the first step in flirtation and deceit, I shall be repaid for all thp pain and agoni-  xing, memories it has cost me. -*  *   *   *   *   *   * X The windows are cl sed, the doors locked, and any crevice which might admit  fresh air is carefully stoppe -all my prepar- ations are made; I havq but to apply the  light to the charcoal, and soon the noxious  vapor will fil the room, and 1 shall sink  nto that sleep from wI ich there is no awakening.  I1 have applied the taper-my task is I accomplished, my story finished, but I cannot sit calmly and unemployed, and feel n the approach of death. So I write on till o my hand sinks powerless in death-bright n bumns the charcoal, and bright thoughts a and gloriousvisionsfloat before me-already I I seem to float away to that bright realm n \   whiere all tears are dried, where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest,-myriads and myriads of bright forms float in the blue ethereal. Songs of melody and praise fill the air-all is bright, pure, and happy; the brightest earthly dreams fall far short of the realities around me- every pulsation is a thrill of joy, every motion. a pleasure, and existence heaven. A quick pain, like the lightning's flash, darts through my brain-a lake of burning fire blazes beneath my feet-thousands of demons, of every shape, flit before me, grinning, mocking, and -stretching their long arms and hooked talons to draw me down into bottomless pit, into the' lake of fire and brimstone, where there is weep- ingand gnashing of teeth-There! tis hel he approaches, he stretches forth his hands to grasp me-I strive to fly, but am motionless; his iron grasp is upon me- mercy! pity! I sink-I suffocate-the flames of the pit already scorch and burn-rivers of molten lead are in my throat and brain -I sink deeper and deeper into the 'pit, which has no bottom-thousands of demon voices ring discordant welcomes in my ears. *   *   *   *   *   *   * Again I awake-I am still living; 't was but a hideous dream, causid by the gas which now fills the room-I feel that my end is-I can write no more-pardon! mercy!-a gasp of agony, a long sigh, and once more I awake on earth-a few more minutes, a few more pangs, and the long agony will be over, and I shall stand before His throne - who tempereth justice with mercy.   THE END.       
            
         
      
   
