
    ----CITATION----
        Dorsey, Anna Hanson, (1815-1896). Conscience, or, The Trials of May Brooke, Vol. 1 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6300 wright2-0771v1
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  THE CRUCIFLXION.
               
            
         
         
            
               CONSCIENCE;
               OR, THE TRIALS OF MAY BROOKE.
               An American Catholic Tale.
            
            BY MRS. ANNA H. DORSEY, AUTHOR OF "THE OLD LANDLORD'S
               DAUGHTER," "WOODREGVE MANCE, "TEARS ON THE DIADEM," "THE SISTER OF CHARITY,"
               ETC.
            IN TWO VOLS.—VOL. I.
            
               NEW YORK:
               P. J. KENEDY, EXCELSIOR CATHOLIC PUBLISHING HOUSE,
                  
                     5 BARCLAY STREET.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by JAMES B. KIRKER,
                  In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
                  District of New York.
            
         
         
            TO MARK JENKINS, ESQ., THE FRIEND OF CATHOLIO LITERATURE This Simple
               Tale Is Dedicated. BY
            
               HIS FRIEND.
            
         
         
            
            CONTENTS OF VOL. I.
            
               I.—UNCLE STILLINGHAST.7
               
               II.—MAY BROOKE. 20
               
               III.—THE MORNING ERRAND. 33
               
               IV.—AUNT MABEL. 49
               
               V.—PAST AND PRESENT.70
               
               VI.—HELEN 86
               
               VII.—THINGS OF TIME AND ETERNITY. 106
               
               VIII.—TROUBLED WATERS. 127
               
               IX.—TRIALS. 151
               
               X.—THE WARNING. 177
               
               XI.—THE MIDNIGHT MESSENGER. 194
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Conscience, or, The trials of May Brooke
            
            CONSCIENCE;
            OR, THE TRIALS OF MAY BROOKE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               UNCLE STILLINGHAST.
               "DO you think they will be here tonight, sir?"
               "Don't know, and don't care."
               "The road is very bad,"—after a pause, "that skirts the Hazel property."
               "Well, what then; what then, little May?"
               "The carriage might be overturned, sir; or, the horses might shy a little to the
                  left, and go over the precipice into the creek."
               "Is that all?"
               
               "Is it not dreadful to think of, sir?"
               "Well, I don't know; I should be sorry to lose the horses—"
               "Oh, sir! and my cousin! Did you forget her?"
               "I care nothing about her. I suppose my forefathers must have
                  committed some crime for which I am to suffer, by being made, willy-nilly, the
                  guardian of two silly, mawkish girls."
               "But, sir, you have been very kind to me, and it shall be the endeavor of my life
                  to prove my gratitude."
               "Very fine, without being in the least consoling! I'd as lief have two African
                  monkeys under my care—don't laugh—it exasperates, and makes me feel like doing as
                  I should do, if I had the cursed animals—"
               "How is that, sir?"
               "Beat you. I hate womankind. Most of all do I hate them in their transition
                  stages. They are like sponges, and absorb every particle of evil that the devil
                  sprinkles in the air, until they learn to be young
                  hypocrites—triflers—false—heartless."
               "Oh, dear uncle! has such been your experience? Have you ever met with such
                  women?"
               "Have I ever met with such women, you holy innocent? I have never met with any
                  other. Now, be still."
               "Oh! Uncle Stillinghast—"
               "What!"
               "I pity you, sir; indeed, I pity you. Something very dreadful must in times past
                  have embittered you—"
               "You are a fool, little May. Don't interrupt me again at your peril."
               "No, sir."
               And so there was a dead silence, except when the rain and sleet lashed the
                  windowpanes, or a lump of coal crumbled into a thousand glowing fragments, and
                  opened a thousand glowing abyss in the grate; or the cat uncurled herself on the
                  rug, and purred, while she fixed her
                  great winking eyes on the blaze. The two persons who occupied the room were an old
                  man and a young maiden. He was stern, and sour-looking, as he sat in his
                  high-backed leather chair, with a pile of ledgers on the table before him,—the
                  pages of which he examined with the most incomparable patience. A snuff-colored
                  wig sat awry on his head, and a snuff-colored coat, ornamented with large horn
                  buttons, drooped ungracefully from his high, stooping shoulders. His neck cloth
                  was white, but twisted, soiled, and tied carelessly around his thin, sinewy
                  throat. His legs were cased in gray lamb's-wool stockings, over which his
                  small-clothes were fastened at the knees with small silver buckles. His face was
                  not originally cast in such a repulsive mould, but commerce with the world, and a
                  succession of stinging disappointments in his early manhood, had woven an ugly
                  mask over it, from behind which glimpses of his former self, on rare occasions,
                  shone out. Such was Mark Stillinghast at the opening of our story; old, cynical,
                  and rich, but poor in friendship, and without any definite ideas of religion,
                  except, that if such a thing really existed, it was a terra incognita, towards which men rather stumbled, than ran.
               Opposite to him, on a low crimson chair, as antique in its pattern as the owner of
                  the mansion, sat a maiden, who might have passed her seventeenth summer. She was
                  not beautiful, and yet her face had a peculiar charm, which appealed directly to
                  the softer and kindlier emotions of the heart. Her eyes, large, gray, and
                  beautifully fringed with long, black lashes, reminded one of calm mountain lakes,
                  into whose very depths the light of sun and stars shine down, until they beam with
                  tender sweetness, and inward repose. There was a glad, happy look, in her face,
                  which came not from the fitful, feverish glow of earth, but, like rays from an inner sanctuary, the glorious
                  realities of faith, hope, and love, which possessed her soul, diffused their
                  mysterious influence over her countenance. Thick braids of soft, brown hair, were
                  braided over her round, childlike forehead; and her dress of some dark, rich
                  color, was in admirable harmony with her peculiar style. Her proportions were
                  small and symmetrical, and it was wonderful to see the serious look of dignity
                  with which she sat in that old crimson chair, knitting away on a comfort, as fast
                  as her little white fingers could shuffle the needles. For what purpose could such
                  a fragile small creature have been created? She looked as if it would not be amiss
                  to put her under a glass-case, or exhibit her as a specimen of wax-work; or hire
                  her out, at so much per night, to fashionable parties, to play
                  "fairy" in the Tableaux. But the wind howled; the leafless branches
                  of the old trees without were crushed up, shivering and creaking against the
                  house; the frozen snow beat a wild reveille on
                  the windows, and May's face grew very sad and thoughtful. She dropped her
                  knitting, and with lips apart listened intently.
               "Thank God! They are come. I am sure I hear carriage-wheels, uncle!" she
                  exclaimed, clasping her hands together.
               "Of course; I knew they would come. There was to be no such good luck as their
                     not coming," said Mr. Stillinghast, looking annoyed. "One sister
                  ran off—married a papist—died, and left you on my hands. I was about
                  sending you off again, when news came that your father had died on his voyage home
                  from Canton, and been buried in the deep: so here you stayed. Brother—spendthrift,
                  shiftless, improvident—marries a West Indian papist; turns one; dies with his
                  wife, or, at least, soon after her leaving another ne'er-do-weel on my hands. I
                  wish you'd all gone to purgatory together. To be shut up in my old days with two wild papists is abominable!" muttered
                  the old man, slamming the ledgers together, until every thing on the table danced.
                  He pushed back his chair, and in another moment the door opened, and a tall,
                  slender, beautiful girl entered, clad in deep mourning, with a wealth of golden
                  curls rolling over her transparently fair cheeks. She came with a graceful, but
                  timid air, towards Mr. Stillinghast; and holding out her hand, said in a low,
                  sweet tone,
               "My uncle?"
               "Yes, I have the misfortune to be your uncle; how do you do?"
               "I am well, sir, I thank you," she replied, whilst she cast down her eyes to
                  conceal the tears which suffused them.
               "I won't pretend," he said, at last, "to say you are welcome, or that I am glad to
                  see you, because I should lie; but you are here now, and I can't help it, neither
                  can you, I suppose; therefore, settle yourself as quickly as possible in your new
                  way of living. She will show you what is necessary, and both of you
                  keep as much out of my way as possible." He then took his candlestick, lighted his
                  candle, and retired, leaving the poor girl standing with a frightened,
                  heart-broken look, in the middle of the floor. For a moment she looked after him;
                  then a sharp cry burst from her lips, and she turned to rush out into the wintry
                  storm, when she suddenly felt herself enfolded in some one's arms, who led her to
                  the warmest corner of the sofa, untied her bonnet, folded back the dishevelled
                  curls, and kissed the tears away from her cold, white cheeks. It was May, whose
                  heart had been gushing over with tenderness and sympathy, who had longed to throw
                  her arms around her, and welcome her home the moment she entered the house, but
                  who dared not interfere with her uncle's peculiar ways, or move until he led.
               "Do not mind him, dear Helen; it is his
                  way; he seems rough and stern, but in reality he is kind and good, dear," she
                  exclaimed.
               "You are very kind; but, oh, I did not expect such a reception as this. I hoped
                  for something very, very different. I cannot stay here—it would kill me," she
                  sobbed, struggling to disengage her hand from May's.
               "Yes you will, dear," pleaded May. "Uncle Stillinghast is like our old clock—it
                     never strikes the hour true, yet the hands are always right to a
                  second. So do try and not to mind."
               "Who are you?"
               "I?" asked May, looking with a smile of astonishment at her. "I am your cousin,
                  May Brooke; an orphan like your self, dear, to whom our uncle has given house and
                  home."
               "Are you happy here?"
               "Very happy. I have things to contend with sometimes which are not altogether
                  agreeable, but I trip along over them just as I do over muddy places in the
                  street, for fear, you know, of soiling my robe, if I floundered in them!" said
                  May, laughing. Helen did not understand the hidden and beautiful meaning couched
                  under May's expressions; she had heard but little of her baptismal
                  robe since the days of her early childhood, and had almost forgotten that she was
                  "to carry it unspotted to the judgment-seat of Christ."
               "I am glad you are here—such a nice, soft-voiced little one," said Helen, passing
                  her long, white hand, over May's head.
               "I am glad, too; so come with me, and take something warm. Your supper is on the
                  kitchen-hearth. Come," said May, rising.
               "Where—to the kitchen? Do you eat in the kitchen?"
               "I lunch there sometimes; it is a very nice one."
               "Excuse me; I do not wish any thing."
               
               "But a cup of hot tea, and some nice toast, after your fatiguing, wet journey,"
                  argued May.
               "Nothing, I thank you," was the haughty reply.
               "Perhaps you wish to retire?"
               "Yes! Oh, that I could go to sleep, and never wake again," she cried, bursting
                  into tears.
               "You will feel better to-morrow, dear," said May, gently, "and then it will soothe
                  you to reflect that each trial has its heavenly mission; and the thorns which
                  pierce us here give birth to flowers in heaven, which angels weave into the crown
                  for which we contend!"
               "I am not a saint!" was the curt reply.
               "But you are a Catholic?" asked May, chilled by her cold manner.
               "Yes," she replied, languidly, "but I am too ill to talk."
               Refusing all aid, after they got into their chamber Helen disrobed herself; and
                  while May's earnest soul was pouring out at the foot of the cross its adoration
                  and homage, she threw herself on her knees, leaned her head on her arm, and
                  yielded to a perfect storm of grief and fury; which, although unacknowledged,
                  raged none the less, while her burning tears, unsanctified by humility, or
                  resignation, embittered the selfish heart which they should have sweetened and
                  refreshed
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               MAY BROOKE.
               MAY slept but little that night. The low sobs, and shivering sighs of Helen,
                  disturbed and troubled her, and she longed to go to her, and whisper in her ear
                  all those arguments and hopeful promises which she felt would have
                  consoled her under the same circumstances; but it was a wild, defiant kind of
                  grief, which she thought had better exhaust itself, so she lay quite still until
                  towards dawn, when it ceased, and the sound of low, regular breathing, assured her
                  that she had fallen asleep. She rose up gently, wrapped her wadded gown about her,
                  lowered the blinds, and closed the shutters, that the light might not disturb
                  Helen; then laid an additional blanket over her, for it was bitter cold; and
                  placed the candle which she had lighted-behind an old-timed Chinese screen, that
                  formed a sort of a niche in a corner of the room, which she, in her pious
                  thoughtfulness, had converted into an oratory. A small round table, covered with
                  white drapery, supported a statue of the Immaculate Mother, a porcelain shell for
                  holy water, and her prayer-book. Over it hung an old and rare crucifix of carved
                  ivory, stained with colors, which time had softened to the hues of life, while the
                  features wore that mingled look of divine dignity and human woe which but few
                  artists, in their delineations of the "thorn-crowned, head," can successfully
                  depict. It had been brought from Spain many years before by her father, with a
                  cabinet picture of Mater Dolorosa, which now hung over it. Both were Invaluable,
                  not only on account of their artistic
                  excellence and age, but as mementos of her father, and incentives to devotion.
                  Thither she now went to offer the first fruits of the day to heaven in mingled
                  thanksgiving and prayer. Almost numbed with the intense cold, she felt inclined to
                  abridge her devotions, but she remembered the cold, dreary journey of the holy
                  family from Nazareth to Bethlehem—the ruggedness of the road, and the bitter winds
                  which swept through the mountain defiles around them—then she lingered in the poor
                  stable, and knelt with the shepherds beside the manger where Jesus Christ in the
                  humility of his sacred humanity reposed. She pictured to herself the Virgin Mother
                  in the joyful mystery of her maternity, bending over him with a rapture too
                  sublime for words; and St. Joseph—wonderfully dignified as the guardian of
                  divinity, and of her whom the most high had honored, leaning on his staff near
                  them. "Shall I dare complain?" thought May, while these blessed
                  images came into her heart, warming it with generous love. "No, sweet and divine
                  Lord, let all human ills, discomforts, repinings, and love of self vanish before
                  these sweet contemplations. With thee, in Bethlehem, poverty and sorrow grow
                  light; and the weariness of the rough ways of life no more dismay. Let me follow
                  with thee, sweet mother, after his footsteps, until Calvary is crowned by a
                  sacrifice and victim so divine that angels, men, and earth wonder; let me, with
                  thee, linger by his cross, follow him to his sepulture, and rejoice with thee in
                  his resurrection." Do not let us suppose that May, in the overflowing of her
                  devout soul, forgot others, and thought only of herself; oh no! that charity,
                  without which, all good works are as "sounding brass," animated her faith; and
                  tenderly and lovingly she plead at the mercy seat for her stern old guardian; and
                  although she knew that he, scorned all
                  religion, and would have given her rough jibes and scoffs for her charity, she
                  prayed none the less for his salvation; and now she besought Heaven to strengthen
                  and console the wounded and bereaved stranger who had come amongst them. By the
                  time she left her oratory, she had laid by a store of strength and happiness, more
                  than sufficient for the trials of the day. Yet May was not faultless. She had a
                  quickness and sharpness of temper which very often tempted her to the indulgence
                  of malice and uncharitableness; and a proud spirit, which could scarcely brook
                  injustice. But these natural defects were in a measure counterbalanced by a high
                  and lofty sense of responsibility to Almighty God—a feeling of compassion and
                  forgiveness for the frailties and infirmities of others, and a generous and
                  discriminating consideration for the errors of all.
               When Mr. Stillinghast came down that morning, everything was bright and
                  comfortable fortable in the sitting-room. A clear fire burned in the grate; the
                  toast and coffee sent up an inviting odor; and the table was spread with the
                  whitest of linen, on which the cups and saucers were neatly arranged. The morning
                  paper was drying on a chair by the fire, and over all, flickered the glorious
                  sunshine, as it gushed like a golden flood through the clustering geraniums in the
                  window.
               "Good morning, sir!" said May, blithely, as she came in from the kitchen with a
                  covered place in her hand.
               "Good morning," he growled; "give me my breakfast."
               "I thought you'd like a relish for your breakfast, sir, and I broiled a few slices
                  of beef; see how very nice it is," said May, uncovering the plate, and placing it
                  before him.
               "Humph! well, don't do it again. I cannot afford such extravagance; I must curtail
                  my expenses. 'Gad! if I should have
                  another beggar thrown on my hands, we must starve," he said, bitterly.
               May did not relish this speech at all; up rose the demon, pride, in
                  her soul, instigating her to a sharp retort, and vindictive anger; but she thought
                  of Bethlehem, and grew calm.
               "I hope not, sir," she said, gently. "You have cast bread on the waters; after
                  many days it will return unto you—perhaps in an hour, and at a time, dear uncle,
                  when it will be much needed."
               "Fudge, fudge!" he said, testily; "I—I cast bread on the
                  waters, do I? Well, I am doing what is equally as foolish—it is truly
                  like throwing bread into a fish-pond; but where's what's her
                  name?"
               "She slept poorly last night, and I would not awaken her this morning," said May,
                  diverted in spite of herself.
               "How do you know she didn't sleep, pray? did she tell you so?"
               "No, sir; I heard her weeping all night and, indeed, sir, I hope you'll speak
                  kindly to Helen when you come in this evening, because she feels so very sorrowful
                  on account of her recent losses, and—and—"
               "And what, Miss Pert?"
               "Her dependence, sir!" said May, bravely.
               "She's no more dependent than you are."
               "No, sir; but—but then I am happy somehow. It is the state of life
                  Almighty God has chosen for me, and I should be very ungrateful to him and you if
                  I repined and grumbled," said May, cheerfully.
               "If He chose it for you, I suppose he chose it for her too, for
                     I didn't. At any rate, don't waste any more candles or coal
                  sitting up to watch people crying, and tell what's-her-name to rise when you do;
                  she's no better than you are; and let her take her share of the duties of the house to-morrow," said Mr. Stillinghast,
                  surlily.
               "Helen will soon feel at home, sir, no doubt; only do—do, dear uncle, try and
                  speak kindly to her for a few days, on account of her lonely situation."
               "Fudge! eat your breakfast. Hold your plate here for some of this broiled beef,
                  and eat it to prevent its being wasted."
               "Thank you, sir," said May, laughing, as he laid a large slice on her place,
                  which, however, she did not touch, but put it aside for Helen; then observing that
                  Mr. Stillinghast had finished his breakfast, she wheeled his chair nearer the
                  fire; handed him his pipe, and the newspaper, and ran upstairs, to see if Helen
                  was awake. But she still slept, and looked so innocently beautiful, that May
                  paused a few moments by her pillow, to gaze at her. "She is like the descriptions
                  which the old writers give us of the Blessed Virgin," thought May; "that high,
                  beautifully chiselled nose; those waves of golden hair; those calm, finely cut
                  lips; that high, snowy brow and those long, shadowy eyelashes, lying so softly on
                  her fair cheeks; oh, how beautiful! It seems almost like a vision, only—only I
                     know that this is a poor frail child of earth; but, oh! immaculate
                  Mother, cherish, guard, and guide her, that her spirit may be conformed to
                  thine."
               "I suppose," said Mr. Stillinghast, when May came down, "that you'll go trotting
                  presently through the snow and ice to church."
               "No, sir; I fear I cannot go this morning," said May.
               "Cannot go? well, really! I wonder if an earthquake will swallow me before I get
                  to the wharf to-day," said Mr. Stillinghast, drawing on his boots.
               "I trust not, sir; I'd be happier to go, but Helen is a stranger, and she might
                  awake while I am gone, and want something. To-morrow we will go together."
               
               "So, there's to be a regular popish league in my house, under my very nose," he
                  growled.
               "Which will do you no evil, dear uncle, in soul, body, or estate; but you had
                  better wrap this comfort around your throat; I finished knitting it last night for
                  you," said May, in her quiet, cheerful way.
               "For me, eh? It is very nice and soft—so—that does very well," said Mr.
                  Stillinghast, while one of those rare gleams, like sunshine, shot over his
                  countenance.
               "I shall be very happy all day, sir," said May, gathering up the cups and
                  saucers.
               "Why?"
               "Because, sir, I thought—you might—"
               "Throw it at your head, or in the fire, eh! I shall do neither; I shall wear it. I
                  have not forgotten that confounded attack of quinsy I had last winter, nor the
                  doctor's bill which followed it, and which was worse on me than the choking I
                  got," said Mr. Stillinghast, while the old, grim look, settled on his face again.
                  He went away, down to his warehouse on the wharf, to grip and wrestle with
                     gain, and barter away the last remnants of his best and holiest
                  instincts, little by little; exchanging hopes of heaven for perishable things, and
                  crushing down the angel conscience, who would have led him safely to
                  eternal life, by the accumulated and unholy burthen of Mammon.
               And May, singing cheerily, cleaned, and swept and rubbed, and polished, and
                  touched up things a little here and there, until the room was arranged with
                  exquisite taste and neatness; then took her work-basket, infant's socks, and fine
                  fleecy under-garments, knit of zephyr worsted, which looked so pure and soft that
                  even she touched them daintily, as she lifted them out to find her needles, and
                  sat down by the fire.
               
               "Now for a nubæ," she said, throwing on stitch
                  after stitch; "ladies who frequent theatres and balls find them indispensable;
                     this shall be the handsomest one of the season—worth, at least,
                  four dollars."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE MORNING ERRAND.
               AFTER the slender ivory needles had traversed the fleecy mesh backwards and
                  forwards some three or four times, May suddenly bethought herself of Helen, and
                  laying her work carefully down in her basket, she ran upstairs to see if she was
                  awake. Turning the knob of the door softly, she entered with a noiseless step, and
                  went towards the bed; but a low, merry laugh, and a "good morning," assured her
                  that her kind caution had all been needless.
               "Dear Helen, how are you to-day?"
               "Very well, thank you, little lady; how do you do, and what time is it?"
               
               "Half-past nine. You need your break fast, I am sure. Shall I fetch it to
                  you?"
               "Just tell me, first, have you a fire downstairs?"
               "A very nice one!"
               "And we can't have one here?"
               "Decidedly—no."
               "Decidedly, then, I shall accompany you downstairs, if that horrid old man is
                  gone. Oh, I never was so terrified in my life; I thought he'd beat me last night.
                  Is he gone?"
               "Uncle Stillinghast has been gone an hour or more," replied May, gravely.
               "Do tell me, May, does he always jump and snarl so at folk as he did at me?"
                  inquired Helen, seriously.
               "I see that I must initiate you, dear Helen, in the mysteries of our domicil,"
                  said May, pleasantly. "I must be plain with you, and hope you will, not feel
                  wounded at my speech. Our uncle is very eccentric, and says a great many sharp
                  disagreeable things; and his manners, generally, do not invite affection. But, on
                  the other hand, I do not think his health is quite sound, and I have heard that in
                  his early life he met with some terrible disappointments, which have doubtless
                  soured him. He knows nothing of the consolations of religion, or those divine
                  hopes which would sweeten the bitter fountains of his heart, like the leaves which
                  the prophet threw into Marah's wave. His commerce is altogether with and of the
                  world, and he spares no time for superfluous feelings: but, notwithstanding all
                  this, there is, I am sure, a warm, bright spot in his heart, or he
                  never would have taken you and me from the cold
                  charities of the world, to shelter and care for us. Now, dear, you
                     must endeavor to fall in with his humor."
               "And if I should happen to please him?" inquired Helen, sweeping back the golden
                  curls from her forehead and cheeks.
               
               "You will be happy in the consciousness of duties well done," replied May, looking
                  with her full, earnest eyes, in Helen's face. "It is a bad thing, dear, to stir up
                  bitterness and strife in a soul which is not moored in the faith and love of God;
                  as it is a good work to keep it, as far as we can, from giving further offence to
                  heaven by provoking its evil instincts, and inciting it, as it were, to fresh
                  rebellions. But I am sure, dear Helen, you will endeavor to do right."
               "Yes," said Helen, slowly, "it will be the best policy; but, May Brooke, I feel as
                  if I am in a panther's den, or, better still, it's like Beauty and the Beast,
                  only, instead of an enchanted lover, I have an excessively cross and impracticable
                  old uncle to be amiable to. Does he give you enough to eat?"
               "Have I a starved look?" asked May, laughing.
               "No; I confess you look in tolerably good plight. Do you ever see company?"
               "Not often. My uncle's habits are those of a recluse. When he comes home from the
                  bustle of the city, it would be a great annoyance to have company around him; in
                     fact, I do not care for it, and, I dare say, we shall get on
                  merrily without it."
               "I dare say I shall die. Have you a piano here?"
               May laughed outright, and answered in the negative.
               "Well, how in the name of wonder do you manage to get on?" asked Helen, folding
                  her hands together, and looking puzzled.
               "Just as you will have to, by and by," she replied; "but come, pin your collar on,
                  and come down to breakfast."
               "I must say my prayers first," said Helen, dropping suddenly on her knees, and
                  carelessly blessing herself, while she
                  hurried over some short devotion, crossed herself, and got up, saying:—
               "But you keep servants, don't you?"
               "I have heretofore attended to the domestic affairs of the house," replied May,
                  shocked by her cousin's levity.
               "Oh, heavens! I shall lose my identity! I shall grow coarse and fat; my hands will
                  become knobby and red; oh, dear! but perhaps you will not expect me to assist
                  you?"
               "And why?" asked May, while the indignant blood flushed her cheeks, and her
                  impulse to say something sharp and mortifying to the young worldling's pride, was
                  strong within her; but she thought of the mild and lowly Virgin, and the humility
                  of her DIVINE SON, and added, in a quiet tone, "Uncle Stillinghast will certainly
                  expect you to make yourself useful."
               "And if I don't?"
               "I fear you will rue it."
               "Well, this looks more civilized!" said Helen, after they went down. "What nice
                  antique furniture! how delightful those geraniums are; and how charming the fire
                  looks and feels!"
               "Here is your breakfast, dear Helen; eat it while it is warm," said May, coming in
                  with a small tray, which she arranged on a stand beside her.
               "Thank you, dear little lady; really this coffee is delicious, and the toast is
                  very nice," said Helen, eating her break-fast with great gout.
               
               "I am glad you relish it; and now that you are comfortably fixed, if you will
                  excuse me, I will run out for an hour or so; I have some little matters to attend
                  to down street. You will find a small bamboo tub in the next room, when you finish
                  eating, in which you can wash up your cup and saucer, and plate."
               "Yes, dame Trot, I will endeavor to do so!" said Helen, with a droll grimace.
               "The tea-towel is folded up on the first
                  shelf in that closet near you; so, good morning," said May, laughing, as she took
                  up her work-basket, and went up stairs to get her bonnet and wrappings, and make
                  other arrangements; then drawing on her walking-boots, and twisting a nubae around her throat, she went out, with a bundle
                  in her hand, and walked with a brisk pace down the street. She soon approached a
                  gothic church—a church of the Liguorian Missions, and at the distance of half a
                  square, heard she solemn and heavenly peals of the organ, rolling in soft aerial
                  billows past her. She quickened her steps, and pushing gently against the massive
                  door, went in. A solemn mass was being offered, and a requiem chanted, for the
                  repose of the soul of a member of the arch-confraternity of the Immaculate Heart
                  of MARY. "I thank thee, dear Jesus, for giving me this opportunity to adore thee,"
                  whispered May, kneeling in the crowd, "for of all thy tender mercies, this is the
                  most touching and consoling to me; when thou dost come, clad in the solemn and
                  touching robes of propitiation, to offer THYSELF for the eternal repose of the
                  departed souls of thy children."
               The crowd increasing, and finding it impossible to penetrate through the masses in
                  the aisle, she quietly edged her way along, until she came to the steps leading to
                  the side gallery, which she ascended, and, happily, obtained a place where she had
                  a view of all that was passing below. On a plain catafalque, covered with black
                  velvet, in front of the sanctuary and altar, rested a coffin. It was made of pine,
                  and painted white. A few white lilies and evergreen were scattered among the
                  lights which burned around it; and May knew that some young virgin had gone to her
                  espousals in the kingdom of the LAMB. Half of the coffin lid was turned back, and
                  as she looked more attentively on the marble features, turned to strange and
                     marvellous beauty by the great
                  mystery—death—she recognized them. They belonged to a poor crippled girl, who had
                  suffered from her childhood with an incurable disease, and who had been almost
                  dependent on the alms of the faithful for her daily support. "What a change for
                  thee, poor Magdalen!" whispered May, as she gazed down through her tears. "I look
                  on the pale vestment of clay in which you suffered, and know that for you the
                  awful mystery is solved. Thorns no more wound your heart; poverty and disease have
                  done their worst; while far up, beyond the power of earth and evil, your destiny
                  is accomplished. A poor mendicant no longer, the King of glory himself ushered you
                  into the unrevealed splendors of that region which mortal eye hath never seen. You
                  have beheld the glorious face of the sacred humanity of Jesus Christ; your eyes
                  have seen the Queen of heaven; and the veiled vision of the Eternal Father has
                  greeted you. Oh, what cheer! Oh, what hope, to make joyfu the purifying sufferings
                  of purgatory! and now, on you altar, Jesus, the high-priest and
                  powerful Lord, full of clement mercy and majestic power, offers himself for thy
                  speedy liberation and admission into the beatific vision. Oh, Magdalen! how art
                  thou exalted! how beyond all imperial splendor and royal power art thou lifted
                  up!"
               And while the divine mystery approached its consummation, still upward arose the
                  voice of the church in plaintive chants, interceding for the departed, who, in the
                     "suffering church," rejoiced with a mournful rapture amidst its
                  patient agony, which would ere long be exchanged from dreary Calvary to an eternal
                  Thabor. But now the awful moment arrived; the Lord Jesus had come; and although
                  they saw him veiled under the form of bread, they knew HE was there; they
                     felt that august presence thrilling down like a still, small voice, into their souls, It is
                     I and the aspirations of that kneeling crowd went forth in solemn
                  adoration; and returning sweetness filled each devout mind with benediction, which
                  flowing thence again to its divine source, offered worthy homage to the LAMB. A
                  ray of wintry sunlight stole through a curtained window near the altar, and
                  flickered on the silent face of the dead virgin, as she lay an image of heavenly
                  repose. May felt that it was a type of the brightness which would soon crown her;
                  and while a flood of warm and joyful rapture flowed into her soul, she exulted in
                  the thought that she, too, was a member of the household of faith. It was a
                  profitable time to May; for death was suddenly stripped of its chilling horrors;
                  its gaunt outlines were softened and brightened, and she thought of him as a
                  tireless and faithful guide, who led souls beyond the dark tide, over the lonely
                  and shadowy ways, and through the fathomless abyss, to the very portals of eternal
                  rest. She had almost forgotten the object which brought her out that morning, so
                  absorbed was she in the contemplation of the scene she had witnessed; until on
                  rising to leave the church after the divine rites were over, her bundle fell to
                  her feet. She snatched it up, ashamed of her carelessness, and slipping through
                  the crowd, emerged once more into the street. Picking her way through snow and
                  ice, she came to a neat fancystore, and went in. Behind the counter stood a near,
                  pleasant old lady assorting worsteds, who smiled a welcome the moment she saw who
                  it was who had entered.
               "Ah, my dear Miss May, how do you do? come near the stove and sit down. It is not
                  yet our busy time of day, and we can have a nice chat."
               "You will please excuse me now, dear Mrs. Tabb; I have been away much longer from
                  home than I expected, and must hurry off,
                  as I have another errand to do. I have brought more of those little zephyr worsted
                  shirts, four pairs of socks, and two or three mats—lamp mats," said May infolding
                  her bundle.
               "Bless me, dear child! you are making a fortune. I have sold all that you left
                  with me two weeks ago; and after deducting my commission, here is a half eagle for
                  you."
               "All sold!" exclaimed May, joyfully.
               "Every one, and more ordered. The way was this. Two fine ladies, who both have
                  infants, came in one day, and both wanted the things; but both couldn't have them,
                  and neither would purchase a part; so at last one offered two dollars more than
                  the other, and got them," said Mrs. Tabb, deliberately taking a pinch of
                  snuff.
               "Oh, Mrs. Tabb! dear me; it was more than they were worth."
               "Not to her, my child. She would have given ten dollars
                  rather than not get them; and she's so rich she don't know what to do with her
                  money. So these will just do for Mrs. Osmond, who, I expect, will call this very
                  day for them."
               "I do not feel quite satisfied," said May; "but as it was all
                     voluntary on her part, I suppose there's nothing very wrong in
                  it."
               "Bless you—no. She paid the value of the things, then paid for her pride and
                  ostentation, which is the way with all worldly people, and which,
                  thank God, I am not responsible for."
               "Thank you, dear Mrs. Tabb; you are very kind to take so much trouble for me. I
                  must run away now. I shall knit up all my worsted this week, so please have
                  another package ready for me when I come again. Good bye."
               "Good bye, Miss May. I declare, if you don't hop about through the snow like a
                  robin; there—she's gone. Now, I should like to know what business old
                  Stillinghast's niece has to be doing such work as this,—the nipping old miser; and I'd like to know
                  what she does with the money."
               And so should we; therefore we will leave Mrs. Tabb to her cogitations, follow
                  May, and find out.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               AUNT MABEL.
               FEARING she would not have time to accomplish all that she desired, May stepped
                  into a jewelry establishment to ascertain the hour; but it was only half-past
                  twelve, and, with a light heart and fleet step, she threaded her way through the
                  hurrying and busy crowds, crossed B—— street, then in the height of its din,
                  uproar, and traffic, and soon found herself among the dark, narrow thoroughfares,
                  and large gloomy warehouses of the lower part of the city. Turning a corner, she
                  looked up and down, but finding herself at fault, hurried into another street, where she encountered quite a
                  procession of merchants, old, young, and middle-aged, on their way to the
                  Exchange, to learn the latest European news, which a steamer, just arrived, had
                  brought in. Many passed her with a glance of surprise; some laughed, and gazed
                  into her face with looks of insolent curiosity; while others regarded her with
                  unconcern and indifference. "It is strange," thought May, shrinking back into a
                  doorway, "I was so sure of the way; but it will never do to stand
                  here, yet how am I to get on? Sir," she said to a benevolent-looking old
                  gentleman, whose white hairs and respectable appearance were a guarantee of
                  protection to her, "will you be so obliging as to direct me to the wood-yard of
                  Carter & Co.; I believe I have lost my way."
               "Certainly, my dear," said the old man, with a pleasant smile; "I am on my way to
                  the Exchange, and shall be obliged to go right by it, so if you will walk by my
                  side, or take my arm, I will leave you at their office door."
               "Thank you," replied May, as with a feeling of safety she laid her little hand on
                  he fatherly arm, so kindly offered. Some ten minutes' walk brought them to the
                  office of Carter & Co., and while May stood an instant, with her veil lifted,
                  to thank her conductor, she saw a face approaching through the crowd—then lost,
                  then visible again, which blanched her cheeks by its sudden appearance. The cold,
                  stern eyes, were turned another way, yet she felt that they had
                  recognized her; but it passed on, without seeming to notice her. "Uncle
                  Stillinghast!" thought May, while her little fluttering heart felt an icy chill
                  pass over it; "what will Uncle Stillinghast think? Oh, how stupid I was, not to
                  wait until they all got by, then look for the place myself. Oh dear, dear! I hope
                  he did not see me."
               "What will you have, ma'am?" asked the
                  clerk, coming forward, more anxious to shut out the cold air from his comfortable
                  snuggery than to effect sales.
               "I wish to purchase a quarter of a cord of wood, sir."
               "Oak, hickory, or pine, ma'am?"
               "Oak, if you please."
               "It is just now six and a half per cord," insinuated the clerk.
               "Yes, sir; here is the money. Can you send the wood with me at once?"
               "If you can wait until it is carted, ma'am, certainly," replied the young man,
                  taking the half-eagle she offered him, and returning the change.
               "I will wait, and you will oblige me by sending a sawyer also."
               The young man went out to give the necessary orders, and in a little while a
                  sawyer made his appearance at the door, and announced that "all was ready, if any
                  one would be after telling them where to go."
               "You will follow this lady, Dennis," said the indefatigable clerk, pointing to
                  May.
               "Where to, ma'am?" inquired Dennis.
               "To the north-western section of the city. I shall stop at one or two stores in
                  Howard Street, but you can go on slowly, and I will overtake you." May then made a
                  few inquiries of the young man ere she bade him good morning, and went away, glad
                  to escape from a portion of the city where she was such an utter stranger, and
                  whose intricate, narrow streets, filled her with apprehension. When they came to
                  Howard Street, May stepped into a shoe-store, and purchased a pair of warm
                  carpet-shoes, nicely wadded inside; then flitted out, and ran into a dry goods
                  emporium, where she bought a cheap, but soft woollen shawl, of a brilliant scarlet
                  yellow, and black palm-leaf pattern, and a pair of long yarn stockings; then
                  gathering her bundles close together on her arm, she hurried away to overtake the wood. When the carter came to
                  Biddle Street, he stopped his horse, and declared "he would not go a step further
                  with such a small load unless she paid him something extra; he had come a mile
                  already."
               "You have not much further to go," plead May.
               "I won't go another step," he said, with an oath.
               "And I will not submit to extortion," said May, speaking gently, but firmly, while
                  she fixed her calm, bright eyes on his. "I know the number of your cart, and
                  informed myself at the office of the charges you are authorized to make, and if
                  you do not proceed, I will complain of you."
               Intimidated by her resolute manner, the baffled driver muttered and swore, while
                  he applied the whip to his horse's flanks, and pursued the route indicated by May
                  until they came to the very verge of the city limits, where grand old oaks still
                  waved their broad limbs in primeval vigor over sloping hills and picturesque
                  declivities. Near a rustic bridge, which spanned a frozen stream, stood a few
                  scattered huts, or cottages, towards the poorest of which she directed her
                  footsteps. Standing on one of the broken flags, which formed a rude sort of
                  pathway to the door, she waited until the wood was emptied near by, and paying the
                  man, requested the sawyer to commence sawing it forthwith; then lifting the latch
                  softly, she entered the humble tenement. It contained one small room, poorly
                  furnished, and with but few comforts. An old negro woman sat shivering over a few
                  coals on the hearth, trying in vain to warm her half-frozen extremities.
               "Why, Aunt Mabel, have you no fire?" said May, going close to her, and laying her
                  hand on her shoulder.
               "Oh, Miss May! Lord bless you, honey! You come in like a sperrit. No, indeed, honey; I ain't had none to speak on these
                  two days."
               "And your feet are almost frozen," said May, with a pitying glance.
               "They's mighty cold, missis; but sit down, and let me look at you; it will warm me
                  up," said the old woman, trying to smile.
               "Let me put these on your poor old feet first," said May, kneeling down, and
                  drawing off the tattered shoes from her feet, while she chafed them briskly with
                  her hands; then slipped the soft warm stockings and sliders on them, ere the old
                  creature could fully comprehend her object; then opening the shawl, she folded it
                  about the bowed and shivering form. With a blended expression of gratitude and
                  amazement, old Mabel looked at her feet, then at the shawl, then at May, who stood
                  off enjoying it, and finally covered her face with her hand, and wept
                  outright.
               "Now, indeed, Aunt Mabel, this is not right; why, I thought you'd be pleased,"
                  said May, lifting up her paralyzed hand, which lay helplessly on her knees, and
                  smoothing it gently between her own.
               "Pleased honey! I am so full I'm chokin', I b'lieve. What you do all
                  this for, Miss May? I'm only a poor old nigger; I got no friends; I can never do
                  nuffin for you. What you do it for?" she sobbed.
               "Just because you are poor, because you are old and
                  black Aunt Mabel. And more than that, I shall be well paid for my pains. Oho, you
                  don't know every thing," said May, cheerfully.
               "I used to hear buckra parson read out of the Book, when I was down in the
                  plantation, that whomsoever give to the poor lend it to the Lord; is that it,
                  honey?" she asked, wiping the tears from the fur-rows of her swarthy cheeks.
               'That is just it, my dear old aunty, so
                  you have found out how selfish I am, after all. You are the creature of God as
                  well as I; in His sight, your soul is as precious as
                  mine. We are truly brethren in our eternal interests. Then you are very old and
                  helpless, which makes me pity you. Now, let me have some wood in here, and make
                  you a fire—a regular, rousing fire."
               "Maybe so—maybe so," said old Mabel, thoughtfully; "but, look here, Miss May what
                  that you say 'bout wood, eh? You gwine out to cut some of the trees down in
                  Howard's Park, I reckon?" she said, laughing and chuckling, highly diverted at the
                  idea.
               "No, ma'am, for there is a load of good wood at your door, which is now being
                  sawed for your benefit."
               "Did you do that too, Miss May?"
               "Never mind who did it," said May, who ran out and gathered up a few small pieces
                  of wood, which she hurried in with, and soon kindled a bright blaze on the hearth;
                  after which, she requested the sawyer to bring in two large logs to lay
                  behind.
               "Now, Aunt Mabel, are you comfortable?" she inquired, as she drew a low chair up
                  by the old woman's side, and seated herself in it.
               "Ah, honey, if you could only know how good the warm blood feels creeping up to my
                  shaky old heart, you wouldn't ask me; and this beautiful shawl, Miss May! it
                  'minds me so of the bright swamp flowers in old Ca'lina, that it takes me clean
                  back thar. I had good times then, honey; but I can't say nuffin. I feel it all
                  here, and I hope your heavenly Father will make it out, and pay you back ten
                  thousand times," said old Mabel, laying her shrivelled hand on her heart.
               "Your Father and God too, Aunt Mabel," said May, leaning towards her,
                  and lifting her sunshiny face close to hers.
               
               "No, missis; I ain't good enough. He don't think of the likes of me."
               "Oh, Aunt Mabel, you must not say that. You are his creature, and from him
                  proceeded your life and soul; for you, as well as me, his divine Son died that we
                  might inherit eternal life. He knows no distinction in the
                  distribution of his divine charity; the humblest slave, and the most powerful
                  king, are alike the objects of his tender solicitude. And if I, a poor frail child
                  of earth, pity and love you in your low estate, how much more does He, the sweet
                  and merciful Jesus, regard with tender compassion the soul for whose salvation he
                  has shed his precious blood."
               "Do your religion teach the same to every body, honey; or is you only
                  sayin' so of your own 'cord?" inquired old Mabel. wistfully.
               "Our holy religion teaches it to all. Into her safe and ancient fold she invites
                  all; and when we know that this fold is the kingdom established on earth by Jesus
                  Christ himself, how we ought to fly, and never rest until we are gathered in. In
                  this divine faith we are taught to "love one another," without regard to race,
                  color, or nation, and bring forth fruits into righteousness; which, if we fail to
                  do, we disobey,—we bring scandal on it, and the love of God is not in us," said
                  May, earnestly.
               "Fruits unto righteousness, which mean good works, I reckon, honey!" said the old
                  creature, musingly. "Well, I dunno, but it do seem like 'tinkling
                  cymbals' and 'sounding brass' to go preaching the gospel to poor sufferin' folks
                  like me, and telling of 'em to be patient and resigned, and suffer the will of
                  Heaven, and all that, if they don't give the naked clothes to cover 'em, and the
                  hungry food to nourish 'em, and to the frozen fire to warm 'em. I tell you what,
                  Miss May, such religion aint no 'count it' pears to me, and jest minds me of a apple-tree used to grow in ole
                  mass'r's garden; it would get its leaf and blossom, like the rest on 'em, but
                  never a sign of apple did it bear; so one day ole missis tells him he better cut
                  it down for firewood—and so it was, and split up, and sent to my cabin; and I tell
                  you what, honey, I was glad, 'cause somehow it seemed to 'cumber the airth."
               "Yes, Aunt Mabel, if the true love of God is not in us, we are like fruit-trees
                  cursed with barrenness—only fit to be cast into the fire," said May, sighing.
               "Well, honey, I never was a professor, 'cause I never yet heard professors
                  agreein'. The Baptists hated the Methodists; the Methodists hated the
                  Presbyterians; the Protestants looked down, like, on all of 'em, and
                  they all hated each other. I never could understand it, so I thought I'd go to
                  heaven my own way."
               "Well, Aunt Mabel, leaving these to their discords," said May smiling at her rude
                  but truthful description, "did the thought never enter your mind that Jesus
                     Christ might have established a faith and rule on earth to guide souls,
                  which would be upheld and governed by His Holy Spirit, until the end of time?"
               "I often thought he ought to, honey; but I'm a poor, ignorant
                  creetur—what do I know?" was the naive reply.
               "He did Aunt Mabel; and from the time he established it until now,
                  during eighteen hundred years, it has never changed it will
                     never change until it exchanges for eternity its reign upon earth.
                  All other religions were founded by men—wicked, blood-thirsty,
                  ambitious men who wanted a broad license to sin, and who
                  reserved only such fragments of our divine faith, as would give plausibility to
                  their new doctrines without fettering them with responsibilities to spiritual
                  tribunals. This is why all these discords exist amongst
                     professors In leaving the one faith which acknowledges one Lord and one baptism, they have
                  hewn out for themselves 'broken cisterns which hold no water.' But do you
                  understand me?"
               "Yes, honey, that I do. But I'm too old and ignorant to hear larning and
                  argumentation. I want the faith of Jesus Christ; and it 'pears to me that I never
                  he'erd the true story until now. Whatever it is, your religion suits
                  me, if you will jest show me the way. I'm gwine down, honey, to the valley and
                  shadow of death, and the way'll be mighty dark without the help of the Lord."
               "He will be your guide and staff, Aunt Mabel, when the dark hour comes," said May,
                  dashing a tear from her cheek. "But I must go away now, and I want you to think a
                  great deal about Almighty God, until I come again; then tell me if you think His
                  word and promise are worthy of belief. Turn it over in your mind; view it in every
                  way, and let me hear the result. I see your grandchild coming with a bundle of
                  faggots; here is a little change to buy something—tea, or whatever you want."
               "Good by, missis. Lord bless you and reward you." But May was out of the cot,
                  going at full speed towards home, which was not very far distant.
               Mr. Stillinghast had purchased the house some thirty years before, when it stood
                  three quarters of a mile from the city. It was then a villa, and had been built by
                  a French refugee, who, in those days of courtly customs, was famed for his elegant
                  hospitality. One of the old noblesse, and but little acquainted with the practical
                  management of business affairs, he became embarrassed, and was finally compelled
                  to dispose of his elegant house and furniture, and retire to a life of obscurity
                  and poverty. But the city was growing round it rapidly; in a few more years it
                  would be hemmed in and walled round by streets and houses. Mr. Stillinghast
                     fretted and chafed; then calculated
                  its increased value, and grew almost savage at the idea that he would be dead and
                  forgotten when heaps of gold would be paid down for the few feet of earth it
                  covered.
               When May went in, glowing with exercise and happiness, she found Helen moping over
                  the grate, in which the fire was nearly extinguished.
               "Why, Helen, it is very cold here, is it not?"
               "I am nearly frozen."
               "Why on earth did you not step into the next room and get coal? There is a hod
                  full on the hearth."
               "I am not in the habit of fetching coal and building fires," she said,
                  haughtily.
               "And supposing that I was, I presume you waited for me," said May, with a feeling
                  of exasperation she could not control. Then laying off her bonnet and wrappings,
                  she went out and brought in the hod, emptied it into the grate, let down the
                  ashes, and put up the blower; and by the time she finished, the recollection of
                  the fire which she had kindled that morning in old Mabel's cottage came like a
                  sweet memory into her heart, and the bitterness, passed away.
               "When do we dine? I suppose the ogre of the castle will be in soon!" said
                  Helen.
               "My uncle generally dines down town; and I beg, Helen, that you will speak more
                  respectfully of him," said May.
               "And shall we get nothing until he comes?" screamed Helen.
               "Yes," said May, laughing at her cousin's consternation. "We can dine now. I have
                  some cold roast beef, bread and butter, and a pie, left from yesterday."
               "Oh, heavens! what a bill of fare; but let us have it, for I am famishing."
               "Before you get even that, my dear, you must help about a little. Here, spread the cloth, and cut the bread; I will do
                  the rest."
               "Spread the cloth, and cut the bread! I don't know how!"
               "Learn," said May, half diverted, half angry with the selfish one, as she handed
                  her the table-cloth, which was put on one-sided, while the bread was cut in
                     chunks. When May came in from the pantry, a butler's room as it
                  used to be in the time of the old marquis, Helen was crying over a bleeding
                  finger, which she had cut in her awkward attempts to slice the bread.
               "This is a bad business," said May, binding it up. "Helen, I really feel very
                  sorry for you. You will have so many disheartening trials in your new way of life;
                  but keep a brave heart—I will learn you all that I know, if you are only
                  willing."
               "Thank you, May, that is very nice. I don't much care about learning such low
                  pursuits; but give me something to eat," was her polite reply.
               May crossed herself when she sat down, and asked the blessing of God on the food
                  she was to partake of. Helen fell to, with-out a thought of any thing but the
                  cravings of hunger. They conversed cheerfully together; and while Helen rallied
                  her cousin on her long absence, May thought, more than once, with sad forebodings,
                  of her encounter with her uncle down town that morning. But she determined to keep
                  her own secrets; for she well knew that if he discovered it, he would forbid her
                  exertions in behalf of old Mabel, her visits, and be perhaps furiously angry at
                  the traffic she was carrying on with Mrs. Tabb.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               PAST AND PRESENT.
               THE day waned; and that soft, silent hour, which the Scotch so beautifully call
                  the "gloaming," was over the earth. Subdued shadows crept in through
                  the windows, and mingled with the red glow which the fire-light diffused
                  throughout the room, and together they formed a phantasmagoria, which seemed to
                  ebb and flow like a noiseless tide. And with the shadows, memories of the past
                  floated in, and knocked with their spirit-hands softly and gently against the
                  portals of those two hearts which life's tempest had thrown together. Helen
                  wept.
               "Do you remember your mother, dear Helen?" asked May, while she folded her hand in
                  her own.
               "No and yes. If it is a memory, it is so indistinct that it seems
                  like a dream; and yet, how often at this hour does a vision come to my mind of a
                  dark-eyed, soft-voiced woman, holding a kneeling child against her bosom, to whom
                  she taught a whispered prayer to the madonna! And the child seems
                  me—and the lady, my mother; but it flits away, and then I think it is
                  a dream of long ago."
               "Angel mothers! Oh, how beautiful the thought—angel mothers!" said May, in a low,
                  earnest tone. "Do you know, I think with so much pleasure of going to mine! Even
                  when I was a little child, it was sufficient for my old maummy to say, 'Ah, how
                  grieved your poor mamma would be, if she was here!'"
               "Do you remember her?"
               "Not at all. She died when I was a little
                  wailing infant. Four months afterwards, my father, who was an officer in the navy,
                  died at Canton. He never saw me."
               "And you have been here ever since?"
               "Ever since. A faithful servant of my mother's, who had been many years in the
                  family, brought me in my helplessness to my uncle for protection. But he, unused
                  to interruptions, would not have received me, only the news which came of my
                  father's death, left him no alternative; so my old maummy remained to nurse me,
                  and keep house for him. I can never express how much I owe her. She was ignorant
                  in worldly knowledge, and only a poor slave; but in her simple and earnest faith,
                  she knew much of the science of the saints. With a mother's tenderness, she
                  shielded me from spiritual ignorance and error, and led my soul to the green
                  pastures of the fold of Christ."
               "Had you no other instructor?" inquired Helen.
               "Oh yes. Father Fabian. He instructed me in the divine mysteries of our holy
                  faith. He has been my director since I was a little child. But how was it with
                  you, dear Helen?"
               "I have lived a great deal with Protestants, May," replied Helen, after a short
                  pause. "My father was a major in the army—the only brother of the old
                  man here. He was a Catholic, but he was always so full of official business that
                  he had very little time to attend to religion, and all that kind of thing. His
                  official duties engrossed his time entirely. But he always impressed it on my mind
                  that it would be extremely dishonorable not to avow myself a Catholic when
                  occasions demanded it; and I believe he would have been pleased to see me practise
                  my faith. I was sent to a convent school in Louisiana when I was ten years of age,
                  but was suddenly denly removed, to
                  accompany my father to Boston, to which place he was ordered. There I
                  was surrounded by persons of fashion and position, who made eyes at me when I told
                  them I was a Catholic, and declared I would lose caste if I went to a church which was attended only by the 'low
                  Irish, and servant girls.' Then I heard Catholics derided as superstitious and
                  ignorant, until, I must confess it, I grew ashamed of being one. My
                  father was too busy to think of me,—he always saw me well-dressed and in good
                  company, and imagined that all else was going well with me; while I,
                  proud, flattered, and enjoying the world, fancied that it was of little importance
                  while I was so young. My poor father was a brave and gallant officer; and I think
                  when he sometimes declared with a dignified air that he and his daughter were
                  Catholics,' it was more from the feeling which makes a soldier swear by his flag,
                  than any higher motive. This has been my religious training; but my dear,
                  indulgent father is dead—gone for ever, and I am here—here—Oh, May!"
                  and Helen wept on May's shoulder.
               "And how, dear Helen, did my uncle die?" said May, in a tone of
                  tender sympathy.
               "Very suddenly. He was not conscious from the moment he was taken ill until he
                  died," she replied.
               May could not utter a word. Her heart was filled with a strange horror at the idea
                  of that sudden and unprovided death. She could have cried out with anguish for
                  that soul, which, in the midst of its careless pride and criminal indifference,
                  had been summoned by an inexorable decree to the tribunal of judgment! where it
                  appeared alone—alone—alone, to be weighed in the balance of justice.
                  "But, perhaps, sweet Jesus!" she whispered; "oh, perhaps, Thou didst in the last
                  struggle hear it from Its abyss of misery plead for mercy; per haps, through thy bitter passion and death, Thou
                  didst rescue, him from eternal woe—"
               "What are you saying, May? No doubt I have shocked you; you are so very
                  pious!"
               "Pained me, dear Helen; but you will do better now. You
                     feel, I am very sure, that a life of prevarication and
                  indifference does not answer for a Catholic; and now there will be nothing to
                  hinder you."
               "Perhaps so, dear May. I really wish to do right—but what, in the name of mercy,
                  is that noise!" cried Helen, starting up.
               "It is Uncle Stillinghast coming in. He is beating the snow from his feet," said
                  May, lighting the candles. By this time Mr. Stillinghast had thrown off his
                  wrappings, hung up his hat, and come in. He was evidently in no amiable mood, and
                  to the greetings of his nieces condescended no reply.
               "It is colder this evening, sir, is it not?" said May, flitting around the
                  tea-table.
               "Yes."
               "Shall I get your tea now, uncle?"
               "Yes."
               "Here it is, sir; it is very nice and hot; every thing is ready. Come, Helen,"
                  said May, placing the chairs. They took their seats in silence.
               "What's your name?" Mr. Stillinghast said abruptly, turning to Helen.
               "Helen."
               "Can you make bread?"
               "No, sir," replied Helen, in trembling tones.
               "Learn, d'ye hear?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Can you sweep—make a shirt—wash—iron?" he burst out.
               "No, sir," she said, trembling.
               "What are you good for, then?" he inquired, sternly.
               
               "I don't know, sir; I can play on the harp," faltered Helen.
               "Play the devil! You are a pretty, curly wax doll—good for nothing, and cumbering
                  the very earth that you live on."
               Helen said nothing, but tears rolled over her cheeks.
               "But I will have no idlers about me. You shall learn to be useful and industrious.
                  D'ye understand?"
               "I will try, sir."
               "Very well. And now, miss, what were you doing parading about with
                  old Copeland down town?" he said, turning suddenly to May; "a man I detest with
                  all my soul."
               "I do not know any individual of that name, sir. I missed my way this morning, and
                  inquired of an old gentleman who was passing the address, of a person I had
                  business with. Then he offered to show me, as he was going past the place," said
                  May, lifting her clear, truthful eyes, to his face.
               "And what business, pray, led you to a part of the city so little
                  frequented by the respectable of your sex?"
               "If you will excuse me, sir, I would prefer not telling you," she said,
                  gently.
               "I insist on knowing," he exclaimed, angrily.
               "You will excuse me, sir, when I tell you that it was quite a little affair of my
                  own," replied May, in a low voice.
               "Very well, madam!" said Mr. Stillinghast, bowing with a sneer; "but depend on't,
                  I shall sift this matter—it shall not rest here."
               "I am grieved, dear uncle, to have offended you," began May.
               "Be silent! You are full of popish tricks; I suppose you were engaged in one this
                  morning. Go, answer the bell!" Glad to escape, May stepped into the hall to open
                  the door, and ushered in a tall, fine.
                  looking man, who said he had business with Mr. Stillinghast. He bowed with a
                  well-bred air to May and Helen, then to Mr. Stillinghast, who invited him to be
                  seated.
               "My name is Jerrold, sir—Walter Jerrold, and I have come to bring you rents due
                  for the property belonging to you, which I occupy."
               "Which of my houses is it?" inquired Mr. Stillinghast, gruffly.
               "One on C—— street, sir; and the warehouse on Bolton's Wharf. Here are the bills,
                  which I hope you will find satisfactory," replied the young man, handing him a
                  roll of notes, which he inspected carefully, one by one.
               "All right, sir; but the fact is, Mr. Jerrold, this is a very irregular way of
                  doing business. The next time we can settle our matters better at my
                  counting-room," said the old man, folding the notes away; after which he wrote a
                  receipt, and handed to him. "Many things might happen; you might have
                  been robbed on your war hither; I may be robbed to-night."
               "We young fellows are sadly deficient in prudence, Mr. Stillinghast, but your
                  suggestions shall not be lost on me," replied Mr. Jerrold, pleasantly. Although
                  Mr. Jerrold's visit was ostensibly one of business, he was not at all inattentive
                  to the presence of the cousins. His eye lingered on the faultless face of Helen,
                  until she lifted her large brown eyes, and caught his glance, when a soft blush
                  tinted her cheeks, and the long-fringed lids drooped over them. May dropped, her
                  handkerchief, which he picked up, and handed to her with a courteous bow.
               "I fear, ladies, that my awkward visit has interrupted some domestic arrangement,"
                  he said, observing the tea-table.
               "Not at all, sir," replied May, frankly.
               "I beg a thousand pardons if I have; but good evening—good evening, Mr.
                     Stillinghast linghast. I shall beg
                  your permission, sir, to-morrow to consult you about the investment of some funds
                  I have lying idle."
               "Of course, sir," said Mr. Stillinghast, following him to the door. "A rising
                  young man! Come, come, make haste, and clear off the table; I have accounts to
                  look over."
               "Come, dear Helen, it will be better for you to help a little," whispered May.
                  "Here is the evening paper, sir, and your pipe, when you are ready," she said to
                  her uncle.
               "Humph!" was the only reply she received. When every thing was finished, they bade
                  him good night, and ran up to their chamber.
               "Where were you to-day, May?" inquired Helen, as soon as May closed
                  the door.
               "I was at church—down town—up town—then I came home," said May, cheerfully; and
                  more than that, I do not think proper to disclose. But let us prepare for bed,
                  dear Helen; we shall have to rise early in the morning, and you must get all the
                  sleep you can."
               "May, my firm impression is that this sort of life will extinguish me," said
                  Helen, solemnly; "that horrid old man will certainly tear me to pieces, or bite
                  off my head. Indeed—indeed, I am more afraid of him than any thing I ever
                  saw."
               "What nonsense! It will do you good. You will soon learn to have an aim in life;
                  it will drive you for comfort where only comfort can be found, and you will learn
                  patience, forbearance and meekness, long-suffering, and charity."
               "Like yourself, I presume!" said Helen, with a slight sneer.
               "Oh, no! oh no, dear Helen; did I say any thing like that? I did not mean it, for
                  I am very often angered and impatient, and on the very eve of breaking out; but I
                  don't."
               
               "And why don't you? Do you expect to inherit the old man's gold?"
               "Helen, I never think of it. I have a higher motive, I trust. My peculiar trials
                  give me so many opportunities of learning the rudiments of Christian virtue;
                  therefore, after the first sting is over, I feel thankful and happy."
               "Help us all! I shall never attain such perfection."
               "Nor do I ever expect to arrive at perfection. Oh, no! I am too imperfect; too
                  full of infirmities and faults!" said May, earnestly. "But shall I read the night
                  prayers, or do you prefer reading them alone?"
               "Oh, read them by all means; but don't begin until I get on my cloak—it is
                  freezing cold here," said Helen, shivering.
               May read the beautiful prayers and litany of our Blessed Lady with such fervor and
                  piety that Helen was touched in spite of herself, and responded with heartfelt
                  earnestness; and at the De Profundis, she
                  thought of her dead father, and wept bitterly.
               "I am very, very sad, May," said Helen, when May kissed her good-night.
               "To-morrow, dear Helen, we will seek a heavenly physician; He who comes to the
                  lowly and repentant, and dispenses healing and divine gifts from his throne—the
                  altar!" whispered May.
               Helen sighed deeply, but made no reply.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               HELEN.
               THE great bell of the cathedral was just tolling the Angelus, when May, laying her land softly on Helen, awoke her.
               "Rise, dear Helen; it is six o'clock."
               "It is not daylight yet, and I shan't rise, I assure you," she said, in a fretful
                  tone.
               "Yes you will, I am sure. Uncle Stillinghast will be quite displeased if you do
                  not. He said yesterday morning that you should rise when I do, and lo! you have
                  slept an hour later. Come! it is hard I know to get up in the cold, but you'll
                  soon become accustomed to it."
               "I declare, May, you are as bad as your uncle. Heavens! what a pair to live with.
                  One as exacting as a Jew, the other obedient as a saint, and obstinate as a mule!
                  I never was so persecuted "in my life!" exclaimed Helen, rising very
                  unwillingly.
               "That is right," said May, laughing, "be brisk now, for there is a great deal to
                  do."
               "What is it, May? Are you going to build a house before breakfast?"
               "Come and see, and I promise you a nice time. The fire is already made in the
                  kitchen-stove. Hurry down; I want you to grind the coffee."
               "Grind the coffee! What is that?" asked Helen, with amazement.
               "I will show you. Really, I would not ask you, only I have rolls to make."
               "Coffee to grind, and rolls to bake, for that horrid old man—"
               "And ourselves. I tell you what, Helen, he could get on vastly well without
                     us, but how we should manage without him I cannot not tell," said May, gravely, for when he
                  occasion offered, she could so inflate and expand her little form with dignity,
                  and throw such a truthful, penetrating light into her splendid eyes, that it was
                  quite terrifying.
               "Go on, then; I shall follow you in a few moments. I have some prayers to say."
                  Helen's prayers were soon over. Religion was no vital principle in her mind. It is
                  true she held the germs of faith in her soul, but they were like those bulbs and
                  grains which are so often found on the breasts of mummies—which, unless exhumed,
                  and exposed to sunlight and air, never develope their latent life. So with her;
                  swathed, and wrapped, and crusted over with evil associations, artificial
                  feelings, and the maxims of the world, the germ was hidden—buried—untill the angel
                  of repentance should reveal to her the pearl she held, and lead her
                     beyond the vestibule of faith. She had looked no farther, poor
                  Helen; to the splendors, the consolations, and rapture beyond, she was a stranger.
                  It is not remarkable, then, that when she encountered the stern changes and trials
                  of life, the burden galled and fretted her.
               "How are you ma'am; you are very welcome!" laughed May, when Helen came down;
                  "come near the fire; and while you warm yourself, take this coffee-mill on your
                  knees—turn the handle so, until all the grains disappear; then begin the second
                  stage."
               "The what?" asked Helen, tugging at the handle, which she turned with the
                  difficulty. Her hands, unaccustomed to work of any kind, held it awkwardly; while
                  May, with her hands in the dough, which she worked vigorously, laughed outright at
                  her fruitless efforts.
               "It's no use, May," at last she broke out, "I can't do it; and I've a mind to throw the thing out of the window, and
                  run away."
               "Where, dear Helen?"
               "I don't know. I will hire out as lady's maid, companion, governess—any thing is
                  preferable to this sort of life!" she exclaimed, flushing up.
               "You would find greater difficulties than a harmless coffee-mill to contend with,
                  I imagine!" said May, quietly, while she shaped her rolls, and placed them in a
                  pan.
               "What shall I do?" cried Helen, in a tone of despair, after another
                  fruitless effort.
               "Grind the coffee. Come, you are quite strong enough; put it on the table,
                  here—steady it with one hand, and turn with the other—so; now it goes," said May,
                  pleasantly.
               "How ridiculous! what now?" said Helen, laughing.
               "The second stage!" replied May, looking ing mysterious; "pull out that little
                  drawer, and empty the powder you will find in it into the coffee-pot, which I have
                  just scalded—that is it; now pour on a little cold water; put in this
                  fish-sound; fill up with boiling water—there, that is enough. Now comes the third,
                  and last stage. Set the pot on the stove, and watch it; when it boils up the third
                  time, throw in a small cup full of cold water, and take it off to settle. It is
                  ready then for immediate use."
               "Gracious! what an indefatigable, old-fashioned little thing you are, May," said
                  Helen, obeying her directions, and, after all, rather enjoying the novelty of the
                  thing, than otherwise. May's cheerful face flitting about; the bright sunshine
                  gushing in; the warmth of the room, and the feeling that she had really done
                  something useful, inspired her with a healthful sentiment of enjoyment which she
                  had never experienced before. Breakfast was ready; the rolls were light, and nicely browned; the coffee was clear and
                  fragrant, and the idea of a good breakfast was no mean consideration with
                  Helen.
               "My uncle has not yet returned from market, and we can run in and arrange the
                  sitting-room," said May.
               And they flitted round, dusting, brushing, and polishing up, until they were both
                  as merry as crickets. The morning paper was opened, and spread on the back of a
                  chair to air; the cushioned arm-chair was wheeled into its accustomed corner; and,
                  just as every thing was complete in their arrangements, Mr. Stillinghast came in.
                  Helen was in the hall when he came in with a well-filled basket on his arm.
               "Shall I help to draw off your coat, sir?" she asked, timidly.
               He looked up a moment, and she seemed such a vision of loveliness that his cold,
                  dull eye, opened and brightened with astonishment. It was the first time he had
                  really looked at her. A low, chuckling laugh, burst from his lips, which Helen
                  thought frightful, and he handed her the basket, saying, "I can do it myself; take
                  this to the kitchen." She dared not excuse herself, but holding it with both
                  hands, and feeling as if her wrists were breaking, she passed through the
                  sitting-room with such a doleful countenance, while a red angry spot burned on her
                  forehead, that may could not forbear laughing even while she went to assist
                  her.
               Mr. Stillinghast's humor was not quite so rasping as usual that morning, although
                  he cast more than one angry look towards May, and scarcely noticed the remarks she
                  made to him. When she told him that Helen had made the coffee, he nodded towards
                  her, and with a grim smile told her that "she had made a good beginning;" but to
                  May, never a word was uttered. Notwithstanding which, it was very evident that a
                  pleasant thought, by some rare chance,
                  had taken possession of his bleak heart, like birds, which, sometimes in flying,
                  drop from their beaks the seeds of beauteous and gorgeous flowers into the crevice
                  of some bare gray rock. He did not again advert to May's adventure down town, and
                  she hoped he had forgotten it; but he was one of those who
                     never forget.
               
               At half-past eight, all her domestic affairs in order, May and Helen prepared to
                  attend the 9 o'clock mass at the cathedral. Helen's worldly heart was pleased with
                  the grandeur of the building, the dignity with which the ceremonies were
                  conducted, and the appearance of the congregation, who appeared to belong to a
                  better class than she had been accustomed to see in the Catholic churches North.
                  And so they did. They were mostly individuals of fortune and leisure, who had
                  their time at command. And there were those whose age and infirmities would not
                  permit them to come out at an earlier hour; feeling thankful to know that He, the
                  wonderful and humble Jesus, would be there to receive their homage, and dispense.
                  His blessings, to their waiting hearts. Her old feelings would have triumphed, had
                  she attended the earlier masses, when the artisan, the toil-worn, the laborer,
                  with his habiliments covered with the moil and toil of earth; the tattered poor,
                  who were ashamed to come out into the full light of day; the halt, the cripple,
                  and the blind, led by little ones; the widow and orphan, the bereaved, who seek to
                  hide their anguish from all eyes but His who can heal it; the dark children of
                  Ethiopia, the slave, the outcast, had congregated there; all equal in His eyes, as
                  they will be in the valley of Jehosaphat when the judgment is, to receive the
                  divine manna and the vital heavenliness which His presence afforded; when, like
                  pilgrims refreshed by pure water in the desert, they went forth to encounter again
                  the heat, the simoom, the thirst and
                  weariness of the way, with renewed courage.
               "Shall we go in to see Father Fabian a moment?" said May, after mass.
               "No, not now, May. I think, perhaps, I shall go to confession soon; and I do not
                  wish to know him, or be known to him," she replied, shrinking back.
               "Let it be soon, very soon, dearest Helen!" said May, pressing her
                  hand.
               "Perhaps," she answered, vaguely.
               "Now, dear Helen, can you find your way back? I have to go a little way on
                  business," said May, when they came within two squares of home.
               "Oh, yes; but, really, you seem to have a great many mysterious visits on hand!"
                  observed Helen, rather sharply.
               "You shall come with me soon, if you wish to," replied May. Then they separated;
                  Helen dissatisfied, and a little angry, and May rejoicing like a miser who goes to
                  visit his treasure. Full of happy thoughts, she went on until she came to old
                  Mabel's cottage, at the door of which stood a small, close carriage. The door was
                  ajar, and she went in. There were two ladies in silks, velvets, and plumes,
                  standing before Aunt Mabel, and both were speaking in an excited tone.
               "A Roman Catholic!" they exclaimed.
               "Yes, misses," was the meek reply.
               "Why, don't you know you peril your eternal salvation, by becoming a papist?"
               "No, misses, I don't know it, neither does you, I been living on and on, and never
                  was a professor, and I'm gwine to do jest what is right at the 'leventh hour. It's
                  a 'ligion that's older than all, and was know'd and practised afore any of yourn
                  was ever thought on."
               "Did you ever hear such preposterous ignorance!" exclaimed one; "why, old aunty,
                     who has been tampering with you?"
               "Nobody, honey, only them that's got a 'ligion that larns them to give bread to the hungry, warm clothes to the freezing,
                  and fire to keep life in their bodies; and tells the poor ole nigger that God
                  loves her soul as well as he do buckra folks. So I'm gwine to be one," replied old
                  Mabel, striking her stick on the hearth.
               "You are a poor, benighted creature, and I hope God will pity you on the score of
                  your ignorance," said one of the well-meaning ladies.
               "I hope he will, misses, I hope he will," she said, humbly.
               "We had some things for you; but, of course, we cannot leave them now;the papists
                  must take care of their own poor—we have enough of our own," observed
                  one.
               "Thank'ee, misses."
               "Downright impudence!" they muttered, flouncing out to their carriage, without
                  seeing May, who had taken refuge behind the bed, which was hung round with some
                  faded patchwork, to keep out air.
               "And so you're bearing testimony for Christ already, Aunt Mabel," said May, coming
                  towards her with outstretched hand.
               "Bless your dear face, honey, it seems best for me. I ben so long without sarving
                  God, that I shall 'quire all the help I can get in this world and the next. Them
                  ladies, honey, is well-meaning, I reckon. They 'tended me a little while last
                  winter, but they wanted to send me out yonder—I wouldn't go; I'm mighty poor and
                  helpless, Miss May, and was friendless then, but I couldn't go thar!"
               "Where, Aunt Mabel?"
               "To the poor-house, my child. But, honey, arter you went away yesterday, I all at
                  once remembered a Catholic woman—she was a half-Indian, half-nigger, from the West
                  Indies—that I used to do a good turn for now and then. She was dying with
                  consumption, and she used to talk to me about the saints in glory praying for us, the blessed mother of Jesus Christ,
                  and purgatory, in her broken lingo, till I 'believed every word she said. I was
                  trying to recollect, arter you left me, and it all come pat into my head at
                  once."
               "These are consoling, helpful, and holy doctrines, Aunt Mabel; but tell me if you
                  are satisfied that the Roman Catholic Church is the true Church of God?" said May,
                  smoothing her withered hand.
               "I can't 'splain myself, honey; but thar's something in here that tells me
                     it is," said the simple old creature, laying her hand on her
                  breast.
               "And that something is a great and glorious gift, Aunt Mabel—the gift
                  of FAITH. But hear what our dear Lord said, before he ascended to his Father; here
                  is your old Protestant Bible, which your good mistress used to read to you so long
                  ago. I will find it in this," said May, taking down the shattered old copy of the
                  Scriptures from its shelf. "First of all, our Lord established his Church on
                  earth. It was the object of his divine mission. Then he endowed his apostles with
                  heavenly gifts and authority to do even as he had done; and declared that his
                  Church was 'founded on a rock, against which the gates of hell should never
                  prevail.'"
               "And his word and his promise never fail, honey, because he is the Lord God," said
                  the old woman.
               "No, never, never fail," said May, fervently; "and now listen. Here He, Infinite
                  Truth, tells us himself why this Church can never be overcome, or
                  err, or do wrong: 'I will pray the Father!' said Jesus Christ to his disciples,
                  'and he will send you another comforter, that he may abide with you for
                     ever—even the SPIRIT OF TRUTH;' and again he says: 'When He, the
                  Spirit of Truth, is come, he will guide you in all truth.' And this spirit was the
                  Holy Ghost—the Spirit of God! Oh, Aunt Mabel, only think! the Spirit of the Eternal God—promised not only to the
                  disciples, but to the Church for ever! Do you understand me?"
               "I understand, honey; and it's the same now it was then, and will be for ever. Oh,
                  no, Satan, you can't break up your master's inheritance! You may
                  worrit His sheep, and steal off His stray lambs now and then, but bless God,
                  you'll get no furder,' cause the Master is thar hisself. Oh, Miss May, lead me in,
                  quick as you please!" cried the old woman, while tears streamed over her face.
               "Dear Aunt Mabel, your wish will soon be gratified. I will see Father Fabian
                  tomorrow morning, after mass, and he will come to visit and instruct you in many
                  things, which it is necessary for you to understand. Were you ever baptized!"
               "No, honey; my mother was a Baptist, and they don't baptize babies; and after I
                  growed up, I didn't like 'em, somehow, and so it's never been done."
               "In this case, I am glad it was not done," said May; "for now, when, after due
                  preparation, you receive holy baptism, your soul will be washed white and
                  stainless as that of a Christian babe. You will have a clean and beautiful
                  banqueting room to receive the Lord Jesus when he comes to you, under the
                  sacramental veil; and, being near the end of your pilgrimage, it is not likely
                  that it will be again defiled by sin. Oh, how happy is the thought of going up
                  through faith and repentance, without a stain, into the presence of our divine
                  Lord!"
               
                  Me, Miss May! all that for an ole crippled nigger like
                  me?" exclaimed Aunt Mabel, wiping her eyes.
               "Yes, all that, and more—ten thousand times more. But now, Aunt Mabel, you must
                  begin to examine carefully your past life; to remember the sins which have blotted
                  it, and beg of Almighty God the grace of true repentance, sincere, humble repentance, that you may make a good
                  general confession. And here," continued May, taking off her own medal, and
                  hanging it around Aunt Mabel's neck, "say the little prayer on this a hundred
                  times a day, if you can remember it: 'Oh, Mary, conceived without sin, pity
                     me, a poor sinner, who have recourse to thee.' It is a medal of our
                  Blessed Lady, who will obtain from her divine Son, for you, all that you may need.
                  Can you say the prayer?"
               "Oh, Mary, conceived without sin, pity me, a poor sinner, who have recourse to
                  thee," repeated the old woman.
               "Say it over and over again, until you know it perfectly," said May.
               "I got it in here, honey, fast," replied the old woman, pointing to her heart.
               "That is right. Now, can I do any thing for you?"
               "No, my misses, only call my grandchild as you go' long. I let her go out to have
                  a run in the sunshine this morning."
               "I will send her to you; and to-morrow I think you will see Father Fabian," said
                  May, before she closed the door. And she went away, wrapped as with a royal
                  mantle, in the blessings of the poor.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               THINGS OF TIME AND ETERNITY.
               IN a small and elegant boudoir, which opened
                  into a conservatory, and was crowded with articles of taste and vertu,—the gleanings of a tour through Europe,—a lady,
                  somewhat past the prime of life, leaned over an Or-molu table, arranging with exquisite touches, a quantity of
                  splendid flowers in a basket of variegated mosses which stood on it. There was a
                  look of high-bred indolence about her, and an expression of pride on her
                  countenance so earthly, that even the passing stranger shrunk from
                  it. And while, with a fine eye for the harmony of colors, she blended the gorgeous
                  flowers together, weaving the dark mosses amidst them, until they looked like a
                  rare Flemish painting, the door opened, and a distinguished-looking young
                  gentleman came in—called her mother—kissed her on her cheek, and threw himself
                  with an easy air into a fauteuil.
               
               "You see how busy I am, Walter, and, until I am disengaged, look over these new
                  engravings. They are just from Paris," said the lady.
               "I see, dear mother, that you have the affairs of a nation on your shoulders. I
                  hope, for your health's sake, you have no other momentous concerns to look after
                  this morning," he said, playfully.
               "One more, Walter; my goldfinch is half-starved, and the mocking-bird is really on
                  his dignity, because he has not had egg and lettuce for his breakfast; but,
                     apropos, what success had you with old
                  Stilling hast?"
               "Faith, mother, it is hard to tell, He
                  is a tough personage to deal with. I got in, however, and saw the two nieces."
               "Well?"
               "One of them is extremely beautiful. I shall have no objection to making her Mrs.
                  Jerrold, provided—"
               "The old miser makes her his heiress," interrupted Mrs. Jerrold.
               "Exactly. The other one is a nice, graceful little thing, with such a
                  pair of eyes! She has a spirit of her own, too, I fancy."
               "I have been thinking over our plan today, and it really seems to be a feasible
                  one, Walter, if you can only manage to win Mr. Stillinghast's confidence. How do
                  they live?"
               "I presume they consider it comfortable;—it would be miserable to me. The old man
                  appeared quite flattered this morning, when I got him to invest that money for me;
                  and shook my hand warmly when I inveighed against the present mania for
                  speculating in fancy stocks."
               "You have tact enough, Walter, if you will only use it properly and
                     prudently. The mortgage on Cedar Hall has nearly expired; I have
                  not a solitary dollar to pay it, and the consequence will be—a foreclosure, unless
                  some miracle occurs to redeem it. Your business must not be broken
                  down, by drawing on your capital!" said Mrs. Jerrold, pressing the yolk of a
                  hard-boiled egg through the gilded wires of her mocking-bird's cage.
               "I'll move heaven and earth, mother, before Cedar Hall shall go out of the family.
                  If I can bring things to pass with old Stillinghast, I might, on the credit of
                  marrying one of his heiresses, raise the money at a ruinous interest. At any rate,
                  Cedar Hall goes not from the Jerrolds," he exclaimed.
               "But, Walter, I understand that both of those girls are Catholics?"
               
               "That's bad; but I fancy I shall be able to put down all that sort of thing, in
                  case I win the lady," he said, twirling an opal seal.
               "And who are they? I have a horror of low families."
               "Make yourself easy on that score, they are our equals, I imagine. I am very
                  certain that none of them have been hung, or sent to the penitentiary; and I
                  presume there have been more gentlemen in the family, than self-made
                  men, from the simple fact, that both of those girls have been left quite
                  penniless, and dependent on their uncle. I believe, however, that the father of
                  one was a major in the army; the other, a captain in the navy," said Mr. Jerrold,
                  laughing.
               "I am glad to hear it. I assure you that family is no unimportant
                  consideration with me," observed the lady.
               "Dear lady mother, I had not the remotest suspicion that it was; but I must be
                  off," he replied, while he consulted his watch. "I got a private despatch this
                  morning from New York, giving me the very pleasant information of a failure in the
                  coffee crop; and I am going to attend a sale at ten o'clock, and
                  expect to purchase largely at the present prices. At one, my
                  investment will double its value."
               "You were fortunate, indeed," said Mrs. Jerrold. He kissed her cheek once more,
                  said "good-day," and was gone. Neither mother nor son imagined they had been
                  saying or doing any thing contrary to the laws of honor or morality. Had any one
                  suggested such an idea, he would have felt grossly insulted; and that
                  red spot of pride on her forehead would have glowed into a flame of
                  resentment. They were only keeping a sharp eye on their interests. Thus, at least,
                  they would have defined their plans. Protestants, practical and nominal, think of
                  the judgment as an idea too remote to influence the acts of their daily life. They have no confessionals for ever
                  reminding them of the right principles of a true rule of faith; and no spiritual
                  guides, whose duty it is to probe the erring conscience, and heal, with divine
                  gifts, the repentant soul. But we will leave Mrs. Jerrold recherché boudoir, and accompany May from the Cathedral to Father
                  Fabian's parlor. She was disappointed at not finding him there, but determined to
                  wait, as the servant informed her that he had been sent for just as mass was over,
                  to carry the Holy Viaticum to a laborer who had fallen from a scaffolding in the
                  next square, and was dying from the effect of his injuries.
               "I will go into the church and wait. Will you please to call me when Father Fabian
                  comes in? I have something of importance to say to him," said May, while awe and
                  tender charity filled her heart.
               "I shall certainly call you, ma'am," replied the respectable domestic.
               And May went back and knelt in her accustomed place near the altar—that altar,
                  which, to her clear faith, was a throne of majestic and clement love, where the
                  Shepherd of souls was for ever present, to make intercession for those who,
                  through His bitter passion and death, hoped for eternal life. Earnestly she
                  besought His mercy for that soul in its last sudden agony. She besought the Queen
                  of Sorrows, by the pangs she endured on Calvary, to come to his aid, and obtain
                  from her divine Son the grace of a good death! She implored the saints, who had
                  gone up through much tribulation, and who pity those who suffer and weep in this
                  valley of tears, to pray for him, that he might not be overcome in the hour of
                  trial by the enemy of souls. In her earnest charity she took no heed of time, and
                  was startled when the servant, kneeling beside her, informed her that Father Fabian had returned, and
                  would see her. When she went in, he was taking a cup of coffee and some toast,
                  which it was very evident, from his pale, excited countenance, he needed. His
                  Breviary was lying open near him.
               "Ah, my dear child!" he said, holding out his hand to May, "I am very glad to see
                  you. How are you?"
               "Quite well, father. But do not let me disturb you; you need refreshment after the
                  late melancholy scene," she replied.
               "Melancholy, indeed; but oh, so full of consolation!" observed Father Fabian,
                  while his eyes filled up. "We priests, like physicians, are called on to witness a
                  great many distressing scenes, which many a time appal our weak human nature, and
                  almost overcome our charity by terror. This affair was truly heart-rending. When I
                  arrived at the spot, I found the poor man lying on the sidewalk, crushed, and
                  almost speechless. A crowd, collected together by curiosity, surrounded him. I
                  asked a physician, who was examining the extent of his injuries, 'whether or no he
                  could be removed?' 'He has not fifteen minutes to live, poor fellow,' was his
                  reply! I threw on my stole, requested the crowd to stand back a little, and knelt
                  on the bricks beside him, and bowed my ear close to his lips. He had recognized
                  me, and his eyes, already dim, lit up with joy; and in faltering and whispered
                  words, he made his short confession. Happily, his conscience was not burdened with
                  mortal sin. He was one of my penitents, and I knew how regular and pious his daily
                  life had been. Quickly I gave him absolution, after which I administered the Holy
                  Viaticum, which he received with great fervor. 'I am resigned; but, sweet Jesus,
                  pity my little ones,' he whispered. Then, in a little while, with our dear Lord to
                  conduct him, he passed into eternity. I doubt not that his sentence was full of mercy." There was a pause
                  of several moments, during which May dashed more than one tear from her cheek.
               "But who, think you, I saw, when I lifted my eyes from that dying
                  countenance?"
               "I cannot imagine, father."
               "Your uncle. Yes, indeed! he stood watching the scene with a most intent and
                  singular expression of countenance," said Father Fabian.
               "It is, I believe, one of the first practical fruits of the Catholic
                  faith he ever saw," said May, quite forgetting her own humble, patient
                  example.
               "Probably!" said Father Fabian, smiling; "but tell me now what it is you want. I
                  have to run away out to the north-western limits of the city."
               "That will suit precisely, dear father. It is to a poor, paralytic old woman, I
                  wish to direct you. She has determined to become a Catholic, and wishes to see
                  you. She needs instruction; but her faith is so docile, that I do not think you
                  will hesitate long to grant the ardent desire of her soul, which is, admission
                  into the church of God."
               "And where does our neophyte live?" asked Father Fabian.
               "In the first of those small cottages west of Howard's Woods; but please, Father
                  Fabian, don't mind any thing she may say about me," said May, blushing, and
                  looking embarrassed. "She is so very grateful, that she imagines I have done a
                  great deal for her, and really makes me ashamed of the trifling amount of good I
                  have extended to her. Will you give me your blessing, father?"
               "I shall certainly go, my dear child—meanwhile, pray for me," said Father Fabian,
                  as she rose up from receiving his blessing.
               "Will you pray for my uncle's conversion sion, father? and, oh! I had almost forgotten! My cousin has arrived, shall I
                  bring her to see you soon?" said May, standing at the door.
               "Whenever you please to;" and May went away, feeling quite happy.
               Mr. Stillinghast had not forgotten May's refusal to explain the cause of her
                  appearance, the day before, on the wharf; and being determined to discover it, he
                  stopped, on his way down to his counting-house, at the wood-yard office, and
                  inquired "if a young lady had been in there to purchase wood yesterday?"
               "Well, sir, I hardly know how to reply to your question;—but I believe there were
                  several young ladies in here to buy wood yesterday," said the young man, looking
                  highly amused.
               "But there was one who came with old Copeland; she had on a purple merino
                  dress—and—something, I don't know what else she had on," said Mr. Stillinghast,
                     feeling ridiculous.
               "Was she very small, sir, with bright hazel eyes?"
               "I Know nothing about the color of her eyes, but she's something higher than my
                  walking stick," replied the irascible old man.
               "The same, sir. she came with Mr. Copeland; and if her eyes didn't
                  make me dance in and out, it's a wonder!" observed the clerk.
               "Well, what in the deuce did she want here?"
               "She bought a quarter of a cord of oak wood, and paid for it!"
               "What did she want with oak wood?" cried Mr. Stillinghast, becomming
                  more impatient every moment.
               "To burn, I presume," replied the young man, paring off a chew of tobacco; "but
                  the fact is, sir, we didn't ask her. We
                  always take it for granted that people buy wood to burn."
               "Who does know any thing about it?" was the sharp response.
               "The sawyer, I fancy, if he can be found. I have not seen him about to-day,
                  however," said the young man, with a broad grin, which he speedily changed, when
                  his strange visitor burst out with,
               "When he comes, send him to me.—My name is Stillinghast."
               "Certainly, Mr. Stillinghast, certainly. Excuse me, sir, for not recognizing you,"
                  stammered the clerk.
               "I'm determined," muttered the old man, going out and slamming to the door,
                  without noticing the young man's apologies, "I'm determined to sift this matter.
                  If I had a feeling of humanity left, it was for that girl—papist though she be; if
                  I loved or cared a tithe for any living being, it was she! I intended—but never
                  mind what I intended, She has been doing wrong, and I'll find it out.
                  She has tried to deceive me, but I'll convince her that she has
                  mistaken her dupe. Where did she get the money to buy wood with?" And
                  at that thought, such a fierce, sudden suspicion tore through that old, half
                  ossified heart, that he paused on the flags, and gasped for breath. "My God!" he
                  murmured, "has she robbed me?" And during the remainder of that miserable day, his
                  ledgers were almost neglected. Foul and ungenerous suspicions held possession of
                  his mind; and inflamed with a malicious anger, he plotted and schemed his revenge
                  until he had defined a plan that well suited his present mood. "It she plots," he
                  muttered, rubbing his dry, yellow hands together, with grim delight, "I will
                     counter plot. It is not the wrong, but the person who
                     inflicts it, that stings me. But the serpent's tooth has
                  been gnawing these many years at my heart—why complain now?"
               
               But several days passed, and he had obtained no clue to the mystery, which
                  increased his anxiety, and made him more fretful and testy than usual. He allowed
                  no opportunity to escape, to make May feel his displeasure. Bitter and
                  contemptuous speeches, coarse allusions to her religion, fault-finding with all
                  she did, and sudden outbursts of unprovoked fury, were now the daily trials of her
                  life. Trials which were sore temptations, and full of humiliation to a proud, high
                  spirit, like May's; and sharp were the struggles, and earnest the prayers, and
                  many the scalding tears she shed, ere she subdued the storm of wild and indignant
                  resentment, which swept like whirlwinds through her soul. But her talisman—the
                  Cross of Jesus Christ—was her safeguard. Its splinters inflicted many a sharp
                  wound; but none so sharp, that the balm it distilled could not heal and beautify
                  them.
               Helen, in a fright, kept as much as possible out of sight. Towards her, Mr.
                  Stillinghast's manner was inconsistent, and variable in the extreme. At one time
                  almost kind, at another, captious and surly. Sometimes he called on her for every
                  thing and perhaps the next moment threatened to throw whatever he had ordered, at
                  her head. Once he told her, in bitter tones and language, that "but for wishing to
                  make use of her to effect certain ends, he would turn her into the street." He had
                  a new lock and key, of peculiar construction, fitted on his chamber door, which he
                  locked every morning carefully, and carried the key away with him.
               "This is awful, May. How can you bear it as you do, for you do not
                  seem the least afraid of him?" said Helen, one morning.
               "I am afraid of offending our Lord by spitefulness, and returning injuries to one
                  who is my benefactor," replied May.
               "You do feel spiteful, then, sometimes? Really, it is quite refreshing to know that you are
                  not perfect," said Helen, in her sneering way.
               "Yes, I feel so very often. I am full of imperfections. I am
                     not patient, or humble or even forgiving. I am only
                     outwardly—outwardly calm and silent, because I do not think it
                  right to fan up resentments, and malice, and bitterness, all so
                  antagonistic to the love of God. I hope! oh, I hope my motive is, singly and
                  purely, to avoid offending Him," said May, humbly and earnestly.
               "I heartily wish the old wretch would die!" exclaimed Helen.
               "Oh, Helen! so unprovided as he is for another world! Unsay that, won't you?"
                  cried May, clasping her hands together.
               "No, May; I mean it. I think he is as much fit to die now as he ever will be. He
                  has doubtless spent his life in tormenting others, and it will only be fair when
                  he is tormented in his turn. But, spare those looks of horror, and tell me, who do
                  you think passed by here this morning, and looked in, and bowed?"
               "I cannot tell," said May, sadly.
               "That handsome Jerrold. I hope he may prove a knight-errant, and deliver me from
                  Giant Despair's castle," said the frivolous girl, while she twisted her long,
                  shining curls around her fingers.
               "Take care, Helen. Romance does very well in books, but it is a mischievous thing
                  to mix up in the real concerns of life."
               "My dearest May, I shall never want a skull to grin ghastly lessons of morality at
                  me, while I have you," replied Helen, with a scornful laugh.
               "Pardon me, Helen; I fear that I do say too much; but let my good intention be my
                  excuse," said May.
               "Yes, it is intolerable. My old Tartar of an uncle swearing and scolding down
                  stairs, and you preaching and praying, up. It is more than human nature can bear.—Where are
                  you going?"
               "To confession," replied May, in a low tone.
               "Very well; but, my dear 'wee wee woman,' don't stay long, for I believe this
                  rambling, musty old house is haunted."
               "Come with me, then?"
               "Not to-day; I have an idea of exploring it, and should like, of all things, to
                  get into the very room which Blue Beard keeps locked up. Is there any possible way
                  of getting in?"
               "Yes."
               "How? tell me, quick!"
               "Ask Uncle Stillinghast for the key," said May, while a flash of merriment lit up
                  her eyes.
               "Excuse me, ma'am," said Helen, curtseying; "I leave all such exploits to people
                  who are anxious to become martyrs. I have no such ambition."
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               TROUBLED WATERS.
               "WHERE are you gadding to now?" said Mr. Stillinghast, who had encountered May and
                  Helen at the hall-door, on their way out to church. "Where are you both
                  going?"
               "We are going to mass, sir," said May in her usual quiet, pleasant way.
               "One of you stay in. I won't have the house left so; do you stay, for
                  you are for ever gadding," he said sharply to May.
               "I will remain at home, Uncle Stillinghast," said Helen, quickly; "do
                     you go, May."
               
               "Do you go, miss, and let her stay at home; "d'ye hear me?" he
                  exclaimed.
               "Indeed, sir, I wish to remain at home, I have no desire at all to go this
                  morning," expostulated Helen.
               "Ar'n't you a papist?" he inquired, turning suddenly, and confronting her.
               "I am a Catholic, sir, but—but," she stammered.
               "But what?" he asked, sharply.
               "I do not care so much about going to church as May does," she replied, lifting
                  her handsome brown eyes to his angry countenance.
               "Oh, Helen!" exclaimed May, with an imploring look.
               "This is quite my affair," said Helen, with a haughty air.
               "You've got more sense than I gave you credit for," said Mr. Stillinghast, with a
                  low, peculiar laugh. "Don't go any more unless you choose."
               "No, sir."
               "Oh, uncle!" cried May, losing all dread of her uncle's displeasure, and laying
                  her hand on his arm; "you are tampering with her soul! Helen! Helen, you are
                  trampling under foot your birthright in the Church of Christ!"
               "Fool!" exclaimed Mr. Stillinghast, shaking her off. "Be silent. Go your ways, but
                  dare not interfere with her."
               "I can only pray, sir, for you and for her," said May, after her
                  first wild and indignant emotions had subsided.
               Another low mocking laugh sounded in her ears, then she found herself alone. "This
                  is dreadful, and hard to bear," she murmured, as she went out; "but Father Fabian
                  says, that trials are divine and royal gifts! If I lived only for
                     this life I would never—I could not bear it, but
                  living for eternity, I cannot afford to lose a single lesson of the rudiments of
                  perfection."
               "That girl," thought Mr. Stillinghast.
                  "is a mystery. She is either a profound hypocrite, or an honest Christian. This
                  scene, however, has fixed my resolves. That Helen may be a fool, but she's not
                  much of a papist. Odds, it will hardly require the temptation of a handsome
                  husband, and a splendid settlement, to make her forswear her creed. I will see
                  Jerrold this very day." When he arrived at his counting-house, he went directly to
                  his desk, and penned a note, which he directed and sealed, then handed it to his
                  porter to take to Mr. Jerrold. Then he perched himself on his high writing-stool,
                  and opening his books, attempted to go on as usual with the business of the day.
                  But there was something unquiet tugging at his conscience, which did not allow him
                  to do so. He paused frequently, with his pen poised over his inkstand, or paper,
                  and fell into reveries, which ended with expressions which burst out like shots
                  from a revolver. It was now "Pshaw!" then, "I hate it worse than I do the
                  synagogue;" or, "it is not injustice! Have I not a right to do as I
                  please with my own property?" and "I'll do it as sure as my name is Mark
                  Stillinghast."
               "Mr. Jerrold was away at bank, sir," said the porter, who had returned; "and, sir,
                  I left the note."
               "All right, Michael. Business is the master we must serve first, and
                  best. Hoist out those bales there ready to ship."
               "The divil 'll fly away wid that ould haythen some of these days! I should like to
                  know intirely if he ever hard of the day of judgment and the Master that's to take
                  an account of how he's been sarved. I reckon, bedad, he'll find out
                  thin, if not sooner, that he's the one that ought to had a little waitin' on,"
                  muttered Michael, rolling out a heavy bale of cotton.
               Ere long Mr. Jerrold, anxious to conciliate the millionnaire, and full of
                     curiosity, did not lose a minute
                  after he read the note in going to him.
               "Good morning, Sir. I hope I have not kept you waiting," he said, holding out his
                  hand to Mr. Stillinghast.
               "No, sir; you are in very good time," he replied, shaking hands, and offering his
                  guest a chair. "I see that you are not one who will let grass grow under your
                  feet."
               "I have my fortune to make, sir," replied the young man, laughing; "but can I
                  serve you in any way, Mr. Stillinghast?"
               "Michael! No, sir—no—Here Michael!" cried Mr. Stillinghast.
               "Here, sir," answered the porter at the door.
               "I wish to have a private conversation with this gentleman, and do not want to be
                  interrupted; do you hear?"
               "Bedad, sir, I'm not deaf no more than the next one; but suppose somebody comes to
                  pay up rents, et cetera?"
               "Well—well, they can wait," he replied.
               "And supposin' they won't?" persisted Michael.
               "In that case, rap at my door, and I will come out. Now, be off."
               "I never waste time, Mr. Jerrold," said Mr. Stillinghast, after he had closed the
                  door, and resumed his seat; "I never waste any thing—time or words. I am blunt and
                  candid, and aboveboard. I hate the world generally, because I have been deceived
                  in every thing I ever placed faith in. I am a bitter, harsh, penurious old
                  man."
               "Your life has been without reproach, sir," observed Mr. Jerrold, who wondered
                  what strange revelation was to be made.
               "No compliments; they nauseate me. I sent for you this morning to propose
                  something which you may, or may not, accede to, there being a condition annexed
                  that may not be altogether agreeable. But however it may be, I wish you to understand distinctly that I do it to suit my
                  own ends and pleasure, and if I could do otherwise I would."
               "I am very confident, sir, that you will not propose any thing to me incompatible
                  with honor and integrity," said Walter Jerrold.
               "No, sir. No; it is a fair bargain—a fair, honest, business transaction I offer,
                  by which you will gain not only credit, but profit. In view of this object, I have
                  been for two days engaged in an investigation of your character."
               "Really, Mr. Stillinghast!" began the young man, with a haughty look.
               "Investigating your character, sir. I have made inquiries of your friends and foes
                  concerning your habits, your business associations, your antecedents—"
               "For what purpose, sir?" inquired Walter Jerrold, flushing up.
               "To see if I might trust you."
               "And the result of this strange procedure?"
               "Is favorable throughout. I congratulate you, sir, on being without reproach in
                  your business relations. You will suit me to a nicety. I lost two years ago the
                  old man who sat at this desk for the last forty years. He was the only friend I
                  had in the wide earth. He was my prop and support, and now that he is gone, I feel
                  tottering and weak. I want some one to assist me in the cares of my immense
                  business; a partner, young, active, and possessed of just the requisites which you
                  have."
               Walter Jerrold's eyes lit up with an expression of wild triumph. He could scarcely
                  believe his own ears; he thought it was a cheating dream that the millionaire,
                  Stillinghast—the bitter, inaccessible old man, should offer him something so far
                  beyond his most sanguine hopes; advantages which he had intended to intrigue trigue, and toil unceasingly for, but
                  which were now thrown into his very hands.
               "Do you understand me, Mr. Jerrold?"
               "I hear you, sir, but really fear you are jesting at my expense."
               "I never jest, sir. It has been so long since I jested that the word
                  has become meaningless to me. But, as I said, there is a condition—"
               "Allow me to hear it, Mr. Stillinghast," said Walter Jerrold, fearing lest it
                  might be something dreadful and impossible.
               "I have," said the old man, as if talking to himself, "I have gathered together
                  large sums. I scarcely know the exact amount myself. There is principal, interest,
                  and compound interest, still heaping up the pile. I do not intend it shall be
                  squabbled over when I am in the dust, or left open to the rapacity of lawyers. I
                  shall dispose of my concerns while I have reason and health, in such a way, by
                  Heaven! as Heaven itself cannot interfere with my plans!"
               Why did not that boastful, gold-withered, shrivelled up old man, pause? How dare
                  he throw such defiance in the face of Almighty God over his unrighteous
                  gains!—yes, unrighteous gains, for mammon held them in trust. None had ever gone
                  into the treasure-house of God to relieve the suffering, or aid the indigent. The
                  few good acts of his life had been wrested from him, and the
                  recollection of them filled him with bitterness instead of joy.
               "That is wise and prudent, sir," observed Mr. Jerrold.
               "Of course it is. But now to the point. I will take you into partnership on
                  condition that you, as my successor, marry my niece, Helen Stillinghast, and
                  promise on your honor to endeavor to overcome her Catholic tendencies. She is not
                  very strong in her faith, but as I intend to leave her a considerable amount of
                  property, I do not wish it to go to the support of a creed I detest—not one copper
                  of it. What do you say?"
               
               "What amount of capital do you require, Mr. Stillinghast?"
               "Whatever you have, sir. If it is much, well; if nothing, it makes no difference:
                  but, do you hesitate? I suppose the girl is an obstacle."
               "None in the least, sir. But I am overwhelmed by your generosity, sir; the
                  advantages you offer place me in a position which it would have taken me years of
                  toil to attain, and I must confess that, I am quite thrown off my balance. Will
                  you allow me at least a few hours to think?" said Walter Jerrold,
                  highly excited.
               "Your caution is no discredit to you. I see that I am not deceived," said Mr.
                  Stillinghast, with a grim smile. "To-morrow evening I shall expect an answer; at
                  which time you can come to my house, and take your tea, and look at my niece."
               "You will certainly see me then, sir, and hear my decision." And the young man,
                  with steps that scarcely felt the earth he trod on, hurried away, nor paused an
                  instant, until he reached home. Mrs. Jerrold was standing on her marble
                  carriage-step, just ready to get into her luxurious coach to take a drive. He
                  whispered a word or two to her; the carriage was dismissed, and mother and son
                  went up stairs to analyze the sudden promise of fortune which had burst, like the
                  bow of heaven, around them. And together we will leave them—the worldly mother and
                  the worldly son, to grow elate, and almost wild, at the prospect which Mr.
                  Stillinghast's eccentric liberality had opened to their view. At any rate, it was
                  eligible in every respect, with, or without a matrimonial appendage; and Cedar
                  Hall was secured to the Jerrolds.
               Father Fabian, true to his promise, had visited old Mabel, and found her so well
                  disposed, and of such docile faith, that he had promised, as soon as she finished
                  her general confession, to give her holy baptism. Two or three times a week he dropped in, and was much edified by the
                  feryor and humility with which she received his instructions. It all seemed like a
                  new world dawning around her, as if through the chinks of her lowly dwelling
                  bright visions of heaven stole in to gladden her, while her soul in its humble
                  love traversed back and forth with angel messengers. May had not seen her for some
                  days, and now went to take her money to pay the rent of her poor cottage, and
                  purchase a supply of provisions. Mrs. Tabb had disposed of her fancy knitting, and
                  sent her son early that morning with the proceeds, some six or seven dollars, to
                  May. Rejoicing in the power to do good, and leaving all her vexations and trials
                  at home, she sought old Mabel's lowly dwelling, to impart and receive
                  consolation.
               "That's Miss May! Here, Nellie, fetch that stool over thar for Miss May,"
                  exclaimed the old woman, as soon as the door opened. "How is you, honey?"
               "I am quite well, Aunt Mabel. I think you are looking better," replied May,
                  sitting down beside her.
               "Oh, honey, it's blessed times with me now. I bin blind all my life; I never see
                  nuffin till now. Ah, honey, that good priest you send me aint like the buckra
                  parsons I used to know. He aint too proud to sit down by a poor
                  nigger, an' take her lame hand in his'n, and rub it with some sort of liniment he
                  fotch. And thar's a bottle of wine he left 'cause the doctor said I must have
                  some. He don't stand off as if he was afeard I would pizen him, and
                  fling the gospel at me like stingy people throws bones to dogs. He make me
                     feel that I'm a child of God as well as white folks, by
                     treating me like one, honey."
               "I'm very glad, Aunt Mabel, that you are comforted by Father Fabian's visits,"
                  said May, smiling at her unsophisticated statement.
               "Yes, he comforts me mightily, Miss
                  May; and he talk so simple and beautiful, that I understand every word he
                  says."
               "What does Father Fabian tell you, Aunt Mabel?"
               "He read one thing to me out of my ole Bible thar. You know I can't read myself,
                  Miss May, but I keep it' cause it belonged to my missis. He ask me if 'I ever been
                  baptized?' I told him, 'No, sir.' Then he ask me how I knew, and I tell him that
                  too. Then he read what Jesus Christ said, 'Unless you be born again, of water and
                  the Holy Ghost, you shall not enter the kingdom of heaven;' and, honey, it was
                  enough for me to know he said it. And then he told me about the power our Lord
                  left with his Church to forgive sins, and I didn't dar doubt it, 'cause who can be
                  so presumptuous as to contradict Jesus Christ when he lays down the way and the
                  truth? But oh, Miss May, when the day comes for me to receive in my ole heart the
                  dear Lord hisself—my poor ole tired, aching heart—then I lived long enough, 'cause
                  the glory of God will be with me."
               "It will be a most happy day, Aunt Mabel," said May, dashing a tear from her
                  cheek. "Now tell me something about our Immaculate Mother. Do you ever think of
                  her?"
               "Oh, Miss May! how can I think of Jesus Christ—how can I love him,
                  without thinking of, and loving her? If I go down to the manger, thar she is,
                  watching over him, or holding him on her bosom; if I go through Salem's marble
                  city, honey, thar she is, close by her divine Son; if I go to Calvary, what do I
                  see?" said old Mabel, lifting her shrivelled hand, and dim eyes to heaven, while
                  tears flowed over her swarthy cheeks; "I see the Son of God, and the Son of
                  Mary—Jesus Christ, hanging on the rough wood; his head, his hands, his feet, his
                  side, dropping blood from the torn flesh. I see him dying for me; and down at his
                  feet, his mother suffering fering with
                  him. Ah, honey, it was a heavy burden she bore that dark day! The suffering of her
                  son—her own pangs—the sins of the world, for which botn suffered, as it 'pears to
                  me, was too much for one human heart. Oh, don't any body talk to me 'bout not
                  loving the Blessed Virgin! With one breath, I say, 'Have mercy on me, sweet
                  Jesus!' with the other, I say, 'Pray for me, Virgin Mother, without sin!' It's the
                  last thing I say at night, and the first I say in the morning."
               "But you don't worship the Blessed Virgin, Aunt Mabel?" said May, with a
                  smile.
               "Worship her, honey? No! but God honored and loved her. SHE was the mother of the
                  dear Jesus; the 'mount of her sufferings was for him and us, and I
                  love her—I honor her, and I go to her like a little child, and ask
                  her to pray for me, and ask Him, who never refused her any thing, for
                  what I want"
               "She is a tender friend—the refuge of sinners—the health of the weak—the help of
                  Christians!" said May, astonished at old Mabel's language; "and I am glad you have
                  recourse to her. She will lead you along until all is well with you. Shall I read
                  to you now? Father Fabian requested me to read over the catechism to you. To-day I
                  will read the instructions on Confession and Baptism."
               "I can't hear too much, Miss May," said the old woman, leaning forward to listen,
                  with an eager and anxious expression. May read, and explained, until she heard the
                  cathedral bell toll the Angelus. It was time for her to go; so kneeling down, she
                  said with heartfelt devotion the beautiful prayer, which celebrates so worthily
                  and continually the wondrous mystery of the Incarnation. After which she left her
                  purse with old Mabel, containing the amount of her rent, which would be due the
                  next day, and promising to send her
                  tea, sugar, and other necessaries, called little Nellie in, and telling her to sit
                  with her grandmother, hurried away with a lighter heart than when she came out.
                  She made her purchases on her way home, and left directions where they were to be
                  sent. After assuring herself that there would be no mistake, and obtaining a
                  promise from the clerk who weighed the groceries that they should be delivered in
                  the course of an hour, she proceeded homewards. She found Helen haughty and
                  silent, evidently determined to avoid all conversation on the event of the
                  morning. Two or three times May endeavored to expostulate with her, but found
                  herself rudely repulsed.
               That night, when Mr. Stillinghast came in, Helen officiously placed his chair in
                  its usual corner, and handed him his slippers. May made two or three observations
                  to him in her own cheerful way, but he barely replied, and desired her not to
                  interrupt him again. Her heart swelled, and her cheeks flushed, but she remembered
                  the aim of her life, and was silent.
               "Do you play on the piano?" said Mr. Stillinghast, abruptly, to Helen.
               "No, sir; I play on the harp," she replied, amazed.
               "Do you play well?"
               "My master thought so, sir."
               "I will order one for you to-morrow. I expect company to tea to-morrow evening, so
                  put on any fandangos you have got."
               "Yes, sir," she replied, while her face sparkled with delight; "I can never thank
                  you, sir."
               "I don't want you to, so be quiet, and do as I bid you," he replied, roughly.
               "Poor Helen!" thought May; "poor—poor Helen! 'they seek after her soul,' and she,
                  oh, weak one! how will she resist without the sacraments?"
               After Mr. Stillinghast retired, and they were left alone, Helen again opened a
                  French novel to resume her reading, without out exchanging a word with her cousin. Thoughts and
                  emotions were flooding May's soul with impulses she dared not resist. She must
                  warn her. She must stretch out her arm, weak though it was, to save her.
               "Helen! dear Helen, listen to me!" she said, kneeling before her, and throwing an
                  arm around her neck, while she laid her hand on her cousin's. Helen, astonished,
                  dropped her book, and remained passive, while May besought her by her hopes of
                  heaven to accompany her the next morning to confession, or go alone, as both could
                  not leave home together; then set before her in eloquent and soul-touching
                  language the peril into which her prevarications were leading her.
               "You are mad, May—decidedly mad; I intend to better my condition if I can, and be
                  a Catholic too. I am only conciliating this crusty old wretch, who has us both in
                  his power; then, you know, we may bring him around after a while," she said,
                  carelessly.
               "Oh, Helen! we cannot serve two masters, even for a season; nor can
                  we handle pitch without becoming defiled. Believe me, this kind of conciliation,
                  as it is called, is fraught with evil," said May, earnestly.
               "You are right about the pitch, May. He is truly as disagreeable as pitch; but,
                  indeed, I will endeavor to handle him with gloves on!" said Helen, laughing; "and
                  I won't go to confession until I am ready."
               "I alluded to my uncle's opinions and principles, for, Helen, he is an
                  unbeliever!" said May, sighing, as she turned away to go up to bed.
               "Don't make any more scenes, little dear; really, you startle one almost into
                  spasms!" continued the heartless and beautiful one. "I have a very strong, high spirit, and a will;
                  no iron or rock is harder."
               "Be warned, Helen! I have a will, too, and shall not cease to admonish you—to warn
                  you—to pray for you, until life ceases."
               "Pshaw! you are a fanatic. Good night, my dear."
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               TRIALS.
               WHEN May awoke the next morning at her usual hour, she discovered, to her great
                  surprise, that Helen was up and dressed; but how occupied she could not conceive,
                  until rising, she saw her sitting beside her open trunk, with a lighted candle on
                  a chair near her, looking over various ornaments and articles of dress which it
                  contained. With a small hand-glass she tried the effect of jet and pearls in her
                  ears; of black velvet, or satin rosettes, in her soft, wavy brown hair; of white
                  crape and illusion on her throat and wrists—glancing all the time with an
                  expression of pleased triumph at the
                  reflection of her faultlessly beautiful face.
               "Thank God, I am not beautiful," thought May, without a dash of envy.
                  "I might—yes, I am so weak—I might worship myself instead of God." But she said
                  nothing, and performed her morning devotions, and made her meditations, as usual;
                  then dressed quickly and neatly, and asked Helen if she was ready to go down.
               "I declare, May, you are a perfect little mouse. I did not know you were up. Yes;
                  I am ready now. I had quite forgotten that it was my morning to make break fast,"
                  she replied, returning the things to the trunk without the least possible
                  hurry.
               "If you have any thing else to do, dear Helen; I mean—if—you have not said your
                  prayers yet, I will go down and get things in train for you," said May,
                  timidly.
               "Thank you, May, but I keep my own conscience. I have no time for my prayers
                  now—after breakfast will do," she replied, carelessly.
               "Dear Helen, consider—"
               "Dear May, I won't consider," she interrupted her, "for I am in such
                  a ferment of delight, what with the idea of company, and having a harp once more,
                  I am really half wild, and could not pray for the life of me—at least, as people
                     ought to pray. Oh, what different times we shall have! Really,
                  May, I have an idea that I shall have our old savage dancing the Tarantula before
                  to-morrow night," she exclaimed, almost shrieking with laughter.
               "Helen," began May, but checked herself, and burst into tears, which she
                  endeavored to conceal—such tears as angels shed over the derelictions of the souls
                  they are appointed to guard. Helen did not observe them; giddy and selfish, she
                  derived amusement from that which was luring her soul further away from God; and,
                  while May wept over her peril, she
                  thought only of the transient and fleeting enjoyments of the present. Gayly
                  humming the Tarantula, she ran down to the kitchen, where she got
                  breakfast, or, rather, claimed the reputation of getting it, by assisting May, who
                  was really the practical cause of its being made at all tolerably.
               "What sort of gimcracks must one have for supper? I have invited a friend, with
                  whom I have business relations of some importance, to tea, and wish to know what
                  is usual," said Mr. Stillinghast, addressing Helen, after breakfast.
               "I don't know, sir," she said, looking down, with the half-frightened expression
                  her face always wore when he addressed her; "people generally have cake, and other
                  nice things."
               "Very well, make a supper to suit yourself," said Mr. Stillinghast, tossing her a
                  five dollar note.
               "We ought to have silver forks, sir," she suggested.
               "Silver devils! well, wait—" He went up to his chamber, and returned with a
                  package, which he laid carefully on the table, saying, "There they are—be careful
                  with them," and went out without noticing May even by a look, who felt the neglect
                  more keenly than any trial he had ever caused her. To find that Helen, who hated
                  as much as she feared him—whose life was so aimless and useless—preferred before
                  her, caused sharp and bitter emotions. The flagrant injustice of his treatment
                  galled, as much as his unmerited contempt humiliated her. For a little while her
                  feelings bore her along on their rough but silent torrent, while the hot winds of
                  evil heated her veins with fire, and caused a hot flush to burn on either cheek.
                  Ho! how exulted the tempter now; he had long laid in wait for her soul, and now,
                  while it oscillated and wavered, how
                  triumphant he was; how defiantly he lifted his lurid brow towards the Almighty,
                  while he spread out the snare for that tempted, trembling one! but let us
                  listen—for angels guard her, and watch, with sorrowful eyes, the dread conflict,
                  while they pray for heavenly strength to sustain her—let us listen to the words
                  which go up from that heart, so stilly and whispered that they scarcely reach our
                  ears, while in Heaven they ring out clear, and sweet, and sorrowful,—"Sweet Jesus!
                  merciful Jesus! suffering, calumniated dying Jesus, pity me—rescue me," she
                  murmured, folding her cold hands together. Far away fled the powers of darkness,
                  and left only the sweetness and peace of that potent deliverer, JESUS, in her
                  soul. Once more the angels of her life looked up rejoicing, and spread their wings
                  of light about her way. Without, there had been an exterior calm; but
                  it was like that gray, sad stillness ness, which mantles the storm. Now there was
                  sunshine as well as calm.
               "What shall I do, May?" said Helen, who had been reading the paper.
               "We must try and make a nice supper, as my uncle wishes, Helen. I will make
                  waffles and tea-biscuit, if you wish it, and we can order cake from Delaro's. I
                  think this, with chipped ham, tea, and coffee, will be sufficient."
               "Thank you, May. I am so ignorant; if you will only do it all for me, I shall be
                  so obliged to you. You know I shall have to dress, and it takes me so long to
                  arrange my hair gracefully. I wish, sometimes, that I had none—it is so
                  troublesome," said the selfish girl.
               "Yes," said May, after a little while, "I will attend to it. My dress is such an
                  every day affair, that I shall be able to have every thing ready, to take the head
                  of the table in time."
               "The head of the table! I rather expect
                  Mr. Stillinghast intends me to preside."
               "Possibly. If my uncle wishes it, Helen, I will certainly resign it to you; but,
                  as I have always sat there, I shall continue to do so until he requests me to do
                  otherwise," said May, with becoming firmness.
               "Oh, of course! It is quite indifferent to me, my dear;—but what have we here?"
                  said Helen, taking up the bundle which Mr. Stillinghast had laid on the table.
                  "See, May, what splendidly chased silver forks! How heavy they are; and see! here
                  is a crest on them."
               "They are very old, I presume," said May, examining them with interest.
               "As old as the hills! Where on earth has the old curmudgeen kept them all this
                  time?" exclaimed Helen. "Do you think he brought, or inherited them?"
               "Inherited them, doubtless. My mother had the same crest on her silver. Our
                  grandfather was an Englishman of good lineage; but see, Helen, they require a good
                  cleansing and rubbing. I will go to mass now, after which I will attend to your
                  commissions. While I am out, you had better get down the old china, which you will
                  find on that closet shelf, with some cut glass goblets. You can wash them up with
                  the breakfast things; or, if you would rather wait until I return, I will assist
                  you," said May.
               "Oh, no! I like such work; but, May, could we not hunt up your old maummy, if she
                  is not too old, to come and wait?" asked Helen.
               "She died two years ago, Helen," said May, turning away her head with a quivering
                  lip.
               "How unfortunate! But, May, have you any fine table linen?"
               "Yes; a number of fine damask table-cloths."
               "And napkins?"
               
               "None."
               "Thank fortune, I have some four dozen East India napkins; they will look quite
                  splendid on the table this evening. But hurry on, May, I wish to clear up, to make
                  room for my harp; I expect it every moment."
               That evening, if Mr. Stillinghast had looked around him, he would scarcely have
                  recognised the sitting-room as the one he had left in the morning. The round
                  table, just large enough to seat four comfortably, was elegantly spread with fine
                  white damask, and crimson and gold china, of an antique and elegant pattern;
                  sparkling cut glass, and silver. Two wax candles burned in the old-fashioned
                  silver candelabras in the centre, on each side of which stood two
                  clusters of geranium leaves and winter roses, arranged in small rich vases. The
                  grate looked resplendent, and a harp, of a magnificent pattern, heavily carved and
                  gilded, stood in a conspicuous place. Helen looked exquisitely lovely. Her dress
                  was the perfection of good taste, and well did its elaborate simplicity suit her
                  style of beauty. A single white rose, and a few geranium leaves in her hair, with
                  a pearl and jet brooch, which fastened the velvet around her throat, were the only
                  ornaments she wore. But Mr. Stillinghast came in growling and lowering as usual,
                  and without noticing any one, or any thing, threw himself in his arm-chair, which
                  May had taken care should be in its place; drew off his boots, and replaced them
                  with the soft warm slippers she had worked for him some months before; then called
                  for the evening paper, and was soon immersed in the news from Europe, and the rise
                  and fall of stocks. About a quarter of an hour afterwards the front door-bell
                  rung, and May, who happened to be in the hall, went to admit the visitor, who was
                  no other than Mr. Jerrold. He bowed courteously, and "presumed he had the pleasure of speaking to Miss
                  Stillinghast?"
               "My name is May Brooke," said May, with one of her clear smiles.
               "And mine is Jerrold—Walter Jerrold; not so harmonious as yours, certainly!" he
                  replied, throwing off the large Spanish cloak which was folded gracefully around
                  him.
               "Life would be a sad monotone if every thing in creation resembled each other;
                  there would be no harmony. But walk in, Mr. Jerrold, my uncle expects you," said
                  May, throwing open the door.
               "How are you, sir?" said Mr. Stillinghast, turning his head, but not rising. "My
                  niece, Helen Stillinghast. Take a chair." He did not introduce May, or notice her,
                  except by a frown. Feeling the tears rush to her eyes at this new mark of her
                  uncle's displeasure, she flitted back to the kitchen, and commenced operations
                  with her waffle irons. While engaged with her domestic preparations, she heard the
                  gay, manly voice of Mr. Jerrold, in an animated conversation with Helen, who now,
                  in her right element, laughed and talked incessantly. Again welled up the bitter
                  fountain in her heart, but that talismanic word dispersed it, and it was gone,
                  like spray melting on the sunny shores of the sea. When she placed the supper on
                  the table, she moved around with such calm self-possession—such an airy, light
                  motion of modest grace, that Walter Jerrold, who had seen much of the world, and
                  lived in the best company, was struck by the anomaly which combined so much real
                  grace with what, he considered, domestic drudgery. And May's appearance justified
                  his remarks. A dark, rich merino dress; a small, finely embroidered collar, with
                  cuffs of the same; a breast-knot of crimson and black ribbon; and her waving,
                  glossy hair, falling in broad bands on her fair cheeks, and gathered up at the
                  back of her head beneath a jet comb,
                  completed her attire. It was her usual holiday dress, and did not embarrass her.
                  Her eyes looked larger, brighter, and darker than usual, and a faint tinge of rose
                  stole through the transparent fairness of her cheeks. But, with all, May was no
                  beauty in the ordinary acceptance of the term. She was one of those rare mortals
                  who steal into the soul like a pleasant, beneficent idea, and satisfy its longings
                  with something calmer and holier than mere worldly friendship; for there was that
                  within May's soul—the hidden mystery of faith and religion—which, like a lamp in a
                  vase of alabaster, shone out from her countenance with an influence which none
                  could withstand; it won—it led—it blessed those who yielded to its power. She
                  presided at the head of the table that evening with quiet grace, and attempted
                  once or twice to converse with her uncle, but his looks and replies were so harsh
                  that she turned to Helen and Mr. Jerrold, and in a short time found herself amused
                  at his persiflage and Helen's repartees.
               "I have writing to do, Jerrold," said Mr. Stillinghast, after tea; "and if you
                  will excuse me, I will go up to my room. You can drop in, and look over those
                  papers before you go. However, stay as late as it is agreeable for you to do so."
                  Walter Jerrold understood him. Already captivated by Helen's beauty and
                  worldliness, his decision was made.
               Very soon was heard through the silent mansion strains of music, which startled
                  the echoes in its silent and deserted rooms, accompanied by a voice of such
                  thrilling sweetness and volume of tone, that the solitary old man, in his cold and
                  cheerless apartment, threw down his pen, and sprung to his feet, to listen. It was
                  Helen singing wild cavatinas from Norma, and solos from Der Freischutz, and looking so splendidly beautiful
                  the while, that Walter Jerrold thought
                  with pride and exultation of introducing so much loveliness to the world as his
                  bride. May was silent, and wondered at it all, and felt, rather than
                  reasoned, that somehow Helen was bartering away her eternal interests for gain,
                  and that these scenes were integral parts of the ruinous scheme.
               So she was not much surprised when Mr. Jerrold, on taking leave, asked permission
                  to call the next day with his mother; to which Helen assented graciously, and May
                  having no decided reason to do otherwise, said, "they would be pleased to see Mrs.
                  Jerrold."
               "Where shall I find Mr. Stillinghast, Miss Brooke?"
               "In the room, sir, just at the head of the staircase. It is the first door, a
                  little to the left."
               "Thank you. Good night, again, fair ladies," he said, bounding up the steps.
               "Come in," said the voice of Mr. Stillinghast linghast, in answer to his low
                  tapping. "Aha! well?"
               "Have you the necessary papers ready, sir?" inquired the young man, eagerly.
               "Here they are. Are you ready to sign them?"
               "This moment, sir. Give me the pen."
               "No, sir; read them first. Ill have no such head-over-heels doings in any
                  transactions in which I am concerned. Here they are!" said Mr. Stillinghast, in
                  his saturnine, rough way.
               Walter Jerrold read the papers, which were worded according to the strictest legal
                  forms, slowly and attentively, and felt more than satisfied.
               "All right, Mr. Stillinghast. 'Faith, sir, your niece requires no golden chains to
                  her chariot. She is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld—accomplished, and
                  elegant in form and manners. Give me the pen!" he said earnestly, as he spread out
                     the parchment, and prepared to sign
                  his name thereto.
               "Clouds are beautiful with the sunshine on them," said the old man, with a sneer;
                  "so is a mirage in the desert; so are the apples on the shores of the Dead Sea.
                  But she is yours. You'll find no trouble in winning her, even at the sacrifice of
                  her creed. She is of the earth earthy, and will willingly escape from such a
                  miserable home as this."
               "Mr. Stillinghast, I do not wish to feel that this is quite a barter.
                  Your niece would grace a throne, and I am vain enough to think that I have
                  qualities which may win her regard."
               "Bosh! Fool! All mankind are fools! But leave me—good night. Make your
                  arrangements to move to my counting-house to-morrow."
               "My fortune is made. The 'Cedars' will not pass into other hands," thought Walter
                  Jerrold, as he left the house.
               The next day May went to see old Mabel, who was quite sick; and while she was
                  gone; Mrs. Jerrold called with her son. The proud, worldly woman, was enchanted
                  with the elegance and beauty of Helen, and ere she left her, had engaged her in a
                  round of engagements; soirees—the opera, and
                  dinner parties, rung like music in Helen's ears, who half wild with joy could
                  scarcely repress her emotions from breaking out in some ill-bred expressions of
                  delight. Without a moment's reflection, she consented to attend St. Paul's Church
                  the next Sunday morning, at eleven o'clock, and hear the well-meaning Protestant
                  clergyman who officiated there. "You will see the best people in town there; it is
                  considered one of the most elegant congregations in the city." By the
                     best people, Mrs. Jerrold meant the leaders of the ton, and had
                  not the remotest idea that she was holding out a false inducement, or saying any thing at all incompatible
                  with the spirit of Christianity.
               "I will call for you in my carriage, Miss Stillinghast, with Walter," continued
                  the lady, touching Helen's cheek with her lips
               And after this Helen's quite withdrew herself from the domestic cares of the house
                  to attend exclusively to her toilette—her music—her walks and drives with Jerrold,
                  and visits to his mother. Mr. Stillinghast seemed not to observe what was going
                  on, and May, anxious to shield her from his displeasure, which she supposed would
                  be excited by this neglect, went on in her old routine, as if nothing had ever
                  occurred to interrupt it. Thus weeks rolled by, and Helen was the affianced wife
                  of Walter Jerrold; forgetful of the demands of religion, and turning a deaf ear to
                  the whispers of conscience, and a cold, proud eye on the practical works of faith;
                  and scornfully hushing May's expostulations, she thought only of the realization
                  of her am bitious and worldly dreams, and plunged into the gayeties of life with a
                  zest worthy of a better cause.
               May, all this time, was cheerfully climbing step by step; sometimes
                  fainting—sometimes stumbling—sometimes falling, but ever rising with renewed
                  strength up the steep and narrow way of Calvary. Her uncle's distrustful
                  manner—his harsh language—his angry looks, with Helen's apparent apostasy, and
                  haughty demeanor, were trials which required the constant replenishing of grace in
                  her soul, to bear with patience. But Father Fabian bid her to be of good cheer;
                  the divine sacraments of the Church strengthened and consoled her by their sweet
                  and mighty power; and like waters returning cool and purified to their source, or
                  dews gently falling to the earth from which they had risen, in blessing and
                  refreshment, her daily visits to old Mabel so full of charity and good will, filled her with indescribable
                  happiness.
               Mrs. Jerrold insisted on furnishing Helen's trousseau, while she was occupied every day in selecting expensive
                  furniture for a house her uncle had settled on her, with permission to furnish it
                  without regard to cost, on condition that she was married by a Protestant
                  minister. She was telling May, with great glee and pride, about her purchases,
                  when she suddenly paused, and exclaimed.
               "You need not look so grave, May. I presume my marriage will be as legal and
                  respectable as if the ceremony was performed by a priest."
               "As legal as any other civil rite But, Helen, you know that the Church
                  acknowledges no such marriages amongst her children. Her precepts teach that
                  marriage, to be legal, must also be sacramental. It is a sacrament;
                  one which is held in high esteem and respect by the Church, and no Catholic can
                  contract it otherwise, without censure. In case you persist, your marriage will
                  not be recognized by the Church as valid, or your offspring legitimate."
               "I shall have a great many to keep me in countenance," replied Helen, coldly. "I
                  have no idea of submitting to every thing; Jerrold would not, I am sure, consent
                  to being married by a Catholic priest, and I do not intend to thwart him, as I
                  consider it a matter of very little importance.
               "Helen, listen to me. You must listen to me. It shall be the last time, if you
                  will only be patient. There is an hour coming, if you persist in your present
                  course, when you will wish you had never been born; an hour when all human aid
                  must fail, and all human interests and splendor drop away from you like rotten
                  rags; when your soul, affrighted and shrinking, will go forth, obeying the
                     inexorable orable laws of the
                  Creator, to meet its Almighty Judge. When the shadows will fall darkly around your
                  way, Helen, and phantoms of darkness lie in wait, until the irrevocable sentence
                  is spoken, which will consign you to utter woe; when, stripped of all, you will
                  stand shivering and alone before an awful tribunal, to give evidence
                  against yourself. Oh, Helen! dear Helen! how will it be
                  with you then? how will you escape, oh faithless daughter of the
                  Church!"
               "May!" cried Helen, while her face grew deadly white, and she grasped her cousin's
                  arm; "hush! how dare you speak thus to me? It is cruel! Henceforth
                  utter no such language to me while we both live. If I am on the brink of
                  perdition, I alone am responsible for my acts—not you."
               "I will try to obey you, Helen, so far; but I will pray for you—I
                     will do penance for you—I will offer frequent
                  communions for you—I will intercede with our tender and Immaculate
                  Mother for you. I will fly to Calvary, and at the foot of the cross beseech our
                  suffering Jesus, by his bitter passion and death, to have mercy on you. You cannot
                  stop me—you cannot hinder me in this, for, oh Helen! it is an awful thing to see a
                  soul tearing off its baptismal robe, trampling underfoot the seals of the Church,
                  and rushing away from her fold of safety to eternal—eternal woe!" cried May,
                  wringing her hands, while big tears rolled over her face.
               Helen turned away to brush off a single tear that moistened her eyes, but through
                  it she saw the glitter of a diamond bracelet, which Walter Jerrold had just sent
                  her, with a bouquet of hot-house flowers—all rare and costly, and the poor tear
                  was dashed off with impatience, and a haughty curl of the lip.
               "You act finely, May; but, drop all this, and tell me what you will wear at my
                     bridal dal," said Helen, clasping
                  the bracelet on her arm, to try its effect.
               "I shall not be there, Helen. I cannot even wish you joy, for there can no joy
                  ever come in disobeying the Church, whose voice is the voice of God himself."
               "As you please," she replied, coldly; "but croak no more to-night. You are like a
                  bird of ill-omen to me."
               May sighed, and retired to her oratory, to say her night prayers.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE WARNING.
               ONE morning Mr. Stillinghast was sitting alone in his counting-room, when Michael,
                  the porter, came in, and informed him that a man wished to speak to him.
               "Tell him to come in," he replied, moodily.
               "Here he is, sir," said Michael, returning in a few minutes with a man, who had a
                  saw slung over his arm.
               "What is your business with me?" said Mr. Stillinghast.
               "And didn't your honor sind afther me?"
               
               "I never heard of you in my life before," he stormed.
               "And then, sir, you may blame the ommadauns that
                  sent me; for, by this and by that, they tould me at the wood-yard, foreninst, that
                  your honor was inquiring for me," replied the man, slinging his saw up over his
                  shoulder.
               "At the wood-yard? I remember; but it is too late, now—it makes no difference,"
                  said Mr. Stillinghast, speaking slowly, and frowning.
               "I'd have come before, only the day afther the young lady took me to saw wood for
                  the ould nagur, I got the pleurisy, and didn't lave my bed these five weeks," said
                  the man, lingering about the door.
               "Come in here, and close the door," said Mr. Stillinghast, while his stern,
                  forbidding countenance wore a strange look of anxiety; "do you remember the young
                  lady; and can you direct me to the place where you sawed the wood?"
               "Oh, yes, your honor. I shall never forget her to my dying day. She was a little,
                  bright-eyed lady, with the smile of an angel on her, by dad!"
               "May," muttered the old man, "there is only one May. But I have a reason," he
                  said, turning to the man, "for wishing to see this old woman; can you conduct me
                  to the place?"
               "I'm at your service intirely, sir. It's a good stretch, though," said the man,
                  who looked weak from his recent illness.
               "Is it near an omnibus route?"
               "Yes, your honor, it is close by where they stop. You'll not have to walk
                  far."
               "Leave your saw here, then, and let us go. I have no time to spare on walks," said
                  Mr. Stillinghast, in his peremptory way. His real object, however, was not so much
                  to save time, as to afford the man an opportunity to avoid a long and fatiguing
                  walk. "Tell Mr. Jerrold I will be back
                  in the course of an hour," he said to Michael, as he passed out.
               "Very well," replied Michael, heaving, with Titan strength, a bale on the truck;
                  'and there goes a pair of 'em. My boss can afford to walk with a poor wood-sawyer;
                  he looks like one hisself, and it's hard to tell 'tother from which;" and he
                  planted his brawny hands on his thighs, and looked after them, with a broad smile
                  on his honest countenance, until they got into the omnibus, and were whirled out
                  of sight. At the depôt, which is in the northern
                  part of the city, they got out, and the two men pursued their way in silence. It
                  was one of those cold, but calm, bright days in winter, when the very air seems
                  filled with silent ripples of gladness; when the sunshine rests like a glory on
                  the leafless trees, and bright-eyed robins chirp and peck the moss, as they hop
                  from bough to bough; when the light of heaven is so over all, that even the dun
                  colored earth, the decayed leaves and rotten branches, which the autumn blast has
                  laid low, look beautiful, and seem to whisper resurgam; when a cold, bracing wind sends the warm blood bounding
                  through our hearts—tinting our cheeks, and warming our extremities, until we bless
                  it, as we do the strong hand which leads us in childhood; and we listen, with
                  docile tenderness, to its teachings, for it tells with pathos, of suffering in the
                  hovels of the poor, and want, and poverty, and bids us thither like a winged
                  angel. Down, beneath the rustic bridge, boys were shouting and skating on the
                  frozen stream, their laughter echoing like music through the old woods; anon, the
                  sharp crack of a rifle, or the distant barking of dogs, rung on the still air,
                  while the bells of the city, and the hum rising up from its crowded streets,
                  blending with the clear echoes, made a concert of merry and harmonious sounds. Mr.
                  Stillinghast paused on a knoll, and
                  looked around him. There lay the rolling country, with its undulations of hill and
                  vale, all interspersed, and adorned with picturesque cottages and elegant villas.
                  Towards the east, up rose the splendid city, with up-hill and downhill streets;
                  its marble monuments, commemorative of great men and great deeds; its magnificent
                  domes, raised in honor of the Most High God; its lofty towers, its princely
                  mansions: while far beyond, stretching to the verge of the horizon, slumbered the
                  quiet and beautiful bay, sparkling like a sea of ultramarine and diamonds, over whose waters hundreds of sails were
                  hovering like white sea-fowl.
               Towards the north-western boundary of the city, he saw the dark, massive
                  founderies and manufactories, which, from their palatial-looking walls, sent out
                  the never-ceasing clang of labor, and the tireless song of steam, to which
                  thousands of stout arms and brawny sinews kept time. And far beyond these, out on
                  the quiet hills, the scene terminated in a Marble City,*
                   where, beneath trees of centuries growth, its inhabitants slumber silently
                  through the long, cold night of death, until the revivifying beams of the
                  resurrection-day shall dawn on the earth-mantle that wraps their clay. But over
                  all shone the glad beauty of the day. It poured down its effulgence alike on the
                  city of the dead and the city of the living! Mr. Stillinghast had not looked on
                  the like for years, long, dusty, dreary years; and he felt a tingling at his
                  heart—a presence of banished memories, an expansion of soul, which softened and
                  silenced him, while gradually it lifted from his countenance the harsh, ugly mask
                  he usually wore.
               
                  
                  *Greenmount Cemetery.
               
               "Here we are," said the man, pointing to old Mabel's cottage; "this is the
                  place."
               Then it occurred to Mr. Stillinghast, for the first time, that he had come there
                     without out any particular object in
                  view—he had obeyed an impulse which he did not pause to analyze, and now, somewhat
                  embarrassed he stood still, uncertain what to do.
               "You may return," he said to the man, to whom he gave a dollar; "this will pay you
                  for the time you have lost." The man thanked him, and went his way, rejoicing in
                  the reward of such pleasant and easy labor.
               "Why not go in?" he murmured, "I am here on a fool's errand after all. But why not
                  enter? If this old beggar is so destitute, I can leave her something to buy a
                  loaf; but what business is it of mine? A plague on it all! What do, I
                     here—why are you here, Mark Stillinghast?" Then he opened the door
                  very softly, and, as he did so, he heard these words repeated in a clear, sweet
                     voice,—"For what shall it profit a man, if he gains the whole world, and
                     lose his own soul!" then he saw May seated beside the old negro, reading
                  from some pious, instructive book, of Christian doctrine. And those words came
                  ringing down into his soul like the blast of ten thousand trumpets! He staggered
                  back; his old, withered cheek, grew pallid, and he turned away and fled—but they
                  pursued him. "Profit—gain—loss. Profit—gain—loss. Profit—gain—loss. I understand
                  them!" he gasped. "I have heaped up gains; of earthly profit I have
                  my share; and now, at the eleventh hour, it is summed up, and what is it—yes, what
                  is it? IT IS LOSS. For all that is mortal, I have toiled my best hours away; for
                  all that is immortal, not one hour have I spared. It is
                  loss—loss—eternal loss." And so he went on muttering—back to his den in the city,
                  where the leaden waves of business again came surging, breast high, around him;
                  but, through the dull, heavy sounds, the warning still rung, like distant knells,
                  through his soul.
               On his homeward way that night, the
                  farther he receded from the noise of the city, the more distinctly it sounded,
                  with its requiem wail, through the dreary chambers of his heart; and, somehow, he
                  suddenly remembered, as he paused to rest, that it was on this very spot that he
                  had been Father Fabian administering the last rites of the church to a dying
                  penitent; and he trembled, and hurried on, until he came to his own door. May was
                  sitting up alone for him; and when she opened the door, and the rays from the hall
                  lamp fell on his features, she saw that he looked ill and weary.
               "Let me assist you, dear uncle," said May, taking his hat, and returning to help
                  him to draw off his coat. "I fear you are not well."
               "It is very cold," he replied, shivering, and yielding to her wishes.
               "You will soon feel better, sir; see what a nice fire here is—and I have a
                  piping-hot cup of tea and hot muffins, for your supper."
               "May Brooke," said the strange old man, while he laid his cold, heavy hand on her
                  shoulder, "stop; answer the questions I shall ask you, truly and honestly."
               "I will endeavor to do so, sir," replied May, lifting her clear, bright eyes to
                  his.
               "You can, and must. What object have you in providing for that old
                  negro woman, on the outskirts of the city?"
               "I pity her, sir, because she is poor and helpless; and do it, I hope, for the
                  love of God," she said, amazed, but quiet.
               "Very well. And now, for the love of God, answer this," he said, with
                  anxiety; "tell me how you provide for her—how you get
                  means to buy wood and necessaries?"
               "Dear uncle, I am sorry you have found it out. I do not like to speak of
                  it—indeed, I would prefer not—it seems—so—yes—it seems like boasting, or talking
                  too much about myself," said May, while
                  her cheeks flushed crimson.
               "Go on; I will know!" he said, harshly.
               "Yes, sir. I earn a trifle every two or three weeks by knitting fancy articles,
                  which Mrs. Tabb, on C—— street, disposes of for me—"
               "And then—"
               "And then, sir, I take care of old Mabel with the proceeds; but please, dear, dear
                  uncle, do not forbid me to continue doing so; pray allow me the privilege of
                  earning a trifle for her benefit while she lives; and then, sir,
                     never—never speak of it to me or any one else, after this," she
                  implored.
               "I shall not hinder you, child," said Mr. Stillinghast, repressing a groan of
                  anguish which struggled up from his heart. They went together into the
                  sitting-room; and May spread his supper before him, but he only drank his tea, and
                  pushing his plate away, came and sat in his arm-chair beside the fire.
               "You have taken nothing, sir; pray try and eat this, it is very nice."
               "I have such an infernal singing in my ears, that I cannot eat. I can hardly see.
                  Ding, dong—ding, dong. Great Lord! if this should be eternal!" he exclaimed,
                  forgetting the presence of May.
               "You are not well, sir. Sit here near the fire; put your feet upon this cushion,
                  so that the soles will be towards the fire, and while you smoke, I will read the
                  paper to you," said May.
               "For what?" he asked, turning his fierce, gray eyes upon her.
               "Because you are not well, sir," she said, looking calmly into them.
               "Do you know that I have made my will,—cut you off with a few paltry dollars, not
                  enough to feed you, and left that Helen—that trifler—that waif, a princely
                  fortune?" he asked, savagely.
               
               "You have a right, sir, to do as you please with your own. You have sheltered,
                  schooled, and fed me—I have no right to expect more," she said, gently.
               "And if I should be sick—die—what then?" he asked, impatiently.
               "Dear uncle, you alarm me. Do you feel ill? If so, oh, dearest uncle, attend first
                  of all to your eternal concerns—make your peace with God while it is yet day, and
                  enter into that fold whose Shepherd is Jesus Christ; where one Lord, one Faith,
                  one Baptism reign!" exclaimed May, grasping his hand.
               "Be silent, you incorrigible papist; what need is there of flying off at such a
                  tangent?" said Mr. Stillinghast, with a grim smile; "I did not mean
                     that, but what will become of you when I am dead?"
               "I have a head, sir, and hands, and great faith in Him, who has promised to be a
                  father to the orphan. I shall never want. In honest exertion I shall be happy and
                  content," she said, earnestly.
               "And you do not regret or envy the fortune?"
               "Not on my own account, sir."
               "On whose, then?"
               "There are many, sir, who might be benefited by it, if properly applied. I think,
                     now, if I had a fortune, I could do a great deal of good with
                  it."
               "You'd do harm, May Brooke—you'd do harm. You'd squander it—you'd encourage
                  pauperism, and worthlessness, and beggary!" he burst out.
               "I shall never have it to do good or evil with, uncle; but if I had, I would
                     endeavor, for God's sake, to bestow it where it was needed; and
                  because it would be offered for the love of Him, my works would not fall useless
                  or fruitless to the earth. HE would bless and aid me."
               "Profit—gain—loss," again muttered the old man. "But, as you will never inherit a fortune, I suppose your good
                  intentions must suffice."
               "Yes, sir, for the present."
               "And, now that you have nothing to expect from me, of course you will feel quite
                  independent of me and my wishes. If I should be ill, I suppose you'd take off, and
                  leave me to my fate," he said, bitterly.
               "No, sir," she said, calmly; "but words and professions are mere sentences written
                  in sand—the first wave washes them out. I don't want a fortune. I would not have
                  gold, as I live, sir, except as the minister of my good purposes, or the slave on
                  which I could set my heel, unless it served me to lay up treasure in heaven. And
                  should you be ill, dear uncle, I trust you will find no disposition in me to
                  shrink from my duty."
               "There it is again," he murmured, as he got up, and walked to and fro.
                  "Profit—loss—gain. Give me my candle; I must go to bed—I feel very weary and
                  tired."
               "Shall I get any thing for you, sir?"
               "No," he replied.
               "I shall wait for Helen, sir, and if you want any thing, just rap on the floor, or
                  call, and I will come up instantly."
               "Go to bed—go to bed, child," he said, in his old, rough way, as he went out into
                  the hall to go up to his room.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE MIDNIGHT MESSENGER.
               MAY listened, and heard Mr. Stillinghast moving to and fro in his room with slow
                  and regular footsteps for a while, then all was silent, and she supposed he had
                  gone to bed. Still waiting for Helen, she recited the rosary for his conversion.
                  She knew that all things are possible with Almighty God, and that dear to him, and
                  precious in his sight, is the conversion of sinners. She also knew that Jesus
                  Christ ever turns a propitious ear to the intercessions of his Immaculate Mother,
                  and it was with tender confidence, and earnest faith, that she implored her to
                  obtain from her Divine Son the conversion of her uncle. At last a carriage
                  stopped, and May heard Helen's voice at the door conversing gayly with Walter
                  Jerrold. She wrapped her shawl about her, and went out to admit her. She sprang
                  into the hall, singing wild trills from Lucia de Lammermoor, and
                  without stopping, flew to her harp, and ran her fingers over the strings,
                  preluding brilliantly,
               "Oh, May, you should have been there—the most divine opera! Sontag sung like an
                  angel."
               "Dear Helen," said May, interrupting her, and laying her hand on her arm, "don't!
                  you will disturb Uncle Stillinghast; he is not well."
               "You don't say so!" exclaimed Helen, turning her face towards her, while a gleam
                  of almost ferocious pleasure shone in her eyes. "Oh, you don't say so! Is he very
                  sick?"
               "A slight cold, I believe; at any rate,
                  do not let us disturb him," said May, surprised and shocked at her evident
                  pleasure.
               "What nonsense!" cried Helen, laughing hysterically; "he'll live until you and I
                  are both dead, May. He's as tough as gutta percha. But, would it not be a nice
                  thing if he'd pop off suddenly, and leave us his money?"
               "Do not say us, Helen. I expect nothing, and desire nothing. As for
                  you, be satisfied; you are handsomely provided for."
               "I know it; I know it. I have read the will!" exulted Helen.
               "Read the will, Helen! How? When?"
               "Oh, I did not mean that exactly," said Helen, much confused; "you
                  really take me up so quick, that it is terrible. I should have said that Walter
                  told me something of the old man's intentions."
               "May it be blessed to you, Helen, come when it will; but while he
                  lives, let his generous intentions in your favor purchase at least
                  your respect," said May, in a tone of bitter reproof, for at the moment she
                  recollected Helen's threat some weeks before to get into her uncle's chamber, if
                  possible, and she feared that she had accomplished her object at the expense of
                  all that was honorable in feeling, and just in principle.
               "May, you won't say any thing—about—about what I just blundered out concerning
                  the—" said Helen, confused and stammering.
               "No, Helen; I have nothing to say. It was natural, though not delicate, for Mr.
                  Jerrold to impart such information to you. No doubt he thought it would enhance
                  your happiness," said May, settling herself in her uncle's chair.
               "That's a good May. Oh, May, if you were not such a little fanatic how I should
                  love you," said Helen, stooping over to kiss May's forehead; but she put up her
                  hand, and the kiss fell on the tips of her fingers But her very indignation, although just, humbled
                  her, for, with a flash of thought, she was in Gethsemane, and saw the meek and
                  Divine Jesus receive the kiss of Judas. "Why, then," she thought, "should shrink
                  back from one who needs my pity more than my hate?"
               "I shall sit up a little longer, Helen. I feel quite uneasy about Uncle
                  Stillinghast. Good night," she said, holding out her hand to Helen.
               "What a curious little one you are, May," said Helen, holding the tiny hand a
                  moment in her own; "but do come up soon, for, really I am afraid to be up there
                  alone."
               And Helen went up to their chamber, and closed the door. She was alone, and had
                  inadvertently placed her candle on May's table before the old Spanish crucifix. A
                  small circle of light was thrown around it, from the midst of which the sorrowful
                  face, in its depicted agony of blood and tears, and the measure of a world's woe
                  stamped on its divine lineaments, looked on her. Terrified and silent, she stood
                  gazing on it—her hands clasped—her lips apart, and trembling. The crown of
                  thorns—the transfixed hands and feet, from which the blood seemed flowing—the
                  wounded side—the sorrowful eyes, appealed to her. "For thee!" whispered the angel
                  conscience; "it was all for thee!—this ignominy—this suffering—this death—oh,
                  erring one! It was all for thee Divine Jesus assumed the anguish and bitterness of
                  the cross! Oh, wanderer! why add new thorns to that awful crown of agony? Why
                  insult the son of God, who suffers for you, by your derelictions and
                  betrayal?"
               Stricken and afraid, she would have fled from the spot, but she could not move;
                  her temples throbbed, and her limbs trembled, when, lifting her eyes, she beheld a
                  portrait of the Mother of Sorrows, whose countenance, sublime in its blended
                     tender ness and grief, seemed to
                  look down with pity on her. She sunk weeping to the floor, and murmured,
                  "Intercede for me, oh, Lady of Sorrows! I have wounded thy Divine Son by my
                  transgressions; I fear to approach Him, who is my terrible Judge; pity me, then,
                  that I may not become utterly cast away!" Then she wept softly, and it seemed
                  that, in this hour of keen repentance, the errors of the past would be atoned
                  for—that a new life would dawn around her; that in her prodigal's attire of
                  repentance and tears, she would return humbly to her Father's house. But the
                  spirit of the world had wound its deadly fetters too closely around her; the time
                  of her return and purification, and welcome—if it ever came, was veiled in the
                  future; but that passionate soul-felt appeal to the Refuge of Sinners was
                  registered where it would return in benedictions when the soul, weary of its
                  wanderings, sought for forgiveness and peace—if it ever did And, after all, ere
                  sleep visited her eyelids, she was plunged again in plans of petty ambition,
                  vanity, and the pride of life,—so impotent is the human heart, unsupported by the
                  grace of God.
               Twelve o'clock chimed from the old French clock over the mantel, and May, all
                  unconscious of Helen's struggle with conscience, still waited to hear any sound
                  that might come from Mr. Stillinghast's chamber; but every thing remained quiet,
                  and she was wrapping her shawl around her to go up to bed, when she thought she
                  heard a groan—then footsteps, followed by a peculiar muffled sound. In a moment
                  she was in the hall, where she heard it more distinctly, and springing up the
                  staircase, rushed into her uncle's room. By some rare forgetfulness, or
                  bewilderment, he had left his door unfastened. The candle was still burning, and
                  May saw him lying on the floor, where he had fallen in his endeavor to reach the
                  door to call for assistance; his face
                  purple and swollen, and his breath gurgling up with a choking, spasmodic
                  sound.
               "Great God, help me!" cried May, throwing up her arms wildly. "He will die before
                  I can obtain help!" But she was not one to stand lamenting when aught was to be
                  done, so, collecting her scattered senses, she bethought herself of the watchman,
                  who was just at that moment crying the hour at the corner. She flew down, unlocked
                  the hall-door, and springing out into the freezing mist and darkness, she found
                  him, seized his hand, and told her story. "Go, for God's sake! for the nearest
                  doctor; do not delay an instant."
               "Who are you, you wild witch, grabbing a fellow like a cat! Who are you?" cried
                  the watchman, shaking her off.
               "I am the niece of old Mark Stillinghast. He is dying, I fear," she cried,
                  wringing her hands.
               "Zounds! the old man dying! Yes, I'll go directly," said the watchman, moving off.
                  He had been on the beat twenty years, and felt an individual interest in all those
                  whose property and lives he guarded. Then May, thankful for his promptness,
                  remembered to have heard that ice applications to the head were good in cases like
                  this, and rushing back into the yard, she groped her way to the rain-barrel, and
                  stooping over, seized the jagged edges of the ice, which she had broken that very
                  day, and tearing it away from the sides, hastened back, and up to the chamber of
                  death, with her prize in her bleeding hands. Stripping a case from a pillow, she
                  threw in the ice—pounded it with the tongs—shook it together, and lifting up her
                  uncle's insensible head, laid the icy pillow under it, and gathered the ends over
                  his forehead, as well as she could. Then she chafed his hands, exclaiming all the
                  time, "Merciful Jesus, pity him! Merciful Jesus sus, help me, and strengthen me!' But his breathing
                  became more and more difficult, and his limbs began to be agitated with horrible
                  convulsions. A sudden thought suggested itself. She untied her silk apron, tore
                  off the strings—ripped up the sleeve of Mr. Stillinghast's shirt, and wound the
                  ribbon tightly around his arm above the elbow; and while waiting for the vein to
                  swell, she took a small penknife from her pocket, and opened the blade—it was
                  thin, keen, and pointed. She had found it among her father's papers years ago, and
                  kept it about her to scrape the points of her ivory knitting-needles. In another
                  moment, invoking the aid of Heaven, she had made an incision in the vein. A few
                  black drops of blood trickled down—then more; then fast and faster flowed the dark
                  stream over her dress, on the floor, for she could not move—her strength was
                  ebbing away. Presently the brain of the stricken man, relieved of the pressure on
                  it, began to resume its functions; the spasms and convulsions ceased, and a low
                  moan escaped his lips. At that moment the watchman, accompanied by a physician,
                  entered the room, and May remembered nothing more.
            
            END OF VOL I.
         
      
   
