
    ----CITATION----
        Mayfield, Millie, (b. 1830?). Carrie Harrington, or, Scenes in New Orleans .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6794
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Carrie Harrington, or, Scenes in New Orleans
             
                  CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS: BY MILLIE MAYFIELD.  "'TIS pleasant, sure, to see one's name in print: A Book's a Book-although there 's nothing in 't."  PUBLISHED BY. A. AT OHS ON     Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1857, BY MLLIE MAYFIELD, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New-York. Puzaar A RussaLL, PXItBS) 19 Joh y-.SrtN. .   PREFACE. IT is customary, I believe, to write a preface; but where a woman wields the pen, a postscript would be preferable, as therein lies the pith. Yet books, as well as individuals, require an introduction; and like them, also, are apt to be more favorably received when heralded by rank and station, and ushered into notice under the auspices of wealth and influence. The world, that is the fashionable world, may be compared to a flock of sheep (I hope the comparison will not offend,) who follow their leader, blindly, trusting entirely to his judgment to choose the path for them to traverse: so, (to follow up the compari- son,) if "D. Neville Toodles, Esq.," or "Mrs. Gardner Noodles" assume a patronising air, and condescend to smile upon the stranger, either fashioned after God's image or "bound in boards;" all will go smoothly down the current of popularity. But woe to the unlucky wight who, unknown, unnamed, and 4-     1Jn;V- :   PREFACE. unannounced, appears in their midst; for whom the voice of fam,e ne'er sounded a trumpet-note ; but who, with timid, shrinking step, enters the arena to com- pete for favor. Gentle reader, as such I appear before you. A stray waif, cast upon the shores of time, the buffet of each passing wave; perhaps to be swept onward to the broad ocean of eternity, without the aid of a friendly hand to save from the "'whelming billow." But n'importe: despair is not a part of my nature. Hope points to the bright bow of promise spanning, the dark waters, and like Noah's storm-beaten bark, an "Ararat" may yet be gained, on which to rest secure. In all friendship I greet you! Should our ac- quaintanceship prove agreeable, and my visit be well received, I may call again. Until then, with many wishes for your prosperity, I bid you adieu. MLLIE MAYFIELD.   CONTENTS  CHAPTER L. PAGE The Charitable Call ............................     9 CHAPTER II. The Maiden's Chamber...... ....................... .17 CHAPTER III. Love's Young Dream..............2...........     . 23 CHAPTER IV. The Sailor's Return ....    ........  .................. 28 CHAPTER V. Retrospection ................................ ......  CHAPTER    I. Brother and Sister ................ .............. .  8 CHAPTER VII. The Soiree   .......................................... 45     ^Ni         CONNTS. 7 PAGE 7 CHAPTER VIII. ^  Te Vallei of the Shadow of Death ................... 57 * "e V\'   0IICHAPTER IX. NThe levobd Daughter ............... . ...  61 d, I4 'CHAPTER X. Uncle and Nephew ..................       70. J  CHAPTER XI.,  W(ays and Means  ..      .   ....    HAPTER XII. The Musical Party ....................... 81 CIIAPTR XIII. Carrie............ ................................. 102 CHAPTER XIV. Miss Letty's Budget ....................... ......... 112 CHAPTER XV. The Examination .............................. ..  124 CHAPTER XVI. The Parting  ..........  ...................  134 CHAPTER XVII. The Letter.    .1................... 143 CHAPTER XVIII. The Declaration ......................     151   CONTENTS.           V" PAGE CHAPTER XIX. J The Bridal. ...........................   ..  .. 166 CHAPTER XX. Carrie's First Day at School... .................... 171 CHAPTER XXI.      ' The Cottage .........................   ...   . 1" CHAPTER XXII. Mrs. Selby's History,. ..................  .   188 CHAPTER XXIII.  A Lake-shore Watering-Place....................... 200  CHAPTER XXIV. Belle's Imperiousness-Scene in the Bath-house ........213 CHAPTER XXV. The Boating Party ...........................   . 225  CHAPTER XXVI. Masquerading and Cross Purposes.  .................... 242 CHAPTER XXVII. Edward and Carrie-Revelations.........   ..    262 CHAPTER XXVIII. Storm-The Rich Man's Death-bed ................... 276 CHAPTER XXIX. Time's Changes-Carrie's Gratitude .   ................. 286     Viii          CONTENTS.  x,2       PAGE CHAPTER XXX Death of old Mrs. Selby--Robert's Return............. 300 CHAPTER XXXI. The Refusal and Rebound ................. ....... 310 CHAPTER XXXII. A Mississippi Steamboat...............   .......... 320 CHAPTER XXXIII. The Journey--Katy and Robert.....................   327 CHAPTER' XXXIV. Reunion and Heart's-Ease ..............   ........ 340 CHAPTER XXXV. What Miss Letty thought of it all .....  ................ 350  , r    - A, Ir   -.   CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS. CHAPTER I. "------A careless word may move around, Chased onward by a thousand tongues, Which echo every sound; And when it finds its final rest, 'Twill sow a seed of care, And bring forth thorns within the breast, To grow and flourish there!" ISAAC C. PRAY. Ring-ting-ting-ting-a-ling! '"Who on earth can that be? Who would have ex- pected callers, on such a day as this?" exclaimed Miss Isabelle Loring, the acknowledged belle of one of our Southern cities, but whose claim to that title might have been disputed by many of her numerous admi- rers, and the world at large, could they have. beheld 'her at the moment the door-bell commenced its tin- tinnabulations; for, as usual with most of the but- 2     10 '    CARRIE HARRINGTON ; OR, terflies of fashion, her ' wreathed smiles' were kept as company affairs, to be put on in full dress, but laid aside as useless in the privacy of home. '+-Oh! it is that abominable Mrs. Percival," she exclaimed, looking at the card 'brought up by the servant. She has come upon some begging ex- pedition, no doubt. How provoking, that mamma should have gone to Aunt Lou's to spend the day! Now Ishall have to do the amiable, and go down and listen to her ndless tirades. Well, make me look human as expeditiously as possible, Jane; I am so annoyed to think I shall have to take my hair out, just for her, when I wanted it to curl particularly well to-night, as Horace Nelson is to be at Mrs. Lane's soiree. Oh! Jane, how excessively stupid you are: not that collar--give me the embroidered jaconet one, with the knot of blue ribbon to fasten it: there, that will do! Now, to be victimised with an account of some poor widow, with a house full of squalling brats down with the measles or chicken- pox; or some laborer, that has fallen from a building "\  and broken a limb, can't work, and a helpless family looking up to him for support; or else, aid solicited to re-furnish the wards of some Orphan Asylum with 1bedding, &c. Fudge! I think the city should take Care of its own paupers,' and women attend to their own families, ins ad of taxing the private purses of their acquaintanoes, and taking the credit of the do- nation themselves."  Having thus given vent to her spleen at being in- 1    SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     li terrupted in the last pages of a fashionable nove}, our amiable young lady descended the stairs to the drawing-room, where sat a lady, on the shady side of forty, rather portly in her dimensions, and low in stature, with the effort at gentility plainly expressed by every fold of her elaborate garment, and a certain fussy, would-be-important air, which marred the ex- pression of a face which nature had intended to look the benevolence of a really generous heart, but which a false position in society had directed into wrong channels. "I hope you will excuse my having detained you so long, Mrs. Percival," said Isabelle; "but I was engaged with my dress-maker this morning, and, con- sequently, remained in dishabille longer than usual." "Oh certainly, Miss Belle, you are very excusa- ble; dress-makers, I know, is tejious things. Now, when I had my morrey-antic made, I was kept a waitin' at Le Grange's two mortal hours afore my measure was took!  Lawful-sakes, I almost fell asleep!"And the good lady yawned at the remem- brance. "What very disagreeable weather we have had," remarked Isabelle, with a view to change the sub- ject; knowing the lady's peculiarities well, she dread- ed a detailed account of the cutting and fitting of her whole wardrobe. "Yes, orful sloppy!" replied her visitor. "But bad weather never keeps me in doors. I have so much runnin' about to do, that I told John the other     ! 12    ; CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR day, that the long and the short of it was, I must have a carriage. He sent an order to have one made, but he kind o' growled a little. Howsomever, that didn't trouble me much. I help't him make his money, and now I mean to help him spend it. Hi, i hi!" laughed the fat lady; and Isabelle, not know- ing what to'say, gave a polite little smile by way of reply.  "So,your mother's not in, Miss Belle? Very sorry for that, as I brought a subscription list along with, me. I'm train' to raise money for a poor woman whose husband was roon over by the Carrollton Rail- N road a couple a months ago; you might a see'd an' account o' it in the papers?"  Belle thought, but the did not say so, that she surely should have heard of it, if the railroad had taken such a journey!"She has a son," continued the speaker," a grow'd up young man, who follers the sea; but his ship ain't been heard of for some time, and she's afeard he's lost. Poor thing! it would make your heart ache to see her: and her darter, she's a purty creetur! They seem so down- hearted like; they hav'n't a. penny to bless them- i selves with; so ifi we can only raise enough to send them to their friends at the North, they'll be so thank- ful." And the really kind-hearted, though coarse woman, looked as if she could take them up in her arms and carry them there, if nothing else offered in the way of locomotion.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      13 All this was dull matter to our fashionable belle; so, by way of getting rid of her visitor, she replied: "I regret exceedingly that mamma is not at home; but perhaps if you will call at Aunt Langdon's, where she is spending the day, you may succeed in getting aid from both." At this suggestion, her visitor rose 'on charitable tho ught intent,' and shaking Isabelle heartily by the hand, wished her good-day, and told her not to make herself so strange, but to come up and see Nelly; she'd got a new pianny from Pars, and it had cost eight-hundred dollars! With this parting flourish, as if the announcement of her wealth increased her importance in hor enter- tainer's eyes, this strange compound of vulgarity and good-nature, benevolence and ostentation, swept from the house, encountering at the street-door, as she passed out, a figure, the very antipodes of her- self, in the person of Miss Letitia Ferguson, or 'Miss Letty,' as she was called by most of her customers, for her trade was that of an itinerant dressmaker; and as in this capacity she gained entrance into most of the places of upper-tendom, she became a walking chronicle of private histories, and could give a detail- ed account of the rise and progress of every mush- room aristocrat within the pale of fashionable society. Tall, gaunt, sharp-visaged, with piercing black eyes and thin lips, she formed a striking contrast to the dumpy bundle of satin, lace, and embroidery before her, who, with rather an equiPocal nod of re-     "!    'CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, cognition, passed down the flight of marble steps, and turnel..the street corner, leaving the astonished Miss Letti ging after her with basilic eyes, and pursed-up mouth, which gradually relaxed into a long drawn out-- 'Whew, 'ew! how we fish swim, to be sure. Well, I've always heard, put a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to Old Nick, and now I've proved it." The emphatic pull she gave the door-bell, announ- ced ratter an excited state of mind. "Dear me, Miss Letty, I am so glad you have got back.,I was fearful yoi would not return, and then  my pink satin would not' have been finished for this evening. Did you get the bond, for the flounces?" "Yes, here it is," replied 'Miss Letty, in raea hurried aone, for she had not quite recovere er equanimity.     ;  .  J"Is it the handsomest you could find? f should die of veXationif Ella Percival's dress)outshone mine, and that -ridiculous old mother of her's would spend a fortune to have her appear betterthan any one else; but that she will never do, even if she loaded' Her down-4she lacks a certain style, without which, Kdi ss is nothing."  The young lady inclined her head backward; and upward, towards the organ of self-esteem, $is if she would like to have add:rd-' my -style, for instance!' Miss Letty had, in the meanwhile, untied the green ribbon strings of her bonnet, tossed it on the bed with her woolen shawl, drawn a rocking-chair up in front   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      15 of the glowing coal-fire, and spread herself in it, set. ting her feet upon the grate-pan to dry the soles of her shoes, and prepared to aive vent to her pent-up chagrn. "EliPercival, did you say? Well, it's past my com- preh  on how some people do manage to squeeze themselves into society! It's money makes the mare go, now-a-days. Not but that the girl!s well enough, for all I know. It's not her fault, that her father ' commenced life as a scavenger, and from that, went to rolling cotton on the Levee; and her mother kept a coffee-stand in the lower market, and rising a little in the world, opened a refreshment saloon for sailors, in the old Third Municipality; and so, on, ' cheek by -jowl,' they jogged along from one dirty occupation to another, until, armassing considerable money, they determined to do as many had done before them- come out genteel! and sink the tailor; so having but one child; and she being rather pretty and intel- ligent, they packed her off to a fashionable boarding- school, in order to make genteel acquaintances. In the meantime, they purchased property up town, built a fine house, and furnished it in style against their daughter's return; and the next thing you'll hear-some fortune-hunter, with more, hair than brains, will walk into the girl's affections and the father's money bags at the same time." Here Miss Letty took from her pocket a red silk handkerchief, and blew a blast like a penny trum- pet's, by way of winding up; then whirling herself     16   \  CARRIE HARjINGTON; OR, away from the fire, she commenced operations on the pink satin, and in a few moments silence reigned supreme in the apartment. Isabelle sat lost in thought. The news which her companion had just commu- inicated, had. given her a weapon wherewith to wound her rival. What would Horace Nelson, with his aristocratic ideas and refined manners, say to a girl sprung from such low parentage? He should hear it, never fear; and the demon of gratified malice and envy lent her eyes an additional lustre, and her cheeks a glow, which paled the tint of the costly fabric which was to grace her limbs for the festival. But go with us, reader, and we will glance into the chamber of the gentle girl that has called forth these feelings in the bosom of a schoolmate and as- sociate. ! C   'SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.       17 CHAPTER     II. "'Tis she, that Emir's blooming child, All truth, and tenderness, and grace, Tho' born of such ungentle race: An image of youth's fairy fountain, Springing in a desolate mountain!" MOORE. THE mansion to which we would conduct the read- er was one of those palatial residences which here and there grace the environs of the far-famed City of New-Orleans, where the costly dwelling of the millionaire overlooks the humble habitation of pov- erty and toil All that ark could do, or wealth procure, to beau- tify and adorn, had been lavishly expended upon the house and grounds, particularly the latter, which gave evidences of a refined taste, arid woman's gentle care, in the beauty of its arrangements. "And what a wilderness of flowers! It seemed as if from all the bowers, And favored fields of all the year, The mingled spoil lay scattered here."' In an upper front chamber, on the second floor of the dwelling, reclining on a crimison velvet couch., drawn up near one of the front windows, so as to command a view of the noble Mississippi, was the 2*     18      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, /  i figure of a young girl, attired in a loose morning- dress of snowy cambric, and partly enveloped in the folds of a rich cashmere shawl. T he small, well-turned head, with its wealth of golden-brown ringlets, resting onCtthe little transpa- rent hand; the large, dreamy, dark eyes, with their heavy black lashes sweeping a cheek of the delicate tint of the sea-shell; the little foot, cased in its em- broidered slipper, and resting on the velvet cushion of the couch, were very fair to contemplate; an! then the room-furnished with no regard whatever to cost. Velvet carpeting, whose delicate roses bursting *from their nests of green leaves, seeming too life-like to; be crushed by a rude footstep; curtains of sea- green satin damask, lined with heavy white silk, and caught back by bands, representing bunches of lilies, the flowers of the purest porcelain, with gilded stems and leaves, thus revealing under-curtains of richly embroidered lace, the whole surmounted by gilded cornices of (most elaborate design; chairs of every imaginable shape, with cushions of the richest vel- vet; papier-mache stands, and marble slabs support- ing elegant china vases filled with rare exotics; im- mense mirrors, multiplying and reflecting all this elegance, until the room looked more like the, abode of some Oriental sultana than the boudoir of a simple American girl, altogether formed a picture that might well call forth the bad feelings of those whose hearts are inclined to envy, malice, and all uncharitable- ness.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      19 But did the fair heiress of all this wealth dream there lived a human being on the face of the earth that cherished a feeling of animosity to her? No. At peace with her own conscience, and' con- sequently with her fellow-mortals, she judged others by her own standard, nor thought that guile could lurk beneath a friendly garb and' seeming show of kindness. Alas! for the trusting, confiding spirit of youth- o "Itself a star, not borrowing light, But in it's own glad essence bright-," that aught should ever dim i; effulgence, or sad ex- perience teach life's wretched cheat, and cause us to roll the stone from the mouth of the whited sepul- chre, and view the foulness and corruption within. But why seems the fair girl so lost in thought, that the book she has been reading has fallen to the car-. pet unheeded? Her pet canary has chirped and peeped for the last half hour unnoticed, until, despairing of a single caressing expression from its mistress, and lulled to drowsiness by the ticking of the exquisite little or'molu clock on the mantel-piece, whose monoton- ous sound broke the silence of the apartment, has tucked its head underneath its downy wing, and is dreaming of a sunny isle far off on a summer sea, where, with its yellow-coated mates, it sports on freedom's wing, till, in a vain attempt to reach some imaginary leafy bough, it totters from its perch; and wakes, to find itself a captive, though gilded are its prison-walls, and beautiful its jailor!     20?     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, : The noise of its fall has startled its mistress from her, abstraction, and she springs to the cage to see what. has disturbed her favorite. As she does so, the door of the apartment opens to admit the portly person of Mrs. Percival, who enters, followed by a young negress, bearing sundry parcels and boxes, which she deposits on a table, and remains awaiting further orders. "Why, bless my soul and body, Nelly! Here you are, just exactly as I left you when I went out; and I expected to find you up to your eyes, fixin' forthe grand party to-night," exclaimed the good lady, sinking into a large arm-chair, and untying her bon- net strings. "Here, Betsy, carry my bonnet and mantle into my room, and lay 'em. on the bed; and mind, you don't mash the marrow-bone feather when you lay it down; be very 'keerfu%, now." ' t Yes, missus." "And fetchmy old slippers from under the armoiri and don't be gone a minit." "No, missus."               , ' Oh, lawful sakes! what a tramp I've had, to be sure,?' she, continued; drawing off her gloves as she spoke, and not waiting for any replies from her daugh- ter, who stood patiently awaiting an opportunity to speak. "I'm just as tired as a dog, and I most wish that carriage had come that your father ordered from New-York, though I know I shall be ske to death till I get used to it. It allers used to ma ke me sicklto ride, but I reckon I shall have to git over    SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     21 that, too, 'cause folks that live in sich style as we do hadn't oughter be seen walkin'. "Where on airth can that ar nigger be stayin' all this while with 'them ar slippers, and these ere boots a pinchin' my corns so?" she exclaimed, rising, and going to the door. "' Betsy! Betsy, I say!" "Cumin', missus, 'rectly." "So is Christmas, you slow poke!" giving her ear a pull as she appeared. "I 'clar to grachus, ole missus, I sarch't every mortal hole an' corner for dem ar slippers, an' at lass I found 'em in de baff-room," whimpered Betsy, stooping down to untie her mistress' gaiter r Order being restored, and a pause occurring, Ella took advantage of it, to inquire in a kind tone, "Where have you been, dear mother; did you succeed in the benevolent design that took you out on such a disagreeable day?" "Well, yes, after a fashion," replied her mother. "I generally git more kicks than coppers, you know; but I don't mind that much, I've kind o' got used to it. There's some people, now, I don't mind beggin' from, because if I don't git anything else, I'm sure to be treated perlitely, and that goes a great way to the one that's beggin', if it don't do the poor creeturs as much good as a little money. Now there's Mrs. Loring, she I ows what's due to both, a-id is a lady  every inch of her. But that stuck up darter o' her'n, you can see what she's up to, even if she make's be-     22     CARRIE -IRRINGOTON; OR, lieve perlite. I wonder sometimes that there should be sich a difference in parents and children."  The good lady turned rather impatiently to her packages, and commenced opening them and display. ing their contents to Ella, who listened respectfully to the long-winded account of the manner in which each article'was procured, its donor, and the purpose for which given, until the speaker, having exhausted the catalogue of dry-goods, wound up with saying: "I've raised about fifty dollars in cash, And shall add fifty more myself, and hope by next week to start poor Mrs. Harrington and Carrie off to their friends in Boston, where I hope they'll be kindly wel- comed; but for my part, I'm afeard their complex- ions ought to be a goo0l masshades darker to open Northern hearts or purse- sings. It may be because i;'s'col up that way; but one thing's certain, wool S more ought oh the nearer one gits to the North. ole.'kt )   /  I And iaving veatured a remark involving deeper thought"ttan was her wont to give to any subject, the good lady sat down to ruminate upon it, while her daughter ran down stairs to see if lunch was not almost ready, as. she knew her mother mus eel fa- X tigued by the exercise she had been taking.    .     SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.        23 CHAPTER III. ' What! doth thy hand forget the lute? Thy brow reject the wreath? Alas! whate'er the change above, There's more of change beneath!" L. E. L. Do you wish, dear reader, to know the subject of Ella Percival's reveries?  Would you like to lift the veil, and peer into that little maiden's heart, and see its leaves of rose ruf fled by the first breathings of a passion, which, a yet, has scarce stirred its surface, but which, gaining strength by what it feeds on, may plough up its inner- rpost depths with the *esistless force of a whirlwind, scattering destruction in its path, and leaving a desert waste, where erst the flowers of happiness put forth their tender buds, and blossomed in their spring-tide loveliness. Truly hath some one sung- "Love's first step is upon the rose, His second finds the thorn." Ella questioned not herself as to the reason of her anxiety to know whether she should meet the hand- some stranger again who thrice had crossed her path, in  "Gay and festive scenes,  And halls of dazzling light. "     O2      CARRIU ,HARRINGTON ; OR X ^  Andt although their acquaintanceship was limited to the formal bow of recognition, or the closer com- panionship of the mazy dance, the pulses of her heart leaped to a wilder measure when his voice re- quested the pleasure of her hand for the set, or his arm was offered as a protection through the crowd. And long after the lights had paled in the festal hall, and the last lingering guest departed, would that little, head toss restlessly upon its pillow, recall- ing. every glance of his dark eyes, that seemed to love to linger on her sweet face, every word he had uttered that called up the tell-tale blushes, and thrilled her very soul with emotions strange and new. A change had come over the happy maiden's heart since Horace Nelson's degp-toned voice had vibrated on her ear. Former pursuits lost their charm; even her birds and flowers failed to interest her; and she yvould sit for hours gazing on vacahcy, and building those fairy castles which youth delights to rear, when love gilds life's morn with its rainbow-tinted hues, as brilliant as they are fleeting!  Her matter-of-fact mother perceived the change, without guessing the' cause. Sentiment hed never troubled her in her young days; and a pale cheek and heavy eye spoke only, to her obtuse senses, of a dis- ordered stomach and bile.  "I think our little Nelly wants physicking," she remarked to her husband, whom she met on the land- ing outside of her daughter's apartment, as she was i I                  SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     25 on her way to attend to some of her domestic duties; or, to use her own parlance, "to look after them ar lazy niggers, and see what they were up to." "I think I must give her a dose of senna or Epom salts. I've noticed for two or three mornin's she in't eat no breakfast, and that's a sure sign of afoul stomach." With this treat in perspective for Ella, she trotted down stairs, without waiting to hear her husband's reply, if he troubled himself to make any; which he seldom did to her remarks, well knowing how useless it was to hope to obtain a hearing, while her tongue was in a state of 'activity. He was a good-natured, easy man, too-indolent to object to anything that did not involve personal discomfort; a hard-working man in his youth, who had toiled to accumulate the wealth he was now de- termined to enjoy. One of that class, of which many specimens are to be found in the South and West, who, acquiring princely fortunes by their own in- dustry, in the pursuit of gain, fail to cultivate the graces, or store their minds with a single idea beyond the all-mighty dollar. Perceiving his error, when it was too late to rectify it in his 'own person, he determined his child should have every advantage which money could procure, to fit her for that station to which he felt his wealth would raise her. To this end he lavishly expended countless means in gracing her witc every accomplishmenti and now     oS1   OCARRIE RHAREINGTON; OR, he looked upon her as a sort of, household goddess, to be' admired, reverenced, worshiped; when, the height of our little Ella's ambition was-to be loved. Unassuming, modest, sweet-tempered and affec- tionate, she felt not her superiority to her parents, and only regretted that adverse circumstances had thrown a blight over their young days, and deprived them of the means of education, which had blessed her own more favored lot. She loved her mother for hN many virtues; and if she saw her weaknesses, she respected her too much to show it, looking upon them more as errors of the head than heart. To her father she felt how deep was the debt of gratitude for all the means expended, and all the *tender care bestowed, upon her, which the devotion of a lifetime would hardly repay; and if aught could arouse the latent spirit within her, any indignity of- feled to her parents was the Promethean touch which kindled it into life. Perhaps her feelings on this subject will savor too much of "fogyism" to suit the "fast" ideas of the rising generation, which influences daughters to think their mothers the last persons on earth to be con- sulted on any matter, either relhting to love, law, or libefly; enduring their chaperonage in public, be- cause the rules of etiquette require it, but using them as escape-pipes to let off their ill-nature and spleen upon, when anything crosses their path of an annoying natrte, such as ill-fitting dresses, damaged    SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.  gloves, unbecoming bonnets, or negative. answers from papa ,when money is demanded; then poor mamma's turn comes, for short replies, sulky looks, impatient fault-finding, and the host of temper-trying evils which the mother of fashionable daughters has to contend with, from these moths that buzz so gaily in the blazing halls of mirth. Nor is-the spirit of the age confined alone to the weaker sex. We see it illustrated in the striplings belonging to the mutual Assurance company, who twirl their /n- cipient mustaches, and puff their Havanas, in laies' fac6s on street corners, while they converse with other abortiv specimens of manhood about the prospect of "the (overnor's" speedy demise, and their own per- suasive powers over the "old woman;" regarding their fathers as nothing more than padlocks on the money chest, while their mothers serve as skeleton- keys to unlock the store that they consider unjustly kept from them. Truly, the nineteenth century is a progressive era!     ^28   ^CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, CHAPTER    IV. Home again! home again! From a foreign shore! And oh! it fills my soul with joy, sweet my friends once more." OLD SONG. CARRIE, darling! take the paper, and read the shipping list over carefully, my child. God grant there may be news of my poorboy. It is now so long since the owners of the 'Ocean Queen' have expect- ed her arrival, and no accounts as yet have reached us, that my heart aches with apprehension; for if aught should have happened to my darling Robert, what, oh! what will become of you when I am gone?" The widowed mother buried her face in her hands, groaning aloud in the agony of suspense. A light, girlish form kneels softly by her'side, and one trembling little hand is laid caressingly on her head, while through the rosy, open lips, comes forth the words of promise: "Mother, dear mother! do not weep, all will yet be well; there is that within my heart which tells me so: trust in Him who has promised never to fore sake those who faithfully do so. Kneel with me, z  '   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      dearest mother, in prayer, for the loved one, and rest assured, the prayer of faith is never breathed in vain."                    i The heart-stricken one looked up, as the words of hope fell upon her ear; and now behold the sorrowing woman, kneeling by the side of her youthful com- forter, drawing inspiration from her beaming'eyes and hopeful countenance, until the dark clouds of doubt and despair roll away from her soul, as morn- ing mists are dispersed by the glorious sunshine.  * And truly, nought but sunshine could compare with the soul-lit face of that young girl, in its loving, trusting expression, with goodness matked upon every feature, beaming forth from the innermost depths of the soft blue eyes, and nestling in ;th9 merry dimples which surrounded a mouth of perfect loveliness, through whose rosy portals shone a double row of pearls, which queens might have envied. A brave, true heart she had, looking ever'at the silver edges, instead of the gloomy centre of the cloud; and sorely had her young spirit been tried in the fiery furnace of adversity, and not been found wanting. But hark! is their prayer so soon to be answer- ed? There surely is an unusual noise in the passage approaching their door; the sound of heavy footsteps are heard; the mother half starts from her kneeling position, while Carrie, with a bound, has sprung to the door, and in the next moment finds herself in the     30     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, arms-of a- sun-burned, athletic young sailor, whose rough garb cannot conceal the symmetry of his fine form, or tarpaulin hat hide the classic chisseling of his features. "My bird of beauty! my pet lamb! my own dar- ling little sister, and blessed mother! 'do I again be- hold you?" he exclaimed, lifting Carrie with one arm, as he spoke, as easily as if her weight was but that of a feather; then with hasty steps walked across the floor to where the old lady still knelt, raising her from her humble position, in time to receive her fainting form on the other. "Avast there, Carrie! what does this mean?" he exclaimed, in accents of alarm. Carrie opened her mother's dress, and chafed her hands and temples with her own soft palms, looking deadly pale, but giving vent to no unnecessary exa- clamations of terror to add to the confusion, as she replied to her brother: "She has not been very well of late, dear Robert; but I will explain by-and-by. Help me to support her to the couch in the next room; there-that will do nicely. Now hand me the bottle of camphor from the closet. See, she is reviving! Do not speak of father," she added, in an under tone; then bending over the couch, and sliding her arm under her mother's neck, she Said: "Dear mother, look up! God has answered our prayers. Hereis dear Robert, looking so well and handsome; and now that the sun is shining again, think no more of the dark clouds that have passed away for the time."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     31 "My blessed child!" exclaimed the feeble woman, laying one thin han& upon the sunny curls thlat swept her pillow, and extending the other to her son, who knelt reverentlyleside her couch. "Oh! Robert, my boy!" she continued, "thank God I have lived to behold you again, my son. I feel that my hmortal career is fast drawing to a close, and I can leave this world more resignedly, to know that that dear child will have a protector, when my head is laid low. Cherish that darling sister, for she is a priceless gem! my only stay andi comfort, in the dark days and nights of my deep affliction; the hopeful one that guided my wandering bark through tempests and quicksands, to a haven of light and peace. Promise me, my son, that when I am no more, your sister will be your first care." "Oh, my mother!" exclaimed Robert, in anguish, "talk not in so sad a strain. Most truthfully will .: make the promise, and most sacredly will I keep the trust reposed in me, when occasion calls for it.* But you cannot, oh! 'you must not leave us yet. Think, when I have made one or two more voyages,. I may have a ship of my own; and then I will be able to surround you with comforts befitting your station. Bear up yet a little while longer; the dawn must break upon the darkest night." My children, my comforters, my pearls of price- less value! without you, life would be dark indeed; but blessed with your love, I have reason to be thankful to my Heavenly Father for the boon, if all     ;:       VU, ' ,;RSw0N 9 i, ": lsisd denied me: For your sakes, if He sees fit to ': prbiong my days, will I strive to bear my lot, what- ever it may be." She closed her eyes, and seemed to be communing with her Maker, until a placid smiile settled upon her pare-worn features, and her gentle breathing indi- cated that slumber had steeped her senses in forget- fulness. After lowering the paper blind that formed (he sole curtain to the little chamber, and laying some light bed clothes over the sleeper, Carrie, with her arm passed around her brother's whist, stole softly from the apartment, closing the door gently after her.  a                      a - -   (    SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS. 3g3 CHAPTER V. '-  Disasters come not singly; But, as if they watched and waited, Scanning one another's motions, When the first descends, and others Follow, follow, gathering flockwise Round the victim, sick and wounded-- First a shadow, then a sorrow, Till the air is dark with anguish." "ONGFELLOW. WE must beg the reader's indulgence while we retrograde a few years, in order to give a brief ac- count of the Harringtons. Mrs. Harrington was born in Massachusetts, of wealthy parents, by whom she was discarded for fol- lowing the dictates of her own heart, and marrying the man of her choice, whose only passports to her favor were an honorable name and high moral char- acter. Industrious and persevering, he ought to have suc- ceeded in life; but there are some men who seem born to revolve in a given orbit, and never deviate. Such a man was Ezra Harrington. His movements were circumscribed within certain limits, which he appeared to be doomed never to cross; and sixteen years after marriage found him still plodding on with 3     34'     CARRIE HARRINGTON OR, his clerkship, whose meagre stipend barely keptthe "wolf from the door." His wife, although reared in the lap of indulgence, and accustomed to luxuries from her cradle, proved herself the true woman and helpmate designed by God to cheer the pilgrimage of man. By practising the strictest economy, and doing without assistancein her domestic affairs, she man- aged her small allowance so that, if they had not the superfluities, they at least wanted not the neces- saries of life; and taking advantage of the admirable facilities which the City of Boston affords the chil- dyen of the poor man as well as the rich, her chil- dren's education was as well attended to as if their father coutL count his thousands. At last there seemed to be an opening for them. The house in which Mr. Harrington was employed branched their business to New-Orleans, and feeling the greatest confidence in his integrity, offered him inducements, which could not well be refused, to take charge of the concewn. It was impossible for his family to accompany him for at least two or three years, until they should see whether success would crown his efforts; so he deter- mined on removing them to the neighboring town of Lynn, his native place, there to reside, until such  time as he could come or send for them. About. this time, Robert, who was now a boy of fifteen years, feeling himself an encumbrance on his parents, and having a longing desire to see the world,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      35 announced his intention of going to sea. This sent a pang to his mother's heart, who would have much preferred his choosing An occupation that would have kept him near her. He was a bright, intelligent lad, good-looking, and tall for his age; he would have been an ornament to any profession; he wanted but influential friends to advance him. But, alas! poverty had set her seal on his brow, and the mark of the beast prevailed against him. His mother felt she had no right to object to his determination; so, with a heavy heart she set herself to work to prepare his outfit, depriving herself and Carrie of many things, in order to supply him with comforts for his  "Lifhon the ocean wave!" We will not dwe/hon the parting of the, house- hold: "Hearts that the world in vain has tried, And sorrow but more closely tied; That stood the storm, when waves were rough-" but at the first dawning of prosperity, must be scat- tered, when to re-unite again, the dark uncertain future alone can tell. After placing his wife and daughter to board with some friends, and seeing the good ship which con- tained his noble boy, weigh anchor, and sail out of Boston harbor with a fair breeze, Ezra Harrington, for the first time in his life, found himself out of the limits of his native State, and borne along by whiz-     36trt   CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, zing steam and smioke, towards that "El-Dorado" of the South-west, which too often, like the ignis fa- tuus, lures its unsuspecting victim towards its bright goal, to swamp his hopes in the slough of adversity, and find a grave in a Southern forest. After three or four years of unremitting labor on his part, and. during which time Robert had made several successful voyages, Mr. Harrington at last accumulated sufficient to send for Carrie and hei mother to join him in the comfortable, though hum- ble, home he had provided for them in the city of his  adoption; and they were to'come under Rpbert's protection, in the ship of which he was appointed second officer, being his first voyage in that capacity. Fortune sfemed at last to be smiling propitiously, and hope sang her siren song in their ears, promising all would be well. Alas! for the vanity of human expectations! Robert could not remain long with his family. His ship was under sailing orders for Liverpool, thence to many foreign ports, and back again to Boston, ere it returned to New-Orleans. So, after safely delivering his mother and sister to his father's care, and remaining with them a few weeks, he set sail again, his heart buoyed up with the hope of ris- ing in his profession, and surrounding his parents' latter days with the comforts they had been deprived of in their youth. We find him returned from his long voyage, his ship having been detained by bad weather, and many   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     37 mishaps, to find his mother trembling on the verge of the grave ;-his father, where?-and his darling 'little sister strugmling with accumulating distresses bravely, almost cheerfully, waiting for the better time coming. ,I 1,       .'      \H      C   sOARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, A sisters love was given; Her goodness forms a heaven of earth- Her hand allures to Heaven." HENRY B. HRST. "Now tell me, Carrie," exclaimed Robqrt, when they were seated, side by side, in the outer apart- ment, " what mean these bare walls, and this appa- rent destitution? and oh! what nameless horror is attached to, my. father's name, that I am forbidden  - to breath oii in my mother's presence;" and het clasped his sister in his arms, looking up in her face imploringly for an explanation of these mysteries. Carrie felt that she had a herculean task before- her, but hers was not a soul to shrink from duty, however painful it might be; so, nerving herself to. ae sad necessity, she took her broher's sun-burnt hand within her own', and choking down the tears 4that strove for mastery, commenced her mournful recital: Dear brother! you must be prepared to hear the worst; our father---" '"Oh! what of him?   Speak!" he exclaimed, in tones of wildest excitement, as Carrie paused at his   SUENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     39 look of agony, knowing that what she had to com- municate would afflict him ideeply.         4 ," Oh, Robert! dear, dear brother! you must be com- posed-you must, indeed, for my sake, for our moth- er's sake; think how your agitation will distress her." "One word, Carrie," said he, speaking with des- perate calmness, " is my father dead?" "His cares are ended, dear Robert!" replied his sister, speaking very low, and drawing his head gently down upon her shoulder, where, for a few moments, he sobbed almost audibly; and Carrie, well knowing the blessed relief of tears, suffered him to do so unrestrainedly. At length, she ventured to pass one little hand tenderly through his dark hair, inquiring, if he would now listen to the particulars of their loss? He raised his head, and drawing her to hirn, kissed her brow in silence, and she resumed her narrative' "After you left us, dear brother, everything went on prosperously for about twelve months. Then a change seemed to come over father. He grew silent and abstracted, apparently lost in thought most of the time. I should have commenced by telling you, that after our arrival here his employers wrote to him, promoting him to a partnership, with one- third profits. He would be absent' from his meals days at a time, remaining at the store until late at night. If mother questioned him, he evaded giving direct answers, and so matters went on for some time.     ' 4;9 O   CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, ' - At last the storm burst, and the house of Messrs. Davidson, Lee & Co.,became bankrupt, and they were defaulters to a large amount. Father, on entering the concern, had invested all his savings, and now utter ruin stared him in the face, for he not only lost his hard earnings, but his good name went with them, ahid this seemed to crush him to the earth. An old man, in a strange land, without friends or influence, -what could he do? All his energies seemed to'desert him, and a stupor seemed to settle on his senses, which aroused our worst fears, and in a few months they were realised, for he became perfectly imbecile, though harmless. The only thing he showed resistance to was, our efforts to keep him within doors. He would insist upon going out to attend to his business, which he said must not'be neglected. But he would wan- der up and down the streets for hours without an ob- ject, frequently stopping for ten minutes at a time, and muttering to himself, then suddenly walking on. At first, I used to follow him at a distance, being fearful of his losing his way, but generally he would remain out a certain length of time, and then in- variably turn his steps homeward; so that at last I  gave it up, finding it impossible to spare the time, for the support of the fanily fell' upon mother and my. self, and the mere pittance we could earn with our needles -barely procured us the necessaries of life. Sometimes we would be without work for weeks at a time, and then the little comforts, and necessary articles with wich we had surrounded ourselves, went, piece b3piece at a time, to procure us food."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     41 "Why did not mother write to her parents*Carrie; they surely would not have suffered her to starve?" exclaimed Robert, his heart wrung with anguish, at  the account of their distress. "I wished her to do so, Robert; but she would reply it was no use, as she knew from experience that her letters would be returned unopened. But,  dear brother, if you feel so much troubled at what you have heard, I do not know how you will bear the rest; but it must be told. About two months since, mother and I were taken down with the yellow fever, which had been raging fearfully for some time in the city. We had hoped to escape entirely, as it was' then on the decline; but it was not to be so. Mother was first attacked, and was very ill, and now came our deepest trial. Means we had not, and but for kind neighbors should have perished from want. Father did not seem to notice anything unusual was the matter, but took his accustomed walks daily. After mother had been sick about'ten days, the crisis of her disease passed, and the humane physician, who attended free of charge, pronounced her conva- lescent, and ordered nourishaent for her. Fathea' had gone out for his walk; so, not liking to leave her entirely alone, although she was asleep, I called in a little girl, whose mother rents part of the house from us, to stay with her until my return. I threw on my sun-bonnet, and hastily traversed a few squares to the residence of a kind-hearted woman, whose wealth:  had not steeled her heart to the cry of distress, and 3* '     42      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, from wom I had obtained employment, there to pro- cure means to purchase sustenance for our mother. I will give you a more minute description of Mrs. Percival (the lady in question) at some future time. She is a diamond in the rough, I assure you. With a ready benevolence that characterises her every movement, she sent one of byr servants to procure all that was necessary, and then put on her things to accompany me home. As we approached the house, I observed a great crowd around the door-way, while the most piercing shrieks, which my heart told me came from my mother's lips, issued from within. 'I sprang through the crowd, up the stairs, to this very room, where-0 God! the scene of horror that met my view can never be obliterated from my memory." For a moment poor Carrie gave way to her pent- up feelings, her whole frame quivering with anguish at the recollection of the dark hour. "Imagine, dear brother, my feelings," she con- tinued, " when my eyes fell upon the mangled remains of our poor father, stretched upon a rough board, while the emaciated form of our mother, white and wan with sickness, hung over him, utter- ing such heart-rending screams, that it would have unnerved the stoutest heart to have heard her. Although racked to torture, I felt the imperative ne- cessity of self-control, and conquering my feelings as well as I was able, with the assistance of good Mrs. Percival, I sudceeded in persuading her to go to bed. We now learned from the rough, though kind-heart-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      43 ed men who had brought home the body, the, particu- lars of the shocking accident. It seemed that father got into one of his"abstracted moods, while walking on the rail-track, and heeded not the approaching train. The engineer sounded the alarm-whistle, when, perceiving the old man did not move, he attempted to back the cars, but their impetus was too great; they passed ove)' the body, mutilating it in a horrid manner. I will pass over the particui- lars of that truly awful day-the jury of inquest, and the'humble funeral. Suffice it to say, that the kind-hearted woman who accompanied me home, 'did not desert us, in this, our hour of affliction; but like a true-hearted Southerner, who never turns a deaf ear to a tale of. sorrow, she remained with us, and relieving me in my otherwise lonely watch beside my mother's bed, hiring a nurse to share the care with her, when the baneful disease laid its fell hand upon me. To her, under the blessing of God, I feel that we owe our likes. We have made her acquaint- ed with our history, and she has promised. to raise means for us to return to the North, where our mis- fortunes may  possibly soften our grand-parents' hearts; but your return, dear brother, may render that step unnecessary, as mother's pride revolts at receiving so much from strangers; and I greatly fear  the state of health she is in will not admit of her taking such a journey." Carrie finished her sad story, wh'ich wrung her listener's heart, and -they both sat many-minutes in     44   CARRIE IAIRRINGTON; OR, perfect silence, communing with their own thoughts, until, aroused by a moan from;their mother's cham- ber, they sprang to her bed-side, to find the crimson tide of life ebbing from her lips, and the death-damp gathering upon her brow. -                     d   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.       45 -7 CHAPTER, VII. "Come, take up your hats, and away let us haste, To the butterflies' ball, and the grasshoppers' feast; The trumpeter gad-fly has summoned the crew, And the revels are now only waiting for you." ANON. NIGHT has thrown her sabled curtail over the great city. The busy hum   of trade has ceased.  The weary laborer " plods his homeward way" to where the humble cottage offers a haven of rest. The mer- chant, after a busy day on 'Change, turns his steps towards home, where genial warmth and comfort await him at his own fireside. The poor clerk, with a wife and little toddling wee things, looking up to him for support, hails the hour that releases him from care, and leaves him free to enjoy the society of his loved ones. The rich man lolls in his easy chair, in dresang- gown and embroidered slippers, surrounded by luxu- ries, while the poor child of want and crime skulks  from his hiding-place, like a wild beast, hunted by its fellows. Yet, God made all; and the quiet night, with its holy eyes, looks down alike "    Upon The guilty and the guiltless oie." -r     "     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR,. A lordly mansion, facing, one of the public squares, is flooded with the blaze of gas-lighted chandeliers, while strains of lively music peal forth on the night air, causing the hufible foot-passenger to pause, and if of a moralising turn, to muse on the inequalities of life, as his eye encounters the -brilliant display, and turns from the scene of revel, to contemplate the crowd around the door-way, where the pauper, in his i rags, elbows the bare-footed little beggar, in their mutual efforts to get a peep at the finely dressed ladies, as they descend from their carriages. ' Look! look!" exclaimed one of the juveniles; "oh! aint she pury? My, how her ear-rings glist- en!" as Isabelle Loring stepped from her father's carriage, assisted by her brother, and passed up the marble steps with the grace of a queen, conscious of universal homage. And "how beautiful!" "how   beautiful!" was echoed from lip to lip, when, disrobed of her wrap- pings, she entered the drawing-room, leaning on the arm of her brother.  Truly the picture was fair to look upon. Her beauty was of that haughty style which seemed as if born to command. Her hair, black and glossy as the rmven's wing, hung in waving ringlets around her regal brow; her eyes, dark-es the noon of night, and sparkling as its stars, sank not before the open gaze of admiration which met her from all quarters, but seemed to say, "( Come and worship me, 'tis no more than my due." Q       4   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     47 Flattery was the food on which she existed, and it was dealt to her with no niggard hand by the circle in which she shone) the centre of attraction. Her father's position, as Judge of the Supreme Court; her brother, rising to eminence in the pro- fession of the law; her mother, descended from one of the oldest families in the 1tat/ll gave her claims to distinction, in her own eyes, superior to most of her associates. Pride, the bane of her character, shone from every feature; and although many admired, very few loved her. "She walks in beauty, like the night Of starry climes and cloudless skies," exclaimed a deep-toned voice at her side; and the haughty beauty was startled a moment from her self-possession, while the warm blood rushed in tor- rents to her neck and brow, as Horace Nelson stepped to her side, offering his hand for the dance that was just forming.  In a moment she recovered herself, and gracefully accepted his profered arm, casting, at the same time, an exultant glance .at the shrinking form of Ella Percival, whom neither had perceived until that mo- ment in close proximity to them, and who must have overheard the honeyed flattery of the address,-for her fair cheek rivaled the hue of her white silk dress in spite of her efforts to control herself, and there was a pained expression in the gentle eyes, and an undue compression of the soft lips, as if to quell the tumul- tuous throbbings of her wildly-beating heart.     48     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, For an instant Horace regetted his pecipitancy in securing a partner; but to his credit bel it said, he had walked the rooms several times in the vain hope of discerning the timid girl, who now broke upon his astonished vision like some fairy sprite, clad in her snowy robes; with a circlet of diamonds confining the bronzed curls around her classic head. Horace bowed low, and was about ,advancing to greet her more particularly, when Isabelle, perceiving his intention, slid her arm within his, exclaiming, as she did so: "We will dance in the other room, if you please, Mr. Nelson, it is too suffocatingly warm in here ;" and bore him off in triumph, while the paleness increased on Ella's face, until her very lips wore an ashen hue, which her mother, who aj-nded her, perceiving, ex- claimed:  "My gracious, Nelly! how white you do look! I wish to mercies I hadn't let you come. I know'd sornethin'-was the matter of you." Ella, making a violent effort at composure, suc- ceeded sufficiently to reply: "Dear mother! do not speak so loud; see, you are attracting attention. It was but a passing faintness- I'm better now. I think the room is rather close; let me step out on the gallery a moment, and breathe the fresh air, and I shall feel quite restored." "Oh, my lawful sakes alive! not for the world; you'd ketch your death o' cqld. Here-you may set a minit by this ere winder, but mind you git up if you feel chilly." (S   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     49 The fussy, but good-hearted woman seated her in an armchair by an open side-window, which looked out upon a court-yard, ornamented by a fountain playing in a marble basin, surrounded by a bordering of flowers filling the air witlih their dewy fragrance, which the night wind wafted over Ella's pale cheek, refreshing her with the gratetul perfume. And now the maiden awoke to a consciousness of her own feelings, and with it came a galling sense of wounded pride. Had she betrayed herself to Horace Nelson and Isabelle Loring? Did they perceive her agitation, and guess its cause? Oh! she could weep for very shame! Perhaps he was Belle's accepted lover, and if so, how must she appear 'to both? As if in answer to her painful supposition, she overheard a lady remark to another who sat near her: "Have you seen Belle Loring this evening? Does she not look beautiful? It is such a pity she is so conceited. And that young Nelson that is so attentive to her-they say it will be a match one of these days. Well! it's a blessed thing there's somebody found that is good enough for her; he's a match for her in pride, at all events." "I hear he is immensely wealthy; is it so?" asked the lady she addressed. "Yes; that-is, in prospective. He is entirely de- pendent on, the whims and caprices of a gouty old uncle (with whom he is traveling for his health, they are Bostonians), who lays down certain laws which     50     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, -his nephew has to follow implicitly, or be in danger of being disinherited."  What laws could he possibly make tt a yoig man of any spirit would be governed by 'inqufred the second lady.  "Why, one is, as regards his marrying. He is th marry no one that his uncle disapproves of; none but a full-blooded aristocrat, who can trace back her descent to a long line of ancestry. She must be wealthy, accomplished, and beautiful (no mention, has been made of her mdrals), otherwise the fastidious old gehtleman would object to her perpetuating thi race of the Nelsons, and inhriting their greatness." "And is it possible that I young man of Horace Nelson's acquirements would consent to become a puppet, a mere machine in the hands of this old crab- stick, for the sake of his dollars?" asked her listener, in an excited tone, that found its echo in Ella's heart, who listened breathlesvlor the reply. "Wly," continued the narrator, "as yet he has been ' fancy free;' there is no telling the power that love may have over him. He will find it very diffl cult to follow his uncle's dictation, in a country like ours, where few can look back to their great-grand- fathers - where the coat of 'arms of many who roll in their luxurious coaches, would be aptly illustrated by an apple-stand or wash-tub. However, I think he can't be better suited than in the person of Belle Loring, and I presume he thinks so too, if report speaks the truth."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     51 The speakers moved on, leaving Ella a prey to bit- ter thoughts and humiliating reflections. For the first time in her life she experienced a feeling of mortification, when she thought pf her parents, but it was only momentary; the next in. stant her better nature prevailed, and she banished it immediately, exclaiming inwardly- "He is not worthy of a single tear, if such motives can control him." Her wounded pride lending her strength, she mas- tered her emotions by a powerful effort, and rising, took the proffered arm of Edward Loring, who ad-  vanced from the opposite side of the room, whence he had been for some time observing her, yith a gentle- Will you promenade with me, Miss Percival?" Her color rose, and her eyes sparkled in proportion as her excitement increased, and by the time she had reached the end of the drawing-room, her beauty might well bear comparison with the reigniing belle of the season. "How surpassingly lovely!" exclaimed a matron- ly-looking woman, with a sweet countenance, to Horace Nelson, who had just seated Isabelle by her side. Do look, Mr. Nelson, and tell me if you ever saw a sweeter face,?" Mrs. Loring had directed Horace's attention to Ella, who just passed, leaning on the arm of her son.  "A perfect angel!" replied Horace, following Ella     52      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, with admiring eyes, and secretly annoyed to find her engrossed by another, when he was upon the eve of seeking her himself. "Rather a pretty baby face," remarked Belle, in a slightly sneering tone; " but it lacks a certain re- finement of expression, which you often find to be the case in those of low origin!" "Isabelle!" said her mother, in a tone of reproof almost amounting to sternness, while Horace started as if an adder had stung him. My daughter," continued Mrs. Loring, "it pains me to hear you express yourself in this manner, of a warm-hearted, affectionate girl, who is not account- able for what her parents may have been." But the reproof fell upon heedless ears. Isabelle perceived that the arrow had shot home to Horace's sensitive heart, and she determined that the wound should be well probed. "Well, mamma, I'm sure I meant no harm. I only spoke what I thought, and we are all entitled to an opinion. You know, as well as I do, that her father and mother are low, vulgar people, with no education whatever, and children sometimes inherit their parents' traits." "Do look!" she continued, in spite of her mother's frowns and nods, which she pretended not to see, "if there aint Mrs. Percival,/now, in her 'morey-antic,' as she calls it, with a large red rose adorning her gray tresses; and her diamond ear-rings, which she will assure you, ' John paid one thousand dollars for,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     53 good hard silver money. Oh, mercy! she is coming this way; Heaven spare me the infliction! I will leave her to your tender mercies, mamma, well knowing that your heart is ever open to melting charity. Perhaps you will favor Mr. Nelson with an introduction; he is a stranger, you know, and should be shown all the lions. No doubt she will entertain him with an account of her last ' spell o' sickness,' or enter into detail as to the cost of every article of furniture in her house, or some equally instructive subject;" and taking the arm of an attendant cavalier, Belle waved an adieu to Horace, adding, sympathetic- ally--                  "I hope you'll live through it." His feelings it would be difficult to analyze. Could it be possible that the being whom he thought the embodiment of every perfection that adorns her sex, could owe her existence to the broad- faced, coarse, vulgar-looking woman, whom he found Mrs. Loring introducing to him as "Mrs. Percival?" And with a certain re-action of feeling inherent to us all, he knew not whether to laugh or be annoyed, when he heard her exclaim: "Why, bless my soul, Mrs. Loring, I didn't ex- pect to see you here to-night; you didn't tell me nothin' about it, when I seen you this m9rnin'. But I'm mighty glad you're here, anyhow ;xor I was beginnin' to feel orful lonesome like, not havin' any- body to talk to. Nelly, you know, likes to be off with the young folks, and I can't persuade my old man to come along, nohow."     54     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, 'I suppose this isi the young gentleman that I hear is gallantin' Miss Belle?" she added, in a stage whisper; and turning round to Horace, so as to take him in at a glance: "Purty good-lookin' chap," she added, complacently, after she had made the inspec- tion. Horace, catching'Mcrs. Loring's good-natured eye, could not help being amused in spite of himself, and sat down to listen, for' that was all any one could do in Mrs Percival's company. "Lawful sakes!" continued the good lady, grasp- ing Mrs. Loring's arm with one of her fat hands, and squeezing it emphatically; "do look! they are goin' t& dance one o' them ar pokers. Look, now, at this ere couple; puts me in mind of a pair o' oxen held together by a yoke, rarin' and tarin' like mad to break loose; and then findin' it's no use, settlin' theirselves down to a jog-trot, d almost goin' to sleep, 'till somethin' or ruther rouses 'em agin, and they go to plungin' and kickin' like all possessed-puts me in pain to look at 'em. And yander's a chap, swingin' that poor girl's arm up and down, just like it was a pump-handle. Well, I s'pose it's the fashionable way o' dancin', so it's all right." "Did you succeed this morning in the enterprise that called you out?" inquired Mrs. Loring, changing the subject. "Yes, purty well; better anyhow than I expected. I must try and settle that ar business to-morrow. I was tellin' Nelly so this mornin'. Why, bless my   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     55 soul, there's my Nelly now! Seems to me she's lookin' dreadful white agin. I wonder why she don't come over here. Please, sir," turning to Horace, whose cheek seemed to have caught its hue from Ella's, "will you obleege me by goin' and askin' her how she feels? She's not been very smart latterly, and had ruther a faint turn in the early part o' the evenin'." Thus commissioned, Horace approached the recess where Ella sat alone, Edward Loring having left her the moment before, to bring her a glass of water. Scarcely less agitated was he tan the trembling girl before him, who strove in v in to quell the emo- tions that thrilled her whole frame, when he drew near and took the vacant seat beside her. " I am sorry to hear of your indisposition, Miss Percival," said he, struggling for composure, and. as- suming her mother's account to be correct, for he had not the vanity to suppose that he was in the slightest way connected with her ailments. "Your mother (Ella shuddered perceptibly when he named her) has just informed me that your health has been rather impaired of late. She thought you were looking pale, and has appointed me her embassador to inquire if you were worse. Permit me to close the door be- hind you-you are trembling with cold. Oh! you are ill, I fear; tell me what I can do for you?" His tone was wildly excited, and he must have be-. trayed the state of his feelings, had not the guardian spirit of the gouty old uncle, at that moment sent Edward with the glass of water.     56      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, The presence of a third party is a great tranquiliser in-such cases. Ella ventured to raise her eyes for the first time since he had addressed her, to thank him; at the same time adding, she would not trouble him to report the state of her health to her mother, as she felt perfectly able to cross the room for that purpose herself.  She had been dancing, and had grown dizzy-nothing more serious. With a slight inclination of the head she arose, and took Edward's arm, leaving Horace startled and per- plexed at the change ; at the same time struck with the quiet dignity of her manner, while a feeling of respect involuntarily rose in his heart towards her, and he felt, let her birth have been ever so obscure, nature had endowed her with that true nobility, which "Laughs the paltry attributes of rank to scorn." \ *      '       8   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.        57 bHAPTER     VIII. "-  A long, a last farewell we breathe thee now: Pale death has set his signet on thy brow; And in that dreamless cell, Where worn mortality casts off its woes, In blest oblivion of all earthly throes, Where but the lifeless dwell, Thou hast laid down in everlasting rest; Care cannot reach thee now, nor grief distract thy breast." MORTON M'MCHAEL. THE same night that witnessed the scene of revel which we have just described, looked down into the humble chamber where the brother and sister kept faithful watch beside their dying mother's pillow. The sands of life had nearly run their course, and earth's tired pilgrim, closing her weary eyes upon the rooks and shoals that had beset her course through life, saw, glimmering afar off, the angel of mercy- "Like a star on Eternity's ocean," waiting with outstretched arms and tender pitying smile, the hour that would release her immortal spirit from its clayey tenement, to waft it to regions of light, love, and peace. The city clocks chime forth the hour of midnight. The sounds fell with fearful distinctness upon the 4     -158   CARRIE RARRINGTON; OR, ears of the occupants of that quiet room. Each vi- bration told the knell of a departing soWl. All that afternoon she had lain in a kind of lethar. gY, occasionally opening her eyes, an} gazing at her children with a vague, uncertain expression; and closing them again, with a long drawn, quivering sigh, as if the eflbrt to arouse her mental faculties caused her physical pain.  The hope of again beholding her boy had fanned the flickering flame of life, and kept it unextinguish. ed; but now, that that hope had ripened to fulfil- ment the ligatures that bound her heart, relaxed their tension, and nature gave way beneath the re- action. But see-she raises one emaciated hand, with a 'feeble gesture that claims attention. Her children lean over'her with the promptitude of affection, and Carrie bends her ear to catch the sound that is gurgling in her throat, and striving for utterance. Her eyes are open now, and the look of love and pity; mipgled with resignation, with which she regards them, speaks plainly of a soul at peace with its Maker, and whose only earthly care is for the loved ones she, is about to leave. "Speak to me, oh, my mother!" sobbed Carrie "if it is only one word; tell me that you know me, anid bless me with your dying breath." The, effort was very' painful to behAold, but the mother's heart conquered, and for a while the flame burned clear and unwavering.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     59 "My children!" spoke the dying wrman, " come near, very near to me, so that I may look upon you both; for my sight grows dim, and darkness seems to come between me and the sweet facesthat nestled on my bosom in their happy childhood's hour, and have been my stay and comfort in their maturer years." She paused a few moments from exhaustion, and then, laying a trembling hand upon each bent brow, she raised her glazed eyes to Heaven, and murmur- ed- "Oh, my Saviour! look down with pitying eyed of love on these, my treasures! sanctify this afflic- tion to their souls; may it prove the cord that draws them nearer to each other, and to Thee! To Thy care I leave them. Ohi! guide their wandering steps aright, and avert from their innocent heads the pun- ishment of my disobedience; let my death atone for all. My father! my mother! I forgive you both, and waft to you, across the seas, my dying blessing." She ceased, and the convulsive sobs of anguish that broke from the overcharged hearts of those about to become orphans indeed, broke the stillness of the night air, and brought Mrs. Simpson (the woman that occupied part of the house with them) to the door, to see if any change had taken place in the sufferer. As Robert left the bedside to admit her, a slight spasm passed over the invalid, and a fluttering sigh escaped her lips, on which her soul was borne to meet its God!     in' 6Q     CARRIE UARRINGTOw; OR* They both turned quickly, aroused by Carrie's shriek of agony, to find that the gentle spirit had in deed departed, and thl worn-out frame was all that remained, of the patient, long-suffering, and enduring whman. With the ready sympathy of her sex, which be. longs not to pride of place or circumstance, the kind- hearted neighbor endeavored to console the grief. stricken girl, who, though hopeful and brave by nature, bent beneath the shockpf the blow, like a frail reed shaken by the tempest. It is the last drop that overflows the cup, and this was the drop too much in hers; all else she could have borne unrepiningly, so long as it was shared with the tender parent who had been to her, mother, sister, friend  The brother forgot his own grief in endeavoring to soothe the sister's anguish; and obeying a look from Mrs. Simpson, he gently drew her into the next apartment, and closed the door, leaving the kind. hearted woman to perform the last sad offices of friendship.  t tX'0"180^^"1^1^^0^80^1   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     61 CHAPTER IX. "Why did she love her mother so? It has wrought her wondrous woe!" L. E. L. "NELLY, my dear! how do you feel this mornin'? It's no use your sayin' nothin's the matter of you, because I know better. When did you ever want to come home from  a party, or a what d'ye call it, swarrey, as you did last night? It's not nateral for young folks to give up that way. I think I shall have to send for Doctor Manvers if you don't' spunk up soon. P'raps a little walk would do you good. Come, put on your things, and go with mle; I'm goin' to take them ar things and that money to Mrs. Harring- ton. Lawful sakes! I don't know what they'll think of me. I hav'n't been there now for three weeks (tho' I've (ent 'em things to git along with in the time), when I promised to see to it right off; but your comin' home from school, and havin' company, and goin' out, and one thing or ruther, has put it clean out of my head. Poor soul! I 'spect she'll be 'Lazin' glad to think it will be in her power to start for the North, but I feel a kind o' jubus about it. I feel sorry on her purty darter's 'count. I just feel as if I'd like to take her     62     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, home, and make somethin' of her; it would be sort o' pleasant for you, too, to have somebody near your own age with you. Well, now you're all ready, I'll jist git my bonnet, and we'll start. Betsy!" "Ma'am." Tome here, and listen to what I've got to say. Fetch the big markit baskit, and put all them ar pascels you see there in it, and come along with me and Miss Nelly." "Yes, missus." "Don't you be a minit, or I'll pull your wool for you."     . "No, missus; I'se jist waitin' for Aunt Sally to empty de inyuns out de baskit." "Onions in the baskit? Lawful sakes! do you suppose I want to go thro' the streets with such a parfume under my nose? besides, scenting up the poor woman's dry-goods, until she'll think they came from some market-house. Put it down, you dirty trollop, and go up stairs and git my travelin' basket from under my bed, and put the things in that, and come along." Everything arranged satisfactorily, they sallied forth, and bent their steps in the direction of Carrie's abode, little dreaming of the scene of distress that would there present itself. On knocking at the door they were admitted by Mrs. Simpson, who invited them into her own apart- ments, and detailed the sad events of the last four- and-twenty hours: the son's return, and the mother's death, concluding by remarking:   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     63 "As for the poor young girl, I believe she will worry herself into a fit 9f sickness. Not that she makes any fuss, but because she don't do so, I feel frightened. I can't persuade her to leave the corpse a moment, or take any nourishment; and when her brother tries to urge her to take a little rest, she looks so wild at him, and clasps her little hands, as if to beg him not to tear her away, that it would go right straight to your heart to see her." "Oh, lawful sakes alive!" exclaimed Mrs. Per- cival, the large tears coursing each other down her honest cheeks; "why on earth didn't somebody come for me? I wish I'd a know'd it before, I'd a come  if it had been in the dead o' the night. Poor little creetur! how sorry I do feel for her. Come in with me, Nelly," she added, turning to Ella, whose eyes expressed her sympathy; " p'raps you can persuade her to do somethin'; young folks understand each other better than they do old people. Dear heart! how much trouble she has had, to be sure." By this time they had arrived at the part of the house occupied by the Harringtons, where, tapping lightly on the door, they were admitted by Robert into the outer apartment. Mrs. Simpson, with unobtrusive politeness, named Mrs. Percival and her daughter, and then quietly stepped into the next room to prepare Carrie for the visit: Robert placed chairs for them, and turning to the former, frankly extending his hand, while tears of honest gratitude swam in his eyes, exclaimed:     O4'     CARRIE HARRINGT$; OR, "Carrie has already made me acquainted with your goodness, Madam. Accept my warmest thanks for your kindness to my beloved mother, and darling sister." "Oh, my goodness grachus! don't say a word about it, my dear young sir," answered the good lady, getting very red in the face, and squeezing Robert's hand; "a body must be a real live heathen not to be kind to that little sister o' your'n, and she's had so much to go through with, poor thing! I'd no idee matters were as bad as they are now, though; but I'm real glad I brought Nelly along with me, for I want them two to love each other like sisters. I'm goin' to take Carrie home with me; now that she's lost one mother, it won't be my fault if she hasn't found another. I couldn't find it in my heart to send her to the North among them cold-hearted relations o' your'n, and you mustn't insist on it." Robert could not trust himself to speak, his heart was too full for utterance; but he looked from the good mother to the lovely face of the daughter, and thought Carrie would find no difficulty in loving sweet Ella Percival as a sister, and in his heart of hearts wished it might be so. Mrs. Simpson now appeared at the door, and beck- oned Mrs. Percival and Ella to enter, where a sight met their gaze that thrilled their sympathetic natures to the quick. Upon the humble bed, shrouded in the habiliments of the grave, and wrapt in death's icy sleep, lay all   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS. that remained of the once fond parent; while by the bedside, with one arm thrown caressingly around the neck of the corpse, and her fair head pillowed on its bosom, knelt the devoted daughter. She seemed not to remark the entrance of her visitors, but remained in the same position, immovable as marble. "She don't seem to noti 1e anything I've been say- ing," said Mrs. Simpson. ' And just feel how hot her head is, while her hands are as cold as the corpse "Carrie,'" said Mrs. Percival, "don't you know me, dear? Look at me. My lawful sakes! how wild she does look. I don't like it at all; I'm afeard she'll have infermation of the brain. Do, Mrs. Simp- son, call her brother; somethin' must be done for her, and that soon." While her mother was talking, Ella had divested herself of her bonnet and mantle, and stepping softly to the bed, kneeled down by Carrie's side, sliding one arm around her waist, and with the other hand part- ing the sunny hair from the fair brow, and imprint- ing thereon a gentle, loving kiss. The grief-stricken girl started from her recumbent posture, and pushing her violently away, held her at arms length, regarding her a few moments with wildly bright eyes, which gradually softened beneath the mild light which bearned from Ella's face, until, throwing her arms around her neck, she rested her tired head upon her shoulder, exclaiming, as s     -6    CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "Are you an angel sent to take me tomy mother? Oh! I know you are, your eyes are so full of ten. der pity, that you will not let me plead in vain, Take me with you, where I can be at' rest."' Ella, gently raising her drooping form, and mo. tioning the rest not to contradict her, replied: "Yes, you shall go with me. I will not leave you a moment. Rest yourself on me, I will support you; but you must promise to do everything I tell you." "Oh! I will, I will, indeed! Only let me take your hand, and do not lose sight of me; I am so weary, so weary." And she suffered Ella to lead her into the next room, where, seating herself beside her, with her head resting on her bosomn,she closed her eyes, and remained perfectly contented. Ella whispered her mother to send Betsy imnme. diately for a carriage, so that they could remove the young creature while the delusion under which she labored lasted, for fear a reaction should take hplace, and then it might be impossible to get her to leave the house. She evidently was threatened with brain fever, and required prompt medical attendance, and tender, careful nursing, all of which could be better bestowed on her, in their own luxurious home, than here, where comforts were so fev.. Mrs. Percival readily acquiesced in her daughter's plan, thinking it the most feasible, and Robert could not object, for he was almost wildxvith the prospect before him. So Betsy was despatched for the con. veyance, and her mistress added:   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      67 "Run right straight home, as soon as you have told the coachman where to come, and tell Susan to air some sheets, and put 'emr on the bed in the spare chamber next to mine; and tell Ja-e to run for Doc- tor Manvers,and have him there Igin we get home, if possible. Now, run for dear life's sake, and mind you don't forgit one word I've told you, or you'll ketch it." "No, ole missus! I'll be sure to disremember all of it ;" and she started off on her errand, not very much alarmed at her mistress' th4eat, for she had long ago drawn her own conclusions concerning the lady in question, which resulted in the application of the proverb, "Barking dogs never bite." In the interval of waiting for the carriage, Mrs. Peroival inquired into the arrangements for the fu- neral, which was to take place in the afternoon, with- out any parade-a simple conveyance of the inani- mate form, to rest by the side of the husband, who had preceded her so short a time on the long, dark  journey.  Promising to be present, if possible, at the humble obsequies, the kind-hearted woman assisted Ella with her charge into the carriage, which had arrived; and bidding Robert be of good cheer, as his sister should be well cared for, waved him an adieu, promising him a true statement of the physician's opinion of her case when she saw him in the afternoon. True to her' word, after the mother's remains were deposited in their last resting-place, as they were re-     68  - ... CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, turning together in the carriage, she informed him that the Doctor had pronounced it "brain fever," and ordered perfect repose and watchful care; all of which, she assured him, she should receive. "Dear heart!" said she, checking Robert's ex. pressions pf gratitude, "it's no more than I ought to do; I have plenty, and to spare, and I hope I'm a Christian woman, and wouldn't see a poor young creetur like her sufferin' and not lend a helpin' hand. I've got a darter of my own, and how should I feel if she should ever come to want and nobody to see to her! Robert looked very much as if the thought caused a pang in his own heart. "Well, here we are," exclaimed Mrs. Percival, as the carriage drove up to her own residence; "t git out, and come in a minit; I can't let you go into your sister's room, as the Doctor has ordered her kept quiet, and she don't seem to want anybody near her but my Nelly. I'll jist run up stairs and be down agin in a minit. Oh! now I come to think of it, I'll send Betsy." Ringing the bell, and that functionary appearing, she said: "GoQ up sairs, and ask Miss Nelly how the young lady is now Don't make any noise! take them oal-scuttles ff your feet, and don't let me ketch you wearing suoh shoes as that, in the hous3, agin." "Well, ole issus! Aunt Sally puts away my new :shQoeto keep 'em, and makes me wear Jake's ole slip-slops."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     69 "Start off, you minx! on your errand, and don't stand there jabberin' to me." In a few minutes she returned, saying: "Miss Nelly ses as how, ma'am, de young lady is disposin' quietly, and seems declined to be still.". "Oh, you dunder-head! I might a know'd what sort of a message you'd a-brought. Pack off with you, and comb that kinkey head o' your'n, before you come in here agin; it looks as if it was stickin' full o' chestnut burrs. I suppose Carrie is doing as well as we can expect," she added, turning to Robert; "and now let me know what your prospects are? I don't mean to be curious, but, somehow, I take an interest in you both, and want to know all about you." "You have a perfect right, my dear madam, to demand it of me, and I will inform you as briefly as possible ;" and seating himself by her side, he unfold- ed to her his plans, which we will give the reader in another chapter.      70      CARRIE HARRINGTON  OR, CHAPTER X. "'See him luxurious, In costly attire; Crowned with all honors, E'en he can desire. Haughty in bearing To the lowly and poor; Smilingly welcoming Rank to his door." MRS. E. F. EVANS. IN one of the private parlors of the St. Charles Hotel sat two gentlemen, engaged in an interesting conver- sation, if one might judge from the eager, excited countenance of the younger, whose earnest remarks were listened to with profound attention, mingled with haughty determination, by his aged companion, whose head the snows of eighty winters had frosted to their own hue, but had not quenched the indomita- bie pride whose sway had steeled his heart to the pleadings of- affection, and ruled with a rod of iron every action of his life. I tell you, Horace," he said, in reply to some- thing the other had been urging, " it is of no earthly use; on this subject I am immovable as the granite rock. It was not for this that I took you to my bosom, educated and reared you as my own child,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     71 when those who should have occupied your place were turned adrift. I repeat what I have just said- no huckster's daughter, wore she an angel's form, shall ever inherit my name or possessions ;" and he brought his harid down with so mech emphasis upon the evening paper that rested onehis knee, that it caused a twinge in his gouty foot, by no means soothing to the ruffled state of his temper. Revoke your decree, dear uncle," expostulated the young man. "My chief study has ever been to consult your wishes in all things, since the day youi took me, friendless and orphaned, to your home; and now, the dearest wish of my heart is, to meet your approbation. I have not attempted to deceive you, nor have I made the slightest advances to the fair girl in question, that could be misconstrued into attentions. This I determined not to do, until I had consulted you; respecting you too much to act in opposition to your wishes. Although my heart pleaded loudly, I stifled its fond yearnings, well knowing your opinion as regarded my forming a matrimonial connection. All I ask of you is to see Ella Percival before irrevocably sealing my doom. Hers is a beauty that would adorn any rank in life; and as for wealth, her dower will be princely! It is true, I do not know whether my suit would be favorably received; but oh! be generous, and let my doom come from her lips, not yours. From what I have seen of her, I m confident she would reject my hand with disdain, if unaccompanied by your sanc- tion."     712     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, The face of the proud old man grew perfectly purple with rage. Every hair quivered with indigna- tion, while the insulted blood of the Nelsons rushed with such choleric haste through his veins, as to almost threaten apoplexy. 4' Hot-headed boy!" he exclaimed, as soon as he found breath. "Do you still persist in urging this most preposterous request? Think you I am to be braved in tiisamanner? You should know me bet- ter. Now, listen attentively to what I am about to relate, and treasure it in your memory, for you will learn by it, that what I determine on, I execute. I reared one fair blossom, the child of my youthful love. Dearer was she to my heart than all my countless wealth. Tenderly nurtured and cared for, the slightest wish of her heart was law to me. No expense was spared in her education, to make her all that even I couldc desire. I had often wished for a son, to perpetuate my name and race; but as this was denied me, I determined that if my daughter married her equal in life-onewhose rank and sta-. tion corresponded with her own-that the family wealth should revert to them, on condition that the family name should accompany it." Failing in this (the bnly return I ever asked for all my care), if she wedded contrary to my wishes, beggary should be her portion, and depart! should be the word, although I tore my heart strings out, to pronounce it. She threw the gauntlet of defiance in my face, and mar- ried a beggar! Since6 then I have known her not;   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     73 and although her mother beseeched me on her dying bed to find her, and forgive her, there, in the face of death, I set my clinched teeth, and swore a solemn oath, never to take to my bosom the child who could laugh my authority to scorn! Now, hear me out; I see you are impatient, but don't interrupt me. I wish you to weigh well every word I utter, for they are the last I shall speak on this subject; and you can form your own conclusions as to the course of conduct to be pursued by you, for I shall religiously comply with my part of the compact. You are the only child of my youngest brother, who, were he alive now, would be the age of my own child. Dying, he bequeathed you to me, to rear as my own, and have unlimited control over, as there was no mother to dispute it with me, she having expired eight years before, in giving you birth. I accepted the trust, determining to realize in your person the treasured schemes of my youth. Think you now, that if I could put from my bosom and hearth, for thwarting my plans, the cherished child of my youth- ful affections, I could not discard you?-You, whom I have taken from poverty-who, but for me, would have been raised in an almshouse! Oh! keep your indignant blood from rushing with such hot haste to your brow; you do not like the picture, I see. Truths are unpleasant things, yet, nevertheless, they must be spoken sometimes. Now, hear my conclu- sion. If you wish to return to the beggary that is. justly your birthright, go wed the low-born puppet     - 74    CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, that has enthralled your heart; that is, if she will condescend to accept the hand of a descendant of one of the oldest families in the land, who will bring as a dower-his father's empty rent-roll, and a name, which has shone untarnished for ages, until he sees fit to, dim its lustre by linking it with the low-born. You know the terms a compliance with my wishes insure you; and now we will drop the subject." Horace seized his hat, and hastily left the apart- ment; while his uncle, with the aid of a crutch, that leaned against a table near by, hobbled to a owindow, and gazed out upon the crowded street.  What strange emotion stirs the depth of the old man's heart? It cannot be the contemplation of the 'qusylmass, hurrying to and fro, and jostling each other on the sidewalk? There is nothing in the everyday matter-of-fact bustle going on beneath him, to cause his nerves to thrill with terror, and a nameless dread of something vague, undefined, to creep through his veins, curdling his blood, and shivering his very heart-strings. He cannot account for it himself, unless the ex- citement he has just passed through has been too much for him. He closes his eyes for a moment, passing his trem- bling hand across his brww, and when he opens them again, perceives an humble funeral slowly wending its way through the lines of carriages, omnibuses, drays, carts, and vehicles of every description, that throng this crowded thoroughfare.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      75 Why starts he so? His gaze seems riveted with a sort of fascination upon the unpretending hearse and plain coffin. What can interest the proud man so, in the last tokens of respect paid to the child of want?  He cannot tell; but as he gazes, a gentler feeling takes possession of his heart. His memory reverts to by-gone days and scenes, and reminds him of a sunny-haired little one, with outstretched arms, springing to his knee for the accustomed kiss, and of a little dimpled hand, slid coaxingly into his own, when he would put on his hat for an, evening stroll through the grounds of his far off northern home. A large tear-the first for many a day-rolled down his cheek,. and warned him of the shade of weakness passing over his soul. He dashed it aside, with an impatient, pshaw! I believe I am getting childish; and turning to the bell, he rang it furious- ly, when, his own servant appearing to answer the summons, he exclaimed: ( Bring me a toddy, James, and assist me to my chamber; I feel fatigued, and will take a little re- pose." Repose! Could the unnatural father lay his head on his pillow, and sleep the sleep of the innocent? Well might his nerves quake, and his heart tremble with a nameless dread-the foreshadowing of greater terrors. Could he but have lifted the dark pall, and looked upon the sheeted dead, conscience would have asserted her reign, and remorse have filled his soul with agony.     76      CARRIE HARRI OTON; ORt CHAPTER XI. "The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, Grapple them to thy soul with hooks of steel!" SHAKSPEARE. WE left Robert about to enter into explanations with Mrs. Percival as regarded his resources and plans for Carrie's future welfare. After that lady had settled herself in a large rocking-chair, and, to use her own words, "' made herself comfortable," he commenced as follows: "My sister has already given you our history, and it is unnecessary for me to recapitulate. I have no means, save those derived from my occupation. I have been appointed first officer of my ship, and hope, by application and energy, to arrive at the highest post of distinction. My sister is all I have in the world to care for now, and my last coin shall be shared with her. My only uneasiness is to leave her, which I shall have. to do. You hlave drawn a true picture, madam, of my mother's relatives. I cannot bear the idea of applying to them on Carrie's behalf-for, a refusal I could not brook; and I have no reason to suppose they would lend a friendly ear to our suit, when they so long spurned my poor mother's advances with disdain. Neither do I like   SCENES UT NEW-OERLEANS.     " the thought of leaving her dependent on strangers. I will name a plan which I have hastily formed as regards her, and will adopt it if it meets your appro- bation. I would like to place her in some quiet family, where a moderate allowance would compen- sate for her board, which I would pay in advance, as far as my means permit, with the understand- ing, that on the return of my ship I will defray any extra expenses which may have been incurred for, or by her. This is all I can at present think of; but if you have anything to suggest that appears more feasible, you will confer a favor by naming it." "Lawful sakes alive! my dear boy (excuse me for calling you so, but I'm old enough to be your mother), when I asked you to tell me your prospects, I wasn't thinkin' nothin' about Carrie, I mean to keep her myself. I wanted to know about your af. fairs, because I thought my old man might be able to help you along-he's 'quainted with a good many ship-owners, and if he could do anything for you I'm sure he'd be more than willin'." "( Oh! my dear lady," said Robert, " you have al. ready laid me under more obligations than it ever will be in my power to repay, I fear. Do not mis. understand me, or think me ungrateful, if my pride will not permit me to leave my sister entirely de- pendent on your bounty." "Don't talk to me about pride," said she, in rather an excited tone; "it was your grandfather's pride that broke your poor mother's heart. Do you sup-     -78     CARRIE HARRINGTON; .OR, pose I'm goin' to let that poor little sister o' your'n be knocked about from post to pillar, while you are leading a dog's life on board a ship to support her? If I'm any judge, she'd have too much pride for that, and the right sort o' pride, too. Not that I blame you for feelin' as you do about it," she added, soft. ening her tone a little, for she saw that Robert looked hurt; " it's nateral enough that you should want to take care of her yourself, if you only had the means; but as you hav'n't, you hadn't oughter object to others doin' for her that has, and is, willin'." "Believe me, madam," said Robert, deeply moved by her kindness, "I feel the truth of all you have uttered. I admire your generosity, and respect you for the courage and simple candor with which you have set my fault before me. I feel, indeed, that I have no right to interfere with Carrieis prospects, when I am so powerless to act for her. I resign her freely to your care, with the promise that when I am in circumstances to warrant it, I will release you of your charge, although the debt of gratitude I shall incur by so doing can never be canceled," "Well, well," said Mrs. Percival, "now that's settled, we'll talk about yourself. You hav'n't told me whether my husband could be of any use to you. And, by-the-by, now I come to think of it, I 'spect he's somewhere about the house, and I hav'n't thought to make you 'quainted; I believe I'm gittin' a little cracked in my upper story; jist excuse me a minit while I go find him, and then you men folks can . e   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     79 settle the business after your own fashion. There's some picter's o' Nelly's, or ' skitches,i she calls 'em, in that arpotfully, that'll amuse you 'till I git back." Leaving Robert, she went in search of her hus- band; and not finding him in any of the chambers, dining-room, or library, she inquired of Betsy if he had gone out? "Oh, Lord a massy! no, ole missus; he's out in de stable, lookin' at de new carrige which cum'd while you was gone to de poor lady's funel. My gemini! ain't it mighty fine? I 'spects we wont none of us walk any more. Mas'r says, as how, old uncle Silas 'ill do to stan' up behind, 'cause he's lame, and ain't no account for anything else." "Your master must be crazy! I wonder if he thinks I'm goin' to have that old hop-and-go-forward ridin' round the streets after me! Lawful sakes alive! it would take him a month o' Sundays to git down to open the door. And then to think o' that limpin' Lazarus with a gold band around his hat!" "He-he-he!" laughed Betsy; "he'd look jist like de 'rang-a-tang dat I see'd onst at Dan Rice's?' "Nobody wants your opinion, minx! Go and set the tea-table, and put on an extrey plate for the young gentleman." "What kinder plate is dat, ole missus? Is it one o' dem you bied de odder day, wid de blue and goold figers sot in dem? I tought Aunt Sally called 'em 'nameled." "I mean, put one more plate on the table, you     80     CARRIE HARRIGTTON; OR, simpleton! Nobody 'll never beat sense into your cocoa-nut ;" and with this sage remark she wended her way to the stable, to interest her husband ini Robert's affairs, and at the same time inspect the new vehicle. .2  ,    SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.       81 CHAPTER XII. "Never did her bright influence touch My soul into its depths so far; And had that vision lingered there One minute more, 1 should have flown, Forgetful who I was, and where, And, at her feet in worship thrown, Proffered my soul through life her own." MOORE. THE drawing-rooms at Judge Loring's are thrown open for the reception of company. A music mania has taken possession of the fashionables, and Isabelle, as leader of the ton, must affect a passion for the divine art, or be thought wanting in taste.  Conse- quently, her cards are issued every fortnight for her five hundred dear friends to attend her soirees-musi- cale, and bear the infliction of an amateur perform- ance of ' Robert le Diable," executed by a precocious Miss in her teens, whose voluminous bandeaux en- tirely conceal her phrenological developments, and serve to balance her lower extremities with their sur- roundings of hoops and flounces; or else, to endure the. excruciating agony of hearing "Casta Diva" screamed forth by an antiquated piece of virginity in tarlatan and rose-buds, until their blood runs shiver- ing through their veins, while their emotions pass current with the crowd for admiration and ecstacy. 5     82   ;  CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, On this particular evening Isabelle anticipates a great triumph over those of her female friends, who emulate ler in the desire to number among their guests persons of known celebrity in musical acquire- ments. Her invitation has been accepted by the lion-or, perhaps, I should say lioness--of the day, and her company's ears are to be ravished by the brilliant cavatinas and arias that issue from her bird- like throat, in "Notes of lingering sweetness long drawn out." It is only the privileged few that can boast of the honor of an acceptance from the renowned Miss Blinder, out of the thousand and one billets that flow in upon her from all quarters. She well understands the meaning of the proverb, "Too much familiarity breeds contempt," and so is chary of her favors. It is a feather in Isabelle's cap to haw secured her va- luable Services to lend an eclat to her entertainment; and as her chief end and aim for the present is to appear very exclusive in the eyes of the Hon. Robert Nelson and nephew, cards have been sent to their hotel, soliciting their presence on this important oc- casion. Much to Isabelle's annoyance, her mother insisted on her inviting the Percivals, together with their young guest, Miss Harrington, whose sad history excited that lady's warmest sympathies, and elicited a prompt show of kindness and attention from the true woman, the warm currents of whose heart the   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      83 conventionalities of rank and station had not frozen, or chilled with indifference to another's suffering. We will not say whether the persuasions of her son had any weight with her; or whether sympathy for mankind in general, or womankind in particular, had called forth the warm interest Edward Loring exhibited towards the fair stranger, from the moment he beheld her, which happened one evening, during the first few days of Carrie's convalescence, when Mrs. Loring, wishing to inquire for the invalid, took her son as an escort to the mansion of the Percivals, where the fair vision broke upon his enraptured gaze- "New, as if brought from other spheres," Yet welcome, as if loved for-years."  Edward Loring resembled his mother, not only in personal appearance, but also in'mental and moral qualities. Pride formed no part or parcel of his character, except the honest pride which scorned an unworthy act. Reared in affluence, and surrounded by luxuries; courted and flattered abroad, and idolised at home, a less noble nature would have become perverted, and principles and errors imbibed, which would have left their stamp through life. But there are some spirits who walk the earth, over whom circumstances have no control; prosperity cannot elevate, or ad- versity depress; but to use the words of one df Eng- land's sweetest songstresses, in describing such a one-     84      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "' No haughty gesture marks his gait, no pompous tone his word, No studied attitude is seen, no palling nonsense heard;  He'll suit his bearing to the hour-laugh, listen, learn, or teach, With joyous freedom in his mirth, and candor in his speech; He wounds no breast with jeer or jest, yet bears nohoneyed tongue- He's social with the grey-haired one, and merry with the young; He gravely shares the council speech, or joins the rustic game, And shines as Nature's gentleman, in every place the same." But the guests are beginning to arrive.  Carriage after carriage deposit their well-dressed occupants at the door, where a groom in waiting, after leaving the gentlemen's hats and cloaks in an ante-room, usher their respective owners to the drawing-room door, there to be received by Edward, who does the honors on this occasion to the gentlemen, while Isa- belle's own maid attends the ladies to the boudoir above, to dispose of their wrappings, and re-arrange their coiffeurs, before descending to the drawing- room, where their young hostess waits to receive them, naming them as they enter. The rooms are about half filled, when Isabelle's attention is directed to the hall door, where a slight bustle announces an arrival, and her heart throbs with gratified vanity when she perceives Horace Nelson advancing through the passage, and support- ing an elderly gentleman, rather portly in his dimen- sions, of florid complexion and frosty locks, which alone gave evidence of his extreme age, for the fire still burned in his dark eye, and but for the gout, which compelled him to use a cane and his nephew's v   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     85 arm for support, his figure would have been erect an commanding. "' My uncle, Miss Loring-Mr. Edward Loring," said Horace, introducing him. Isabelle's cheelk crimsoned, and her eye sparkled, as the gentleman took her proffered hand, and bow- ing low upon it, with all the politeness of the old school, expressed his delight at making her acquaint- ance; adding, that he seldom went into company, but on this occasion had ventured to disobey his phy- sician's commands, for the purpose of becoming known to herself and family. Our proud beauty felt conscious that Horace's eyes were fixed on her during this spe3ch, and not wish- ing to betray how much she was gratified, she merely bowed a reply, and turning to her brother, requested him to find seats for their friends;' other guests arriving claimed her attention, and enabled her to regain her composure. Horace is somewhat changed since we last saw him. An anxiousr^arc-worn expression has settled upon his handsome features. His heart is wavering between love and pride, duty and affection. He has not seen Ella Percival since the day on which we recorded the conversation between himself and uncle- In vain has he frequented places of amusement, theatres, balls, operas and routs, in hopes of catch- ing a passing glimpse of the sweet face that fills his waking thoughts, and haunts his midnight dreams. In the meantime, Isabelle has used her softest rev     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, blindishments to inthral him: ungenerously con- ealing her knowledge of the cause of Ella's seclu- sion, attributing it to ignorance of the usages of society, diffidence, and mauvais-honte. His uncle has heard of the Lorings, and urged the suit in that quarter, vehemently, and Horace knew how much he was in earnest, when he proposed ac- companying him this'evening, in order to make their acquaintance. He felt it was useless to plead with the stern old man, who never retracted anything he once said; and, as regarded Ella's sentiments towards himself, he hadno right to suppose they were any thing else but those of indifference. And now the struggle in his own mind was, could he in honor pro- pose to Isabelle, whose partiality for himself was evi- dent, when another's image filled his every thought? After introducing his uncle to Mrs. Loring and the Judge, and leaving him comfortably ensconced on the sofa between them, he listlessly crossed the room,- and taking a chair in one of the window recesses, became lost in thought; so much so, that he heeded not the voice of Isabelle, as, in a slightly elevated tone, she announced "Miss Blinder," and the buzz that went round the room as that young lady swept through the apartment, attended by three or four ex- quisites, in white vests and gloves, with fierce-look- ing shirt collars and mustaches. The excitement had scarce subsided, and the mur- mur died away, like the lull in a tempest, when Isa- belle's voice is again heard; but now there is chagrin   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      87 in its tone, which she in vain endeavors to subdue, as she announces: "Mrs. and Miss Percival-Miss Harrington!" Horace's ears are keenly alive now, and Isabelle has the mortification of seeing him spring to his feet, his whole face flooded with joy unutterable, and ad- vance to the centre of the apartment, extending an arm to each of the former ladies to conduct them to seats, while Edward took charge of the latter. Wildly did our little Ella's heart beat when she felt her hand resting on Horace Nelson's arm; and her eyes sank beneath the tender gaze of his own, as he inquired, in a voice meant to be polite only, but which, unconsciously to himself, thrilled with tender- ness: "Where on earth have you buried yourself, Miss Percival? It is an age since I last saw you." Ella ventured to raise her eyes timidly, replying in a low tone, for fear Carrie should overhear her: "Do you not know I have had a sick friend at home, whom I could not leave a moment?" "I was unaware of the fact," said Horace, feel- ingly. "I should have called ere this, to inquire for your health, if I had not feared intruding," he added, hesitatingly, for he felt secretly annoyed to think he had never been requested to do so. Ella's heart bounded at his tone, and for a moment she regretted she had treated him so distantly at their last meeting; but the conversation she had overheard recurred to her in time to prevent any show of emo- tion; so she replied politely: /     88     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "A call from an acquaintance can never be looked upon as an intrusion. I am always most happy'to see my friends." Her manner was so full of quiet dignity, and her tone so lady-like% and gentle, that, Horace was com- pletely deceived, ;and he felt that in her eyes he was nothing more-than a common acquaintance. This, instead of crushing his passion, only served to in- crease it, as is generally the case when- a thing seems beyond our rqach we are more eager to possess it. Wealth, rank, station, what were they compared to the love of the gentle being by his side, in the hope of gaining whom he felt he could resign them all. Pride was fast tottering from its stronghold in his heart, and love gaining the mastery, when he was rudely shocked from his dream, and awakened to sober reality, by the voice of Mrs. Percival exclaim- ing:  "Oh, lawful sakes -alive! Nelly, my dear, change seats with Cartie; don't let her set there, with her back to that a open winder, and she jist got over sich a spell o' ksickness. The first thing you know she'll be havin' the rhumatics or the ager; them ar fevers she's had is hard gittin' rid of." What a death-blow to romance! How could he ever endure the mother's vulgarity? -Or even if,he were disposed to endure it, for the daughter's sake, he could never hope to reconcile his uncle to the alliance. And pride for the moment ruled supreme again.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     89 a Bowing to the ladies, whom he had seated com- fortably, he crossed the room to where his uncle now sat alone, and took the vacant seat beside him on the sofa. He thought, as he looked at the old rlan, that his rubicund visage had lost a shade or two of its accustomed glow, and a wild expression shot in fitful glances from his eyes, which were riveted on the party Horace had just left.  "Do you find'anything to amuse you, sir?" in- quired his nephew, with a view to arouse him, and find out, if possible, the subject of his reveries. "Who is she?" he exclaimed, without heeding the question, and grasping Horace tightly by the, arm. "Tell me her name, and where she came from." "My dear uncle! what means this excitement? Pray compose yourself, and explain." "The girl, the one in black, how like-oh! how like my Clara at her age!" he replied, in a softened tone. "I am unacquainted with the young lady," said his nephew, "but will ascertain her name in a few moments. She is a stranger, I believe, as well as ourselves, as I have never before met her in societ." "I saw you engaged in conversation with her party a moment ago," said the old man, still holding him tightly by the arm. "Yes," said Horace, hesitatingly, the color stealing to his temples, while his uncle regarded him keenly; "I am slightly acquainted with the ladies who ac- 5*     90      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, companied her, at whose house I believe she is stay- ing; but I was not introduced, and did not hear her name when it was announced. If you will release me, sir, I will make the necessary inquiries, and en. deavor to gratify your curiosity." "Stay," said he, his tone changing to one of stern resolution; t I have a faint suspicion as to who those ladies may be, and if it is a correct one, you need not trouble yourself to make the inquiry. Pray, am I right in my conjecture that the automaton in blue gauze, with the brown ringlets, is the pretty doll you have prated so much about?" Horace was stung to the quick by the sneering tone in which the question was asked. His love for Ella rushed back with full force, and, straightening his symmetrical figure proudly, some of his uncle's own fire flashed from his eyes, as he replied: "The young lady to whom you allude, sir, is Miss Ella Percival, the embodiment, in my eyes, of all that is refined, womanly, lovable!" "Pshaw! fudge! nonsense!" exclaimed the iras- cible old man. "But go your own way-go your own way; you know the penalty." "This is not a proper time or place for disputa- tions," said Horace, ii a lower tone, " therefore I will change my seat, as I perceive we are attracting at- tention. Miss Loring," said he, turning to Isabelle, who, released from duty, was approaching the spot where they sat, " suffer me to -resign my place-on the sofa to you, and with it the charge of entertain-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     91 ing my uncle. I hope you will succeed better than I have. There was irony in his tone, and defiance in his glance, as, handing Isabelle to the seat he had vaca- ted, he passed into the next apartment, leaving his uncle blank with astonishment this independence- this being the first time he had ever shown any-and Isabelle secretly annoyed at his desertion, at the moment she had hoped to enchain him. However, the time was propitious to make a good impression on the uncle; so she set herself assiduously to work fr that purpose. How far she succeeded, future events will, show. The music-room opened from the drawing-room back, and thither the crowd'were wending their way, as Miss Blinder was to favor them with a morceau from "Linda di Chamouni."  Horace found him- self borne along with the current, and fate willed it he should find a seat by the side of Mrs. Percival, much to that lady's satisfaction, for she liked to have some one near on whom to vent her ideas. "Here!" she exclaimed, twitching him by the coat,  set yourself right down here alongside o' me. Nelly -and Carrie like to git close up to the pianny, but for my part, I'd ruther be a leetle fur- ther off. Lawful sakes! do look at them creeturs with all that hair round their mouths! How in the name of goodness do they manage to eat soup? Must have a orful greasy time of it. Oh! for the land sake! is thi the lady that's goin' to sing?     92     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, Well, I do declare! if that chap that's handin' her to the pianny ain't bowin' and scrapin' like a French dancin' master.' He'll break his back if he don't take care." "I believe Miss Blinder has obtained some cele- brity among your lady amateurs?" said Horace. I hear her talents are of the highest order." "I don't know anything about her talons, but she's got mouth enough, if that's all that's wantin' to make a noise with. But I s'pose I mus'nt set here jabberin' away; 'taint perlite, though I allers notice when a lady's asked to sing, the minit she begins everybody sets'to tlkin', just as if they asked her on purpose to give them a oppertunity." Horace thought there was more truth than poetry in the remark, and it had the effect of causing him  to lend an attentive ear to the performance. At its close, a burst of applause broke from the assembled company, not ten of whom understood or appreciated a given note; but it was fashionable to be charmed with the style in which it was given, and that was sufficient. The ladies rolled their eyes, and exclaimed -"charming," "divine," and the whiskered dons ta  d their thumb-nails together, by way of express- in d mb admiration, and looked and sighed unut- terable things, while the showily dressed piece of anatomy rose languidly from the instrument, as if overcome by the exertion she had been making. A dozen arms were offered for her support, and she   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     93 swept back to the drawing-room, followed by her train of satellites. "Oh! good grachus! I'm mighty glad she's done," said Mrs. Percival, drawing a long breath, and fan- ning herself; "I should think -she'd be 'rnazin' tired in the back, settin', as she does, so far back from the pianny, and tossin' herself about like a ship at sea. One minit up in the clouds, makin' a noise like a screech owl, and the next, down in the hollow, growlin' like a bear! Well, it may suit some folks; but although I say it that shouldn't, I'd ruther hear my Nelly sing one of her songs, without any parade about it, than listen to that yellin' fifty times over." "Do you think," said Horace, " that Miss Perci- val will favor us with one of the sweet songs you speak of?" ( Well, I don't know whether she will or not. She don't like to sing before so many' people, and jist after this grand display she may feel less willin' than ever. But you can ask her; there she sits over in that corner." Horace approached the snug retreat that the two girls had chosen, in the embrasure of a window that opened on the garden. The night was mild and balmy, and the rounded moon hung high in the heavens, flooding all things with its silvery light. The peacefil calm without contrasted strangely with the noise and glare within, and the contemplation of it attuned the heart to thoughts of tenderness and love.     "     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, It was well for Ella that Carrie was with her as Horace drew near, for strive as she would, she could not conquer the emotion his presence caused her; and a tete-a-tete was of all things what she most dreaded. "I have come to make a request of you, Miss Perci- val," said Horace, taking a chair beside her; "I hope you will not have the cruelty to refuse me." "That depends upon what it is," said Ella, an- swering his look of admiration with a sweet smile, which she could not repress; " but permit me to in- troduce my friend-Miss Harrington, Mr. Nelson." Horace bowed respectfully, while Carrie returning his salutation, regarded him with an inquiring look, for Nelson was her mother's name before marriage, and she had heard that he was a Bostonian; besides which, she fancied she saw a resemblance to her brother Robert. Horace, on his part, remembering his uncle's agi- tation on seeing her, looked at her with interest, and came to the conclusion that, if his cousin Clara, in her youth, at all resembled the fair being before him, his uncle's heart must have been made of stone, to put her from him. Ella interrupted his revery by remarking, in a gentle tone, ' You have not proffered your request yet, Mr. Nelson." "Excuse me," said Horace, starting; "I have been very remiss, and I am sure you will think so, when you hear that I have come to ask you for a   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      95 song. I scarcely deserve it now for being so dilatory; but pray don't refuse me, as your mother has raised my expectations to the highest pitch." "Really you must excuse me," said Ella, looking embarrassed. "I am not in the habit of foolishly refusing when asked to sing, bil am unaccustomed to such public displays."  "The room is nearly empty," said Horace, looking around; " most of the company have gone to the re- freshment-room. You could not have a better oppor- tunity." Do Do, Ella," said Carrie, " sing that little evening hymn that had such a soothing effect 'on me during my weary hours of sickness." "Do oblige us, Miss Perc'/al," said Horace; "it will be such a relief after the hackneyed operatic agonies one is doomed to endure, go where he will. Suffer me to lead you to the instrument." Thus urged, Ella accepted his arm, and seating herself at the piano, after running over a soft pre- lude in a voice of liquid harmony, which touched the hearts of her listeners and awoke the angel with- in them, sang the following Vesper Hymn: Garish day hath sunk to rest, With a sigh! Softly glows the crimson west, Night is nigh! Hark! the chime-the silvery chime, Breaks upon the twilight dim; 'Tis the quiet even-time- 'Tis the holy vesper hymn!     96       CARRIE HARRINOTON; OR, Soft and low the music swells On the ear! As ye list those evening bells, Kneel in prayer! As the chime-the silvery chime, Steals upon the twilight dim; Lift your thoughts above all time- Breathe a holy vesper hymn! Let all jarring discords cease In the breast; Let the messenger of peace There find rest! While the chime-the holy chime, Floats upon the twilight dim, Let your heart, discarding time, Breathe to Heaven it's vesper hymn! The pathos with which this was sung, and the soft melody so adapted to the words, thrilled Horace with emotions strange and new. A holier, better feeling took possession of his heart than had ever been there before.  He gazed upon the fair girl be- fore him with a feeling almost approaching venera- tion, and acknowledged to himself that she, and she alone, could call forth his better nature. Never would he sacrifice upon the shrine of ambition the holy sen- timent she had inspired him with. This feeling lent a peculiar tenderness to his tone and looks, as, offering his arm to her as she rose, e simply thanked her for the pleasure she had given him.  He could not bring his tongue to utter one common-place compliment; he felt it would almost be an insult.  But there is a sort of mesmeric in.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      97 fluence in love, and Ella's heart bounded as she caught the expression of his eye, and in it read his soul. "Will you go to the refreshment-room," said he. "I perceive Mr. Edward Loring has appropriated your fair friend; suppose we follow them?" "I have no objection," said Ella; for, in spite of her resolution to be coldly polite, her heart pleaded too loudly in his favor. "By-the-by," said Horace, as they passed through the hall, "I hope you will not deem me impertinently curious, but we Yankees you know are proverbially inquisitive; I want you to tell me who this Miss Har- rington is.. I have never met her before, I believe, and I wonder that so fair a flower should so long have remained in obscurity." "Her history is a very sad one," said Ella, "but rather too lengthy to be entered into here. She has been very ill lately, and the loss of her mother, who died about three months since, weighs painfully upon her spirits. We intend taking her into company, to dissipate, if possible, the glqoin which the sad event, combined with other misfortunes, has cast over her." "'You have quite interested me in her," said Horace. "So young and beautiful to have had trouble! Her air and bearing bespeak her of gentle-birth."' "She is," said Ella; a slight coldness creeping into her tone, and a flush'mantling her cheek. "She has descended from one of the most aristocrato fa- milies in the land, but- ' It's not in titles nor in rank'     98     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, always to confer happiness. Their pride has been the cause of all her sufferings. However, her his- tory for the present is private. Suffice it to say, her sorrows are not of her own making; and her mis- fortunes, when they become known, will insure her ready sympathy from all persons of right feeling." Horace felt the rebuke so gently-conveyed, and could have bitten his tongue off for alluding to pride of birth at all; but he endeavored to do away with the impression he had made by redoubling his atten- tions.  Just as they reached the door of the refreshment- room, Isabella Loring issued thence. She recoiled a istep or two when she perceived Horace's oompanion, and the malignant scowl that crossed her handsome face was almost fiend-like in its expression. Con- quering herself as well as she was able, she bowed to her guests, and inviting them to enter, remarked to Horace: "I have been looking for you, Mr. Nelson. Your uncle has been inquiring for you; he feels disposed to beat a retreat, as he says he is unaccustomed to late hours. You will find my brother in the refresh- ment-room; I have no doubt he will relieve you of the charge of Miss Percival," and she passed on. Horace paused a moment, irresolute; then making up his mind as to the course he should pursue, con- ducted Ella to the side of her friend and Edward; and, excusing himself for a few moments, saying, as his uncle was an invalid, he presumed he felt fatigued, he would call his carriage, 'and then return to her.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     99 When he reached the drawing-room he found Isa- belle in close conversation with the old gentleman, who perceived his nephew advancing, with ill-sup- pressed rage depicted on his fiery visage. "Well, sir!" said he, addressing Horace, "I pre- sume you have been well entertained somewhere. Had it not been for this young lady, I should have passed an irksome time of it." "Well, uncle, I knew I left you in good hands when I consigned you to Miss Loring. She has my thanks for the ability with which she discharged the office. Shall I call your carriage, sir?" "Yes, instantly," he growled; "and I wish you to accompany me home." "Excuse me, sir," said Horace; "I have an en- gagement with a lady, and could not leave at this moment, without extreme rudeness." The old man looked thunder-struck! Could he be- lieve his own ears? Was it possible his nephew would dare disobey him, and refuse his request, which was tantamount to a command? He perceived there was rebellion in the camp, and his authority must be en- forced, or his power would cease. "I command you, sir, instantly to accompany me home, on pain of my displeasure." "Much as I should regret calling it forth, sir," said Horace, who saw that tnow was the moment to assert his independlence, if ever, "I cannot in honor act otherwise than I do. Excuse mie, I will order the carriage." And, bowing, respectfully, he left him.     100     CARRIE HARRINGTON ; OR The old man sat a few moments foaming and pur- ple with rage; then he muttered half aloud: "Egad! he's got some of the family spirit, when I never thought he had an ounce of it.. But we shall see, we shall see how it will end. I'm not to be thwarted by a beardless boy." His servant appearing at the moment to assist him, he bid Belle good-night warmly, left his respects for her mother and father, and hobbled off to his car- riage, "Nursing his wrath to keep it warm." Meanwhile Horace rejoined the party in the sup- per-room, and there found Mrs. Percival urging her charges to retire, as late hours were not exactly the thing for Carrie in her weak state. Ella had made some trifling excuses to detain them, in order to see if Horace would keep his word; and fortunate was it for him that he did so, as it proved to her he was not exactly the brow-beaten individual report had made him. "I hope your wants have been attended to in my unavoidable absence," said he, extending his arm as she rose from the table. She replied in the affirmative, taking his proffered arm with a. beaming smile, which so repaid him for the sacrifice he had made for her, that he could not help slightly pressing the little hand that lay so con- fidingly on his arm. "Not that way," said Mrs. Percival, as he led off towards the drawing-room; "I'm goin' right straight   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     101 home. I can't let this little sick bird of mine stay out any later. She'll be ketchin' cold, and be flat on her back agin before we know it." Isabelle appearing in the hall at the moment, they made their adieux, and retired to get their cloaks and hoods. When they reappeared, the gentlemen were waiting, ready to escort them to their'carriage. Edward took the lead, with Mfs. Percival and Carrie, and saw the latter seated comfortably, the curtains drawn to shut out the night air, and the cushions properly arranged. 'Horace lingered with Ella, as if loath to part, and at last ventured to whisper, "When will we meet again?" Ella, remembering his hint "that she had never invited him to call," raised her eyes, and replied frankly: "When you please, Mr. Nelson, it lies with you'rself." "Then I have your permission to call?" said he, eagerly. "I will avail myself of it at the earliest opportunity." And, pressing her hand tenderly, he assisted her into the carriage, bidding the other ladies "good-night." [     102      'CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, CHAPTER     XIII. "No right have I to claim misplaced The welcome of expected guest, A wanderer here, by fortune tossed." I SIR W. SCOTT. WE find Carrie domiciled with her friends, the Percivals, slowly recovering from her tedious illness. Her brother was compelled to rejoin his ship, while she lay in a very precarious state, but he felt assur- ed that he left her in good hands, and readily acqui- esced in their plans for her future welfare, as she was not in a condition to ecide for herself. Mr. Percival had so far exerted himself in Robert's behalf, that he had the promise of a ship, on his return from this voyage, which would occupy about twelve or fourteen months; so, feeling confident that 'at the end of that time he could relieve them of their self-imposed charge, he consigned his beloved sister to their care, and once more ventured "O'er the dark waters of the deep blue sea." When Carrie was sufficiently recovered to hear of the arrangements that had been made for her com- fort, although deeply grateful, there lurked at the bottom of her heart a feeling of disquietude, which "strengthened with her strength" as returning bodily   SPENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     103 health produced a corresponding reaction on her mind. She could not bear the idea of dependence. Not that she was ever made to feel it-oh, no! On the contrary, no child, the idol of fond parents, ever re- ceived 'more tender dare; no sister more delicate at-. tention. But hers was not a nature to sit down con- tentedly, and be a mere drone in the hive. Cruel circumstances, it is true, had overpowered, nay, almost crushed her for a time, but her natural buoy- ancy of temperament was fast rising superior to mis- fortune; and the care-repelling faculty within her, joined to great decision and energy of character, would not suffer her long to remain in a quiescent state, while youth and health were hers. - We find her seated, a few days after the party mentioned in our last chapter, in the chamber devo- ted exclusively to her use, communicating by doors with Ella's boudoir on the one hand, and Mrs. Perci- val's chamber on the other. Her rocking-chair is drawn up to the open win- dow, on the sill of which rests her dimpled elbow, while her little hand is lost amid the sunny ringlets which fall over it in a golden shower. The mantle of deep thought has fallen upon her. Her busy little brain is planning for the future. She feels that she cannot remain long as she is, eating the bread of idleness, although bestowed with lavish generosity. She gazes out upon the beautiful pleasure-grounds, I     104     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, with their wealth of floral treasures, across the green and level fields, adorned with live oak and magnolia trees-the pride of southern forests-to where the "Father of Waters," the noble Mississippi, rushes on its "; winding way," laden with the rich freightage which commerce launches on its broad bosom. The deep blue sky and balmy air of this lovely April morn, all have their effect upon a disposition like hers, inspiring her with hope, and whispering bright promises for the future, which her own exer- tions shall carve out for herself. There are many ways of obtaining a livelihood in \a large city like this. Something must offer, or be sought, if it does not. She will consult with those who have proved themselves " friends in need," and they may suggest what that something shall be. But how to broach the subject? She feels there will be opposition and resistance to her wishes, from the generous beings who have soothed her distresses, and sheltered her orphan head. Perhaps her motives may be misconstrued, and she be considered ungrateful. But conscience tells her that the course she has marked out for herself is the only proper and true one, and she shrinks not from the self-imposed task, feeling that they will in the end approve what at first they may condemn. A light tap at the chamber door-and Ella's pretty head peeps through the opening. May I come in? I have been waiting for you to join me in the boudoir for the last half hour, and   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     105 could restrain my impatience no longer," and draw- ing a lounge up in front of the window, she seated herself upon it, with her tiny work-basket beside her Carrie's expressive face betrayed the workings of her mind, and Ella read therein that something seri- ous occupied her thoughts: no brooding melan- choly, but a deep earnestness in her look, that spoke a heart resolved to be true to itself, and its own noble resolutions. "A penny for'your thoughts, fair lady," said Ella, speaking in a light bantering tone, to conceal the slight uneasiness that Carrie's thoughtful face occa- sioned her. "Pray, 'most potent, grave, and rever- end' senora, what weighty subject so engrosses you this morning, that the trifling affairs of the toilet, are forgotten, and poor little insignificant I have been taxing my ingenuity for the last twenty minutes, to twist this bow becomingly in my respected mamma's cap, hoping all the time some kind fairy would waft you to my presence, to relieve me of the charge? And here I find you, with an air abstracted'enough to solve one of Euclid's problems." "Dear Ella," said Carrie, extending her hand, for the ribbon, and with nimble fingers arranging it in' graceful loops, as she continued speaking, "don't think me unsocial, or unwilling to impart to you the subject of my meditations. On the contrary, I was upon the point of seeking you to unburthen my whole heart. For-" her voice trembled slightly, and she hesitated, scarcely knowing how to go on. 6     106     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, Ella's levity was gone in a moment. Springing to her side, and passing her arm affectionately around her, she exclaimed, "Forgive me, Carrie, if I have spoken in too light a strain, when something evi- dently oppresses you; it was very thoughtless. But tell me what hfs happened to disturb you?" ' Nothing, dearest, nothing!" said Carrie, return- ing her caress. "The cause lies entirely within myself. I only fear the effect it may have upon your kind parents, who are my best friends, and yourself. I would not be misunderstood, and hesita- ted to speak only from that fear" She paused a moment, then taking Ella's hand, and looking earnestly in her eyes, she continued- "You, dear Ella, may not be able exactly to under- stand my feelings. Always having lived a life of ease and luxury, and never compelled to exert your- self, your energies have not been called forth, and you do not comprehend your own capabilities; so, possibly, were you circumstanced as I am, it might not occur to you that it was in your power, and in fact a duty that you owed yourself and others, to employ the talents God had given you, so that you might render a faithful account of your stewardship. My training has been in a different school from yours-that of adversity; and, as Burns, the poet, truly says- "Tho' losses and crosses, Be lessons right severe; There's wit there, ye'll geq there, Ye'll find nae other where."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     107 "It is not the sunshine alone that causes the flower to yield its sweetest perfume. It would be but a faded, scentless thing, if the driving storm and beating rain called not its fragrance forth." "Pray, dear Carrie, to what does all this tend?" said Ella, interrupting her, and laughing. ' Do not chide me for relapsing into light-heartedness again; but to follow up your simile-am Ithe faded, scent- less thing you have been describing, because fate has sheltered my defenceless head from the tem- pest?" "No, no, darling! a thousand times, no.   I meant no such insinuation. I must plead guilty of egotism in this case, for I thought only of myself. We are all more or less creatures of circumstance, and the trials and privations of my youth have de- veloped in me traits of character, which would never have been called forth in prosperity. They have taught me self-reliance, have thrown me on my own resources, and convinced me that a life of supine idle- ness, ease, and indulgence, deadens the nobler attri- butes of the soul, and clogs the intellect. At present I feel myself a mere cipher in creation, dependent for the very food I eat upon those apparently stran- gers to me. This state of things can never make me happy. Do not speak, Ella; I know what you would say. I feel that it is all freely, generously bestowed; but I do not feel satisfied with myself to be a nonentity-a sort of hanger-on (excuse the term, but I must look the plain unvarnished truth in     108     CARRIE HARRINGTON ; OR, the face) in your family, when a wide theatre of useful. ness to my fellow creatures, and benefit to myself, is spread before me, where to choose; and, by the bless- ing of an All-wise Providence, no doubt my steps will be directed in the right channel. I wish you to assist me, dear Ella, in breaking this matter to your parents. I will be guided by their advice in all things, except," she added, after a pause, " to remain as I am at present." The tears which she had for some time choked down, now welled up from their fountain in her heart, and fell upon the sympathising bosom of her friend, who drew her to her side, and imprinted a kiss upon her brow in silence. True, Ella could not exactly comprehend tie high- toned feeling that prompted Carrie's resolution; she had never had the alternative placed before her of choosing between a life of dependence on the one hand, or one of noble exertion on the other; and it was not to be expected that she, the petted child of indulgence, could in a moment decide which course was proper to pursue; but with woman's ready in- tuition, she perceived it was useless to attempt to dis- suade Carrie from her project; so, with feelings of pure friendship, she determined to stand firmly by her, through the rough but well-meant opposition which she knew would be offered by her parents, to her plans. Carrie's emotion subsided in a few moments, and looking up with a smile, she said, "I believe I am getting childish, and you, no doubt, think my agita-   SCENES m NEW-ORLEANS.      109 tion uncalled for, and so in reality it is, for there is no great display of heroism required in 'what I am about to undertake. In Massachusetts, where I was born and raised, it is quite a common occurrence for girls as young as I am, to support themselves, and they are thought the more of for so doing. The only trouble is in commencing. It is with this, as it is with a great many other things, 'the first step is the greatest difficulty,' and that step I shall make instant- er, if you will accompany me to your mother's pres- ence, and support me through the ordeal of her gener- ous indignation." "From what I know of your character, Carrie, it would be worse than vain in me to attempt to offer opposition to your wishes. I am not experienced enough to advise, as far as my judgment is concern- ed, and my affection for you would be the only pleader in this case, and that would prompt me to beg of you to relinquish your plans; this I know would be selfish, therefore I will not listen to its voice, but will only add-do that which will make you happiest, and in all circumstances be assured of my firm and unalterable friendship." She sealed the compact with a kiss, and then added, in a lighter tone, "I am now at your service to seek the presence of my august mamma, and lend the light of my countenance on the trying occasion." The two girls descended the stairs with their arms twined about each other, Ella humming a lively air to re-assure Carrit, and conceal any deeper emotion she herself might feel.     "O     CARRIE HARRINOTON; OR, They sought the housekeeper's room, where Mrs. Peroival might always be found at this hour of the day. There the good lady shone in all her glory, with a brown Holland apron, ornamented with capa- cious pockets, enveloping her rotund figure, and the ribbon strings of her morning cap pinned on the top of her head, to protect them from soil or stain; she superintended the operations of her factotum, Betsy, who was engaged on this particular morning in pol- ishing the silver, and, by way of beautifying herself, had adorned her ebony countenance with sundry streaks of wet whiting, which gave a peculiar ludi- crous expression to her sooty face. "Hope we don't intrude, mamma," said Ella, seat- ing herself on the cane-bottom settee that extended along the side of the apartment. '"Carrie and I thought we would make you a call this morn- ing, and if you were not too much engaged, would like to have a little conversation with you." "Oh, lawful sakes! my dears. I'm mighty glad to see you, bu ou'll have to wait till I git through some of my jobs afore I can attend to you. This- trollop here grows stupider every day she lives. What do you suppose I found her rubbin' on my best silver teapot, when I cum down? Why, some o' that ar pipe-clay that I wet up the other day to take the grease out o' the dinin'-room carpet! I'd a great mind to ram it down her throat by spoonfuls. Let me ketch her doin' sich a trick. agin, that's all." "I 'clar to grachus! ole missus, it wa'n't no fault   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     1 o' mine. Aunt Sally done guv it to me off de kitchen shelf, and I didn't know de diffence." "I'll teach you the difference, you jackanapes! Now take that ar buckskin, and mind you rub hard." Ella looked at Carrie despairingly. She knew it would be useless to attempt explanations while her mother was in her present mood, so wisely concluded to defer it until a more fitting opportunity. Signifying this to Carrie by pantomime, afid re- ceiving her silent nod of acquiescence, she said, "Well, mamma, we will postpone our business until you are disengaged. Is there anything we can assist you in?" "Lawful sakes alive! no, indeed. You don't sup- pose I'm goin' to have you two fussin' around, and spilin' your hands, when I've got a yard full o' lazy niggers eatin' me out o' house and home? You'd better believe I'm not goin' to keep dogs and bark myself. Go along and amuse yourselves; read, or play on the pianny, or do somethin' or ruther 'till I git through, and then I'll hear what you've got to say." Acting on her suggestion, the girls went to the music-room, and there we'll leave them for the pres- ent, while we turn to other things.     "2     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, 2 CHAPTER XIV. "The tongue is a wild beast, very difficult to be chained when once let loose. It is the pulse whereby the wise man finds out the disposition of the soul. There are abundance' of people who break their neighbor's head with an ass's jaw-bone." FLOWERS OP FABLE. "WELL, here I am at last,'" exclaimed Miss Letty Ferguson, entering Isabelle's boudoir unannounced, and throwing herself into the nearest chair. "My goodness! ain't it warm, though? I missed the omnibus, and had- to walk all the way from Mrs. Percival's here. It's true she offered to send me\kn her carriage, but she just did it to let me know she  had one, and I wouldn't gratify her enough to accept it. Whew! I'll trouble yon for a fan, if you've got one convenent, Miss Belle? That woman's conceit has helped to throw me in a perspiration." "Sit by this window, Miss Letty, there is a fine breeze here; and Jane, bring a glass of ice-water." "Dear me," she exclaimed, taking off her bonnet, and changing her seat; "summer is coming, sure : enough, and I am  so hurried that I don't know whether I'm on my head or my heels.    Most of my customers are going away, and they all want their dresses, and each one thinks I ought to come to   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     113 them first. I must try to divide my time among them all, if possible." "Remember, you promised me a fortnight. I can- not possibly do with less," said Isabelle. "We are to spend the summer across the lake, and you know one requires so many changes at a hotel." , "Oh! then you are not going North this sum- mer. What is the cause of that?" said Miss Letty, rather quickly, and eying her keenly, in hopes of getting an item to retail to her next customer. Isabelle reddened a little under the inspection, but replied carelessly: " Oh! merely a caprice of mine. You know Pa generally indulges all my whims." "Umph!" thought Miss Letty, "there's some- thing at the bottom of all this, and I'll find it out." Then aloud she added: "Why, I thought you'd made up your mind to go to Niagcry this summer, and all around them parts.", "Well," said Belle, with a slight haughtiness in her look an(4 tone, "I've changed it;" and rising, as if to put a stop to her questions, she opened her armoir and took thence several pieces of dress goods, and laid them upon the bed for inspection. Isabelle well knew how to silence impertinent curiosity, when it intruded on her own privacy, but her pride was not proof against the temptation of listening to the detail of other peoples' short-comings, and Miss Letty's advent was always a source ofIspleas- ure, as through her she obtained an insight of the petty affairs of her acquaintances, and shaped her conduct to them accordingly. 6*     i4    CARRIE HARRIGTON; OR, As she was most anxious to know how matters were progressing at the Percivals'-to find out, if possible, Horace Nelson's movements in that quarter, she adroitly turned Miss Letty's' attention in that direction, by remarking: "I hear that Mrs. Percival's family go across the lake, this summer. Are Ella's dresses very hand- some?" "Handsome ain't the word; they're magnificent! You know money is plenty in them diggins, if good sense and gentility ain't. Though, for the life of me, I can't say a word against the daughter, 'Nelly,' as the old woman calls her. She is as sweet-tempered and lady-like as it is possible for anybody to be. I can't imagine how such- a mother could ever have such a child." The conversation had taken rather a different turn than Belle wished. It was not to hear Ella's praises sounded, that she commeinced it, and now they grated harshly on her jealous eats, coming too from lips that seldom opened, save to jibe and sneer. Faultless must the being be, who could touch the stony heart of the splenetic creature before her, and draw thence the sweet waters of charity and loving-kindness. The current must be turned, and with skilful hands she applied the check. "Does the old lady intend making a grand display on this occasion?" "Pah! my dear! don't mention it.  It really makes me sick, when I see such people as thai   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     115 elbowing their way into the company of their betters, just by jingling the dollars in their pockets. Her airs and graces would make me laugh, if they did not provoke me too much. And to show them off to me, too, that knows her from root to branch." "Were you acquainted with her in early life, Miss Letty, and does she refuse to acknowledge you now?" asked Belle, maliciously; for she felt annoyed at the encomiums she had lavished on Ella, and determined to pay her back a little. Miss Letty winced perceptibly, replying quickly, and with a heightened color: Oh, no! I got it from hearsay, but I know it to be correct." "Do they receive a great deal of company?" said Belle, cautiously approaching the-subject uppermost in her mind. "Oh! lots of it. They dress well, live well, keep. a carriage, and plenty of servants; and while all these things last they won't want for friends, as the world goes; though there's some whose set they can't exactly smuggle into, with all these advantages. I was sewing at Mrs. Hunter's, week before last, and I there heard them talking about an aristocratic old chap from the North, whose nephew and heir seems to have taken a fancy to Ella (Miss Letty didn't add, that they also spoke of rivalry with Belle; this she kept to herself, but watched the countenance of her listener, to see the effect of her communication); they say that every hair on the old fellow's head would bristle up like porcupine quills, at the thought     la ^-'v ,     . ' ' "6     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, of the match. But he'd better be looking sharp about him, for the young man was there almost every evening while I was at the Percivals. I'm almost sure it must have been the one-tall, good- looking, with dark hair and eyes, and his name was Nelson." Miss Letty had the satisfaction of seeing Isabelle's cheek pale, and feeling her form quiver through the lining of the dress she was fitting; while her eyes glared with a lurid light, and an expression of malignity and hatred crossed her handsome face, ren- dering it hideous for the moment. The speaker paused awhile, to let her auditor recover, and then added: "Now I'm going to tell you something quite con- fidentially. I wouldn't mention it to anybody else in the world, and I don't want you to speak of it, because people might think I listened on purpose, which you know I wouldn't do for the world! But while I was there I slept in the first little room on the back gallery, the door opening on the first land- ing of the front stairs; so, you see, if any person spoke in the hall below, I couldn't help hearing what they said. When there was company in the evening, I could always hear them, on leaving, bid good-night, and all that, for the nights were warm, and I left my door open. For the last two or three nights, Ella has gone to the door with the young fellow, but they always spoke so low, I couldn't for the life of me make out what they said. But last night they   SCENES IN, NEW-ORLEANS.     117 wasn't so guarded; they seemed to be troubled, and forgot their caution. Ella sobbed so loud, I could hear her quite plain, and he seemed to be trying to comfort her, 'till at last he said, (I remember every word of it, for he spoke quite clear): ' Be true to me, darling! the time is not far distant when I will return, with a fortune acquired by my own industry, and an honorable name, which I shall not blush to bestow on you;' and then I could not help stepping out on the platform, and leaning my head just a leetle ways over the banisters, and then-but lord, Miss Belle! what in the world ails you? Here, sit down. Why, you look as if you had been dead and buried, and dug up again!" "It is nothing, Miss Letty," said Belle, rallying, and waving her off. C' Hand me the Cologne, if you please, I stood so long having that lining fitted that I felt faint-it has passed away now;" then, with a desperate curiosity to know the worst, she added: "Continue your recital, Miss Letty, you left off in a very tender scene." "Oh! I hav'n't got much more to tell, only he kissed her a good many times, of course, and after he had gone she went back in the parlor, and stayed there so lonu that I began to get uneasy, for I kind of like the little thing in spite of her mother; so I thought I'd just creep down to the parlor door and listen, for fear she had fainted. I took my slippers off, and went along the landing, feeling my way in the dark, for the hall lamp had gone out, when I     "8. '    CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, pitched over something rolled up in a little heap, and knocked myself over against the opposite wall, bruis- ing myself awfully, while the loudest scfeeching and. yelling you ever heard in all your life rung through the house-' murder! fire! watch! oh! lord a massy! has de debbil come to fotch me?'-and that imp of darkness, Betsy, who, while waiting for her young mistress to go to bed, had huddled herself up on the landing and gone to sleep, went tumbling head- over-heels down the stairs, bumping and screeching on every step. I had the good sense to creep back to my room, and, when a light appeared, came out with the rest of the family to see what was the matter. The first thing I saw was Mrs. Percival down in the hall shaking Betsy by the shoulder, and asking her 'what on airth she made sich a rackit for, rousin' the whole house in that manner.' Betsy loud- ly protested ' she'd seen de debbil, and he'd stuck his claw in her eye.' I kept very shady. I wasn't going to tell what hand I had in the mischief, so it passed very well for Betsy going to sleep on the stairs, and rolling down; though she sticks to it, she was wide awake, and saw old Nick." "Then you think this young Nelson is serious in his attentions?" said Isabelle, in as indifferent a tone as she could command.  What could have been the meaning of so tender a farewell? Do you think he was upon the eve of a journey?"  "I can't tell," replied Miss Letty; "I've told you all I know. I came away this morning without   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     119 seeing Ella; she had a headache, and didn't come to breakfast. I heard the old woman say she should give her sofne' medicine, but I thought if she could physic love out of her,' she'd do what nobody had ever attempted before. He-he!" Miss Letty gave her little short chuckle; her soul was encompassed in too limited a circumference to indulge in a hearty laugh.  Isabelle pondered long on what she had just heard, but could arrive at nothing conclusive. She had not seen Horace since a few mornings after her soiree, when he had made a short call of ceremony, as in duty bound; and then there was other companyI present. The uncle, however, had honored her on several occasions, until it became a matter of doubt whether it was to advance his nephew's suit or his own that the attention was bestowed. Certain it is, there was an air of tender gallantry (ancient, to be sure, but more impressive on that account) in all he said or did, that left the impression on Belle's mind tha. it would be her own fault if she were not the lawful possessor of his vast estates without the trouble of captivating Horace, whose predilection for herself, if he ever had any, was evidently on the wane. His coldness and indifference had wounded her vanity to the quick, and the desire for revenge was fast gain- ing the ascendency over any tenderer feeling in her heart. Once his uncle's wife,-and her power would be unbounded: Utter ruin should be his portion for     120     OARItIE RAfRINGTON; ORH daring to slight the advances she had condescended to make him. She had been wavering for some time between the love (if the feeling he had inspired her with could be so called) she bore him, and the desire for unlimited sway which an alliance with the old getlernan would insure her. Miss Letty's communication had' awak- ened her worst feelings, and all tenderness seemed crushed in her heart at one fell swoop. She rejoiced more than ever that she had determined on the lake trip instead of the projected northern tour; which alteration of plans (to let the reader into the secret which awoke Miss fetty's curiosity) was brought about by hearing the Hon. Robert Nelson announce his intention of passing the summer at some of the southern watering-places, instead of returning to his northern home. She would now have an opportunity of exercising her powers of fascination to their full extent; and as old gentlemen are more easily flattered and duped than young ones, she despaired not of Success. While Isabelle sat lost in a revery, Miss Letty had been occupied with a lunch, which the servant brought up on a tray. -Having fortified the " inner man"--or woman-she was prepared for action again. Wiping her mouth, she resumed her work, remarking, as she did so, "Don't you feel faint, Miss Belle? you hav'n't ate anything." "I believe I will take a cracker," said Isabelle, starting. "There, that will do, Jane; take the things away. I'll ring if I want you."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    121 Miss Lgtty took this as a hint to resume the con- versation, which the servant's entrance had inter- rupted; so, sharpening her needle very decidedly upon her emery cushion, as if by so doing she bright- ened up her own ideas, she began by inquiring: "Do you, know anything about that young girl that's staying at the Percivals?" "Yes," said Isabelle; "that is, a little. I have partially heard her history, but poor peoples' stories all sound alike to me." "Oh!" said Miss Letty, with a look of grim tri- umph, as if she knew what she was about to say would lower her listener's crest a little, "I thought, as there seemed to be a likelihood of her becoming a member of your family, you'd be likely to know something about her-that's all." "' Becoming a member of my family! What do you mean?" asked Belle, with a look of profound astonishment. "Why, la me! didn't you know your brother was very attentive to her?" "Nonsense!" said Belle, her face becoming almost purple with indignation. "I hope Edward under- stands his position in society better than to stoop to such a mresalliance." "Well, I don't know what he understands; some- times when young men get in love it runs away with their understanding," said Miss Letty, looking very wise. "I guess he'd be mighty apt to follow his own inclination in this case."     2 i2    CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, ' He is not in circumstances to support a wife, and I know my father's sentiments well enough to war- rant my saying that he never would consent to re- ceive a mere nobody in his house, in the shape of a daughter-in-law. So, getting married is quite out of the question-with him for the present. I do not know that Edward would look upon it in the same light exactly that I do, for his ideas are but an echo of mnamma's, and she is entirely too democratic for me. But I cannot imagine what should suggest such a thought, Miss Letty. You don't suppose every young man that visits a pretty girl means to marry her?" "It wouldn't do for me to hint to you that your brother meant anything else, Miss Belle, no matter what I might think," answered Miss Letty, with spirit. "Well," said Belle, "I suppose she will accom- pany the Peroivals over the lake, and then I can judge for myself how affairs are progressing." "No, you will not have that opportunity," replied Miss Letty. "She is going to be a teacher in the public schools; that is, she has applied for a situa- tion, and no doubt will get it, as Mr. Percival is one of the Board of Directors.' He is a board in him- self, and his Word will have some weight, as 'kissing goes'by favor' there." "Mr. Percival one of the Directors?" said Belle, inquiringly. "How can that be? I have heard he was very illiterate." "Oh, my dear! when you have seen as much of   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     123 the world as I have, you'll find out it's not necessary to know a great deal to serve in that capacity. A man has only to put on a look of owlish wisdom, and nod his head occasionally with a knowing air, and if he be a moneyed man, depend on it he'll pass current with the crowd; although such people always put me in mind of the dorgwho "ooked wondrous wise, And his tail wagged he; But not much did he know Of his A, B, C.' There are many such fill our public offices. How- ever, that's no concern of mine. I must stop talk- ing, if I want to do any sewing, as my time is precious." A few moments after, Isabelle withdrew to take her customary lounge, leaving Miss Letty to the un- disputed possession of needle and shears. 1 6     124      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR! CHAPTER     XV., "' Truth! rouse some genuine bard, and guide his hand To drive this pestilence from out the land. Even H-least thinking of a thoughtless throng- Just skilled to know the right, and choose the wrong; Whom every path of pleasure's flowery way Has lured in turn, and all have led astray- Even I must raise my voice, e'en I must feel, Such scenes, such men destroy the public weal." BYRON. Miss LETTY had spoken the truth. Carrie had chosen her vocation, and the day arrived when she was to appear before a select committee, to undergo an examination as to her qualifications for teaching. She felt rather nervous as the appointed hour drew near, not that she doubted her capacities, for her education had been of such a nature as to peculiar- ly fit her for the situation; but it required some courage for a young  ,gi  a stranger, and  almost friendless, to appear before a body of grave, dignified, and (as she supposed) learned men, her remarks and deportment subjected to their criticisms, and her fate resting on their approving nods and smiles. Her heart beat almost audibly, as, accompanied by Mr. Percival, she ascended the steps of the public   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     125  building where the examination was to take place, and was shown into a room where some ten or a dozen applicants were awaiting their turn to be ush- ered into the august presence. Here Mr. Percival (whose presence was required in the next apartment, he being one of the Commit- tee on Teachers) left her with many assurances of success, and she had leisure to look around upon her competitors in the race. There was more than one vacancy to be filled, consequently the applicants were many: a hetero- geneous assemblage, whose countenances portrayed every variety of character, from the flippant, gaudy, would-be-fashionable Miss, who, for the love of dress, and without the means to procure it, would consent to drag through the wearisome hours, and toilsome routine of school-duties, tardily performed; impatient for the hour to arrive, when, chrysalis-like, she could emerge from the dark shell of the school-room, and soar with painted vings before the gaping crowd, * The obs rved of all observers," to the care-worn face that told a sad tale of the Battle of Life, where sorrows and privations had left their foot-prints on the brow, in li es-whose depths could but be sounded in the wrun heart beneath. As Carrie took in at a glanc her companions whom one purpose had thus brought together, her gaze was arrested by a pair of dark gray eyes, which answered the look of her own, with a frank, beaming     126     CARRIE HARRINGTON ; ORt expression, and a merry twinkle, which betrayed "A lurking de'il within," in spite of the sombre robe of bombazine, and deep widow's veil, which almost concealed the petite form of the wearer. The face to which the eyes belonged was not, strictly speaking, handsome; for the nose most cer- tainly had a skyward tendency, and'the cherry lips might have been a trifle too full, while the hair was of that deep mahogany color which, seen in certain lights, might by ill-natured persons be pronounced one of the shades of red; but viewing the picture as a whole, it was a rare combination of all that was pleasant and agreeable, and the most captious and fault-finding, if ever so disposed to alter, would not know where to detract or embellish, to have a more pleasing effect. There is something magnetic in a good-humored face, which all must feel who come within the sphere of its attraction. Carrie felt herself ihresisti- bly drawn to her, and when the lady who occupied the seat that intervened between them was sum- moned before the Committee, she took the chair that she vacated beside her pleasant-looking neighbor, and Waiving all ceremony, remarked in the language of Scripture- ' Ma are called, but few will be chosen." She had found a kindred spirit, who replied in the same strain:   I ( SCE]NES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     127 "Well, I hope you will not be among the black sheep, and be sent away with the mark of the beast upon your forehead." "Will it be possible," said Carrie, "for all that are here to pass through an examination to-da? I should think there would scarcely be time for it to be very thorough." "You must be a novice in such affairs, my dear, if you think time a necessary ingredient in the pro- ceeding. Put it through as quick as possible, is the motto with the city fathers, on all occasions of public import. As regards the examination of teachers, it is a mere farce, I assure you. I have 'run the gauntlet,' and speak from experience. If my re- marks were overheard at head-quarters, I should be condemned for high treason against the State, and my situatiol would be the forfeit of my indiscretion; but there is thal in your face which assures me I am speaking to one who knows just how much to repeat of what she hears; so, I do not fear betrayal. I per- ceived you were somewhat in a state of trepidation, and thought a word of friendly assurance might re- tqre your confidence, which is all that is necessary to carry you through. "Assume a virtue, if you have it not"- put on a bold front; answer their questions promptly, no matter whether iight or wrong; depend upon it, there are not moi'e than one or two in that room that will know to the contrary. You have youth     128     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, and beauty, and with such old codgers as compose that Committee, you have no idea how much it will be in your favor." "Your picture is far from flattering to those upon whose shoulders rest the great responsibility of train- ing the young saplings of American growth, to pro- duce trees of giant strength and beauty, under whose protecting shade a nation may repose in peace and security!" "It is, nevertheless, a lamentable fact. I will give you a case in point, that may serve. (with a few ex- ceptions) to illustrate the whole body corporate. It was when the subject of the ' High-school' was under consideration. Of course, some were for, some against its establishment, merely for the sake of argument; for if called upon to give their'reasons for approval or disapproval, a considerable scratcling of craniums for stray ideas would have been the result. How- ever, I digress. A meeting of the Directors was called to discuss the subject. Some one of them propounded the question-' At what stage of advance- ment would a pupil be fitted to enter the High- school?' Another replied: 'When he had learned Syntax.' Up jumped a third, in great indignation, exclaiming, ' No! no!! no!!! I won't have any of the dead languages introduced into the schools. Nothing but English! English '" Carrrie could not help joining her lively com- panion in her merry laugh, and when their mirth subsided, she remarked:   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     129 V With such incompetent judges, I should think there would be danger of their installing teachers inadequate to the tasks imposed upon them." "Ah, my dear! now you have explained the diffi- culty. Although there are some ' bright particular stars' among them, of course there are many unfitted for the stations they occupy. Some years ago, it was one of the rules, that the teachers should ex- press their ideas in writing, on any given subject that might be selected by the Committee; these had to be read at the teachers' meetings, aloud, by the writers thereof. Some were perfect literary curiosi- -ties, I assure you. I heard one read once that gave me some new ideas. The subject was 'The Uses of the Black-board,' and the learned expositor remark- ed: ' Black-boards were very useful in schools, in describing towns, cities, and villages, and other re- markable circumstances." "Well, really," said Carrie, "after what you have told me, I shall scarcely feel flattered if I succeed, for it will never appear to me as a reward of superior merit." "You will soon have an opportunity of judging whether I have overdrawn the picture, as I believe this summons is for you," said her chatty com- panion, as the usher in attendance signified to Carrie that her presence was required. "I shall wish you God-speed,' and hope we will meet again, and be- come better acquainted." With assurances of the pleasure such an event 7     f ,"  , .           ,     - , 130     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, would afford her, Carrie bade her adieu, and followed her guide to the Teacher's-room. Mr. Percival on perceiving her, advanced, and con- ducted her to a seat, where, her embarrassment sub- siding in a few moments, she raised her eyes, and took a survey of the apartment and its occupants. A large circular table was placed in the centre of the room, around the upper portion of which sat some five or six portly, middle-aged gentlemen, whose aldermanic proportions, and rubicund visages, be- spoke a just appreciation of the good things of life. Carrie felt she had not a great deal to dread from their severity, for a laughter-loving, story-telling propensity beamed forth from most of their counte- nances, which the assumed look of dignified intelli- gence could not entirely subdue. She was greatly inclined to give credence to the account she had just heard, from her knowledge of Mr. Percival's character and literary acquirements; and it had always been a matter of surprise with her, how he ever was capable of discharging the duties of his office. But a very little wle sufficed to show her that he was one of the class hat caught'up ideas from the few bright luminaries that shone o'er the scene of mental darkness, illuminating what would otherwise have been dull, thick, and impenetrable. Reader, has it ever been your misfortune to meet * with one of the class of bipeds to whom I have refer. ence? Men who, like the beast in the fable, clothe themselves with the skin of the lion, and expect tq   SCENES, IN' NEW-ORLEANS.    131 pass current with the, mass, and would-did they not attempt the lordly roar of the king of beasts--when the unlucky bray betrays the long-eared individuality beneath. Count yourself a fortunate mortal if such a one has never crossed your path-seized you by the but- ton-hole when you'have been in a particular hurry, and entertained you with his Partingtonian philoso- phy, until you have been ready to exclaim with the poet, truly, "A little learning is a dangerous thing." Carrie's sense of the ridiculous had been so strongly excited, that it required quite an effort on her part to maintain a serious deportment, and answer the simple questions propounded to her with becoming gravity. After reading a few sentences in prose, and a poetical effusion, entitled ' A Mother's Grave," which almost had the effect of throwing her into hysterics, working upon her sensibilities, when her risibles were in a state of activity; answering a few ques- tions in arithmetic; bounding Europe; and'parsing a sentence of her own written application, she was told she might retire. As she arose for that purpose, one of the Commit- tee arose also, and requested her attention for a few moments. He was a rotund personage, with a sleek-looking Pharisaical countenance, and a ' Peclksniffian' expres- sion; so that you could almost imagine you saw the     132     -CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR  'blue glass glory floating round hs blow-an indivi- dual in whose presence you would feelan inclination to quote those lines by Hood: "A man may cry 'church! church!' at every word, With no more piety than other people: A daw's not reckoned a religious bird, Because he keeps a cawing from a steeple!" He was kept in office expressly to do up the moral! After a preparatory ahem! and passing his hand over the bald spot on the top of his head, to excite the organ of " veneration," in a voice modulated to a pious pitch, he inquired of Carrie whether she be. lieved in a Supreme Being? to which she silently assented, by an inclination of the head, and he con- tinued: "If our unanimous voice should decide in your favor, Miss Harrington, I would wish to impress upon your mind the importance of the trust reposed in you. Upon the education of our youth, depends the future welfare of our country. Ahem! The mind of child- hood is like pliant wax in the hand of the moulder; it can be fashioned to forms of beauty and utility, or distorted to hideous, misshapen deformities." (Looks of admiration'from the very respectable co-operators in the good cause, and an inclination to exclaim, " hear! hear! we'll take a glass all round, in honor of this speech.') Things, trifling in themselves,"   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      133 continued the orator, " have their import for good or evil. 'A pebble in the streamlet Hath turned the course of many a river: A dew-drop on the baby plant Hath warped the giant oak forever!' "The office of teacher is one of great moral re- ponsibility. To reflect that immortal beings are looking up to you for precept and example, should cause you to pause, and weigh well every word and action, ere submitting them to the imitative eye of childhood, which is in itself a mirror, reflecting our faults and imperfections, as well as beauties. Let not opportunities pass, of sowing and cultivating the good seed that will produce a hundred fold, and era. dicating the tares and thistles that choke its growth, and drain the soil." Having delivered himself thus far, his memory suddenly failed him, and not liking to consult the written copy in his pocket, he took his seat, leaving Carrie at a loss to know how to reply to this flowery speech, and, indeed, undecided in her own mind, as to whether it required an answer. None seemed expected of her, for Mr. Percival im- mediately came to her side, and conducted her to the carriage which was waiting for her below, and pla- cing her in it, telling her she would know the result of her application in a few days, ordered the man to drive home, and returned himself to the Committee.     U14      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, CHAPTER XVI. "I must go o'er the sea to other lands  It is the call of duty ; but fear not- I shall return, and then our loves are sure." PEBC YAL. "And her trust in his love was a woman's faith- Perfect, and fearing no change but death." MRS. HEMANS. WE know it is not exactly right to intrude on the privacy of lovers, but then we belong to the privileged few-you and I, reader-so, come into the parlor at- Mr. Percival's, and we will hear what passed between Ella and Horace, on the night that Miss Letty's cu- riosity nearly cost poor Betsy a broken pate. Horace had told his love-had urged her to marry, him in secret, and trust to time and favorable oppor- tunities to smooth down his uncle's indignation; and had wrung from Ella a reluctant avowal of preference, accompanied by a decided refusal of his suit, sanc- tioned by his uncle.  "What happiness could we promise ourselves, dear Horace," said she, " haunted ever by the shadow of his displeasure. You, to whom  he has been a father and benefactor, would feel but a guilty joy, in pleasures purchased at the expense of another's peace   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     13t of mind, and that other, one to whom you owe so much. While I would but poorly show the love I bear you, to become a clog on your young days-a burthen on your manhood; besides, stealing' into a family that would spurn me?-The cloud to come between you and your earliest friend, bringing sor- row on his gray hairs, and strewing his pathway to the tomb with the thorns, and briars of discontent, instead of flowers of peace and harmony. Oh, no! trust me, we will both feel a purer joy-a holier calm-in treading the path of duty, and obeying its stern mandates, than could be found by flying in the face of the most sacred obligations, and laughing to scorn their high behests."- "Oh, Ella! you cannot love as I do, or you could not thus dispassionately view the subject. You could not preach to me of duty, if your heart pleaded as loudly as mine does for aflection. Duty? to whom do I owe it? To the selfish being who has cherished the viper pride in his heart, until with its poisonous coils it has crushed out every better feeling? -Who could refuse a dying wife and mother's prayer, to ' for- give an erring child,' because that child had followed the dictates of her own heart, instead of the prompt- ings of his ambition. Duty? Yes, I have indeed learned my duty, which is this--to be true to myself; to throw off the shackles that have bound me hand and foot, as with bands of iron, to the will of this modern Nero-this tyrant-this despot-who would control the very springs on which my conscience moves:     136      CARRiE HARRINGTON; OR, 'The conscience, that sole monarchy in man, Owing allegiance to no earthly prince; Made by the edict of creation free; Made sacred-made above all human laws; Holding of Heaven alone; of most divine And' indefeasible authority; An individual sovereignty that none created, Might, unpunished, bind or touch- Unbound, save by the eternal laws of God, And unamenable to all below.' "Yes, Ella, hear my determination.    Too long have I yielded blind obedience to the bigot rule that has controlled me. I have never given the subject a moment's thought, but have suffered myself to be whirled along, believing I was following my destihy. But the scales have fallen from my eyes.  Love has proved the master key, to unlock the secret portals of my heart, and reveal its inner nature. I ask you not to become my wife, subjected to my uncle's sneers and scoffs. I respect and love you more for the pride which would not purchase happiness at the expense of self-respect, than if you had yielded to my mad folly, in urging a secret union. No! I am young and active; life is before me where to choose; and if energy and perseverance are the secrets of success, believe me you will have no cause to blush for hav- ing given your love to one who looks upon it as the dearest boon high Heaven could bestow, and as an incentive to every noble exertion. Your father is wealthy, Ella, and you are his only child. No doubt you will be endowed with countless wealth, but I will never return to claim you, until I dan lay down   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     137 dollar for dollar of my own earnings. No man shall say to me in future-' to me you owe it all.' " "Oh, Horace! it is you now, who are listening to the voice of pride,' sobbed Ella, deeply affected by his earnestnes. / Let not the love of sordid pelf take possessio f your heart, and harden it to the soft pleadings of affection." "No, Ella. The scalping knife of worldly trials and privations can never erase your image, shrined as a divinity within. I bind you by no vow-I exact no promise. I 'could not be so unjust as to cast a blight and mildew o'er your young life. You are free-free as the wind, 'that bloweth where it listeth,'" said he, although his voice trembled as he spoke the words, and. his eye shone with unnatu- ral excitement. ' But sometimes," he continued, "when I am far away, give a thought to the wan- derer, and breathe a prayer for his success, who re- signed fortune and birth-right to win a name wor- thy to lay at your feet." "Oh, leave me not! leave me not!" said Ella, bursting into tears, while he drew her tenderly to his bosom; "it is I who have caused all this misery. I will consent to anything, rather than you should be an alien to your home. What can you do? Your education has not fitted you to battle with the world. You were not born to go rough-shod o'er the steeps of life." "You magnify my imperfections, dearest. I am not the puny, insignificant being you take me for. 7*     138 C-ARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, I have the spirit of a man within me, and have suf- fered the sword to rust top long in the scabbard; its point has become dull for Lant of use: a little rough handling will restore the polish to the steel, and prove the temper of the blade."' "Ah, Horace! when reality stares you in the face, you will repent the temerity which induced you to lift the veil of the future, which may, like Pando-- ra's box, conceal nought but evils and calamities. You speak with the sanguine spirit of youth, which time alone can crush." "And you, darling! talk with the sage experi- ence of age! But you forget that when the evils came forth from the box, 'Hope' remained behind. Do not cloud with evil prognostics the bright star whose beams will cheer me through many a weary hour; but, like the dames of old, gird on my sword, and send me forth to battle, with your colors on my crest-my motto: 'God and my ladye-love'-and who shall stand the force of my all-conquering arm?" "All this sounds very well, Horace, in books of chivalry, but the days of romance have passed. We have to grapple with facts-stubborn facts, and everyday actualities. Leave those airy flights, and come down to sober reason. Have you matured a plan for your future guidance? Tell me what you have determined on, that I may judge of its feasibi- lity." "If I have painted my future in glowing colors, dear one, and robed it with the drapery of romance,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     139  it is to make the picture fair to your eyes. But I have erred in so doing, and scarcely complimented you by the error. My experience of young ladies has been limited to that class of sickly sentimental- ists, to whom the sound of 'love in a cottage' em- bowered in woodbine, is the very acme of felicity; and most such would glory in the idea of their lov- ers suffering perils and privations on their account. But I perceive I am dealing with a matter-of-fact little body, who wants to know before I start, whe- ther my journey will prove a wild-goose chase or not. I expect you will think I have flown high and lighted low, when I tell you that I mean to go to California, and dig gold! Bah! how unromantic it sounds. Imagine Horace Nelson, the heir pre- sumptive to one of the largest landed estates in Mas- sachusetts, and possessor of a high sounding name, grubbing in the earth for filthy lucre. But it is even so. I am fitted for nothing else-have neither pro- fession nor trade-and as for consenting to become that 'sumpter-mule,' that worse than nightmare- ridden individual-a teacher of the young idea-that I can never do. No, I have strength and a good con. stitution, which has never been impaired by excess- es. What others have done I can dd. It is true I will have to encounter many hardships, and yield up the luxuries and indulgences I have been accustom- ed to; but the mind can soon accommodate itself to circumstances, when it determines resolutely to do so. Too long have I led a life of idleness, and effe-     "O-     CARRIE HARRINGTON; ORf minate ease; I absolutely look back to it with dis. gust and surprise, at my own want of energy, which so long has held me in durance vile." "How do you think your uncle will receive your determination?" asked Ella, wiping the tears frorm her cheeks, and struggling with the weight that was on her spirits, for she could not help but respect and admire him for his resolution, and feel she would be doing wrong to endeavor to dissuade him. "I shall not wait to hear his opinion," said he. "To will in future will be to act with me. I shall go back to the hotel, and devote the remainder of the night to writing him a lengthy epistle, which, per- haps, may do him good. I have a young friend who has been in the mines for more than a twelvemonth. I have his address, and will seek him out immediately on my arrival. I perceive by the papers that a steamer leaves to-morrow norning at eight o'clock, so you see I have very little time for preparation. On it I shall embark, with)all my worldly goods packed up in a trunk; a firm assurance of success urging me on, aided by your snliles and good wishes. Look up, darling! the sun always shines brightest after a shower. Depend upon it, I will return with 'all my blushing honors thick upon me,' and then 'all will go merry as a marriage bell.'  But Ella felt a depression on her spirits which she could not resist. In vain she argued with herself that it was foolish to yield to despondency. In vain she tried to patch inspiration from his beaming face,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      141 and shake off the clouds of doubt and despair that overwhelmed her. A mysterious presence seemed to surround her, and voices whispered in her ear that their parting would be "long," "long," and much sorrow would be hers e'er they met again. She hushed the voice within her heart, and tried to conceal from him her forebodings, but in vain did she essay to articulate words of comfort and assur. ance-they choked in her throat, and froze upon her lips; she could only lay her head upon his shoulder, in all the abandonment of grief- -   Oh! there lie such depths of woe In a young blighted spirit! Manhood rears A haughty brow, and age has done with tears; But youth bows down to misery, in amaze At the dark cloud o'ernlantling its fresh days." ' Why, darling!" said Horace, caressing her fond- ly, " you make me half repent my resolution. Don't, don't; I pray! you perfectly unman me. Let me not feel that I have stolen like a thief in the night, and robbed you of happiness' Rather look forward to the bright hour of meeting, when this unhappy mo- ment, the saddest, yet the sweetest of my whole life, will be forgotten in the joy of reunion: 'And when returned from conquered foes, How, blithely will the evening close, How sweet the linnet sing repose, To my young bride and me.' Say, ' dost thou like the picture?' I have said that I would bind you by no promise; but oh! I cannot "I     "2      CARRIE HARRINGTON   OR, leave you, dear one, without some assurance on your part of continued regard." Ella looked up in his face, and replied, while scald- ing tears coursed each other down her pale cheeks: "I cannot frame words of my own to answer you, but in the beautiful language of one of my own coun- try-women I reply:                ^ 'Cast my heart's gold into the furnace flame, And if it comes not thence refined and pure, I'll be a bankrupt to thy hope, and Heaven Shall shut its gates upon me.'  And so-they parted. He to win a name and for- tune to lay at her feet; she to shut up her secret in her own heart, there to fester and corrode on her very vitals. ^   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.       143 CHAPTER XVII. "The world may scorn me if they choose, care But little for their scoffings. I may sink For moments, but I rise again, nor shrink From doing what the faithful heart inspires; I will not flatter, fawn, nor crouch, nor wink, At what high mounted wealth or power desires; I have a loftier aim to which my soul aspires." PERCIVAL. MORNING was fast merging into noon-day. The city clocks chimed the hour of ten, as the Hon. Rob- ert Nelson submitted his aristocratic nose to the fin- ger and thumb of his valet-de-chambre for the un- dignified operation of a close shave. This puffy piece of punctiliousness had just arisen from a restless pillow, where he had tossed the night away, battling with bodily pain and mental disquie- tude. Memory of late had been busy in his brain, recall- ing scenes he would fain forget. In the still hour of midnight, when the taper burned low, a dim shape seemed to flit about his apartment with mournfully upbraiding eyes, and hands upraised in a pleading attitude, as if supplicating mercy! mercy! from the stony heart which heeded not a dying prayer. He     '144     CARRIE ARRINGTON; OR, would turn over, with a muttered ejaculation, and sink again into an uneasy slumber, only to renew these phantoms of a disordered brain, until morning dawn- ing upon his fevered couch, a deep sleep would for a few hours steep his senses in forgetfulness. This state of things annoyed him. He was accus- tomed to listen to the "still small voice" within; its warnings had so long been unheeded that the very echo had died away in his breast, What should have aroused it now? What should cause old fa- miliar faces, and long forgotten tones, to start from the blackened storehouse ( his memory, and vibrate on his heart-strings with such painful discord? Who can tell? May it not be, that as we approach the hour  "When worn mortality lays off its woes, In. blest oblivion of all earthly throes," -memory and conscience, those "twin jai rs" of the guilty heart, assert their empire, and ng with an- guish the soul that has lain do ant through the mist of years. Powerful must be the awakening, when it causes the strong, proud man to quail with terror at the pie. tures presented to his mental vision, and shrink with dread when the hours of night and solitude draw near, to renew the torments which "rack the brain and fire the eye." As he reclined this morning in the softly-cushioned chair, in front of the luxuriously furnished toilet- table, and submitted his chin to the caresses of the   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     145 soft lathery brush, a train of thought took possession of his mind, which promised to bring forth fruit in due season. Why should he lead the solitary life he did? was the question he asked himself. If he had a compan- ion, a gentle, loving one, these haunting images would be put to flight. He glanced at himself in the mir- ror, and thought there were worse-looking men than himself in the world who could lay claim to woman's love; and with his wealth and standing the road would not be beset with as many difficulties as might be imagined. He had long looked forward to the time when his nephew would fulfill his expectations, and surround his declining years with the comforts of domestic life, and the glad music of children's happy voices. But, although his heart yearned for these scenes of endearments, the demon Pride still whispered that the source of joy for him could only flow from an uncontaminated blood-no plebeian stream  must mingle with the pure waters from which was to spring this exalted race of beings, to magnify his greatness. Yet he had been forced to the conclusion that the blood of the Nelsons submitted not to dicta- tion, and with Horace, "Marriage was a matter of more worth" than to be entered into to gratify another's whim. He had insisted, nay commanded, that the latter should pay his suit to Isabelle, and had met with a gentle, but firm refusal; and now the question arose in his     i14 6    CARRI HARRINGTON; OR, nrind, what should prevent his proffering his own ad- dresses in that quarter? True, it was rather a May and December piece of business, but such things were of every day occurrence-a sort of nine-days- wonder with the vulgar mass, for whose opinion he did not-care a groat. The idea of refusal did not obtrude itself. His self-esteem was too prominent for that. His name and fortune were a sufficient passport to any woman's heart; so, "Laying this flattering unction to his soul," he hugged himself up in the belief of success, and was lost in his peaant day-dreams-so much more agreeable than his ghtly visions-when he 'was aroused by a knock on his chamber door. James opened the door, when a letter was handed in on a silver salver, by one of the waiters of the hotel. It had been left, he said, by the young gen. tleman with the barkeeper, to be delivered to his uncle immediately on his arising. What could it mean? He looked at the hand. writing-the characters belonged to Horace. His hand trembled as he broke the seal. A vague pre- sentiment filled his mind with dread, which deepen- ed, as he read, to certainty-to stern reality-to a conviction that he had trodden upon the worm, and it had turned and stung him. The letter ran thus: "Ere this reaches you, many miles will intervene between you and the hand that pens these lines.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    147 Doubt me not, my resolution is firmly fixed. Too long have I borne the crushing weight of your dicta- tion, which would measure the pulses of my heart, and appropriate each throb! Oh, sir! to be truly great, is to be merciful and just. You, no doubt, think you have done your duty, in surrounding my fatherless childhood with indul- gences, in educating me, and granting every foolish whim of my youth, and deeply have these things sunk into my heart. I have tried to repay you with gratitude and love. I enshrined you in my young mind as a deity to be worshiped-one whose nod was law to me. But manhood and passion have disen- chanted me; the idol has been stripped of its orna- ments, and the base metal shows through. "Oh! mine uncle! would that I could add, mine honored, dearly loved uncle! perhaps it ill becomes one of my years to take upon himself the task of Mentor to the riper experience and more worldly wisdom of fourscore; and my temerity may be punished by a contemptuous reception of my commu- nication. Yet pause, pause ere consigning to ob- livion words wrung from the heart of the writer, who now  addresses you for perhaps the last time on earth! Start not! a prophetic voice is sounding in my ear, which speaks of long days of absence, and many changes, ere my feet shall press again the sod that gave me birth. The grave's dark portals may close upon one or both of us in the time; for the path which I have marked out to traverse, is     "8     CARRIE HARRINGTON ', OR, beset with dangers and difficulties, and the sands in your glass have nearly run their course. "You stand, as it were, upon a hill-top, from which you can view every event of your past life. You have been blessed with affection, friends, wealth, and power! How have you used the gifts placed in your hands for safe keeping? Have you d  a tear in sorrow's eye? S{ave you dispensed th tight of hap. piness around one solitary hearth-stone? Have you not rather sowed misery broadcastaround your own? Oh! look back! look back! old man, at the wreck of your own joys, stranded upon the altar of your pride!-the demon in your heart that has poisoned its life-blood, until it distills drops of gall and worm- wood. It is not too late to eradicate the foul spot that blots the fair escutcheon of your honorable name. "My cousin Clara! hallowed be thy long forbid- den name! would that I were trumpet-tongued, that I might plead thy wrongs! "Oh! seek her, my uncle! it is not too late to atone for the past. If you wish the star of peace to shed its placid beams around your dying pillow, 'let not the sun go down upon your wrath.' Learn a lesson of forgiveness from God's flowers in your path, which yield their sweetest perfume when tram- pled on. "As for me, I have nothing to reproach you with. My youth has been made bright by your kindness, and if my manhood resists your dictation, it is be-   SCENES IN NEW-oRLEANS,     149 cause I have arrived at years, now, when judgment should be allowed to sit in council on my actions, and its decision prompts me to act as becomes a man! 'The gloom that Eblis' self might dread, Is Heaven to him who flies from chains.' "Seek not to discover the course I have taken. It will be wrapt in mystery too deep and impenetrable for even your eyes to fathom; but when I am gone- when the loneliness and weariness of age oppresses you-seek out those whom God and nature point out, to fill my place, and freely will I resign to them their just dues. "Your nephew, "HORACE." It were hard to depict the various passions that left their scorching traces on the countenance of the old man, as he perused these lines. Indignation, rage, and astonishment, predominated over all the rest, although some twinges of affection caused his hand to quiver, and his ruddy cheek to pale a shade or two. He sat, holding the letter in one hand, his chin resting in the palm of the other, perfectly oblivious of the fact that the water was growing cold in the sha- ving-cup, and part of his chin and one cheek re- mained covered with the light, frothy soap-suds which had been applied just before the letter reached him; while his man stood respectfully awaiting     - t$Q0 ,  CARRIE BRIArM I   . orders, and not daring to suggest the propriety of fin- ishing the barbar ous infliction. Raising his eyes at last, he caught a glimpse of the ludicrous figure he was displaying, and turning to his servant, bade him finish dressing him-bring his breakfast as expeditiously as possible, and order a carriage by twelve, as he wished to go out. Stern resolution sat upon his brow, and his man knew something more than common was in the wind. Time will show,' that it was an ill wind that blew nobody good.'       '    ;S  S   tISN NEW-ORLEANS.     151 CHAPTER XVIII. "Up sprung the lover then, and said, ( Will you be Mrs. Popkins- Miss Julia Jane Matilda Ann Amelia Polly Hopkins? I have a house four stories high, We'll live in splendid style, and A handsome country seat upon Lake George's sweetest island; Ten thousand eagles in the mint, Bank shares, untold, per cented'- The lady bent her cheek to his, Her gentle heart relented!" ANONYMOUS. "WHERE shall I tell the man to drive, sir?" "To Judge Loring's, No. 128 C--    Street." The speaker reclined upon the carriage cushions, crushing in his hand the letter which he had held there since reading it. The lion had again been bearded in his den. Twice had his authority been set at naught by those from whom he expected spaniel-like obedience and fidelity. It had decided him.  No longer would he subject himself to the possibility of receiving disrespectful treatment from striplings of yesterday, who set at defiance dictation and governmentship.     152e    CARRIE HLARRINGTON ;: R,  He would disinherit Horace, marry, and settle everything upon his wife. He would make his un- grateful nephew feel what it was to rouse his wrath. True, he had not flown in his face, and married con. ,  trary to his commands, but he shrewdly suspected it was but a preparatory step to that move-that love lay hid at the bottom of his resolution. He looked upon the threat of separation as idle, a mere boyish ruse to see how far he could go, to try the effect of taking an independent stand. Well! he should see the effect, and feel it too, to his dying day. Henceforth he should be an alien to his heart and home. He- longed for the hour to ar- rive when he should face him and tell him so; crush, as with an avalanche, his hopes, and show him what a Sisyphusian labor he had commenced, when he un- dertook to gain his point with him by threats and bravado. He little dreamed, proud man! that his guilty wish would never, ripen to fruition. That many ? miles of the circling, winding river already lay be- tween him and the object of his premeditated re- venge. The dense smoke the steamer left behind still hung like a cloud along the distant horizon, coming like a pall between those whose lives would henceforth diverge, wide as the poles asunder. The carriage has stopped. The unmistakable ring of "upper-tendom" has agitated the bell; the obse- quious lackey has thrown open the door, bowing over   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      153 the card, which he passes to a female servant in at- tendance, with the explanation, "For Miss Loring," and receivinA her answer, "At home," signifies the same to James, who assists his master to alight and enter the drawing-room, there to await the arrival of his Dulcinea. After some little delay, caused by her mak\s une grande toilet, Isabelle entered the room. Well might the antiquated lover start with admiration at the beautiful vision that burst upon his enraptured gaze -a dazzling beauty, calculated to throw a queenly lustre over his name and house. Belle was an adept in the art of dress, and knew how to set off her really fine points to advantage. With an unlimited command of money, no adven- titious aid was wanting to enhance her charms. It was her qbject to appear particularly fascinating just now; and she well knew "Each sweet mode of warfare, from the flash That lightens boldly through the shadowy lash, To the sly, stealing splendors, almost hid, Like swords half sheathed, beneath the downcast lid." Ancient statues sometimes represent Cupid bestrid- ing the back of a lion, and playing on a lyre; whilst the fierce creature, turning his head, seems to listen to its harmonious chords. The picture is before you, reader.. The haughty old man, who, in a fit of resentment, decided to lay his fortune and name at the feet of Isabelle, has suc- cumbed to the tender passion. Her surpassing beauty 8     154     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, has filled him with awe and admiration; her melo- dious voice, modulated to its softest tones of blandish- ment, has sunk deep into his heart, and must hence- forth make the music of his life. Tremblingly he acknowledges it to himself, that upon her fiat rests his dearest hopes. It is a fearful thing, the love of age! It is gene- rally made a subject of sport and derision; but who can tell the force of feeling that can thaw through the icy surface and agitate the depths below! The rousing from torpidity-the awakening to a, new sense of life-the last trembling sigh of the wind- harp as its tones float away n the breeze of evening -the taper's expiring flash of brightness, ere it sinks to darkness and oblivion. With feelings which an hour ago he would have thought his withered heart incapable of experiencing, and would have blushed to acknowledge even to him- self, he makes known the object of his visit; and Belle, well knowing the testy temperament she has to deal with, makes no coquettish show of refusal- as a less skillful manceuvrer would have done, and thereby lost the game-but to his suit " did seriously incline;" the "yes" was unequivocal, and the rap- ture of the lover knew no bounds. Tremble, old man! You little know the nature of the frail, light being, you are about to take to your bosom. The punishment of Tantalus is nought, compared to that of the hoary simpleton, who mar- ries a young and beautiful woman, accustomed to admiration, and existing upon its honeyed flatteries,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     155 and expects she will give up all these to become the patient nurse, the gentle minister, to the " lean and slippered pantaloon." Ah! bitter is his doom, who ----- "Gives to airy nothing A local habitation, and a name." It is all settled. They are to be married immedi- ately. The lover is impatient (old men always are). The lake trip is not to changed, as the arrange- ments for the family have all been made. - The hap- py pair will simply make a little bridal tour to Mobile, and return and spend the summer by the seashore. The father's consent is easily obtained, as his am- bition is gratified by the distinction of the match; while the more unpretending mother, whose disap. proving voice is unheeded in the bustle of preparation and splendor of the alliance, breathes a secret prayer for her child's happiness, and a sigh of regret at the worldliness that influences her choice. Miss Letty's nimble fingers must fly now. She will have ample employment for the next fortnight for mind and body, and for her tongue for the next six months. Her importance is suddenly increased, as two or three assistants are placed at her disposal; and " clothed in a little brief authority," she flourishes her scissors for a sceptre, and wages war upon the costly fabrics which are to grace the bride's trous- seau. "Cards! wedding cards! and whose do you think 'they are?" exclaimed Carrie, bounding into Ella's      16      CARRIE HABR1NGTON; OR, boudoir, and arousing the fair occupant from a deep revery into which she had fallen; at the same time holding up one of the silver-edged enameled enve- lopes, with its blue and white ribbon fastenings, she continued: "Put on your thinking-cap, little lady, and guess until doomsday, and I am afraid you will be as far from the mark as when you started." "If that is the case," said Ella, with a languid smile, " it will be useless to attempt it. I was born too near the torrid zone to be a good guesser." "Do you give it up?" "I expect I shall have to." "Prepare yourself for an electrical shock," said Carrie, drawing from its cover one of the cards, and exhibiting it to Ella's gaze: 'AT ST.-- '8 CHURCH, Tuesday, June 3d. * on. Bobtrt Nelson" isiZ 3fszabtelle Loring. "There," said Carrie, "I see you are dumb with astonishment, and I knew you would be. As for me, I can scarcely find words to express -myself. Can it be possible that that beautiful being will link her- self to age and infirmity, just for the sake of wealth that she does not need? I cannot contemplate a union like this, with anything short of feelings of abhorrence; and her mother, whom I look upon as   SCENES IN NEW ORLEANS.     157 a model of all that woman should be, can she ap- prove and sanction this monstrous fraud--this, in my eyes, unholy alliance?" "Lawful sakes alive! bless your dear little heart!" said Mrs. Percival, who had entered the apartment unperceived, and heard Carrie's speech: "You don't suppose for one minit, my dear, that Belle Loring cares what her mother may think about the matter? That's the least that concerns her, you may depend. As for herself, she ain't got heart enough to know whether she likes anybody or not; all she thinks about is fixin' up, flirtin', and attractin' attention; and if she don't lead that ar old fool a dance, you may call me a know-nothin'. He'll want to blow his brains out, and hers too, before the honeymoon is over. Well,"-she had the floor now, and her audi- tors knew it was useless to contend, so resigned them- selves to listen--" we must goo o the church to see 'em married. I wonder why they didn't give a big weddin'? 'Taintfashionable I s'pose, but I like the old way best. Its dreadful oncomfortale this hot weather to fuss and fix up in the middle o' the day, besides spilin' your clothes with perspiiation. Let me see the card. Why, bless my soul, Nelly, that's the day we've sot for leavin'. That'll be 'mazin' inconvenient. We'll barely have time to git home fromn the church and change our dresses, and that in a hurry too, so as to take the half-past-elevin o'clock train to the lake, as the mail boat leaves at twelve. We'll have to stir our stumps, I'm thinkin'. Well, girls, if there is any-     158     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, thing either of you want in the way of dress, jist tell me, for I want you both to look nice, as I expect it will be a grand affair." "I want nothing, dear mother, as I have just had so many dresses made to go away with; one of them will do to wear." "And I," said Carrie, "will not need anything, as it will be impossible for me to go." "Lawful sakes-! why not?" "You forget, my dear lady, that the Monday pre- vious is tie important day on which I commence my 'duties in the school. It would not do to prove a de- linquent so soon, so my going is entirely out of the question." "School? fudge! nonsense! I get clean worked- up When you say anything about it. It's the most outlandish thing I ever heard of. I wonder if you wasn't well enough off here, without takin' sich a freak in your head; travelin' off every day through mud and mire, blow high, blow low, all the sarde, to teach a parcel o' dirty, noisy brats, and may-be ketch the scarlet fever or small-pox."  "Oh! mrcy!" said Carrie, laughing good - moredly, "I hope it won't be quite as bad as that; but," taking one of her fat hands within both her own, and sitting down beside her, she added, "did you not promise me that you would find no more fault with me for the step I have taken? Something tells me that you will yet see it is all for the best. Don't make me feel that I have offended you past re-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      159 demption, by constantly reminding me that I am act- ing in direct opposition to your wishes. I have too few friends to wish to lose them so lightly." "Tut, tut, my dear! who said anything about your ' losin' my friendship? I may find fault with a good many things my own Nelly does, without losin' my love for her. I only feel as if there was no more need of your doin' this than there is of her walkin' off and findin' a place. But there, don't look worried. I ain't goin' to say any more about it; the thing's done, and talkin' won't do any good now. But it kind o' riles me tho', to think of your bein' here in this er' big 'house, with no company but nig- gers, when you come home in the evenin'. S'posin' you should be sick? I wish we varn't goin' away." "' Don't anticipate evil, my dear iinadam. You for- get that Mr. Percival will be here occasionally during the time, and then I shall come over in vacation, and be with you until the schools re-open." "Well, well! I s'pose I must make the best of it; it can't be helped now. But, lawful sakes alive!" said she, flying off at a tangent, "I 'forgit myself; I must go and see to the puttin' away of them ar car- pets; if I don't, they'll be riddled through with the moths before winter." And the old lady eased her- self out of the chair, and waddled off to attend to her domestic affairs, leaving the girls to the enjoy- ment of each other's company.     160      CARRIE IARRINGTON; OR, CHAPTER XIX. "Fill the bright goblet, spread the festive board! Summon the gay, the noble, and the fair,! Through the loud hall, in joyous concert poured, Let mirth and music sound the dirge of care! But ask thou not if happiness be there- If the loud laugh disguise convulsive throe, Or if the brow the heart's true livery wear. Lift not the festal mask! enough to know No scene of mortal life but teems with mortal woe." SIR W. SCOTT. "LOVE, honor, and obey, until death do us part, ac- cording to God's holy ordinance; and thereto I give thee my troth." The solemn words are spoken, the false vow regis- tered beneath God's holy temple, and hollow-hearted mortals view the scene complacently, extend the con- gratulatory hand, and press the lips that have just perjured themselves before high Heaven. Oh, blind moles! groping in darkness! :how long will it be ere the day-star of truth will rise on your benighted souls? In human courts of justice the finger of scorn is pointed at, and every mark of contumely heaped upon, the head of the unprincipled wretch who swears   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     .61 falsely; but the votary of fashion can kneel before God's altar and personate a living lie, with mocking words upon the lip, and joy's semblance on the brow, when the heart beneath is a heap of ashes--a black- ened charnel-house-where the fires of mammon have extinguished the mild rays of truth, and left their charred and blackened brands to smoulder and fret upon the hearth-stone. How few marriages there are contracted in this world from pure motives and affection founded on esteem, a mutual knowledge of character, and a con- geniality of habits, tastes, and principles! Ask nine hundred and ninety-nine out of every thousand you meet, "If they were wedded to the object whom they would have singled out from all others to share life's journey with?" and you will find invariably (if they speak the sentiments of their heaits) that their unions were more the result of ac- cident than anything else; with sonre necessity, with some ambition, with others compulsion, with very few love. Yet they will tell you" that theyiad learned to love each other afterwards." Yes, a sort of affection, such as one might suppose two animals would enter- tain for each other that had tugged together under the same harness for years; in other words, they had got used to each other. Well, with the mass perhaps it is better that it should be so. We live in an every-day world, sur- rounded by every-day circumstances, and have no time to indulge in romance. The rotund Mrs. Smith 8*     162     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, of to-day, encompassed by six or eight juvenile re- sponsibilities, would almost forget the time when she drew her waist into the circumference of half a yard, and indited love sonnets to the moon. And so the world rolls on, and will, until "this mortal shall put on immortality," when we shall no longer "see through a glass darkly," but with spirits freed from the dross of earth, shall return to the abiding place of truth, and resuscitate from the tomb of time the holy dreams and aspirations of our youth, to flourish and bear goodly fruit, through the countless ages of eternity! A long line of carriages, filled with the elite of the city, are drawn up in front of Judge Loring's mansion. They have returned from the church, where the ceremony was performed, to drink health and happiness to the bride and bridegroom. The bride looks very beautiful in her orange blos- soms and costly veil-magnificent jewels gleam upon her fair bosom--Europe's richest looms furnish the robe that envelopes her queenly form. Gratified pride and ambition sit upon her brow, lend a lustre to her eye, and a glow to her cheek. All outward appearances are fair to look upon; but draw the veil o'er the inner sanctuary-look not down into the depths of fthe false heart that has sold its birthright for a mess of pottage! And the aged gallant by her side!  Art and wealth have been expended in propping the tottering   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      163 structure, in furbishing and gilding the decaying edifice, to hide the marks of time - but sounds there no echo from the " olden time" through the fallen columns? Do not voices from the past float through the crumbling walls, startling the dotard from his dream? No; this is no time to indulge in retrospection. All is elegant bustle and magnificent activity. The bees of fashion are swarming from their hive, buz- zing around their queen, loading her with honors and congratulations. It would scarcely do for one of the principal actors to prove a drone on this; occasion-he will have ample leisure to repent by- and-by; at present, all should wear the semblance of joy-the mirth and jest abound-glasses jingle to the time of merry music-and thus the day rolls on. The hour has arrived when the bride must change her bridal for her traveling dress. Parting words are spoken, tears dropped, and sincere wishes for happiness breathed from a FEW hearts that contact with the world has not petrified into stone. The carriages roll away with their occupants, busily discussing the events of the morning; and, lastly, the bride receives her father's blessing and her mother's kiss, and is gone to light another's home: "She goes unto love yet untried and new, She parts from love that has still been true." "She walks the water like a thing of life"--ithe     164     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, 'dashing steamer, scattering the spray from her bows, in white caps, that foam and sparkle in the sun-light, like liquid pearls and diamonds dissolved in some sea-fairy's crucible. The gray line of haze that marks the low shore of Louisiana fades in the distance, and the blue waters of Lake Pontchartrain rush forward to greet, in a loving embrace, their sister nereid, Lake Borgne; the Rigolets are passed, and now the seabreeze comes with a fresh, bracing feel, that speaks of old ocean caves-of coral reefs, and amber beds! The bridal party occupy the cabin. The air on deck is rather chilly for the gouty groom; and, na- ture's charms have no attraction for Isabelle, who occupies herself in a divided admiration of a magni- ficent diamond ring, presented to her by her newly- made spouse, and the beautiful hidnd on which it re- poses. Her bridesmaid, a milk-and-water sort of young lady,.sits on one of the velvet sofas, and answers the questions addressed to her by Edward Loring in monosyllables, beyond which she ventures not. Edward looks around almost despairingly for some loophole by which to escape the victimisation of entertaining the automaton, when the young lady relieves him, by suddenly remembering that she has something to attend to in her state-room, and dis- appears behind its sliding-door, leaving Edward free to amuse himself. He saunters out on deck, where, to his surprise,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     165 he perceives the lovely form of Ella Percival, leaning over the guards of the boat, and gazing down into the blue depths of the water, as if therein she sought to pierce the mysteries ofthe future, and, read what fate had in store for her. So deep was her abstraction, that Edward stood some time by her side in silence, and had brought a cane-seated chair from the other side of the deck and placed it at her disposal, ere she perceived to whom she was indebted for the attention. "Excuse me, Miss Percival, for interrupting your revery; but I really fear you will fatigue yourself by remaining so long in one position; pray, ,be seated." She turned to him with a beaming smile, and frankly extending her hand, thanked him for his kindness, taking the seat, at the same time laughing at her own abstraction. "It would hardly be fair, I presume, to inquire into the subject of your cogitations," said Edward, smiling. "Young ladies generally don't like to have their thoughts intruded on, but I, suppose you were occupied in deciding ' which was most be- coming to your complexion, pink or blue ;' or whether 'bonnets would be worn the coming season on the head or on the shoulders ; or whether ' ladies would still continue to surrounhd themselves with their whalebone defences, and swell their circumferences, to such a size as to sweep,down all obstacles in their path,' or some other lady-like cogitation."     166     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "Neither one of your triad of weighty matters en- grossed me, I assure you," replied Ella, good humor- edly; for Edward was a particular favorite of hers, not only on his own, but on her friend Carrie's ac- count. She bad made up her mind that they were exactly suited to each other; and if matches were made in Heaven, surely this one was chronicle:. there, and ought to be consummated on earth. Sh perceived a growing partiality on both sides, uncon. scious to each other, and determined nothing should be wanting on her part, to fan the flickering flame to a steady blaze to glow upon the altar of domestic joy. To Carrie she let no opportunity pass of vaunting Edward's praises, but she wisely forbore bantering her, conscious that by too much precipitancy she would defeat her own object. She had the satisfac- tion of seeing that the subject was not a disagreeable one to her fair friend, and she trusted to time and opportunity to bring about the most favorable results. Of Edward's sentiments she was very sanguine; for certainly pleasure glowed in every lineament of his- handsome face, when addressing Carrie. A smile of most unqualified approval often rewarded her re- marks, when called upon by him to express her sen- timents on any given subject. Ella knew him well enough to know that the wcoman he married must come up to his standard of mental and -moral perfection. This, she felt in her heart, Carrie did; she had only to be well known to o   SCENES IN' NEW-ORLEANS.     167 inisure success; but the hand must be a skillful one to lift the veil which her modesty hung over her merits. Ella felt she was not acting an unfriendly N part to give it a little pull, and let the candidate of her nomination have a sly peep. X"'Were you very much surprised at seeing ene "Jere?" she asked. "' Yes, rather; I knew your intention of leaving 'he city, but did not anticipate the pleasure of sail- ing-or, I suppose I ought to say, steaming--in your company on the present occasion. Have you left for the season, or is this merely a short excursion?" "Oh! we have taken our final departure, and the goodly city, I presume, will bemoan our absence until the fall. My only regret was in leaving my friend Carrie behind." Edward started, and Ella was secretly delighted at the effect of her words. "Surely," he said, ' Miss Harrington accompanies you?" "No; we could not persuade her to do so." "Why so?" "I suppose I am betraying confidence to enter into particulars," said Ella, " but I must tell you all, or nothing. My friend has very peculiar ideas, as regards independence. No doubt you have heard her history from your mother, and know how she is circumstanced. Most females (particularly young  ones) imilarly situated, would seat themselves down, contented to let matters take their course, so long as     168     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, they were comfortable. This is not Carrie's case; she has too much energy of mind to be controlled by circumstances. She prefers the crust of independ- ence, made sweet by industry, to the luxuries of a palace, purchased by the loss of self-respect. I con- fess to being too much indebted to my surroundings for happiness, to feel exactly as she. does, but I ne- vertheless can respect the high-toned sentiments which I cannot understand." "She is right," said Edward, after a pause, during which, deep feeling played over his expressive face, which Ella read with secret joy, on her friend's ac- count. "If your family," he continued, " were so circum- i stanced that she could return the obligations confer- red on her, by devoting her time and services to you, the debt of gratitude would be canceled, as the obli- gation would he mutual; but as there is no possible way in which her talents could be called to account for your benefit, she, does right to exercise them in another channel, and receive the approbation of her own conscience, whose approval is far more satisfac- tory than the praises of the multitude. Tell me the course she intends pursuing." "The one of all others she is most qualified for- that of a teacher. For if it requires patience, good temper, forbearance, energy, and decision, all these she-possesses in an eminent degree!" replied Ella, her cheeks glowing with her enthusiastic praises of her friend, and the starting tear in her eye attesting her sincerity.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.'    169 No less pleased was her listener, and a certain ex- pression around his mouth and eyes told the little maiden that resolves were being taken which bore upon Carrie's future materially. "Have you found out yet the name of her mother's family?" asked Edward, after a pause. "No," replied Ella; "on this subject Carrie is re- ligiously silent. When her mother imparted to mine the events of her past life, she scrupulously kept back the name. Nor does Carrie know anything at all concerning her grand-parents. Neither she nor her brother were ever suffered to ask questions." "Well," said Edward, " it doesn't matter; ances-  tors are nothing. In our country the best men and women are self-made, and do not owe their eminence to a-titled father." Ella rewarded him by a grateful look and smile, and was about making some farther remark, when she was startled by the voice of her mother, exclaim- ing : "Why, bless my soul and body, Nelly! here you are, a settin' out here in the blazin' sun, with nothin' but that ar little piece of a bonnit stuck on, or off your head, I dpn't know which. You'll git as freck- led as a turkey egg!" Dear mother," replied Ella, rising, and offering her chair to her, " this breeze is So refreshing, and my veil protects me from the sun, if my bonnet does not," she added, laughing. "Lawful sakes!" exclaimed Mrs. Peroival, seat.     170     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, ing herself in the chair, and pointing across the blue wave to where a shoal of porpoises were gamboling in the sun's rays; " do look at them ar creeturs! What on airth are they about, friskin' and bobbin' up and down, like overgrown porkers? I hope we ain't goin' to have any sich cattle a pokin' their noses into the bath-houses." "Oh, no!" said Edward, "they are very timid; the sound of your voice would frighten them away." "Well, I reckon it would, for I should let out a orful screech if one o' them ax animals should put his snout near me. Oh! lawful sakes, Nelly! I for- got to tell you my travlin' baskit's busted at the side. I exerted every stratergy to cram all my little knick- knackeries in it, and it was purty full, when what did Miss Betsy do but set herself down on it, in the state-room, bustin' the baskit, and breakin' my bot- tle of essence o' peppermint, shentin' up herself and everything else . That young nigger 'll1 be the death o' me yit, I'm 'feard." Edward moved away   the conversation had got rather too domestic for him. At the same time the bell rang for dinner, and we will leave our travelers to discuss its merits, while we go back to the dusty city, and see what is going on there. '          SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      171 CHAPTER     XX. "Oh! there are daily martyrdoms, which we Heed not, the sufferers are to us unknown  But angels from the walls of Eden see How glorious are the laurels they have won." REV. T. HEMPSTEAD. MUCH has been said and sung of the pleasures of school-teaching. Of the, pure joy of watching the opening bud placed in your hands for culture, as it unfolds leaf by leaf each newly acquired idea, adding a brighter tint, a richer coloring, to the mental flower, which, pruned by your care, watered by your pa- tience, and trained by your experience, expands into full-blown maturity, unconscious of the kindly hand that has aided in developing its rich hues, without whose watchfulness the cold wind of neglect might have nipped it in early spring-time, and left it a scent- less and withered encumbrance in the garden of in- tellect. There may be some small amount of joy in these reflections, but it is of the negative kind. Most cer- tainly the thousand and one petty annoyancesthe daily strain upon patience and temper, the most rigid systerm of self-government, in order the better to gov- ern others, the self-immolation upon the shrine of     172     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, duty or necessity, all these are unseen by the mass, unknown, save in their effects. But if there is a consolatory thought for humanity's pack-horse-yclept "a teacher"-it is this: that the good they do lives after them, even if unappreciated. "Let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another." Carrie entered heart and soul upon the duties of her new vocation. Her predecessor had died in the execution of her onerous tasks; had literally talked her life away, and fell a victim to that disease so comnmon to those who have constantly to exercise their voices-bronchitis. Carrie felt that a double responsibility rested on her shoulders, not only to discharge her, duties faithfully to those who had en- trusted her with power, but to finish the work com- menced by one whose life had paid the forfeit of her devotion to the cause in which she had enlisted. She was agreeably surprised on the day of her in- stallation to find her chatty acquaintance of the ex- amination-day a fellow-laborer in the same building, and the first to advance with extended hand and the familiarity of friendship to greet her,as, accompanied by Mr. Percival, she was introduced to the theatre of her future usefulness. The lady was named to her as "Mrs. Selby." She had the principal classes in the department, and Car- rie was one of the assistants. She kindly volun-   SCENEs IN NEW-ORLEANS.     i3 teered her services to initiate her into such portions of her duties as she might feel at a loss about. The sight of her pleasant face was like a sunbeam breaking from behind a cloud to our little heroine, who felt some timidity at what she was about to un- dertake, when she saw the sea of little human faces upturned, with eager glances, to get a look at the "new teacher," and heard the half-suppressed ejacu- lations from the busy little mass--"Ain't she pretty?" "What beautiful curls!" "She ain't cross, I know." And then the dissenters, who are to be found in all parties, both great and small: "I shan't mind her, she's nothing but a girl i" "I don't want her to teach me; I know I shan't like her as well as I did Mrs. Elmore." Until Mrs. Selby, tapping on the desk with a ruler, to quell the buzzing and enforce attention, thus addressed them: I "My dear little girls! this is Miss Harrington, your future instructress. She is a stranger to us all, and you I know will agree with me in wishing to impress her favorably. She has been accustomed to the discipline of a Boston schoolroom, where every- thing goes by clockwork; do not let her have an opportunity of drawing an unfavorable comparison between it and our, beloved New-Orleans, but prove to her that little Southern girls can be docile and obedient as well as their quiet Northern sisters. En- courage her by your good conduct, so that she may not weary( of well-doing for you. I trust to your honor entirely that her first day in our midst may be     174   .  CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, made smooth and pleasant, and be cherished as a 'green leaf' in her memory." The effect of this speech was instantaneously seen and felt in the hhush that pervaded the schoolroom; the praiseworthy emulation, visible upon each young face, to outvie each other in good conduct.* Carrie had no cause of complaint against her pupils that day. If teachers, and parents too, would but observe how much more is gained by kindness, by trusting to a child's better nature, than by punishment and threats, much unnecessary severity would be done away with. Let little ones think you expect something good from them-that you think them incapable of dishonest or mean actions-and in nine cases out of ten you in- culcate the principles you wish to establish. On the contrary, brand a child with a bad name, reproach it constantly with its delinquencies, say that " you knew it would do so-and-so, " you don't expect any good from it," and it soon learns to think as you do. It gives up trying to correct its faults, and falls into the error of endeavoring to conceal them. Thus is artfulness engendered, and all its train of evils. Sometimes, with sensitive natures, a feeling of morbid self-condemnation and distrust springs up-an idea of its own utter unworthiness. I remember hearing this once painfully illustrated. A wild, mis- chievous little fellow, whose mother was constantly in the habit of scolding and 'fretting at him upon every occasion, and finally dubbed him with the name O   ]   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS,    175 of "Badey," because, as she told him,' he couldn't be anything else but bad," fell sick, and was about to die. One day he called his mother to him, and looking wistfully up in her face, he said: "Ma, when you, and pa, and my little sister and brother die and go to Heaven, will I see you?" "I hope so, my son," replied his mother. "Why," said the child, with wondering eyes, " can they see Heaven from the bad place?" The mother never forgot the lesson. And now Carrie's duties commenced in earnest. Her first care was to become acquainted with her pupils; to read, if possible, their characters, and find out the secret springs that moved them. To en- courage the timid, and restrain the bold. To win her way to their young hearts by mildness and per- suasion; and prove to them that in their teacher they had a fiiend, ever ready to lend a helping hand up the rugged pathway of the steep of learning, whose summit was accessible to all who had steadi- ness of purpose and application sufficient to dare its attempt, and perseverance to toil on until the goal was attained. Thus did the summer days roll on; aiwl if, at times, the bright blue sky and sparkling sunshine-the balmy breath of flowers and song of birds-the chirping of grasshoppers and droning buzz of insects came floating in through the open window of her schoolroom, telling of a world beyond its narrow confines, where all were basking in God's holy sun- *     176  ,   CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, light, free and unrestrained-if then the thought would intrude that she had voluntarily immured her- self-had become, as it were, her own jailer-still 4'her bosom's lord sat lightly on its throne," in the consciousness of having done her duty. She could bear a few privations such as these better than the galling sense of dependence that the recipients of another's bounty ever must feel, when it is not in their power to cancel the debt of grati- tude by benefits mutually bestowed. t                0o   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.       1" CHAPTER XXI. "The merry heart, the merry heart, Of Heaven's gifts I hold the best; And they who feel its pleasant throb, Though dark their lot, are truly blest. It gives to beauty half its power, e*^ -     The, nameless charms worth all the rest: The light that dances o'er a face, i And speaks of sunshine in the breast; If beauty ne'er have set her seal, It well supplies her absence, too; ,And many a cheek looks passing fair, Because a merry heart shines through." NEW-EN:LAND MAG.-Vol. 1. ' :CARRIE, you must come home with me to-day, I want to introduce you to my husband's mother. She is a very old lady, rather quaint in her ideas and- with due reverence be it spoken-very inquisitive. I will not flatter, by telling you that I have said anything very pretty about you, to excite a wish on her part to form your acquaintance; but I have spoken of you to my little boy, and told him of a young lady, with long curling hair, that was coming to see him some day, and would take him   upon her knee, and tell him pretty stories; and I suppose this has interested my good mother, who is a second child 9     l78     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, herself; so between the two, I had quite a time of it in getting away this morning; and, as a quietus, had to promise her and Willie that I would lay violent hands on you, if need be, and bring you home to dinner with me. So, no denial-put away that musty register-on with your. chapeau-and, for- ward-march." School had been dismissed some time, and Carrie had lingered, making entries, registering names, dates, ages, &c., but feeling desirous of a closer intimacy with her companion than mere school acquaintance- ship consisted of, she readily consented to her propo- sition, and the two sallied forth together. They traversed several squares towards the out- skirts of the city, and while on their way, Mrs. Selby beguiled the time by her lively discourse, which seeped to be the natural outpourings of a joyous spirit, which could not be restrained. "How delightful it is to get away from that stiff, solemn-looking schoolroom, with its rows of dingy desks and benches, and still more owlish-looking superintendent, and breathe the air of freedom, if it does come laden with city dust and effluvia from foul gutters. I don't believe I ever was intended for a teacher, but somehow fate has placed the dis- agreeable draught to my lips, and forced it down my throat; so there's no use making wry faces, I must swallow it or choke." "I don't wish to be inquisitive," said. Carrie, " but how happens it that you should choose an occupa- tion so irksome to you?"   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    179 "Do you know the reason, my dear, why Jack didn't eat his supper? Mother Goose will ell you: 'because he couldn't get it;' and that is exactly the reason why I teach-because I can't help myself. Necessity has no law. Some writer says, 'no happy woman ever wrote a book ;' and I say, no sensible one ever taught school from choice. I try soretimes to work myself up into a sentimental feeling on the subject, but it won't do; sentiment is not my forte. I just get as far as thinking what a precious charge has been entrusted to me-the moulding of unformed characters, the guidance of immortal minds, the training of young thoughts, &c., when my attention is called to a set of busy little fingers dexterously braiding a neighbor's hair into little pigtails, or two heads under the lid of one desk munching an apple, or a dog-eared book is thrust under my nose, with the request to explain some knotty point to the owner of said book; when up I arouse from my dream to the matter-of-fact reality that twice 5 makes 10, set O and carry 1; and I generally feel myself to be the cipher used on the occasion."  "You seem to make the best of it, at all events," said Carrie, laughing. "Oh! I believe that laughter and fun keep people alivekvhen they have nothing else to live upon. The good book tells us: 'A merry heart doeth good like a medicine; but a broken spirit drieth the bones.'  "Do you stay in the city during vacation?" asked Carrie.     1 80     CARRIE BARRINGTON; OR, "Yes, generally. I belong to the 'can't-get-away' club. It costs too much to travel. I might go' over the lake, as I have acquaintances that keep house there every summer, and I have a standing invita- tion; but I don't like to go and leave mother and Willie; and as to taking such a. regiment with me, it would be rank imposition, so it ends in my staying at home." a* "How old is your little boy?" "Four and a half years." "You must have married very young, for you cer- tainly do not look to be more than eighteen now." "I shall be twenty on my next birthday. I was - married before I was fifteen, and have been a widow nearly two years," said Mrs. Selby, her pleasant face assuming for a moment a grave expression, which Carrie felt sorry to have called forth; it seemed so foreign to its character. "Some rainy day," continued she, when our at- tendance at school is slim, and we hav'n't much to do, I will relate to you my short but eventful history, and you will acknowledge I have been the foothall of fortune; but I think there must be a great deal of india-rubber in my composition, as most of the kicks rebound and leave no bruise. But here we are," said she, opening a little gate that led into a small garden groaning with the weight of flowers and shrubbery, which every little square foot of ground was made to accommodate, and conducting Carrie up a neatly shelled walk to the cottage, left her 4.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    181 standing on the porch until she ran round to open the front door, saying, as she did so: "Excuse me a moment while I go to act in the capacity of por-, tress, for you must know we are not troubled with that commodity in petticoats which you Northern- ers denominate 'help,'" and laughing, she ran up the narrow alley-way by the side of the house, and the next moment Carrie was admitted into a  small sitting-room or parlor, whose greatest recom- mendation was its scrupulous neatness. It was com- fortably, not expensively furnished; but " home" seemed to-be written on everything, from 'the high- backed cushioned arm-chair, placed in the corner for the old lady, down to its diminutive companion on rockers, which on the present occasion was turned bottom upward, and made to perform the duty of a horse for little Willie, who sat astride it, whip in hand, and " gee-woa'd" and " gee-up'd" until Carrie entered, when the operations of the whip were sus- pended, the rag-reins dropped, the great gray eyes opened to their widest extent, as if to swallow her at a glance, and then lowered, abashed, and their owner, dismounting from his wooden "Rosinante," ran to his mother's side and caught hold of her dress, casting, at the same time, another furtive glance at our heroine. "Won't you come and speak to me, Willie'?" said Carrie, extending her hand to him. He still stood irresolute; but, with a more sociable expression on his face, look6d at his mother as if to know her opinion.     182     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "Go, my son," said she, " and speak to the lady. This is Miss Carrie Harrington, whom you were so anxious I should bring home with me. Don't stand gaping at her, as if she weretsome nondescript animal that you couldn't comprehend, but walk up to her like a man, and tell her 'you are happy to make her acquaintance. " Willie advanced rather shyly, but Carrie took him upon her lap, and, parting the brown hair from his broad forehead, kissed him, and told him he should be her little pet, and the two were soon very good friends. The old lady now entered, and Mrs. Selby, taking Carrie by the hand, led her up to her, saying, as she did so: "This is my mother, Miss Harrington. I shall have to leave you to entertain each other, while I at- tend to the culinary department. Man is a carnivor- ous animal, and his inner wants must be attended to. I shall not be very long absent, -as our bill of fare is never very extensive; still, we must have something more than 'the feast of reason and the flow of soul' to keep that same soul in its tabernacle made of clay. Give me your bonnet and parasol; Willie, see if you can't find a fan for Miss Carrie; and, mother, be sure you find out her history, and those of her progenitors, back as far as Adam, before I return," she added, laughing, and winking at Carrie ( Me!' child," said the old lady, seating herself in \ her chair, and drawing her spectacles from her capa-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     183 cious pockets; why, la! anybody to hear you talk would think I was curious. Sit down, my dear," she said, turning to Carrie, " and don't mind what Katy says; she likes to hear herself talk sometimes," she added, while her daughter-in-law disappeared, laughing. Willie came back with the fan, and a little bou- quet which he had gathered himself in the garden,  which he laid timidly on Carrie's knee. She received his childish offering with a smile and a kiss, and asked him " if he liked flowers." "Oh, yes! that I do," said he. But I love them best in the evening, they smell sweetest then, when God lights His little lamps in the sky!" "What a poetic idea!" said Carrie. "He's a strange child!" said his grandmother, "and makes some queer speeches. Such as he, ain't long for this world," said she, lowering her .tone, and shaking her head. Carrie looked down into the large, earnest. eyes that were raised to her own, and in their dreamy depths read the dawning of that precocious intellect, which too often outstrips the physical strength of its possessor; a lambent flame which feeds upon the vitals, and saps the springs of life! The old lady mused a little while, with her hand resting on her little grandsqn's head; and then the "ruling passion" getting the better of her, she turned a scrutinising gaze upon Carrie, and remarked: "You're a stranger in these parts, my daughter-in- h .    --'     184     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR,  law tells me-from  New England.  Come from there myself. I calkerlate maybe you might a'know some of my folks; they lived dowi to Weymouth?" Carrie replied, "I was born in the city of Boston, and never visited any of the neighboring towns, ex- cept Lynn, my father's native place." "Your name's Harrington? Harrington?" repeat- ed old Mrs. Selby; " pray what might your father's given name have been?" "Ezra," replied Carrie. 'TUmph! 'tain't the same. I know'd a Dan'el Harrington, but he belonged down to Hingham, and was lost in the mack'rel fish'ries." "I believe I had an uncle of that name," said Carrie. "I have heard my father speak of his eldest brother Daniel, who was lost at sea; but I never saw him, as it happened before I was born." "Do tell!" said the old lady, hitching her chair closer to Carrie, and laying her shriveled hand upon her shoulder, " 'tain't possible I see before me a niece of Dan'el Harrington's?" "There, I told you, Carrie, that my good mother would disinter all your defunct ancestors," laughed Mrs. Selby-or Katy, we must call her-who had entered in time to overhear her mother-in-law's last speech. "Hush, child!" said the old lady, " you kn I I don't mind you, for you're always laughing at some- body: might as well be me as anybody else; bLt," said she, settling her spectacles comfortably, and   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    185 eying Carrie with renewed interest, "I must tell you 'bout Dan'el Harrington; he-" "Dear mother!" said Katy, interrupting her, but speaking respectfully, and laying her hand gently upon Mrs. Selby's: "some other time; dinner is all ready now, and it will get cold." "Well, well," said the old lady, submitting with as good a grace as she could assume, "I'll tell you sometime 'bout your uncle. He used to come a' courtin' ofie of my sisters, and he warn't slow eating pumpkin pies. But come, I see Katy's getting the fidgets; we'd better go to dinner." "Yes," said Katy, "Carrie's coming some Satur- day, to stay all day, and then, mother, you can dig to your heart's content; she is very patient, and will submit to your catechising with martyr-like resigna- tion." "Ah! you're a pesky little piece of mischief!" said the old lady, eying her with a fond expression. "Anybody, to hear you talk, would think you meant it all; but I know you, little Katy-I knouw you, and all you've gone through for me and mine-God bless you! my child. May your loving heart and sunny temper meet its re ward yet!" For a moment the treibling, aged hand was laid upon the head that Katy bent down to hide the start- ing tears, which words of kindness alone could draw from their secret channels in her bosom.  Willie looked for a moment at his mother's flushed cheeks and dewy lashes; then, sliding his little hand 9*     186     CARRIE HARRINGTON; ORt into Carrie's, drew her along with him into the next room, saying, in a whisper, as he did so: - Come-mamma don't like anybody to see her cry. When papa used to come home, and talk so loud, and fall over: the chairs, and be cross to mamma, sometimes I usel to wake up and find her crying, and she would tell me 'not to tell anybody;' so I know she won't like you to see her cry. What did grandma' make her cry for?" As usual with children, Wilhe had asked a ques- tion it was hard to answer, and, much to Carrie's re- lief, old Mrs. Selby and Katy appeared at the mo- ment, and saved her the necessity of so doing, for Willie's expressive gray eye spoke plainly, " never mind answering my question now;" so the subject was dropped between them; but Carrie was struck with the delicacy of sentiment the child had display- ed; in his endeavors to spare his mother's feelings. She saw the little fellow turn a painfully inquiring eye to that mother's face, and a bright, glad look replace the anxious one, as he saw it had resumed its wonted expression of saucy good-nature. Oh! loving, trusting childhood! let no man call himself poor, who possesses the love of one innocent, guileless heart. Well has some one written-"Child- less man! how poor thou art!" Willie's explanation, short as it was, had opened a mine to Carrie, who gazed at her friend with deeply awakened interest, as she pondered on what she had heard.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     187 A drunkard's wife-such had evidently been the case. And what other troubles might not have been hers? yet the happy temper shone serene-the bright spirit rose, phcenix-like, from the ashes, and soared with expanded wings in upper air, basking in the sunlight! Oh! the priceless treasure, worth all the miser's hoarded gold, is the trusting, hopeful heart that looks beyond the gloomy present-that sees the rainbow spanning the cloud-that is filled with "The faith, touching all things with hues of heaven." A merry party sat down to that snug little dinner- table. The slight shower of feeling but served to render the returning sunshine of smiles more spark- ling; and if the board groaned not with luxurious viands and costly delicacies, good humor seasoned the repast with its own appetite-inspiring flavor; and mirth and wit supplied the place of cut glass and champagne. Carrie felt regret when the hour drew near for her to part with her newly-made friends, so pleasantly had the time passed while under their humble but hospitable roof. It was with sincere feelings of esteem, and many promises of a renewal of sociabiiities, that she at last took her leave: the old lady promising the history of her Uncle Dan'el's love-scrape when she came again, and Willie telling her ." to come early in the morning, and walk in the garden, and see how the angels had been crying all night over the flowers!"     188     CARRIE HARRINGTONI OR, CHAPTER     XXII. "Who finds the fount and bitter root, the first And guiltiest cause whence sprung this endless woe, Must deep descend into the human heart, And find it there." POLLOCK'S COURSE OF TIME. IT was at the close of a uultry July evening. The shadows were stretching their lengths across the schoolroom, the desks and benches were as- suming gigantic proportions on the eastern wall, while the western windows blazed with molten gold as the sun dipped towards the horizon's verge. In no place is the sense of loneliness so apparent as in a deserted schoolroom, unless it may be an empty church-the silence can almost be felt. -, Yet the room was not entirely deserted, for Carrie and Mrs. Selby still lingered near one of the open windows, gazing out upon the gorgeous sunset, their voices echoing through the large apartment, sounding hollow and unnatural.  On the countenance of the latter were traces of strong emotion and painfully aroused feeling, for she had been imparting to the former the events of her life; and although the healing salve of time had *  I           %   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     189 been applied to her distresses, what wound ever closed without leaving a scar? As the lady has finished her recital, we will take this opportunity of relating her history, not exactly in her own words, for they would scarcely do justice to her self-sacrificing devotion, her patience, and her fortitude. Katy Marsham's father was a Virginian by birth; a man of wealth and standing; a gentleman at large, living on his own means; liberal, high-souled, and generous to a fault, his purse was at every one's dis- posal, and being withal simple as a child in regard to money matters, he easily became the dupe of the artful and designing. Through the goodness of his heart he was led to endorse notes to a large amount for those whom he considered friends, and, consequently, became in- volved in their ruin. When he contemplated his helpless wife and child, whom his own thoughtlessness had reduced to beg- gary, despair took possession of his soul, and not having stamina enough to look on the. picture of his own formation, he, in a fit of desperation, blew his brains out. His wife, a gentle, fragile creature, did not long remain behind to mourn his loss, but softly sighed her life away, falling asleep one quiet morning in early spring-time, when the young grass was just peeping from the sod, and bursting .buds proclaimed the green leaf near! j     190     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, Thus was our Katy left an orphan at the age of fourteen-the time when she most needed a mother's tender care and watchful loye. She had been placed at a boarding-school in Mas- sachusetts some years previously, her parents visiting her every summer, and she going home occasionally during the Christmas holidays. As her tuition was 'always paid for in advance, she still had some months left to improve her time ere launching her little bark on life's rough sea, the sport of wind and tide, perchance to be anchored in a harbor of safety, or mayhap to encounter stormy gales and surging waves, and be tossed a helpless wreck on the bleak coast of adversity. But she lacked not courage and energy, even at that early age. Although deeply grieved at the loss of her parents, she felt the greater need of exertion on her part, and so devoted all her faculties to the attainment of an education, so as to have the means withal herself of carving out her own fortune. Se was a great favorite with her school compan. ions, who felt much concerned at her misfortunes; and one, her room-mate, insisted upon her accom- panying her home (having obtained the Principal's permission for her to do so), to stay a week or two, to recruit her shattered spirits. It was an old-fashioned New-England farm-house to which she had been invited, where everything was conducted with mathematical precision, where the very house-dog knew enough to go round to the   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS     191 back-door when he wanted to obtain admittance, and the polished andirons, "wisely kept for show," would almost walk out of their place in the "spare-room" fireplace if the polishing cloth were not applied at a certain hour every Thursday. Katy had no definite idea at what time the "help" arose on Monday morning; but certain-the week's wash wts generally drying on the lines when she came down to breakfast. There was no confusion, no discord; everyone seemed to have his or her duties to perform, and did it quietly, unobtrusively, so there was no jarring. It was, as it were, a vast machine, where every little wheel worked in regular order, and lent its mite to move the ponderous body with ease and precision. It was a spot, too, to find heart-ease and balm. Katy felt the healing influence steal upon her senses; the dreamy quiet of the grand old woods, where she loved to wander at eventide; the chirp of crickets and katydids, which the night-breeze would waft in at her open chamber window-all touched upon a chord of her better nature, and left their soft- ening influence on her heart, attuning it to thoughts of harmony and peace. Mary Selby, Katy's friend, was a pale, slight girl of some fifteen summers-, on whose purJ brow, with its delicate tracery of blue veins, consumption had set its seal, giving the eyes that peculiar brightness, and the cheeks the occasional hectic flush, which made their returning pallor more marked; but it     192     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, served to lull the apprehensions of her friends, ard deceive them into the belief that her delicacy ofjr- ganization, combined with hard study, alone caused her apparent debility; and that when she laid aside her books, for more active employment, she would grow robust and healthy. With the self-decpption that is so common a feature in the disease under which she labored, she would plan for, the future, as she and Katy Marsham sat under the great apple-tree that grew on the lawn in front of the house. "We will study hard this winter, Katy," said she, "and then, perhaps, we can get situations together in some school; you will be happier if you remain in Massachusetts with those that love you, than if you go back to Virginia, where you have no near relatives living; and the few distant ones that are, might look upon you as an intruder. While, here, you will al- ways find a home under my mother's roof-that is, so long as she has one"-said she, in a lower tone; and, drawing nearer to Katy, she' continued in the same subdued accents: "I must tell you something, Katy; I can't keep it myself, I so long for some friendly bosom to share my sorrow. Do you know that perhaps mother will have to give up the old homestead?" "Why so?" said Katy, passing her arm around her friend's waist. "Oh!" said Mary, dashing away a tear that had started down her pale cheek, " you know I have told   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    193 you, about my brother out in New-Orleans; well, mother mortgaged the place to supply him with funds to go into business there, thinking that he would be able soon to redeem it; but the time draws near, and he writes that it will be impossible for him to send on the money, as business is at a stand-still there now; and if they have a sickly season it will be late in the fall ere it will be resumed. He wants mother to discharge all the hands, let the old place go, and bring me with her, and come to live with him in New-Orleans," sobbed Mary. "And what does your mother think of it?" asked Katy. "Well, she thinks that perhaps she can get the mortgage renewed, and if I can get a situation as a teacher I might help to lay up money to pay it off." I will, too," said Katy, enthusiastically. "What! Katy; would you let your earnings go towards saving our home?" "That I would," said Katy. "Henceforward it shall be my home too. I have no friends that I feel the same for as I do for you and your mother." "Oh! what would Alvin say if he knew your de- votion, for he already knows you by pen and ink de- scription!" "He would say that the Bible tells the truth where it speaks of entertaining angels unawares," said a musical voice from behind the apple-tree; and the next moment a good-looking young man, about twen- ty-two years of age, stood before them. \     194     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, Mary was in his arms in a moment, her nerves all unstrung by his sudden appearice, and the color coming and going on her thin cheek, like the rosy flush of morn ere the sun mounts his golden car for his day's journey o'er the heavens. "Oh, Alvin! where did you come from? Katy dear, this is my brother-dropped from the clouds. Come, you must kiss him, for he is to be your bro- ther too." But the kiss was not a very brotherly one that the young man gave her, as in the confusion of the mo- ment she suffered herself to be drawn to his side, and their lips met. That moment sealed their doom. Love is electrical with some natures, and the spark flew from heart to heart as surely as the devotion of years would have accomplished it in more plodding characters. Katy felt that henceforth, indeed, her fortunes were inseparably connected with the family; while Alvin's disposition was of that impulsive kind that every- thing with him was one perpetual now. He would never hear of delays or procrastinations, but would rush headlong into the most extravagant schemes and speculations on the spur of the moment, and re- gret his precipitancy when it was too late to mend the matter. His sudden journey north had been made under the impression that perhaps his mother might hesi- 4te to accede to his requests made in the letter, and   ij    .SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     195 as he had determined that it must be as he said, he had come in 'person to see it properly executed-- using his eloquence to overrule her scruples, in case she had any, about parting with the home of long years. He generally carried his point, as his argu- ments were always resistless with his mother, whose partiality. for him blinded her to his faults. His move on the present occasion resulted in the disposal of everything salable on the place-the pay- ment of the mortgage-and the balance of the cash in Alvin's pocket; and two months from the time of his arrival, saw him on board of a vessel bound for the Crescent City, his aged mother and declining sister leaving their childhood's home, and a youthful bride-all clinging to him for protection. Yes, Katy had linked her fate to his, and, with true woman's devotion, was prepared to, follow him through good and evil report. They arrived in New-Orleans; and for about a year things went on smoothly. Alvin's business connections increased; Mary's health seemed to improve slightly; little Wilhe was born, and Katy thought her cup was filled to. over- flowing with blessings. But the ebb-tide now set in. Alvin was induced to enter into some extensive speculations, as usual, without pausing to reflect that if they failed, all would be lost. The man of impulse was never yet restrained by ifs.     19     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "Nothing ventured, nothing gained," was his motto. He ventured,'but he did not gain. The crash was terrible. Too late he saw fool- hardiness-all was lost, and the sting of self-reproch was added to his misery. But worse than all to the poor helpless ones de- pending on him, he sought to drown his sorrows in the fatal cup. Self still predorinated. In it he found relief from present woe, nor paused to think of the accumulated misery he was piling upon innocent hearts. Now did Katy's true character shine forth. She did not set herself down in useless repinings for what she saw was inevitable; but roused herself to action. She wasted not her time in loading him with reproaches, which w6uld madden without re- forming him; but feeling the necessity for exertion on her part, to insure the comfort of the helpless beings around her, she most resolutely applied her- self to the task of obtaining employment, and suc- ceeded in getting a situation in the schools, which would at least keep them from starving. Her natural buoyancy of temperament sustained her through these trying times, when she would have to leave her home, her sick sister, and helpless little one to her aged mother-in-law's care, and preside over her schoolroom with dignity and decision, while her heart and thoughts were with her loved ones. And worse still-often when weary of her school   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     197 duties, she would return to her helpless family, to find him that should have been their protector, in a beastly state of inebriation, with just enough of the human left to make him inhuman; and taunts and reproaches, nay, even curses, would be hurled at her from lips that had sworn to cherish and protect. But she bore all bravely-hoping all things, and strug- gling 'gainst the torrent that threatened to overwhelm her. During that long winter Mary died. Her gentle spirit winged its way to heaven, while tempests lowered, and skies were dark. They laid her in the stranger's grave- ----"A grave too cold and damp For a soul so warm and true." And now Katy must pursue her 'way alone; that is, in one sense, for the heart that sympathised with and shared her sorrows, had grown cold in death. She must shut her griefs up in her own bosom. No tender sister's ear to listen to her 'plaint; no loving lips to sweetly counsel fortitude and patience; no kindred soul to weep in secret o'er their house- hold god o'erthrown. Dust was all that remained of the "' loved of many hearts." And so another weary year dragged its slow course along-then came the last and crowning scene of all. The being, formed after God's image, and bearing upon his brow the seal of an immortal mind, who had so long "put an enemy in his mouth to steal away his brains," fell before the destroyer, at whose I                   '*     198     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, shrine he had kneeled a frenzied votary, and be- came a victim to the drunkard's scourge-mania a potu. We will not dwell on the horrors of such a death- bed. All who have dver witnessed one, must re- member it with shuddering dread; and to those who have not, we will in mercy draw the curtain, and shut from their gaze the awe-inspiring sight. Our Katy lived through it all. To say that she felt regret at the loss of her hus- band would be rather misplaced. She had long ceased to respect, and almost to love him. I say "almost," because love seldom dies wholly in a woman's heart while the object that first called it forth is still a part and parcel of herself; but the infatuated being, who was lost to all duties as a man and a Christian, a burden to himself and all around him, it were a mockery to mourn, when a merciful God saw fit to close his career of sin and degrada- tion. These were the facts which Mrs. Selby had made Carrie acquainted with, as they lingered after school hours, long after the sun had shed his parting beam, until the "lady moon," then at her full, floated above the eastern horizon, tinged with a reddish hue, as she shone through the heated at- mosphere. They did not mind the walk home at this hour,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      199 for the evening breeze-that blessing to our sun- scorched clime-now sprang up, and, like a spirit on its viewless way, waved its light wings over their parched brows, cooling and refreshing( their weary frames. They parted with a reciprocal feeling of friend. ship, more firmly cemented by confidence bestowed and received, Carrie promising her friend her own history at the earliest opportunity. ,     200     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, CHAPTER     XXIII. "Woman's bright eyes, a dazzling host of eyes From every land where woman smiles or sighs  'Of every hue, as Love may chance to raise His black or azure banner in their blaze." MOORE. THE parlors and  galleries at--  Hotel are thronged with fair ones discussing the fashions- the last arrivals-Mrs. Toodle's diamonds-and the thousand-and-one subjects that form food for con- versation at our fashionable watering-places in the height of the season. Here may be seen specimens of every kind ol beauty and belleship: Mississippi's showily-dressed representative, of Amazonian proportions and lighi blonde complexion, forming a striking contrast t( Louisiana's dusky-browed daughter, of petite forn and gazelle-like eyes and motion. And yet both are beautiful in their own peculiar manner, and go to fil up the picture of lights and shades. But the beholder is struck with the scarcity of th "genus homo ;" male bipeds are few and far be treen, and the isolated instances are seized upo   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     201 with avidity by the desperate fair ones, until one is reminded of the passage in Scripture, where seven women lay hold of one man. The reasons for this are obvious. The close proximity of the city renders it unneces- sary for men of business to absent themselves entirely during the summer's campaign; therefore they leave their wives and daughters at these Babylonian ba- zaars of fashion and expenditure, contenting them- selves with short dissipations which last from Satur- day night until Monday morning, when the counting- house again boasts their presence, the office-jacket is resumed, the ledger consulted, and "Richard's him- self again"-malgre a bad headache, caused by two nights' ineffectual attempts at sleep on board the boat. There is an unusual bustle and stir among the bevy of fair ones this evening, as it is Saturday, and the steamer is expected with its complement of mas- culines. A consultation is held as to how many will sit up to greet .their husbands, brothers, and friends, and escort them to the hotel. But we have acquaintances here. Our old friend, Isabelle Loring-now Mrs. Robert Nelson-occupies one of the lounges in the parlor, clad in costly attire, and blazing with jewels, mo- nopolising the attention of most of the gentlemen present, while her superannuated spouse is confined 10     202     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, to his chamber with an attack of gout, and left to the care of his man-servant-the master having leisure between his paroxysms of pain to contemplate his visions of gentle companionship and tender nurs- ing, as they fade away in the distance-growing "small by degrees, and beautifully less." Mrs. Percival sits on the front gallery in such a position as to command a view of all that transpires within the room, and at the same time enjoy the de- licious sea-breeze that comes curling, o'er the blue waters, rippling their surface into tiny caps, as if the sea-gulls-had congregated and shed their plumage en masse, to grace their native element. Ella leans against a column near by, gazing out through the evening twilight across the wave-her thoughts far, far away-'- seeing what none else may see," until aroused by her mother, exclaiming: "I wonder if Carrie will come to-night? I don't 'see what she wants to stay in town any longer for; it's two weeks now since vercation begun, and she oughter been here last Saturday." "You forget, mother; she wrote that her friend Mrs. Selby's little boy had been very ill, and she had remained with her to assist in taking care of him." "Mrs. Selby! yes, I s'pose we won't be anybody now; it's nothin' but Mrs. Selby this, and Mrs. Selby that." "Oh, mother! said Ella, gently interrupting her, "don't suffer yourself to get jealous of Carrie's af. fection. Her heart is certainly capable of holding more than one kind friend."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     2031- "Well, well; I s'pose I hadn't oughter feel so, but I do think she might think a little o' us, that's-: thought so much o' her." "She does," said Ella, warmtly. "You may rest assured of that. But you know what Carrie is; even- if she had entertained &o feelings of friendship what- ever for Mrs. Selby, if she had seen her in distress, and -thought her presence could in any way alleviate it, she would have sacrificed her own pleasures cheer- fully for that purpose." "It is an unfortunate thing you are not a young gentleman, Miss Ella,",spoke the voice of Edward Loring, as he emerged from the shadow in which he had been standing, sufficiently near to overhear their conversation; for Miss Harrington would in you find a most enthusiastic admirer." "She would in some one else whom I could name if I chose-if I had my way," said Ella, archly, in a low tone, and turning a brightening eye upon his countenance, which, the" blaze from the chandelier in' the parlor illumining, was revealed in the very un- lawyer-like act of coloring confusedly Yet there was withal a pleased expression there also, which told Ella that her move, though a venturesome one, had done no injury to the cause she had at heart. "The gong is sounding for tea, ladies; suffer me to be your walking-stick on the occasion," sajd he, extending an arm to each. Many envious eyes followed them, for Edward was     204     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, considered " a catch" by the young ladies there con- gregated;; being a lawyer, his practice daily in. creasing, and moreover a man of leisure at present, as the courts were not in session, he was a perfect target for bright eyes to shoot their arrows at; but a charmed one he had proved so far, for none struck home. Hle was polite (for it was his nature to be so) to all, but particular in his attentions to none, unless it might be Ella; and they were marked by so decided an air of Platonism, that they could not possibly be misconstrued. He received a glance of haughty disapproval from his sister, as they encountered each other in the hall, on their way to the dining-room. She eyed his companion with a disdainful curl of  the upper lip, and remarked to one of her attendant cavaliers, (she boasted three escorts, while many lovely girls walked to the table leaning on the arms of their mammas,) in a voice sufficiently loud to reach the ears of the parties it was intended for, "What a mixture one meets at a watering-place," indicating at the same time by the glance of her eye what she considered the most noxious ingredient in the compound. Edward felt the insult she intended for the ladies under his charge, and determined to let her see he* observed it. Tapping her on the shoulder, so that she had to look around, he remarked, in a quizzical tone: "When we were children, Belle, and had a dis-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.       205 agreeable dose to swallow, mother used to tell us 'to hold our noses, so that we couldn't taste it;' perhaps you had better pursue a similar course when you encounter any thing unpalatable." "Refined! very," sneered Belle; I' but ' evil com- munications, &c.,' you know the rest," said she, with a look of triumph, as she filed off to the opposite side of the table from the one chosen by him. Edward felt Ella trembling on his arm, and knew her sensitive nature was wounded sorely. Isabelle generally took occasion to make her a public mark for her venom to expend itself on.  She had not forgotten the conversation Miss Letty had overheard and retailed to her; and although married, she still regarded Ella as a rival, and hated her, as women alone can hate the one who supplants them in the affections of the being they adore. No petty subterfuge, no little act of meanness, but what she would have lent herself to, if she thought thereby she could for one moment mortify Ella, or wound her feelings. "Men hate, because in act or strife they cross each other's path; Short is the space for jealousy, and fierce the hour of wrath; But woman's hate runs deeper far, tho' shallower at the spring- Right seldom is it they forget the shaft that galled their wing. A fairer face, a higher place, more worship, more applause, Will make a woman loathe her friend, without a deadlier cause." "There's the boat now." "I hear it." "No; it's the sighing of the wind in the forest trees"     3IQ6     CARRtE HARRINGTON; OR, "I -see a light-there, moving around that point." "Tai'? that's some person or persons fishing. They are out in small boats, and have torches with them." These were some of the many exclamations heard upon the wharf as the hour approaches for the ar- rival of the steamer from the city. Very picturesque looked some of the feminines, with their pretty faces peeping from under their embroidered mouchoirs, thrown over their heads to protect them from the chill air, and many bright eyes  peered anxiously out into the dusky night, across the wild waste of water, for the first glimpse of the puffing and blowing ark on wheels which was to bear their loved ones to their sides. What has interested Edward so much, that he should be on the look-out also? No one in whom he is interested is expected on the boat. It must have been a simple act of politeness in him, to attend Ella and Mrs. Percival down the long wharf, at midnight, instead of seeking his couch! At least he would have it appear so, but our Ella was a shrewd little imp, and very demurely re- plied to him, when he offered his services as an escort: *"Oh, yes! come along by all means. Father will have as much to do as he possibly can, to attend to mother and the baggage. Carrie and I will need protection."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    207 He felt her good-natured irony, but was not to be put off by it, and the party soon found themselves among the expectant crowd. "Lawful sakes! lny dear! jist crowd up a leetle, and let me set down, for I'm 'inazin' tired standin'," said Mrs. Percival, addressing one of three well- hooped young ladies, who occupied the space allotted to six or eight, on one of the benches in the wharf- house. The fair trio moved up, looking, as they did so, like partially inflated balloons, when one side is pressed, and the gas all concentrates itself in the other. "If Carrie don't come to-night, I'm not a goin' to set up for her any more; trottin' down here with one eye shut, and t'other open, and waitin' for that ar boat to come puffin' along, like a overgrown porpus-!" growled the good lady, who was not in a very amia- ble mood. To tell the truth, her jealousies had been aroused by Carrie's having found a " new friend," as she termed Mrs. Selby, in the city. She was warm-hearted and. generous, but liked not interlopation with one whom she considered her pro- tege. "*Here she comes at last!" A general rush greeted her advent, as breathing hard with the exertions she had been making, the gallant steamer came puffing and panting up to her wharf. She is made fast, and now hands are clasped, and     208     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, warm kisses imprinted on dear lips, as friend meets friend, and husband wife, whom one whole week has separated. And ' "How are you, old fellow?" "Any news from, the city?" "Has Yellow Jack made his ap- pearance yet?" and questions of like import pass from lip to lip. "D'you see anything o' your father, Nelly? What on airth's the reason he don't come ashore?" "Mr. Loring has gone on board, mother, to see if they have arrived; we will know directly." "There's John, now ; and lawful sakes alive! if he ain't got a baby or a little child in his arms. What in the name o' goodness does it mean?" The next moment " dear Carrie!" and " dear, dear Ella!" as the two girls flew into each other's arms. Mrs. Percival, in her curiosity to find out "what John was doin' with a baby," almost forgetting to speak to Carrie. "Take care, mother, and let me' sit down a moment, with this little fellow," said Mr. Percival, going into the wharf-house, and depositing his charge on one of the benches. "I want to wrap him up better, to protect him from the night air," he continued, pinning the enve- loping shawl closer around the child, and lifting his cap a moment to put back the damp hair from his pale forehead, thus revealing the sweet fice of little Willie Selby, looking spiritualised and delicate, from recent illness.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     209 "How d'ye feel now, my little man?" said Mr. Percival. "Better sir, thank you." "That's right. Mother, you must try your hand to get this little one well, and on his legs again.'? "What's your name, my dear?" said Mrs. Percival, taking him upon her lap,'and supporting him with her fat arms. "Willie Selby, ma'am." "awful sakes! is this Carrie's friend's child? Well, he's a sweet little creetur!" said she, giving him a hug, and forgetting her jealous feelings, in ad- miration of the innocent being before her. Ella now entered, with Carrie and. Mrs. Selby, and introducing the latter to her mother, stooped down to kiss Willie, and make llis acquaintance. The party now prepared to return to the hotel, Mr. Percival remunerating one of the waiters for carrying Willie, while he took charge of Mrs. Selby and his own good lady, leaving Edward to attend to the girls. "I wish it was lighter, Carrie, so that I might take a peep at you, now that you are a live-school- marmn!" said Ella, laughing. "Do you look very forbidding?" "Slightly vinc'ar/y around the mouth, and blue about the nose," said Carrie, in the same vein. "You will have to mind your P's and Q's now, Mr. Loring," said Ella, giving his arm a little sug- gestive squeeze. 10*     210     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "I, at all events, shall use my Ps (eyes) to advan- tage," said Edward, "when daylight affords me the opportunity, and decide whether Miss Harrington's description of herself has been flattered." "Monster!"' said Ella; "you deserve to'have a bad mark for that. , But. to change the subject; tell me, Carrie, about your friend Mrs. Selby. You didn't write that she would accompany you over." "No!" said Carrie; "it was a very sudden de- termination on ler part, and entirely your father's suggestion. .Mrs. Selby is a great favorite of his, and when I made known to him her situation, and the illness of her little boy (who had an attack of typhoid fever), he went to the house, and insisted pn her accompanying us; now that the child was con- vylescent, he felt sure that the change of air would improve him. He overruled her scruples about leav- ing her mother alone, by sending one of the servants (old Aunt Sally) to stay with the old lady until her daughter's return. So Katy consented to come for a week or two, and here we are." "And welcome, too," said Ella. "But I must tell you beforehand, my good mother is a little jeal- ous of your friend Katy." "Surely not of- your father?" said Carrie, quickly. "Oh, no!" said Ella, laughing; " she would scarcely be so ridiculous as that. It is of your affection for Mrs. Selby she is uneasy. She fears that lady is en- croaching too much upon the ground she wishes to occupy in your heart."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      " "I hope she does not entertain such unjust sus- picions," said Carrie, in a tone of concern. "Why, dear Ella, have you not tried to remove the unpleas- ant impression? You, who ought to know me bet- ter." "Be under no alarm on that score, Miss Harring- ton," said Edward; " you have a warm champion in Miss Percival. No knight of old e'er wore the colors of his ladye-love more bravely, or was more willing to throw down the gauntlet in defence of her rights. This I can vouch for." "Believe me, Carrie," said Ella, "I have done all in my power to remove these suspicions from my mother's mind, and perhaps have acted rather indis- creetly in making them known to you, but I feel a little generalship on your part will entirely chase them away; therefore I have warned you. They are not so deep-rooted but that they can be eradicated." Thus did the girls beguile the walk to the hotel, tacitly admitting Edward, as it were, into their con- fidence, and allowing him to peep down into the depths of their hearts, and read the pure records en- graven on their tablets. He could not help contrasting them with the frivo- lous beings of hls sister's stamp that he had been ac- customed to associate with, and the balance told greatly in favor of the fair friends. They separated at the upper landing of the stairs, to seek their respective apartments. Carrie was to share part of Ella's room, while Mrs.     CARRIE HARRINGTON t; OR, Selby and Willie had an adjoining chamber--Mr. and Mrs. Percival's bedroom being next to the girls', and all opening in a line on the upper front gallery of the hotel, and facing the beach. Mrs. Percival awoke Betsy from her slumbers on the floor, and sent her to sleep in Mrs. Selby's room, so that that lady could have some one to call on in the night in case Willie was sick, her parting injunction to the latter latter lady being,, " To call her if that leetle creetur wanted anything."  And so, "good- night" was breathed all round, and " Nature's sweet restorer" soon closed the eyes of all.   SCENtS IN NEW-ORLEANS.       213   i B   CHAPTER XXIV. I"  -   --    On her brow Something too much there sits of native scorn, And her smile kindles with a conscious glow, As from the thought of sovereign beauty born." HEMAN  Breakfast is over. Carrie and Ella have adjourned to Mrs. Percival's bedroom, to talk over all that has transpired since they parted. Carrie has enlightened them on her own affairs, and made known enough of Mirs. Selby's to interest Mrs. Percival, and change to feelings of friendly sympa- thy her short-lived jealousies. Katy has just brought little Willie in, looking fresh and swicet after his morning toilet, and laid him on Mrs. Percival's bed, while Betsy is commis- sioned to amuse him. And now the party have congregated around Mrs. Percival, to listen to that lady's account of Belle's flirtations, and other small nmtters of which she had been " taking notes," during Nler brief hotel experi- ence. "Well, girls," said she, taking off her morning cap, and hanging it over the looking-glass, then seating      214     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, herself in a large rocking-chair"-' I ain't much given to scandle-mongerin', but I don't like the way that ar Belle Nelson goes on. 'Tain't just the thing for a married woman to be prinkin' and prankin', and a settin' herself up for beaux, nohow-'specially if she has to leave her husband sick a-bed, while she's 'tendin' to her gallants. But I know'd it would be so, when the old ninny-hammer married her. Serves him right! what business had he to git married, with one foot in the grave, and t'other no business out? drivin' that good-lookin' nephew o' his'n to des- peration-marryin' the girl that he was a settin' up to-(at least that's what Belle says was the reason o' his goin' away, as he left the very day the ques- tion was popped), so that he's gone the Lord knows where!" If the good lady had but looked in her little daugh- ter's face at hat moment, she might have suspected that she ha dsome slight knowledge of Horace's whereabouts. Carrie did, but wisely kept her thoughts to her- self. Mrs. Percival continued: J "Lawful sakes! girls, if olJ Nelson had only a see'd what I seen last night, when I sot on the gal- lery before tea time, I reckon he'd a hobbled down stairs in spite o' his gouty foot, and a' put his crutch over that ar feller's shoulders that calls himself a 'count.' I guess all the count he is, is no ac- count!" chuckled she. "He looks more like a bear    SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     215 than anything else. I should think he'd git tired carryin' so much hair about!  Well, as I was sayin'-I seen him have hold o' my lady's hand, two or three times, lookin'. up in her face like a dyin' calf, and talkin' his furin lingo! and when we went to the supper table, lo and behold! on his little finger was that ar diamond ring that I 'spose the old man must a given her after they was married; for I never see'd her wear it before, and it looks like a old fam'ly affair. If she don't take care, he'll slope some fine mornin', and forgit to give it to her. I wish to mer- cies he would! I don't like to be ill-natered, but she does put on so many airs, a turnin' her nose up at folks, that I can't help it for the life o' me." "I expected to find Mrs. Loring here," said Carrie. "No; she went back to the city yesterday. I think the poor woman was clean used up, by her darter's behaver, and went off to git rid o' seein' it; for she might just as well look for a needle in a hay- stack, as to expect Belle to be ruled by anything she might say." "It is time to go and bathe, Mother," said Ella, looking at Mrs. Percival's watch, which lay upon the toilet-table; "it is nearly eleven."  "'Tain't possible! Lawful sakes! how the time does slip away, to be sure!" "Yes," said Ella, laughing a little roguishly, " par- ticularly when you are backbiting your neighbors." "Truth's no slander, my dear; and if I bite her behind her back, she bites me to my face; so it's broad     216     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, as it's lon"But what are we goin' to' do with this little ereetir while we go to the bath-house?" "Oh! I will stay with Willie," said Carrie. "No, indeed, you wont," said Ella; "I mean to stay with him myself. I have been enjoying the luxuries of the bath all summer, while you have been cooped up within the four walls of your schoolroom. No disputing about it, I can be positive sometimes. Besides, I want to cut you out with my little friend here," she added, passing her hand through Willie's brown locks, and kissing his cheek. He rewarded her with a sweetly languid smile, and asked her "If she could tell pretty fairy stories, like Miss Carrie?"  "Oh! yes indeed! all sorts of stories about giants, and dwarfs, and fairies, and goblins, and enchanted castles." The little sick boy's eyes brightened, while his mother remarked: N   "N ",You are on the sure road to Willie's heart, Miss Ella, if you can do all that. He takes his propen- sities from his mamma, and religiously believes all stories, particularly about fairies; and although the would-be-wise of the present age may roll up their eyes in holy horror at the heathenish thought, I would not resign the pleasure sueh a belief afforded me in my childhood for all the uncertain joys of ma- turer years." "When I was a youngster," continued the speak- er, "little boys and girls didn't sport a cane and     SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     217 standing collar, and wear flounced silk dresses, and white kid gloves, and ape the manners of old folks, before they were out of leading-strings! Not they; they were contented with paper kites, and rag babies, and their chief delight was to huddle together and tell or listen to stories. I remember an old German woman that lived in my grandmother's family when I wore pinafores. She was a treasure to children, with her wonderful tales, with which the storehouse of her memory seemed filled to overflowing, about 'Santa, Claus,' 'The Wild Huntsman,' and other weird German legends. She was a queer-looking old customer, too; very suggestive of a-goblin her- self, with her short-waisted jacket cut like a man's coat, with a little tail to it; a petticoat made of blue linsey-woolsey, which only reached ito her ankles; a close-fitting cloth cap, worked with beads, which en- tirely concealed her hair, except two-little pigtails which were plaited down her back; and wooden shoes on her feet, with which she went clumpety- clump about the house, like a boy on stilts. But, mercy! how I am running on! I believe I have turned stump orator on the occasion, and a success- ful one, too, from the looks of some of my audience," said Katy, laughing, and directing their attention by a glance towards' Betsy, who sat with widely dis- tended eyes, and open mouth, eagerly swallowing all that Mrs. Selby uttered. "You see there;" said Mrs. Selby, " a living illus- tration, done in Indian ink, of the magic there is in     21i     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, anything in the shape of a story to children. And ,so it should be: they will have to deal with realities soon enough; let them revel in fancy while they may. But I won't detain you any longer with my old- fashioned ideas, as I perceive from the window the ladies are forming a line in the direction of the bath- houses." "Well, git your sun-bonnets, and we'll make a start," said Mrs. Percival. ( Fetch the baskit with the towels, Betsy, and come along." Betsy arose to obey, looking, at the same time, very much as if she would like to remain with Willie and Ella, and hear the stories. - Reader, were you ever in one of the bath-houses of any of the hotels across the lake; at the hour when women " most do congregate?" The sights there seen would be worthy of the pen- cil of a Hogarth. Here stands a fat lady, who has cased her nether extremities in red flannel drawers, which have shrunk from their original proportions by frequent satura- tions, and now cling to the limbs they were intended to conceal, giving them the appearance of well-filled blood-puddings. In juxtaposition to her is a lean female, who has robed herself in a garment very much resembling a meal-bag, with a string drawn round the top to con- fine it at the neck i: and when she immerses herself in the water it flo*ts off from her, like an open um-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     219 brella, leaving her lower limbs dangling like the handle to that same useful invention. This specimen of feminality is generally of the chilly order, who contents herself with one dip, and then crawls up on the bath-house steps, where she sits with her wet garments clinging to her skeleton figure, like the shriveled pod of a bean, after it has been scorched and dried in the summer's sun. It is flood-tide now, and the water is very deep. Mrs. Percivil has disrobed herself, with Betsy's as- sistance, and makes her appearance at the top of the steps. An oil silk cap protects her hair from the water, giving her head the appearance of a large pumpkin, and showing her round, red face, in bold relief. A dark green flannel sack of ample dimensions, covers her rotund figure, while full Turkish drawers of the same material complete her costume. She descends the steps very leisurely, .picking her way, for she is afraid of the crabs that sometimes lodge there ; and she is not very desirous they should make acquaintanceship with her toes. "Take care, Carrie, how you come down," said she; " there's lots o' them ar heathenish creeturs on the steps, and if one o' them should give you a pinch I reckon you'd screech some." Our heroine looked down upon the sea of human heads, floating like potatoes on the top of the water, with the eyes mostly turned in the direction she was     220     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, standing, Mrs. Percival's speech giving them the cue 'that a new comer was in their midst. Not liking the scrutiny to which she was subject- ed, she declined descending the steps, under the fire of such an artillery; but catching hold of the rope that was suspended from the floor above, with its help gracefully swung herself off into the wa- ter; alighting, as Mrs. Percival remarked, "like a swarn." -Casting her eyes around to see where she was, she foundjerself face to face with the Hon. Mrs. Robert Nelson, who, opening her great black eyes to their widest extent when Carrie bowed in token of recog- nition, stared her deliberately in the countenance, and coolly cut her. Mrs. Percival, who saw the whole transaction, swelled at the throat like an apoplectic toad, and was about making some remark that she felt confident would "floor" Isabelle, when some mischievous girl in the company cried out, in feigned accents of alarm: ' Run-run for your lives! there's a shark! I saw his fin above the water." Ker-splash went everybody, tumbling up the steps Mrs. Percival getting pinned fast against a post by a lady a little fatter than herself, and making despe rate efforts to get free, giving vent to her feelings in like manner: "Oh, lawful sakes! I shall be mashed to a jelly Ugh! Please, ma'am, move a leetle, so I can breathe   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    221 O Lord, if that ar varmint should come now, and grab me behind, it would be the end o' me." "VOus me parlez?" said the lady, who was French, squeezing her head around, to look at her interrogator: "I no can move; de shairke he come, he bite you behind malgre vous. Parlez vous Fran- cais, madame?" "No! I don't parleyvoo anything. I don't stop to parley in such a fix as this. I believe I won't come to the bath-house any more, if I git out this time alive. Sich venimus reptiles prowlin' round ready to make mince-meat o' you!" "Oui, oui," said her jailor, who did not understand these words she had been saying, but with true French politeness, thought she must reply. The scattering fair ones by this time found out the hoax that had been put upon them, and most of them returned to the water. Not so our French friend and Mrs. Percival. They had had enough of bathing for one day, not to wish to venture further in pursuit of pleasure under diffi- culties; so, the steps being clear, they scrambled up to the dressing-room above, where Mrs. Percival, un- fastening her bathing drawers, and slipping them down a little, took a seat, waiting for Betsy to bring her clothes from the peg on the wall. In the meantime, the French lady commenced a diligent search for something that seemed unfindable; looking under towels, and lifting up female garments of every description, that were thrown around on the benches.     222     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "What have you lost, ma'am?" said Mrs. Per- cival. "Quelle?" said the lady, looking puzzled. "What are are you looking for?"  "Ah!" said the fat lady, comprehending, "une empldtre." "Whlat?" "One-ah, what you call it in Anglais?  One poultice for my back!" "A poultice for your back?" said Mrs. Percival. "Lawful sakes! what on airth do you do with a poultice on your back?"  The lady did not heed her question, but turning to Betsy, said: "Secourez moi, help me look;" which Betsy did, while her mistress, in an under-tone, re- marked: "Scour me!"I wonder what she meant by that. What outlandish gibberish, to be sure." Betsy did not succeed in the search any better than the lady, so it was given up; the two corpulent ladies robing themselves, while Betsy squeezed the water out of their bathing garments, and hung them up to dry. All being ready, Mrs. Percival hoisted her umbrella to protect them from the sun, and the two took up their line of march towards the hotel, Mrs. Percival complaining all the way of her clothes sticking to her. "Where on airth did you put 'em?" she said, ad- dressing Betsy; "you must a hung 'em somewhere I'1   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     223. where they got wet, they keep a sticking fast to me, and feel dreadful oncomfortable." But. that ebony goddess protested she had hung them in a dry place, where no water could reach them; and so they pursued their way, the French lady remaining silent, in consequence of not under- standing what was said. If she had done so, pos- sibly a faint suspicion might have crossed her mind that she could throw some light on the subject of the sticking garments. The hotel was reached, and each sought her own room. . When Mrs. Percival reached hers, the first thing she said was: "Set that ar baskit down, Betsy, and come here and see what in the name o' goodness ails these ere clothes o' mine ?"  Betsy obeyed, and in a few moments broke into a loud "He--he-he! 0, good grashus, ole missus !" "What are you laughin' at, jackanapes ?" "Oh, Lord a mussy! ma'am, you done sot down on'de French lady's plaster, and it's stickin' fass to you !" "A plaster ?" said Mrs. Percival, tugging at it to get it off; "sure enough it is-a Burgundy pitch plaster!  This is what she called a 'poultice!' law- ful sakes !" said she, sitting down to laugh; Betsy rolling over the floor in her glee, while Ella stood with inquiring eyes, that asked an explanation. "Here, Betsy," said her mistress, when her mirth subsided, "take the plaster to the French lady's    224     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, room, but for the land sake dor't tell her where you found it. To think o' my settin' on it all that ar time while she was a huntin' for it!" Carrie and Katy soon returned, and the mirth be- came general at Mrs. Percival's expense.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    225 / CHAP TER   XXV "Nae man can tether time nor tide." BURNS. THE above quotation we all can endorse. Let the hours glide along on rosy wings, while pleasure strews her flowers in their track, they still pass. Or, let the long night find you a weary watcher by some loved one's couch of pain, telling the " tick," "tick" of the moments as they slowly roll away, still the lagging dawn will at last struggle through the window-pane, where you so oft have pressed your pale cheek to note its coming. To our pleasure-seekers at H-otel the time has passed in the usual routine of such places: dress- ing, eating, bathing, dancing, boating, flirting, and all the different varieties of intellectual pursuits by which our fashionables kill time, burying the single talent bestowed on them for improvement, and heed- ing not the warning--"From him that hath not, shall be taken away, even that which he hath." Ella has withdrawn from the crowded parlor, where a masquerade and fancy ball, to be given at the ho- "     226       CARRIE - HARRImNGTO  ; OR, tel, forms the chief subject of conversation, and, seeking the retirement of the upper gallery, deserted at this hour, she fetches her guitar from her cham- ber, giving way to the soft melancholy that possesses her, and " tells to the night star her tale of woes," her voice, ever sweet and low, blending with the soft tinkling of the instrument, as she pours forth her feelings in song.- When thou wert by my side, love, Fate had no shaft for me, The dart was turned aside, love, By one bright smile from thee! But now that thou art gone, love, How dreary seems life's way- No more I hail the dawn, love, That brings the gloomy day. The clouds hang dark and thick, love, Around my lonely way; My very soul is sick, love, Without the cheering ray That once illum'd my path, love, And shed its beams afar- Across the dreary waste, love, My guiding, polar star! The voice is hushed, but thought is active still. She gazes upon the bright orbs spangling the azure field above her, and with the romance natural to her age, wonders if he, the wanderer, ever casts his weary eyes in the same direction, when voices from home are sounding through his soul! Oh, to know his fate! She hasn't even the conso. lation of receiving letters from  him, for that would   SCENE- IN NEW-ORLEANS.     227 lead to inquiry, and so to detection. And has he not sworn he would never return if unsuccessful? So she must hope for the best, and wait-if her con- stancy will bear the test of long years of absence and suspense. This she has no doubt of; and, as a proof of her sincerity, has stolen away from the gay crowd below to devote an hour's thought to him, feel- ing it almost sacrilege to spend her time so frivolous- ly, while he is encountering dangers, perils, and pri- vations for her. She has sat lost in her ruminations for about half an hour, when she is startled from her reveries by the sound of a man's footstep, and, looking up, per- ceives Edward Loring emerging from his ancient brother-in-law's room, and approaching that part of the gallery where she is sitting. "Ah!" said he, when near enough to observe her, "you are the fair siren, charming unsuspicious mari- ners to their destruction with your soft warblings? This must not be forgotten when we start on our projected boating excursion," said he, picking up the guitar. "By-the-by," he continued, " tell me where to procure a copy of that pretty little song you were singing? I do not recollect ever hearing it before." "No ; it is not in print," replied Ella; 'ethe music is my own, and the words Carrie's composition." "So your fair friend is a poetess, with all her other good qualities?" "A private one," said Ella; "she writes for her own amusement; but nothing troubles her so much     228      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR$ as for any one to find her pieces and read them.   I had to beg hard for the little song you've just heard." "And I, being by profession a pleader, must exert my powers in that line, to procure a copy from you." "Well, I will grant your suit; but mum's the word. Not one syllable to Carrie?" "Honor bright!" said Edward. Ella left him a moment, and returned; bringing with her a copy of the song and another paper, say- ing as she handed them to him: "Here are some lines of a different character, written, I presume, while in a desponding mood. I found them in her room, one day, and purloined them; knowing she would never make any inquiry concerning them. I have brought them for you to read and copy, if you wish; but I want the original."  Edward took them, and by the light of the lamp( on the upper landing, read the following stanzas: Come, white-winged messenger of peace, And to my soul thy balm impart; Bid all these angry passions cease, That rend the human heart. Come, holy influence, heavenly power! Dispel the doubts that round me lower; * ,   And teach my soul the better way To realms of never fading day. Here; all is dreary, dim and dark; No cheering be around me plays- No beacon guidesmj"orm-tossed barque To calmly sheltered bays. No friendly hand e is given- No Christian pilot pints to Heaven; But night and darkness round are spread, And tempests burst' o'er this poor head.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      229 Oh Thou! who to the angry waves That rioted with madden'd will, Didst calmly stretch forth Thy right hand, And whisper "Peace! be still!" Break through the clouds that 'whelm my soul- The chilling mists that round me roll. No refuge have I, save in Thee; Bright " morning star," oh bid them flee! Edward had no time to descant on the merit of these lines (if they possessed any), for the sound of footsteps on the stairs, and the appearance there of Carrie herself, compelled him to pocket them as ex- peditiously as possible, to prevent their being observ- ed by their fair authoress, who remarked: "I am searching for my truant friend, Mr. Loring; can you direct me to her locality?" "Your ear would have been sufficient guide, had you come'half an hour sooner," said he, " if it is in the power of sweet sounds to draw you;" at the same time he accompanied Carrie to the side of Ella, placing a camp stool for her to sit upon. "Why did you run away and leave us, Nellie?" said Carrie, seating herself, "just at the moment, too, we were deciding the important point as to wheth- er you should appear as a Circassian slave, or a bonnie lassie from ' Within a mile o' Edinboro' town,' at the coming display of fancy.'" "I didn't feel in the mood to-night to give it a moment's thought; so slipped away, not supposing I would be missed." J     28(     QCARRIEY HaRRINQTOQ; OBR, "You must have great attractive qualities, Miss Ella," said Edward; "for, although flying off into the immensity of space, you already have drawn two sa- tellitesi in our poor persons, willing'to shine with a feebler light in the presence of their sun,"-conclud- ing his speech with a low bow. CThen,' said Ella, laughing, "as Carrie is a lady, I presume you will grant her the place of the moon, and content yourself with being 'of the earth, earthy?'             / "Most certainly, for in that case she ould be my satellite;" said he, triumphantly. "And I have no doubt," said E la, roguishly, "Would totally eclipse me some day." The conversation was getting pointed, and rather embarrassing for two of the party, so, to change it, Edward remarked: "Now that you two ladies are together, I want you to decide on what day we shall have our boating pic-nic?"  "I don't understand," said Ella; "what are we to do?" "Well," said Edward, " you are to grace the occa- sion with your fair presence, lending your smiles to repay our care; while we masculines furnish the boat with refreshments, music, &c., and so pass the day on the water, enjoying its attractions and each other's company at the sammnne. Can you not de- cide on a day that will suit your convenience?" "Are we to be the only ladies of the party?" asked Carrie.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     231 "Oh no! the invitation will be general." "In that case," said she, " it had better be left to the rest; for it is immaterial to us, we are disen- gaged any day. Are we not, Ella?" "Yes, we are living in 'maidenly leisure' at pres- ent." "And so I presume are the rest of the ladies," re- marked Edward; "so suppose we say Friday-wind and weather permitting? This is Tuesday, and two days will afford ample time for preparation." "So be it," said both the girls. "Well, ladies, as it is all understood, I shall re. luctantly have to leave your agreeable company, and form myself into a committee of one to extend the invitation among the rest of the fair denizens of this most favored spot, unless you will accompany me to the parlor, and assist in the arduous undertaking." They both expressed their willingness to do so, and the trio descended together to disseminate the agree- able intelligence. Most of the ladies were delighted with the arrange- ment, and the gentlemen were unanimous in their concurrence, except " the Count." When he found that the expense was to be shared equally, he sud- denly arrived at the conclusion that water excursions disagreed with him, and prudently determined not to go; while Isabelle, waiting to hear his opinion, re- marked, she thought such heterogeneous assemblages very low; so the party was made up without them. They were not missed.     - 232 -  CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, All aboard?" cAy, ay." "Cast off then." The saucy little boat swung free from her moor- ings, decked in holiday gear, with pennons streaming from every available point, ladies' veils fluttering in the breeze, and snowy kerchiefs, propelled by white hands, waving, while the hotel band discoursed sweet sounds to the monsters of the briny deep. A small steamer plying on the lake, but which had been laying up for several weeks, was chartered for the excursion; her larders Nvell stocked with ham- pers of provision, and sundry mysterious looking square baskets, of most approved brands, their con- tents to lend their exhilarating influence when the spirits of the party seemed about to flag. Most lovely shone the morn. The blue sky flecked with feathery clouds, almost transparent in their lightness, and resting on their azure couch with such dreamy stillness. He would be looked upon as a false prophet who predicted the fatal flash and crush- ing thunderbolt concealed beneath their gauzy ex- terior. The clear surface of the water, dimpled by a light breeze which comes wooingly from the south, laden with dewy sweets, and sighing so gently, that the recipient of the balmy blessing forgets the might of the slumbering giant, who with soft dalliance lifts the locks from his moist brow, but awakened, can, with that same breath, scatter death and destruction along his terrible path.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     233 No evil forebodings damped the spirits of the gay party, who soon betook themselves to the amuse- ments most congenial to their various moods, the elders occupying the ladies' cabin, and engaged in whist, backgammon, draughts, dominoes, &c., while the more youthful portion whirled on " light fantas- tic toe" to the sound of lively music in the cabin de- voted to the sterner sex, the dining-tables being re- moved to convert it into a ball-room. But we will not act the part of " major-domo" so far as to introduce the reader to the whole of the company; we will be contented with our own por- tion of it, and see if we can find out how they have disposed of themselves. Yes, here are some of them. Mrs. Percival and Katy beating up a pillow in one of the berths, for little Willie to recline on, while Mr. Percival supports him in his arms until the bed is prepared. "There, my little man-all right now; easy mother, I can lay. him down comfortably. Now shut your eyes and take a little nap, and when you wake we'll go out on deck and see the porpoises jump, and the seagulls fly about." Willie obeys--falling asleep, with the large eyes only partially closed, and the sweet mouth half open, all indicating the extreme weakness which prostrates his frame, and striking the looker-on with a painful feeling at beholding the unnatural appearance of such a sleep, so closely resembling its twin sister-death. Sk     j4    COAtBRtE RARRINGTON; OR, After lowering the mosquito bar, and drawing the  Venetian blind that opened on the guards, to exclude the glare, the three withdrew; leaving Betsy sitting on the state-room floor to watch, and report his awa- kening. "' Has anybody seen Nelly?" inquired Mrs. Perci- val. "Yes, there she sits 'in maiden meditation, fancy free ; " said Katy, pointing- at the same time to the stern of the vessel, where sat Ella, as usual, lost in  thought, and contemplating the waves. Ah, Katy! you are not a very keen observer of human nature, or you never would have added the concluding words of your quotation. Depend upon it, if you had been, when you had once seen a maiden given to meditations such as our little Ella indulged in, withdrawing from the gay at an age when life's impulses are all of the joyous kind, and indulging in lonely musings, with dreamily vacant eye, you -"Would have marked all this, and known Such change is wrought by love alone." "Lawful sakes! I never see'd anybody like Nelly! she don't mind tannin' herself no more than nothin' at all. Well, I'm goin' to set down here, and see what sort o' fandangoes these young folks are cuttin' -up. The way they dance now-a-days is oncommon, And no mistake!" Katy contented herself with remaining by Mrs.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     235 Perciyal's side, watdhing the whirling crowd, and with an amused ear listening to that lady's quaint remarks; which though clothed in homely guise, spoke to the purpose. But where are Edward and Carrie? They must not be overlooked. Ah, my friends! very slyly have you ensconced yourselves in this snug little corner, with a demure- looking chess-board between you; you think no doubt to escape observation; but know you not there are "Paul Prys" in this word, whom nothing escapes? "A chiels aang ye takin' notes, An' faith he'll prent 'em." We are watching you from a near point of obser- vation. We see you, Carrie, looking at the board, one fair cheek leaning on a fairer hand, while your finger rests first upon a knight, then upon a .bishop, uncer- tain which to move; a slight perplexity knitting your delicate brows, and compressing your rosy lips; while your adversary regards-not the game-oh no! at that moment he has forgotten such a being as "Hoyle" existed, in the contemplation of the fair page before him, on whose unblemished surface, traced by nature's pencil, he reads the impress of lofty thought, and angelic purity. Ah, Edward, prenez garde!" checkmate" is nearer than you think. But has an electric shock thrilled them both, that the board is nearly upset between them?     236     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, No; a very simple thing has occurred. Edward,' in his abstraction, thinking she had moved, extended his hand for a similar purpose, just as she placed her piece in ;a favorable position, and their hands met-nothing more I assure you, reader. But for a few moments, the red queen and white bishop-white king and red knight-danced a horn-  pipe before Carrie's reeling eyes and confused brain, while the beatings of Edward'sheart furnished the music on the occasion. Sensible people will act foolishly sometimes. The only way to prevent them from doing so, is to chain Cupid! keep him with rosy fetters bound, or he assuredly will do mischief with his arrows; Le is blindfold you know, and knows not the aim he takes. The next move Carrie makes is at random. "You are in danger, take care of the Bishop!" said Edward. "Yes,' take care of the Bishop,' Carrie," echoed Ella, drawing near, and looking archly in her friend's face. The remark was a very simple one to send the blood in such torrents to Carrie's brow; but such was nevertheless the fact, and Edward, who was re- gaining his self-possession, felt a little returning quiver about the heart at beholding her confusion. It's no use, another false move and the game is gone. "Check-mate!" said Edward, "I knew the Bishop would prove effectual!"   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     237 Ella clapped her little hands, and laughed merrily, saying: "Yes, the Bishop's services are generally required when the game is up." Tormenting Ella, you are growing incorrigible! But put up the chess-men; the tables are spread now through the dancing-hall, and thither the hun- gry party are hastening to refresh themselves, while the band strikes up the popular air of " Pop goes the weasel." "Pop goes the champagne," said Katy, dodging a cork that flew past her, and struck Mrs. Percival on the nose. "Lawful sakes !" said the good lady, applying her hand to the invaded portion of her countenance; "might as well kill a body outright as skeer 'em to death." And now the stream of enjoyment was at its height. Lively sallies, followed by bursts of laughter, origin- al toasts and extempore speeches, improvised for the occasion, beguiled the time, and sped the joyous hours. "The mirth and fun grew fast and furious," until some one, thumping on the table, requested si- lence, as a song had been called for. The hubbub subsided, and the singer was clearing his throat for action, when all were, startled by a blinding flash of lightning, followed by an instant burst of thunder, as if a whole corps of artillery had been drawn up in their very midst, and fired, to a man, at the word of command.     ea^i- CHE A   w T RINGTON; OR, 4 moment's silence succeeded the roar, and then another and another followed each other in rapid succession, until the blanched lips and pallid faces around bore testimony of the universal panic that prevailed. One of those sudden storms, so common in our ca- plipious clime, had arisen, unheeded by the gay party at the dinner-table, until its presence was made known by the loud-tongued herald above them. No rain had fallen as yet, but the heavy masses of clouds piled upon each other in the northwest proclaimed its near advent, while the sea was of that inky black- ness that foretells a coming tempest. All, with common consent, forsook the table, the ladies huddling together in the after-cabin, while most of the gentlemen went out on deck to take an observation. The captain stood on the hurricane-deck, looking anxiously in the direction of the murky clouds to where their bases seemed to join the water. A bright line of light was here visible, which gradually in- creased in breadth, while the heavy mass seemed lifting itself, the edges looking ragged and fringy. "Squally weather ahead!" said he; not particu- larly addressing any one, but speaking as if he thought aloud. "Do you apprehend any danger?" said Edward Loring, who stood near him. "Don't want to frighten the women folks," said he, squirting a mouthful of tobacco juice all over the   SCENES, N NEW-ORLEANS,    289 deck, "but never saw such clouds as that without a blow. Look there," pointing towards the bright line which seemed now to have the appearance of moving along the water, "that's the wind, it's coming up fast." "' Can't you put into some place of safety?" asked Edward. "There's a small bayou off in that direction," said he, pointing; " we'd have to run right in the wind's eye to reach it, but it must be done, this boat wouldn't stand a very heavy sea." Large drops of rain at this moment pattered down on deck, and the cannonading above commenced again. All who could not be of service sought the shelter of the cabin, while the pilot headed the boat rounded in the direction of the friendly bayou. Cr-r-rast! Somebody held on to everybody! The wind has struck her full on the side, and she careens over like a tipsy thing. And now the bosom of the deep heaves, as if with indignation at its enemy, the opposing element, which threatens it with its wrath, lifting the light vessel like a feather, to the top of some mighty wave, and then whirling it down into the black abyss, where it shivers through all its timbers, as if endowed with reason, and shuddering at its own perilous situation. Within the cabin all is confusion. The motion of the boat does not agree, with the champagne, chicken salad, fried oysters, and other ,.     ^24 O     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, dainties, which have been disposed of by our pleasure seekers; and cheeks now grow pale from   other causes than fear, while one individual after another makes desperate bolts into the state-rooms, seizing upon wash-basins, or any other come-at-able article, and squaring accounts with the cook, by discussing a second edition of the dinner. "Oh, lawful sakes! Betsy, jist hand me your master's hat, if you can't git anything else. I'm orful sick, and shall let fly all over creation, if you don't be quick!" "Good grashus, ole missus; what'll mas'r say if you womik in his hat?" Betsy, for reply, received the contents of the good lady's stomach full in the face; the boat giving a lurch at the time, she was sent reeling and-tumbling into the middle of the cabin floor, where she lay sputtering and sneezing, with the not very pleasant bath she had received. "Oh what a row, what a rumpus, and a rioting, All those endure, you may be sure, who go to sea," sung out some reckless individual of the party, who was not sick, and not afraid of thunder. For about two hours the storm raged with fearful violence-the little boat meanwhile having obtained a safe harbor within the mouth of the bayou, where she lay to, awaiting the subsidence of the tempest. It ceased as suddenly as it commenced, and although the swell continued for some time, the steamer was at last enabled to put out on her return. It was near midnight ere she reached the wharf, and   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    241 considerable anxiety had been manifested for her safety, by those who remained behind. A shout of welcome greeted her appearance as she drew up to the pier, and our tired party stepped ashore, well contented with their day's experience, and thankful that their lives had been spared. We do not know exactly what passed between Carrie and Edward, on their way up the long wharf, but their hands separated lingeringly, when "good night" was breathed.?dhaps it was the mutual danger that had threatened them, that drew them nearer together. Or perhaps-but no matter; we'll find out yet wherein lay the attraction.     42 PCOARIB    BHRN QTON i; ORj CHAP)TER    XXVI. And then the sounds of joy, the beat Of tabors, and of dancing ieet." "The mask is off, tte charm is wrought, And Selim-to his heart has caught, In blushes more than ever bright, His Nourmahal, his Harem's light!" MOORE. Where are we? Have the days of the Arabian Nights returned? and have we been touched by some enchanter's wand, and suddenly transported eastwardly beyond the seas to fairy-land, to contemplate the scene be- fore us vith wondering eyes; rising, as it has,' like Aladdin's palace in the night, and dazzling our be- wilfred senses with its gorgeous magnificence? No; this is only a masked ball, a decidedly South- ern " institution." In no place is the true Orleanian more at home than at a masquerade. You can tell the "native" from the "green-horn" at a glance. The air of happy abandonment and nonchalance so observable in the former-of cold constraint, and awkward attempts to appear at ease, in the latter- are unmistakable.   SCENES IN- NBW-ORLtNa.    943 But come, if you are are a novice in such scenes, we will act as chaperon, and introduce you to the motley group. Turks, Arabs, Chinese, Indians, and Calabrians pair off indiscriminately with beauties from the court of Louis XIV., modest Quakeresses, Holy Sisters, Highland Marys, and Virgins of the Sun. It is a grand "' pot-pourri" of animated airs and graces. Bat, no doubt, by exercising our ingenuity a little, we will be able to recognise some old acquaintances under some of these cunningly painted pieces of paste- board, and black velvet, and satin faces. It is sometimes much easier to penetrate a silken mask than to look thr 'gh the daily one worn by most of our acquaintances, where a smiling exterior often covers a frowning purpose, and a polished out- side conceals a shattered, broken spirit! Whom have we here representing the beautiful but unfortunate Mary Stuart? Can you not recognise that queenly form and regal step-the haughty carriage so well becoming the magnificent costume? A tight-fitting, pointed bodice of black velvet, closed to the throat; the skirt of the same rich ma- terial, open from the waist down, very full, and forim- ing a train behind; the under-skirt of heavy white satin, rather short in front, to show the silken stock- ing and satin slipper, with its immense bow covering the dainty foot.     A4.     CARRIE HARRINGTON ; OR, A ruff of point lace encircles the ivory throat, while the whole front of the waist and stomacher are blaz- ing with jewels. The hair is thrown back from the temples on each side, forming a large puff, while the triangular shaped head-dress, celebrated as the favorite coiffure of the ill-fated queen, is composed of large seed pearls strung together, diamond-shaped, forming a netted fringe- work back of the ears, and confined at the point on the top of the forehead by an immense jewel of the first water. The narrow black velvet mask only covers the eyes and upper portion of the nose, while the lovely, though haughty, mouth and chin are plainly visible through the lace curtain which is attached to it. No disguise, proud beauty! but sufficient to war- rant the freedom of social communication from any of the gay revelers without the formality of an in- troduction.  'We will leave the beautiful queen to receive hom- age from countless subjects-though not all in court costume-and cross to this merry group on the oppo- site side. There is some fun going on here. A little gipsy with a sho1t red petticoat, black bodice, and large straw flat tied under the chin with a bright plaid handkerchief, is tracing the mystic lines on'the open palm of a youngish elderly gentle- man, who exhales an atmosphere redolent of rose- scented shaving-soap and fresh linen, and has a clean   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    245 look, from the polished bald spot about the size of a half dollar on tAe top of his head, the well-picked pink-looking ears, the immaculate cravat and shirt collar, down to the shining patent leather pumps and snowy socks. "Let me see the line of life," says the sybil, " few vicissitudes present themselves. The road is well shaven and trim, no grass is allowed to grow there. You gingerly pick your way, avoiding the quagmires and dirty places, and so will pass on to the end, dodg- ing the peck which all mortals are said to be doomed to eat, while some poor scapegoat, raised in a bog, gets your share and his own too." A burst of laughter followed this sally, which rather hit upon the gentleman's peculiarities, and he moved on. "What has fate in store for me, my gipsy lass?" said Edward Loring, who was in plain citizen's dress, not caring to figure as one of the dramatis personae among the maskers. As he extended his hand for inspection, two fairies joined the group, touching him simultaneously with their jeweled wands upon either shoulder. So perfectly were they dressed alike in every par- ticular, and so exactly of the same size, that it was an impossibility for an observer to distinguish them apart sufficiently to identify either from the other. The fleecy, gauzy dresses, covered with spangles, and worn over under-skirts of silver cloth, both short enough to show the tiny feet witfspangled sandals     Ah 4G f;,c& aiunnierow  ;  oIL, 5 - 'X6   CAfRS BARAIN'TOK- MBI crossed, and reorossed, around the delicate ankles; wings made of gauze, over a frame-work of silver wire, and so constructed, that by the movement of the shoulders they waved to and fro. The bodices were of cloth of silver, cut low in the neck, and fitting closely to the form; while a half handkerchief sleeve of gauze, glittering with span- gles, hung from the arm-holes, leaving the rounded arms nearly bare from the shoulders to the wrists, and encircled at intervals with bands of silver. On their fair heads were pointed silver crowns or- -namented with diamonds and other precious stones; and at the end of each wand sparkled a magnificent jewel. Their hair hung in natural ringlets over their po- lished necks and shoulders; and although by day- light there might have been a shade or two's differ- ence in the hue of the soft tresses upon each well- turned head, it would take a keen eye to detect it at night. Masks of white satin entirely concealed their coun- tenances, and completed their chaste, but elegant costumes. Edward eyed them  admiringly a moment-a shrewd suspicion of their identity crossing his mind- and then turned to the interpreter of destinies for an answer to his question: "An honest palm this, although a lawyer's!" said the little imp mischievously. "Good fortune is in store for you, and fairy favors 'The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve :'   SCESES IJ NEWORLEANS. L247 'tis fairy time; they draw their magic circles around you; with their wings they sweep the dust behind the door of your dwelling-never harm can cross your threshold!" "A very happy destiny!" said Edward, laughing; "but you are a comical little gipsy, to be quoting Shakspeare! Pray, was it under the greenwood tree you made his acquaintance?" "Oh, you are a lawyer, and of course, too much for me," said she, laughing, and mingling with the crowd. "How now, spirit! whither wander you?" said Edward, in the language of the immortal bard, as one of the fairies turned from him. "Seeking for wisdom at folly's shrine," said she. "Come back, bright fay, when you have succeed- ed in finding it, and let us mortals profit by the pearls that fall from your lips!" She waved her wand,. and was gone; Edward failing to detect which of the two friends had left him, or which remained, their very voices sounding alike under their masks. "I must claim your protection to take me under the shadow of your wing," said he, turning to the other, and offering his arm. "Will your fairyship join the dancers?" They took their places, and during the dance Ed. ward discovered his partner to be his little friend Ella.  "Now that I have proved your identity," said he,     ,2J48    CARRIE HARRuNGTON; On, ' and that you are (as you once said to me) 'of the earth, earthy,' we will speak as mortals. Will you come with me, after the dance, to'some retired part of the room where we will not be overheard? I want to ask your advice on a certain subject very near my heart." Certainly," said Ella; then musing a little, she added, "but now I am going to make a request of you, which may appear a little singular; however, I will name it. I want you to promise me that you will not expect any reply from me until you have entirely concluded your confidence, which must be free and unrestrained. Keep back nothing; so that I may know exactly how to advise." "I will readily accede to your request, although I cannot penetrate your motive."' "Oh, it would be a woman's reason, if I should give it. You can reconnoitre and find the spot for your purpose, while I go and make some plausible pretext for absenting myself so long from my party. Lend me your seal-ring, so that you can distinguish me from my friend, when you seek me; for from that moment I am dumb, until you have finished your communication. 'Tis my sovereign' will, mortal," added she, raising her wand! ' observe the compact, if you wish the fairies' blessing to hallow your pro- ceedings." She waved him off, going in an opposite direction from the one chosen by him. What new project has that busy little brain evolv- ed in its innermost reesses?   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    249 -We will see.  In a few moments she found her friend Carrie, and going up to her; said: "Carrie dear, I have a little sport on hand; I want completely to deceive Mr. Loring as to which of us is which, and you must assist me. Take this ring, and go out of my vicinity immediately. Saunter around the room until he approaches you, accept his arm and go with him, listen silently to everything he says; for your life don't open your lips until he has entirely finished what he has to communicate, and then you may reply what you please. He wont think strange of your silence, for I have stipulated to be dumb on the occasion." "What am I to listen to?" said Carrie, hesitating. That you'll know when you hear it," replied Ella, laughing; " it is something that is going to be told to me, but which I am perfectly willing you should know." "But how about Mr. Loring?" asked Carrie; "perhaps it would annoy him to find out he had im. parted it to the wrong person?" "Oh! it is not of consequence enough for that; I only want to quiz him," said Ella, treating the mat. ter lightly, to reassure her friend; " but go now, or we will be observed together. Mind every word I have told you, don't open your lips." - Mischievous Ella, you have well divined the sub. ject to be imparted. Carrie obeyed her friend to the letter, walking 12     250   . gCARRIE HARRINGTQN; OR, along leisurely until approached by Edward, who remarked, as he joined her: "True to your word I see, my fair friend- - thou still dost hold That little talisman of gold, Pledge of my faith'--- I will now redeem my signet ring according to pro- mise. Sit here in this window recess, the curtains shelter us from observation, while I make my con- fession, which I will try to do without any circumlo- cution, and see if, with your woman's wit, you can advise me to a line of conduct which will bring about favorable results.  "( You must have perceived my growing partiality for your friend Carrie. No, partiality is too cold a word! with my whole heart I love her! and it is not a love founded on the caprice of a moment, but a sentiment deep-rooted in my heart, from a knowledge of her manifold virtues and acquirements. I did think I was not entirely indifferent to her, from many little circumstances that occurred between us, trifling in themselves, but weighty to me! I now find I have flattered myself. Since the day of our boating excursion-the day on which I grounded my fondest hopes-she has studiously avoided me. That night as we were returning from the boat I triedto ap- proach the subject nearest to my heart, but I felt a sort of schoolboy embarrassment-at the time amus- ing as well as annoying to me-and the words stuck in my throat, and remained there, fast. Since then   SCENES IN NEV-ORLEANS.     251 she has given me no opportunity whatever. Can it be that I have been presumptuous in supposing my- self an object of interest to her? You are her friend -and a prety keen observer-I know you will be candid in telling me, whether I may entertain any hopes of final success?" He paused a moment, his listener remaining silent -not exactly from a determination to keep her pro. mise to Ella, but from absolute inability to utter an articulate sound, so completely was she spell-bound by what she had heard. He " loved her with his whole heart," yes, he had. said it.  Was she dreaming? Oh! that she might never awake, if it were but a dream. She had avoided him since the day of the boating party, but it was from a feeling of timidity that she did so. She was fearful that while in his presence she might be led into an ui maidenly exposure of her feelings, and as true love if always self-depreciative, she could not bring herself to think that she would ever be the object of his choice, and so religiously resolved to shun him, and guard her feelings from his observation-hence her avoidance. But he had lifted the veil from the inner temple of his bosom, laying bare its treasured secrets to her trembling gaze, and down in its transparent depths she saw her own image enshrined as a divinity-as the goddess of his secret adoration!     S12X    cCAlRIE HARRINOTON; OR, Thanks, thanks, dear Ella, for your friendly stra- tagem, without which two loving hearts would have played at cross purposes for a long time. "I do not wish," continued he, " to By into any confidences that may exist between you and your friend; far from it; but I really would be grateful for any suggestion, any little hint, as to whether I am seeking for something unfindable to me? You do not answer me; have you no hope to hold out? The spell is removed from your lips, I have finished my communication." He looked at his listener anxiously. What means her agitation? Herowhole frame is quivering with excitement; but with the frankness inherent to her nature she at once determines her course of action. With one trembling hand she removes the satin mask from her countenance, and, blushing deeply, lays the other in his own, where it flutters and quivers like an imprisoned bird just caught. But our rapturously-astonished lover is not con- tented with the little hand; he has the audacity to draw the trembling form to his manly bosom, and imprint on the soft rosy lips the seal of love. We will leave them to mutual explanations, while we follow the footsteps of the fair plotter of this little ruse which terminated so happily. Ella has been joined by the little gipsy, whom our readers may have failed to recognise as our friend "Katy," and the two commence an exploring expe- dition around the large room in quest of adventure.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     253 ' See there," said Ella, giving Katy's arm a slight pressure, and indicating more by the turn of her head than any other movement the direction she wished Katy to look; and there, sitting beside an open window, her snowy arm lying across the sill, sat the dignified representative of Scotland's queen, the hand attached to said arm hanging outside the window, and made captive by the digits of, the furrin count," as Mrs. Percival styled him; he sitting on the gallery with- out, and trying to look interesting by moonlight, as he caressed his immense mustache and imperial with his unoccupied hand. "It's a pity,".said Katy, " your mother is not here; I warrant she would let them know they were ob- served, if it were only to pay back the lady for her imperiousness on all occasions." His satanic majesty is never nearer by than when you are talking about him. As proof of this, Mrs. Percival arose from one of the side seats, and joined them just as Katy concluded her speech. True to the letter, after they had drawn her atten- tion to the interesting sight before them, she re- marked : "I'll serve her up some of the same sass she's help'd me to time and agin," and going up to Isabelle, pretending not to recognise her, she said: "Excuse me, ma'am, but ain't you afeard your hand 'll go to sleep, hangin' down that ar way? Oh! lawful sakes! I didn't see you was ingaged; I hope I ain't intruded!" A&     254     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, It was impossible to read Belle's countenance on the occasion, as the most expressive part was con- cealed by her mask; but a crimson streak showed itself on the upper portion of her forehead, while the disdainful lip curled indignantly, for she felt she had been recognised, although ignorance had been af- fected by her interrogator.     j "Insolent!" she muttered, as, withdrawing her hand quickly, she turred in the direction of her re- tiring foe, who waddled off well pleased at having an opportunity of lowering her adversary's pride. "Oh, mother! how could you?" said Ella. "Lawful sakes, child! I'll sleep a good deal sound- er to-night to think I had a chance to comnqup with my lady for her high falutin airs! I s'pose she thinks she can do things what if common folks 'tempted they'd be hued-and-cried out o' society for-the good- for-nothin' baggage! I s'pect that poor, old, gout- ridden husband o' her'n is roarin' now for 'mor- pfiine' up stairs, and nobody to give it to him, while madam's' grachus and sweet to furrin monkeys be- low! But where's Carrie? I ain't seen her for some time."  Where is Carrie, sure enough? Come with us, reader, and we will seek for her. A very different scene presents itself from the one we have just left. It is the chamber of sickness we are about entering. A feeble light is emitted from the expiring lamp on the table, sufficient however to show the portly   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     255 person of the Hon. Robert Nelson reclining on a couch in the far corner of the apartment, his gouty extremities enveloped in flannel, and elevated on a pillow, while he gazes, with distended eyes, in a sort of bewildered wonderment at the sylph-like figure of our heroine, who, divested of her mask, is bending over him, and in a voice expressive of kindly sym- pathy, is inquiring if she can be of any service to him? Her being there is easily accounted for. After remaining with Edward Ibng enough to come to a satisfactory understanding on both sides-troths plighted, and hearts to beat henceforward in unison- she left hinr a few moments to retire to her chamber, re-arrange her mask, and tranquilise her pleasingly agitated nerves, ere mingling again with the gay crowd below. While in her bedroom, she heard the moans of some one in great apparent agony, and calling for as- sistance. Stepping lightly along the gallery, she reached the invalid's room, and looking through the window found he was alone, suffering and unattended. "Benevolence" was too largely developed in her cranium, for her to pause and consider ere offering what relief lay within the compass of her abilities. The sick man seemed fascinated ith -her appear- ance; an awe-stricken expression predominating on his countenance, as he contemplated her in her ethe- real costume, looking like some ministering angel sent to soothe and comfort suffering humanity!     2r 56    CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, His illness had weakened his nerves, and softened somewhat the asperities of his nature. He gazed until his eyes grew dim, and extending a hand almost palsied with contending emotions, he faintly articu- lated: "My Clara! my long lost, much injured child!" and sank into insensibility. Carrie understood it all in a moment. It was her grandfather that lay before her. Her remarkable resemblance to what her mother had been in her youth, when she was the pride and light of a doting father's heart and home, had mis- led the old man into the belief that his disordered fancy had either deceived him, or his child stood be- fore him in all her girlhood's loveliness.* The shock was too great for his weakened frame, and nature gave way. Carrie hastily caught up the cologne bottle from the toilet, first ringing the bell furiously for assist- ance, and commenced chafing his temples, and un- doing his shirt-collar to give him air. He slowly revived, and opening his eyes, looked long and anxiously in her face. At last he spoke. "Tell me," said he, and his voice sounded hollow and unnatural; "where I am, and how you came here!'  "Compose yourself, my dear sir," said Carrie, de- termined to conceal from him for the present, her knowledge of their relationship, as she feared the ef- fect it might have upon his already over-excited nerves; " you are here in your own chamber at the   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    257 hotel. I am simply one of your fellow-boarders, and am in this fanciful costume on account of the ball that is progressing below. Being in my own apart- ment, and hearing you call for assistance, I hastened to your side to offer my poor services. My sudden appearance, combined with your own weakness, startled you, I fear, and caused your agitation. I should have been more guarded. I have rung for your servant, and presume he will be here presently; in the meantime, if I can give you any relief, com- mand me." "Tell me your name?" said he, taking her hand, and looking very wistfully up in her face. "' Call me Carrie," said she. She knew it would not do to mention her surname, as that would at once put him in possession of the facts which she wished to keep from him. James at that moment appeared in answer to the bell, when Carrie, explaining to him the cause of her being there, consigned the sick man to his care, and turned to leave the room. "Stay," said he feebly, striving to detain her; "you must not leave me without promising to come again. I shall want to see and know all 'about you." She promised him she would visit him again when he felt stronger than he did now, and with this assu- rance he was fain to content himself, gazing after her with longing eyes until the door closed on her re- tiring figure. 12*     258     CARRIE HARRINGTON OR, She found Edward at the foot of the stairs, impa- tfently awaiting her appearance, and wondering what kept her so long from him; drawing her unresisting hand through his arm, when she at last joined him, nor relinquishing it until he had pressed it tenderly in his joy to feel himself its future owner. "I have counted the moments since you left me, dear one, and never knew time cra*l so lazily along. I have made all sorts of excuses for you to good Mrs. Percival. She wanted, right or wrong, to follow you up stairs, but I knew you did not wish intrusion. Come, take off your mask, and let us go into supper.; you'll find your party have preceded you there. Supremely contemptuous was the glance Carrie received from her future sister and present grand. mother-in-law! as, leaning on Edward's arm, he led her immediately opposite that embodiment of arro- gance and pretension, who remarked in French to a lady near her, that her brother had a singular taste: he liked to be a king among be ggars!' Edward overhearing her, replied in his own lan- guage, that he much preferred it to being a hanger-  on after princes, who owned more titles than real estate, and boasted more hair than ideas. A scornful look was the only notice she vouchsafed him; and reaching over, she coolly picked up a dish of jelly that Carrie was just in the act of putting a spoon in. The rudeness was so glaring that Edward's face flushed in spite of k is habitual self-control.           ,      ,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     259 ( I will take that jelly if you please, Belle," said he, " when you have appropriated what you wish of it, as Miss Harrington was on the point of helping herself, which' I presume you did not perceive, or you surely would have waited until she had done so." She raised her large eyes slowly, impudently star- ing him full in the face, helped herself deliberately, then calling one of the waiters, said: "Take this dish of jelly to the gentleman opposite with the flushed countenance." Edward's eye flashed, when he caught Carrie's pleading look, which begged him to desist, and checked the angry retort quivering upon his lip. "Dear Edward," said she, drawing very near to him, and speaking low, "do not, I beg of you, have any scenes with your sister on my account. I have a strange communication to make to you to-morrow: a discovery I have made which may change the cur- rent of her feelings when it becomes known to her. At all events, I shall feel very unhappy if I am the cause of dissension between you." "Don't let that trouble you a moment, darling! Belle's path and mine--ours, I should say-will lie in very opposite directions. She never shall have the opportunity afforded her of insulting you again." "Carrie," said Ella, looking archly across Edward who was between them, " did you succeed in quiz- zing my friend here?" pointing to Edward. Carrie's crimson face was a tell-tale picture; while ,e     260     CARRIE- HARRINGTON ; OR, Edward, shaking his finger at her tormentor, replied for her: ' Ah, you little traitress! a pretty confidante you make; but you shall have a pair of white kids, and a post of honor conferred on you for your share in the transaction," he whispered. "No doubt," said she, laughing, "you have ap- propriated the lion's share yourself." "Oh, what a clatter of tongues!" said Katy, " a perfect pandemonium, only I don't see Satan!" "Here he is," said Ella, pointing quietly over her shoulder. "I owe you one for that, mischief," said Edward'; "I shall be so deeply in your debt soon that I shall not know how to extricate myself." In this, and similar discourse, they whiled the hours away, until "The bell tolled the hour for retiring," and the now weary revelers were glad to seek their couches. Edward whispered Carrie not to be too great a laggard in the morning, as the very sunshine would look dim ungraced by her presence! Ella was generous, and suffered her to retire with- out any more raillery, her good-night kiss being, if anything, kinder than usual. When Carrie laid her head on her pillow she felt the night had been an eventful one for her, and lifted 9 "   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     261 er heart in gratitude to the Great Giver for all his ianifold mercies; apostrophising her mother's gentle pirit, which, if departed souls are permitted cog- isance of mortal affairs, she felt must be watching Lear her aged parent and innocent child, gently lead- ng them to reunite the broken family chain in links which death alone can sever  We will not sky that these were her last thoughts. Phere was a confused remembrance of love-filled ;yes, gentle tones, and manly accents fraught with enderness, mingling strangely with strains of music, dlazing chandeliers, and nodding plumes, till deep leep descended, and all was repose.      I '4     262     QARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, CHAPTER XXVII. "And a spirit from his early years, Came back o'er his thoughts to move, Till his eye was filled with memory's tears, And his heart with childhood's love!" MRS. HEMANS. IN spite of her night of dissipation, Carrie arose early. We will not pretend to say Edward's parting words had any thing to do with the move; though perhaps their echo through the chambers of her heart might have aroused her unconsciously. Be that as it may--the golden charioteer of morn was just shaking'hirnself from his ocean bed, and egotistically proclaiming his coming by illuminating the tree tops, and darting rosy beams athwart his eastern palace gates, when the fair earthly maiden, after completing her simple morning toilet, stepped out on the gallery to breathe the fresh, sweet air of the early hour, and watch the small boats skimming along like seafowl in the distance, and looking as if floating on a lake of liquid fire, when they got in the path of light thrown by the God of day along the wave, as he oscillated gently above the horizon. But we are afraid nature's charms on this par.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     263 ticular morning called not forth the wonted en- thusiasm of her votary, unless it was in the shape of animated nature; for there, promenading the long wharf, as if he also had been disturbed in his slum- bers and left a restless pillow, paced Edward, glanc- ing furtively up at the gallery from time to time, as he turned in his walk, and starting with delight as his "'morning-star" appeared in her loveliness from behind the envious cloud of stone-work and mortar that had so long concealed her from his expectant gaze. He kissed his hand and beckoned to her, and it was but the work of a moment for her to get her sun-bonnet and join him in his perambulatory move. Good-morrow to that sunny face, With bright good humor beaming!" staid he, gallantly kissing her hand, and then nestling it under his arm. "Let us walk to the pier-head, and sit there a little while; it will be the only uninterrupted time we will have to-day, and I have much that ,.wish to say to you." She suffered him to lead her along; indeed, at the moment, she almost felt tempted to reply in the words of "Hinda :" "East-West-alas! I care not whither, So thou art safe, and I with thee!" When they arrived at the end of the wharf, they     264     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR took their seats upon an old boat that lay there 'turned bottom upward, and with a lovely panorama spread before them, of water and woodland scenery, cdming out of obscurity as the day grew gradually brighter, they resigned themselves to the uninter-  rupted enjoyment of the happy hour- "The world forgetting, by the world forgot." ' Dear Carrie," said Edward, at last breaking the silence that had fallen upon them, "I hope you have not repented your last night's decision?-colors seen by candle-light do not always look the same by day, you know." "I am here," said she, looking a moment timidly at him, and then suddenly turning her head to hide a little moisture that would suffuse her eyes in spite of herself. "I am answered," said he, tenderly putting his arm around her, "and forgive me, darling, the doubt implied by my question; believe me, it sprang not from my heart. It was a selfish wish on my part to hear from your own dear lips again that I was beloved! We men are full of vanity, and wound oftener from its promptings than from the love of giving pain. Look up, my sunbeam! I will promise henceforward never to offend in like manner again, but will presume myself perfection in your eyes, and will take for granted all the protestations of regard your timidity forbids you expressing." Carrie smiled as she replied, "I give you credit   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     265 for your ingenuity in disposing of the matter to your own satisfaction; it reminds me of once hearing a lady tell a gentleman ' to imagine himself kissed,' when be modestly requested such a mark of her Afavor." "Oh, I wont be contented with imagination in such a case, you may depend;" said he, calling the roses to her cheek by his earnestness. ".But now, dearest, I want to talk over our affairs, and come to some determination as to future pro- ceedings. I do. not believe in engagements that last from July to eternity, nor in serving seven years as did Jacob for Rachel. My means are not very ample at present, but I feel I am on the road to fortune, and with patience and perseverance, will ultimately reach the goal. I would not ask you to share poverty and privations, but I know I have sufficient in my profes- sion to insure us against those evils. We may not have costly luxuries, and a palace to live in; but we will have each other's society, which will be sufficient to sweeten the simplest repast; and your bright smiles will grace our mansion, more than the most expen- sive decorations art can supply or wealth procure. Tell me then if you will be willing to unite your fate with mine,-under these circumstances, and name an early day for the blissful event." Frankly Carrie replied: "' Dear Edward, when I gave you my heart it was without a reservation; dollars and cents formed no part of the transaction, and I will not now affect a     266     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, reluctance I do not feel, by throwing any unneces- sary impediments in the way of our union. But first let me make you acquainted with the particulars of a most wonderful discovery I made last night; I do not know that it will have any bearing upon our fu- ture, and yet it may. It is but right, at all events, that you should know something of the one you are about bestowing the holiest of all titles upon." She then proceeded to give him the particulars of her visit to her grandfather's room, his' agitation at seeing her, and her concealment from him of the tie that existed between them, concluding by remarking: "Now, dear Edward, advise me how to act. I am fearful of communicating to him the knowledge I have acquired, as I know not how it will be received, and I would rather keep it to myself than meet with the repulses my poor mother did." "This matter will not admit of delay, Carrie, for it is my opinion that your grajdfather's days are numn- bered; don't look so shocked; but I have perceived a great change in him lately. I have a mortifying subject to broach to you, but there must be no conceal- ments between us, dear one. I think the old man's heart is nearly broken by Belle's conduct. He is dotingly fond of her, and it is unnecessary for me to draw your attention to her manner of treating him. Indeed, I think, as her brother, I shall have seriously to check her in her mad career, or I fear she will bring disgrace upon us all." "Oh, Edward! surely not; it is only a silly love of admiration that possesses her!"   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     267 "Which will ultimately lead to ruin if indulged in," said he, sternly. Carrie regarded him a moment in silence. It was unusual to see a frown on his clear brow. It pained, her. She laid her hand soothingly upon his, and gather- ing back the dark locks that had fallen over his fore- head, imprinted thereon a gentle kiss; then, frighten- ed at her own boldness, she hid her face in her little hands, and trebmbled with embarrassment. "That's right, darling ! charm away the evil spirit by your soft caress; it is by affection and kind treat- ment only that the lion can ever be made to lie down with the lamb !" Oh! if woman only knew the power of gentleness -the oil upon the troubled waves of angry passion- she would never curl the indignant lip nor flash the defiant eye, to curb the restless will that resistance maddens! "Come," said Edward, rising, " I see there are, signs of animation around the hotel, it will soon be the breakfast hour, and our absence will be remarked. Let us return, and I will try and devise some plan by which this affair can be broken to your grand- father." They walked together to the house engaged in serious discourse, as the subject was of too grave a nature to be treated lightly. They parted at the stairs, Edward -agreeing to in- form Isabelle of the particulars first, and gradually between them break it to the old gentleman.     G268     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, Ah! Edward, you reckon without your host, when you expect to find & coadjutor in Belle! "She is an impostor!" said Belle, with flashing eye and distended nostril; " she is trying to impose on a credulous old man for the sake of his wealth!" "Gently, Belle, gently! your husband is the proper person to decide that point. I came to you expecting you would aid me, and between us we could cau- tiously inform him of all the particulars that we had become possessed of, but I now see I must stem the tide without your assistance." "A very likely story that I would become as it were my own decapitator; for let that girl establish her claims, with her artfulness, she will wheedle her- self into the good graces of that demented old fool, and my nose will be turned to the wall!" "Silence!" said Edward, sternly; "if you have no respect for yourself, you shall have for others, in my presence. - Remember you are speaking of your own husband, and my affianced wife!" "Oh! gramercy, fair sir, I wish you joy!" sneered Belle; "I was not aware how matters stood between you. I now see and appreciate your disinterested motives in aiding the young lady." "If I felt not the most supreme contempt for you, Belle, as well as pity, I might notice your fiendish insinuations in a justly indignant manner. But I have learned a' lesson from the angelic being who has so innocently excited your ire:-that a soft answer   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     269 turneth away wrath! nothing is ever accomplished by the angry retort, save to 'Spread the breach that words begin.'" "Oh! no doubt she is a saint personified in your eyes! I hope marriage will not disenchant you." "I will leave you, Belle," said he, rising; "per- haps when we meet again you will be more reason- able." "Yes, 'when we meet again,' "muttered she, as the door closed after him. The conversation had taken place in the parlor after dinner, being the first opportunity Edward had of speaking to his sister, as she had spent the fore- noon in bed. She sat some time just where he left her, her little hands clenched, her lips pressed firmly together, and angry streaks crossing her corrugated brow, like the red lightning which bespeaks the coming tempest. "Ma Belle!" exclaimed a voice near; and look- ing up, she perceived her evil genius, in the person of "the count." Did the foul fiend send him at that moment to  tempt her? She hastily motioned him to a seat beside her, and commenced speaking rapidly in French. Their conversation was long and exciting, and at its termination (which was not until the shades of evening had gathered thick around them) she arose to go, her parting words as their hands separated from a thrilling clasp,     270     CARRIE HATRINGOON-; OR, "Adieu, mon ami! soyez sur fqui vive!" The night was setting in wild and stormy! The flying scud skimmed along, hanging low, as if the heavy atmosphere forbade its rising. The wind gave occasional puffs, and died away, to gather new force for the coming struggle- of the ele- ments, which the knowing ones predicted would be a fierce one. A lurid light shone in places among the murky clouds, and the seafowl flew along close to the water; all nature giving evidence of the approach of one of those terrific storms, which make their pe- riodical-visits generally about the latter end of Au- gust, devastating our coasts, and scattering destruc- tion broadcast! Old Boreas winding up his summer campaign by going on a "bender." The steamer has stopped at the wharf to receive her cargo of live freight, and has put off into the darkness; although for a time her captain wavered about the prudence of encountering the gale which was rising fast. But avarice conquered at last, as time and money would be lost, if he consulted his safety by lying to for the night. Mr. Percival has left on her for the city, although strongly urged by his wife and daughter to remain, and not brave the tempest-Carrie and Katy adding their entreaties to the same effect. He laughed at their fears, saying he knew every   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    271 foot of timber in that old, hulk, and would trust himself in it in the worst gale that ever blew, sooner than in one of the paper houses around them, which a good wind would make a balloon of before they could turn round. Thus he quieted their objections. Some of the idlers on the wharf remembered seeing a lady go on board, closely veiled, and well wrapped up, leaning on the arm of a gentleman, who apparently had a severe toothache, for his face was almost entirely concealed by a huge muffler around the jaws, and his glazed cap was drawn down almost to his eyes. They were not particularly observed at the time, as the lady immediately sought a state-room; and the gentleman after paying their fare, joined her, and they were seen no more. Return we now to the hotel. Edward had been closeted with his brother-in-law all the afternoon, only leaving the chamber a few moments to introduce Carrie to the now penitent old man, who wept over her as a long lost treasure re- covered. Belle had been in the chamber once during the time (while Edward had gone for Carrie), and had apparently been very busy, opening drawers, and or- namental boxes of every description; and when un- observed, filling her pockets with jewels, money, and everything that they would accommodate; at last *          ,     272     CARRI HARRINGTON; OR, -he went to the armoire and took from it her traveling bonnet and veil, also a large mantle, when the sick man faintly asked herPwhere she was going. She replied curtly, "to walk on the beach," and abruptly left him. But Edward's return with his grand-daughter, ban- ished the occurrence from his mind, until painfully recalled by after circumstances.    : Carrie sits with one hand clasped in that of her newly-found parent's, while the other she from time to time passes through his silvery locks, as he pours forth his sorrow and remorse for his harshness, and blind obedience to the dictates of that pride ----" Which leads the mind to soar too far, 'Till our own weakness shows us what we are." Greatly changed is the old man, both in mind and person. His bodily sufferings, combined with the agitation of the last twefr-four hours, have told. upon him; and the recording angel's task is nearly finished on his page of the book of life! But where is she who made her solemn vows at the altar, "'till death do us part?" Not at her post at the trying hour which is nearer than even those around the bed imagine. He, the invalid, feels the slackening of the cord. age that grapples him to life, and feebly requests his grandchild to leave him a moment, as he wishes to speak with Edward alone. His communications were of a confidential nature,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     273 and lasted for over an hour; Edward employing his jen in taking down his kinsman's last wishes, and summoning two other witnesses to see the signature attached, and attest its legality. After this was done, his mind appeared more at ease, and he requested Carrie might be again admit- ted; and also expressed a wish for his wife's pre- sence. Then arose the question-where was she? No one had seen her-she had not been to tea- was not in the parlor, in any of the ladies' bedrooms, on any of the galleries; in fact, was not to be found! Her own maid was summoned, and testified she had not seen her for some time, she believed it was a few minutes before the boat got in, and then she had given her a little note, which she bade her de- liver to Mr. Edward Loring  at bedtime.  She thought at the time her mistress's face looked flushed, and her hand was trembling, but she was afraid to ask any questions. This was all Jane knew of the matter, and feeling in her pocket, she produced the tiny note as proof of the truth of her statement. It was directed to "Edward   Loring, Esq.," written with a lead pencil upon the fly-leaf of some book, from which it had been hastily torn, and in such a quivering, cramped hand, as to be almost illegible. With a painful bound of the heart, and a sickening feeling of horror, Edward read as follows: 13  )     274     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "I see your look of blank dismay when you learn from this that I am gone-flown from the horrible fate my own stupidity, and I may also say cu- pidity, entailed upon me. The torments of the doomed were naught compared to it, when I ruled absolute; but now that my power is to be shared- that an interloper is about usurping my authorityY- I abdicate entirely, and leave the dotard I have been chained to to demonstrate his maudlin affection in another quarter, while I seek to please myself, and snap my fingers at the world's opinion. "ISABELLE." Edward's feelings on reading this characteristic epistle we will pass over in silence. To say that he was stunned, would but feebly ex- press the force of the overwhelming blow; and how to impart it to the poor old man, whose soul was already fluttering at the door of its clayey prison, seeking to escape? In the meantime the storm was raging without with terrific violence, the gale increasing to a hur- ricane, tearing away all obstacles in its path, and shaking the house to its foundation at every fresh blast. Large trees were uprooted, and flew past on the wings of the wind; while bath-houses, wharfsT boats, and small huts on the beach, were demolished,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    275 like children's houses built of cards, and prostrated the next moment by the breath of the juvenile archi- tects. When Edward reached the sick man's chamber, the found some one had been there before him, and indiscreetly made known the state of affairs; as the news of the elopement had spread like wildfire through the hotel, it being discovered that the Count had absconded also, takig with him all his availa- bles, which he could Ivell do, as they mostly con- sisted of pomatum pots, bottles of hair dye, essences pour le mouchoir, combs, brushes, a boot-jack, and the suit of clothes he had on, in one of the pockets of which was a genealogical tree of the noble family of "De Villeveau," of which he was the last un- worthy representative. Edward, on entering the room, looked at the old man as he lay stretcled upon the bed, his face look- ing swollen and purple, and his hands clutching con- vulsively at his throat, as if for breath, and felt ter- rified at his unnatural appearance. In a few moments his fears proved to be well grounded, and the occupants of the hotel were thrown into a double-state of excitement, everybody running hither and thither, and in each other's way -the "Hon. Robert Nelson" had an attack of apoplexy!     276       CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR,. CHAPTER XXVIII. "He died! his death made no great stir on earth. His funeral made some pomp; there was profusion Of velvet, gilding, brass, and no great dearth Of aught, but tears!  *   +   * *    *    *    *    Of all The fools who flocked to swell or see the show, Who cared about the corpse? The funeral Made the attraction, and the black the woe. There throbbed not there a thought which pierced the pall; And when the gorgeous coffin was laid low, It seemed the mockery of death-to fold The rottenness of eighty years in gold!" BYRON. IT is a melancholy duty to linger by a death-bed, even where we have no immediate interest in the sufferer, save that engendered by compassion towards our fellow-creature. To watch the exhaling of the subtle essence from its cunningly-contrived earthen jar, moulded by hands divine; to see the links part, one by one, in the chain that binds the immortal soul to its perishable com- panion, the body; and to feel that to us, the surviv- ors, a few short years, or months-nay, with some of us, perhaps hours--will roll away, when we too will "shake off this mortal coil," and become as   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     2" clods of the valley, and the places that knew us shall know us no more! The death-bed of the aged is, perhaps, less start- ling than that of the young, for it is what we expect; we look for the fall of the leaf when spring-time and summer have passed, and autumn, with its dirge- like wail, ushers in the dying year! And so with man. When he has " reached those years that are always found upon the borders of another world," we are prepared, when the summer comes, for him to go to his long home; and calm and serene are such death- beds when the good man lies down to his last sleep, surrounded by those whom his virtues have endeared to him through life, when his children's children kneel to receive his last blessing, and a remembrance of a life spent in doing good to his fellow-mortals cheers him ere his spirit Puts off into the unknown dark!" No such mild light shone o'er the death-bed be- fore us. The hollow winds moaned a sad requiem around the couch where the victim of his own and others insubordinate passions gasped out his miserable ex- istence, " unwept, unhonored, and unsung!" The fitful blast shook the casements roughly, threatening demolition at each fresh onslaught, while the deluging rain poured its wild torrents in one in- cessant stream, until the horrors of the possibility of another deluge involuntarily presented itself.     " ' , ' i Pi : 278     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, The he. ns were one continuous sheet of light- ning, wle             - "The deep-mouthed thunder's angry roar" reverberated and re-echoed on all sides, as if the fiends of upper air were shouting themselves hoarse in their mad glee, trying to overpower the voices of the water- demons, as "Deep responded to deep," as the huge waves rolled in mountain billows, and broke against the defenceless coast with deafening explosions. Pale faces sat around the couch where mortality's  poor remnant lay, breathing the hoarse, gurgling gasp that precedes complete suffocation. All that could be done towards affording him re- lief had been resorted to in vain. The mandate had gone forth, and the tolling bell, the nodding plumes, "ashes to ashes," and " dust to dust," were all that remained of the once proud son of earth! The struggling dawn at last emitted a feeble gray light through the heavy atmosphere, and revealed a scene of desolation truly deplorable. Not a vestige of the long wharf remained, save the pier-head, standing like a solitary sentinel keeping guard o'er the slain. Bath-houses, wharf-boats-all had disappeared; while the beach was strewn with -fragments of the demolished out-buildings, limbs of trees, spars, wrecked boats, and all the trophies left by the Storm-king to mark his devastating nathl   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     279 Dimly broke the light into the chamber of death, andc shone upon the rigid limbs, the protruded eyes, and purple blotched countenance of the corpse; the now'deserted room, tenanted alone by its cold occu- pant-the weary watchers having sought their own apartments, when their services were no longer re- quired in the sick man's chambef A solemn stillness reigned throughout the house; the events of the night casting a momentary gloom over the thoughtless devotees of fashion and pleasure, and startling them into the unusual occupation of re- flecting on the mutability of human affairs. Great uneasiness was also felt on account of the boat. The storm had been one of unusual severity, and although A temporary lull now existed, all knew from the experience of past years, that it was but a pres- tige of greater violence-as these cessations were caused by a change of wind, which, gathering fresh strength by the short respite, would rage with accu- mulated force. In Mrs. Percival's chamber were congregated our horror-stricken party, with the exception of Edward. None thought of retiring, as the events of the night, added to the anxiety experienced concerning the fate of those who had ventured to brave the perils of the deep, entirely banished sleep from their eyes, and filled their minds with forebodings of still greater hor- rors in store for them. "Well, lawful sakes alive!" said Mrs. Percival,     80O     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, heaving a great sigh, and shaking her head to ex- press wonder; "who'd a thought that all this 'ere would a turned up so soon? Jist twenty-four hours ago you all was a slebpin' quietly, after figerin' and hoppin' about in all sorts o' outlandish gear-and now see! Here's CarrieWist found a grandfather, to lose him; and he, pooroul! jist had a wife long enough to find out what a old fool he'd made o' himself, in marryin' sich a flibberty jibbet, full o' airs and graces-though poor creetur! he's dead now-the Lord rest his soul! I wont say no more about him: and she-good grashus only knows what's become o' her, in that orful blow o' last night's! I wish to mercies John hadn't a gone on that ar boat; but men will be contrary, and have their own way, in spite o' common sense; jist because they think wo'nen don't know nothin' and it's agin their dignity to listen to what their wives may say. There goes Mr. Edward Loring," said she, as Edward passed her door with folded arms and gravely thoughtful brow; " he's one of the few sensible men I ever seen. Poor creetur! he looks dreadful down in the mouth, and lonesome like-and I don't wonder, with that sister o' his'n actin' so. I'll jist send Betsy to ask him in here; I don't see anything onproper in it, as he's sort o' rela. ted to Carrie now, by law, and soon'll be nearer." Betsy was dispatched on her errand, and Edward, nothing loath, joined the party in the bedroom. "Oh, lawful sakes!"- continued Mrs. Percival, "s how dark its gittin', to be sure. This is a dreadful *   " .     SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     281 spell o' weather, and I pity any poor creetur that's obleeged to be out in it. We'll have to light a cafi- dle soon, if it gits much darker." "The wind has changed;" said Edward; "we are going to wind up with a ' sou-wester,' I am afraid; although we may not feel it here so much, it will be worse for those on the lake." "Don't, dear Edward ;" said Carrie, in a low tone; "don't say anything to increase their fears on Mr. Percival's account You know he left on last night's boat." "I greatly fear," said he, "there are some who left on it, ill prepared to meet the change which I believe was in store for them. A boat must bear a charmed life, to have weathered last night's storm." "Have- you serious fears as regards the result?" asked Carrie. "I not only have fears," he replied gloomily, "but I have premonitions. Nay," he added, while a dark frown gathered on his brow; "I feel convinced that a judgment will overtake them, a just punishment for their wretched misconduct-and I should say amen to it." "Edward!" said Carrie, gently, drawing nearer 'to him, and fixing her mild eyes on his agitated coun- tenance; " remember His example who tempered justice with mercy-who checked the multitude in their wrath against the erring. We are all human, and as such, prone to weakness. We should not be self-constituted judges of each other. We may err in other respects, as much as they have done in this. Leave it to Him- 13*     282     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR) 'Who made the heart, and He alone, !+^ it  Decidedly can try us; He knows each chord, its various tone- Each spring, its various bias. Then at the balance let's be mute, We never can adjust it; What's done, we partly may compute, But know not what's resisted. " He turned a softened look on her; her mild elo- quence had touched the rock in his bosom, and the living waters gushed forth. "God bless you, my gentle monitor!" said he, I feel the truth of what you have uttered. It is well that man is not to be our judge. That He who took upon himself human nature, and knows its tempta- tions, knows also how weak in some is the power of resistance, and thus regards with compassion His children who have wandered from  His flock-like the good shepherd, who is more concerned for the one stray sheep than the ninety-nine that are safe in the fold." They sat apart, conversing in under tones, while the rest of the party gathered around the window to watch the progress of the storm. The mad waves leaped in wild glee; the heavy clouds drooped their ragged edges, so as almost to meet and mingle with the spray flung from   old Neptune's chariot, as riding the stormy waves, his seahorses plunging and rearing, while the attendant seanymphs sported round the car, and the tritons sounded their shell trumpets, that echoed with a .   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     283 deafening roar through the caverns below, he called upon the "Spirits from the vasty deep" to join in the revel, and lend their aid in asserting the majesty of his empie! "Oh! lawful sakes; I think it's worse than it was last night! Good grachus, girls, did you feel how that ar puff shook the house? It's a oncomjnon hard blow, and no mistake." "Mother," said Ella, speaking low, "don't you think some one had better go and let the end window down in that room? since the wind has changed it will certainly rain in there." "Lawful sakes! yes, child; come along with me, Katy, it's kind o' lonesome like to go by one's self; not that I'm afeard o' the poor old creetur, but then I'd rather have a little company." They stepped out on the gallery, the wind making balloons of their dresses, and almost taking their breaths away. Battling with it as well as they could, they suc- ceeded in reaching the room where lay the shrouded form, but on opening the door a not- very pleasant effluvium greeted them. "Oh, for the land sake!" said Mrs. Percival, ap- plying her hand to her olfactories-"Fugh! 'tain't a very agreeable parfume! I would'nt a thought he'd a smelt so soon; I s'pect this warm, rainy weather's the reason. I wish to mercies we had some o' them t     -284    CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, ar furmigatin castiles to burn in this ere room; we wont be able to breathe in here if the winder's put down." How are they going to dispose of the corpse?" asked Katy. "Why, he's to be took to the city, and shipped to Boston, to be buried in Mount Auburn Cementury, along side o' his first wife, by his own pertikeler re- quest; so Mr. Edward Loring says." "He will have to be put in a metallic coffin then?" said Katy. "Yes," said Mrs. Percival; "they'll send either to Mobile or New-Orleans for one just as soon as either boat gits here; depends upon which one gits in first." C In the meanwhile will he have to remain as he is?" "Oh! lawful sakes alive, no; that'll never do. It'll have to be seen to. Supposin' we go ask Mr. Edward?" Edward was consulted, and replied, that a rough coffin was about being constructed to put the re- mains in until the arrival of a proper depository. They whiled away the time, discoursing on the chances for and against the boat's safety; and the dreary day rolled on without bringing any news to relieve their anxiety, the supposition being that the New-Orleans boat had either not- braved the storm, and remained in port, or had been compelled to lie to somewhere during its severity, and they must re-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     285 strain their impatience until the elements were tired out, and suffered human affairs to return to their usual routine. Completely wearied out, they all sought their pil- lows early, and soon naught was heard but the sighing of the gale and the dash of the billow. r   .     ,^ t o :.- -: ' " ' ,' - -* 286     CCARRIE HARRINGTON ; OR CHAPTER XXIX. "Dear lady, change that look of woe! My harp was wont thy grief to cheer.' 'Well, be it as thou wilt; I hear, But cannot stop the bursting tear.' " "ADY OF THE LAKE. ";EDWARD sent you these roses, dear Ella; are they not beautiful?" "Very beautiful! and he is very kind." The voice was languid that issued from the pale lips, and the hand attenuated and wasted that was extended to take the lovely flowers, so emblematic of the recipient in their ephemeral beauty, blushing into existence in the morning's sunshine, drooping and perishing when that sun's rays are concealed beneath the darkening cloud that contains the deadly blast pent up in its bosom, which, bursting, scatters their frail leaves to the dust. It is a cheerful room, with windows opening to the south, in which the invalid reclines-for that she is an invalid, the large chair filled with pillows, and drawn up before the glowing fire (it is now the dawn- ing of the new year) proclaims, while the delicate   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     287 shrunken figure, in its snowy night-dress, and wrapped in a large shawl, reclining therein, scarcely resem- bles the lovely blooming girl whom we, twelve months ago, introduced to the reader under such different auspices. Sorrow has laid its chastening hand heavily upon that young brow since we last saw it, and sickness has prostrated that slender frame, until the vital spark burns feebly in the vase, emitting faint scin- tillations to show that it still lingers, but can be fanned again into a flame only by the most unremit- ting care and vigilance. No rude jarring or boister- ous breath must approach to extinguish the faint gleam which the soft breathings of affection can alone enkindle to a lasting glow. How matters were brought to this pass it now be- hooves us to inform the reader. We left our friends at the hotel, anxiously await- ing news of the fate of the boat. Sad news it was when it came! The gallant steamer, with its rich freightage of human life, fought bravely for a time with the angry elements, but succumbed at last to the mighty pow- ers contending for the mastery, and foundered, a helpless plaything at the mercy of wind and wave. With it went down the tender father, the kind, in- dulgent husband, the generous friend, and good man. And the erring, guilty wife, with her titled com- panion, also found a hiding-place beneath the wave, burying her frailty in its dark bosom.     -s288    CAARRIE HARRINGTON;, OaR "'"    "Make no deep scrutiny Into her mutiny, Rash and undutiful; Past all dishonor, Death has left on her Only the beautiful." There let her rest until the sea gives up its dead, and the secrets of all hearts are laid bare!  On the grief of the bereaved wife and daughter it is needless to expatiate; and Carrie and Katy had a sad duty to perform in administering consolation to their overburdened spirits and anguished hearts. The whole party returned immediately to the city, where, as soon as the remains of the "Hon Robert Nelson" had been properly shipped for their northern tour, Edward summoned together the different par- ties concerned, and, in the capacity of one of the ex- ecutors, proceeded to open the will of this wealthy son of-earth. By it it was found that he had requested all his immense landed estate to be sold, appointing an ex- ecutor for that purpose in Massachusetts; and the proceeds, together with the rest of his wealth, con- sisting of bank stock, family plate, and jewels, to be equally divided between his two grandchildren C Caroline" and "Robert Harrington," his nephew "Horace Nelson," and his wife "Isabelle Nelson," (born "Loring"). In case of the death of either of the parties here named, their share to revert to the others or their heirs.   a*   .  SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     289 So completely was his pride subdued, that he stipu- lated that the old place should be sold, that it might not remain in the family as a monument of the own- er's thirst for worldly honors and distinctions, but that his very name might sink into oblivion and decay. He also made a request that his long-neglected daughter's, and her husband's, remains might be ex- humed, and accompany his own to rest together in the family vault; thus striving to make amends to the inanimate clay for the contumely heaped upon it when endued with life. Carrie, by this unlooked-for event, found herself a wealthy heiress; but did it change her, make her vain, purse-proud, or arrogant? Ah, no! it but placed the means in her power to relieve the needy, comfort the destitute, dry the tears of the sorrowful, and scatter blessings on the winds, which, returning, distilled grateful perfume around her path, in the humble prayers for her happiness- the orphan's thanks, and the widow's blessing for her unostentatious charity, which made itself felt in deeds, not words! Carrie is the bride of a month! Start not, reader, it is a fact! We know it is contrary to all rules to suffer our heroine to slip off some quiet morning, without any display, and only a few dear friends to witness the holy plighting of her heart's deep faith to its liege lord, especially now that she is wealthy, and could make a grand affair of it.     290*     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, But her true heart's ambition lies not in that way. She regards marriage as a sacred obligation, not to be entered into lightly nor frivolously, as worldlings do; thinking more of the expensive veil and bridal wreath than of the head on which they repose, which should be bowed in reverence before the altar; and of the costly silk and lace, the jewels and adorn- ments, than of the heart which they cover, that should be lifted in humble prayer for strength to keep its marriage vow. She felt a great reluctance also to any public dis- play, on account of the recent sad events which had transpired in their midst, and which would render such display indecorous. It is unnecessary to state that her situation in the school was resigned, it being useless to retain it, to the exclusion of some one more needy, although she attended, to her duties, as in honor bound, until her place was supplied. Now did she also have an opportunity of returning to the Percivals, four-fold, the bread they had cast upon the waters many days before. It was found on investigating Mr. Percival's affairs that he was involved to an alarming extent. Too indolent to attend to his own money matters, he had trusted too much to others; and as his agent had loaned his money out at interest without proper securities, the consequence was, a panic in the money market sunk at one fell swoop the accumulated wealth of years of toil and hard labor; leaving the   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     291 poor old lady, in her declining years, penniless, while her daughter's health seemed failing fast, not only from the troubles which assailed them openly, but from some secret cause which seemed to be preying on her spirits, and undermining her naturally deli- cate constitution. She sank into a low, nervous fever, from which we find her just recovering under Carrie's hospitable roof, which formerly was their own home, Carrie having purchased it when their worldly effects were seized upon, and sold by rapaious creditors to satisfy their claims. It is in her own boudoir that wo find Ella seated, for she is re-installed mistress of it and its contents, and her mother occupies her own old chamber, with Betsy to attend on her-the last-named personage being a deed of gift from Carrie, on her wedding- day, to her " more than mother," as she styled Mrs. Percival. And now that we have got back to the starting- point, dear reader, we will continue the conversation between Carrie and Ella, which we interrupted, to give these explanations. "I wish the weather would moderate," said Carrie, "so that you could ride out; I think it would do you good." Ella shook her head slightly, gazing at the fire, while the tears sprang to her beautiful eyes, but re- mained there unshed. "Ella," said Carrie, sitting down by her, and     292     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, taking one of her transparent little hands within her own,. and caressing it as if it were an infant's, "do you feel well enough to-day to talk to me a little? I want to ask you one or two questions; not from ob- trusive curiosity, or a wish to pry into your private affairs; but from a conviction that what I seek to know, will result in benefit to yourself. Say, dar- ling, will you submit to my catechising?" "Certainly, dear Carrie;"' said Ella, faintly, and pressing her hand as she spoke; " you have a right to question me as you please." "But it is not to enforce that right that I am here. It shall be perfectly optional with yourself, whether you answer my questions or not. You understand me now, perfectly?" "Yes." "Well then, lean your little head upon my shoul- der, while I act the part of inspector-general into the state affairs, and see if I don't prove a better physi- cian in calling the roses to your pale cheek than you have had yet. Or rather, I ought to term myself 'father confessor,' as I am about-to relieve your mind of what I know is preying on it all the deeper from being unshared. Confess then, daughter, that far down in the shadiest nook of your little heart, un- seen by every mortal eye, save yours and mine (yes, I -will give myself credit for penetration, although you may deny the 'soft impeachment'), there lies enshrined a deity, such as maidens often bow the knee to, in the shape of a handsome young man,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     293 with dark eloquent eyes, and ebon locks, whose where- abouts we are all most anxious to ascertain, but which is only known to that same loving little heart, which locks up its cherished secret as the miser does his treasure; and like all such hoarded wealth, it wears upon the owner's health and spirits until life itself may pay the forfeit of the constant watch required, lest in some unlucky moment it may betray the spot to eager, expectant eyes." Carrie!" "Oh, never mind, darling! you may nestle your face completely in my bosom, I wont look at you. But don't tremble so, just make up your mind and say, 'Yes, Carrie, I will own you have spoken the truth. I do know where your cousin Horace is,' and we will send for him post haste." "Oh, Carrie! I cannot, I cannot-I have given my solemn promise!" "A promise which circumstances compel you to break, dearest! His uncle's death calls for his pre- sence as joint heir, and I am sure could he see you fading slowly day by day, pining for his return, the telegraph would scarcely serve his impatience as a means of flying to your side. Only give me his ad- dress, and I promise you absolution for the sin of be- traying confidence." "Dear Carrie," said Ella, now sobbing unrestrain- edly, while her friend encircled her in a gentle em- brace, "I cannot give you what I do not possess. You have guessed my secret, and now I will unbosom myself, and tell you all I know."     SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     295 you for a long time. I think I might almost ventur to leave you, and go and spend that. day with old Mrs. Selby that I've promised so long." "Yes, dear madam," said Carrie, answering for her friend, "you can go with impunity. I have been prescribing for Nellie, and with magical effect you see. After she has taken one or two small doses, systematically delivered, and a certain infalliple compound which we intend sending to a distant land for, arrives, there will be no longer cause for uneasi- ness concerning her." "Lawful sakes! what is i)?" Ella's paleness had entirely vanished during Car- rie's speech, and given way to one of the rosy suffu- sions of long, long ago. "Oh! it is only a little pink powder, which some- times resembles ipecacuanha in its effects on the by- standers, but is very palatable to the taker," said Carrie, laughing immoderately, which business Ella, in spite of herself, had at last to join her in. The old lady stood looking perfectly mystified from one to the other. "Well, for the land sake!" said she at last, " what- ever it may be, the thought of it has certainly done her good already. I hav'n't heard her laugh like that since-since--" and here her feelings choked her, as she remembered the unfortunate occurrence which had smothered the laugh in both of their breasts. "Since the last time,' said Carrie, catching up the word. And laying her hand kindly on Mrs. Per- cival's shoulder, she added:       296    . CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, ' Now, dear madam, don't make any melancholy allusions: we all must submit to the will of Provi- denee, and the Lord lovdth a cheerful giver. Put on your thiniand make that promised visit, and I warrant when you return you will find Nellie so much improved that you will appoint me forthwith physician in general to the household, and," she added in an under-tone to Ella, " minister plenipo- tentiary from the court of Cupid." "Well, well," said the poor old lady, dashing away the starting tear, "I s'pose it must be as you say; 'what can't be cured must be endured,' no matter how much it goes agin the conscience. I reckon I might as well go, and I believe I'll take tiem ar oranges up to the poor old soul." "And this pretty rose-bud to Willie, from me, with a kiss," said Ella. "Well, good-by, my dears; take good care o' yourselves till I git back, which wont be much afore night." "And now darling," said Carrie, as the door closed after Mrs. Percival, "I am going to dispatch Betsy to the office with a note for Edward. I do not mean to let the grass grow under my feet until this affair is satisfactorily arranged. Delays are dangerous in love as well as in law." Betsy was sent, and returned with the gentleman in due season. After listening to the circumstantial account de- tailed by Carrie, he deliberated awhile, and then re- marked:   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    297 "Well, ladies, I have heard the evidence, and now will briefly sum up the case.. A young gentleman,  desperately enamored of a fair maiden, and discour- aged by a cruel guardian from prosecuting his suit, resolves, in a fit of heroics, to throw away the bird in the hand for the one in the bush, in the pursuit of which he loses sight of the maiden, who is pining her life away awaiting his return. Now this being a clear view of the case, it. must be acted on forth- with, yet in a guarded manner. It wont do to in- form this proud boy that a fortune awaits his accept- ance, for that would be no temptation to lure him back. The surest way will be to insert an adver ise- ment in each separate city in California that can boast of a newspaper, to this effect: "' If this should meet the eye of Horace Nelson, or any one advised of his present place of residence, they will confer a favor by communicating imme- diately with Edward Loring, No. -,    Place, New-Orleans. Or if said Horace Nelson will call on or address James Browning, Esq., San Francis- co, he will hear of matters which it greatly concerns him to know.' "Now I will write immediately to my friend Browning as much of the affair as it is necessary for him to know, and you, ladies, perhaps can between you indite an epistle to the runaway, containing in- disputable reasons for his immediate return, which letter I will enclose with the advertisement to my friend, and dispatch by to-morrow's steamer, and no " k  .          -      298     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, doubt our united efforts will, in due season, meet an adequate reward." This arrangement met with approval from his fair coadjutors, whom he left to their agreeable task of calling the wanderer home, instructing them to send the letter to him as soon as concluded, and he would arrange everything before dinner-time. They hesitated a few moments as to who should be the correspondent on the occasion, and then the decision pointed to Carrie as the proper person, and, pen in hand, she wrote as follows: "DEAR COUSIN HORACE: "You will not be surprised at my addressing you as such, for I presume you have received from my husband's friend, Mr. Browning, the particulars of the strange events that have taken place since you so unceremoniously bade adieu to our goodly city, which gives me the privilege of relationship, and of which I avail myself at the present time. "My object in writing to you, independently of kindly feelings of regard, is to urge your immediate return. Could you sit, as I do now, and look on the pale ruin that was once a blooming little maiden, ere your whispered breathings withered the roses on her cheeks, no feelings of false pride would prevent your accepting the good fortune fate has laid at your feet. "Oh! delay not a moment, after the receipt of this in flying-not exactly on the wings of the wind- but as fast as steam can transport you to her side,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     299 and join us in our efforts to restore the light of health and happiness to her clouded brow. Your presence is the only panacea required to work the happy change, and will be hailed with unfeigned joy by your newly-found relatives, as well as by the being of your heart's adoration, who joins her earnest en- treaties with mine for your immediate return. "Your cousin, "CARRIE LORING. ' New- Orleans, Jan. 4th, 18-." "There!" said Carrie, sealing her letter triumph- antly, and delivering it to Betsy, with the charge to run every step of the way, and place it in Mr. Ed- ward's hands, " if that don't bring him I lose my / faith in mankind henceforth." "Ah! but," said Ella, shuddering, "he may not be living." "' Tut-tut-no such dismal fancies will I suffer you to indulge in. I have an intuition that all will yet be well. And now, darling, you have sat up long enough, and have had rather an exciting morn- ing of it; you must not fatigue yourself. Lie down a little while, and should you sleep your dreams will all be couleur de rose, I know. Drawing a couch up before the fire, she assisted Ella to it, and, spreading her shawl carefully over her, left her to a few minutes repose.     300     CARRIE HARINGTON; OR, 'CHAPTER XXX. "Breathes there a man with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said, 'This is my own, my native land!' Whose heart hath ne'er within him burned, As home his footsteps he hath turned From wandering on a foreign strand?" SIR W. SCOTT. IT was the early gray dawn of a foggy morning. I wont attempt a description of the fog, as it is a heavy subject that "Dickens" has immortalized; and my feeble pen is paralysed beside his higher powers. But all who have ever experienced a New- Orleans fog, and have crept hone after a night of dissipa- tion to an early pillow, will have some small ideas concerning the state of affairs. The slippy, sticky sidewalks, where, if you are unfortunate enough to step upon a loose flag, the humid soil in which it is embedded, resents the insult expeditiously, present- ing its muddy card, to the detriment of snov y hose and unexceptionable patent leathers; the expiring street lamps feebly striving to render " darkness visi- ble," as their dim rays struggle through the damp glass, with an abortive effort at illumination-like a dull orator trying to explain to an audience a knotty   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     301 point, which he renders more ambiguous by his at- tempts at eldfidation, and then is astonished that they can't see through it; the reeking door-knob that sticks to your fingers as you apply the night- key; and the wet, disagreeable-feeling banisters that you grope for, as you ascend the stairs on tip-toe,-all prove the immortal novelist a complete delineator and observer, whenlhe said " the fog was everywhere." It clung to Mrs. Percival's cloak, and stood in large beads on Betsy's cocoanut, as attended by that " maid of all work" the good lady made the best of her way homeward, after remaining all night by old Mrs. Sel- by's death-bed, and performing for her inanimate clay the offices which proclaim "the last of earth." She found her very ill on the day that she made. the promised visit which we mentioned in our last chapter, and which was a week ago; since that time Carrie and she have divided their time with Katy, in waiting on her, and adding kind attentions to the substantial comforts with which the former surround- ed her; endeavoring to render her transit as peace- ful and painless as it was in the power of mortals to effect. The sun set for the last time to her on earth, to usher in the glorious morrow of eternity; when the night of death passing away, cherubim and seraphim proclaim to the emancipated soul the dawning of the endless day that shines from the hill-tops of the great "Hereafter." Mrs.-Peroival has been sitting up for the last two     :302    CARURIE HARRINGTON; OR, nights, and now that her watch was ended, she was seeking her home thus early, to take the repose that she needed. She had left several kind nei hbors with Katy, and promised to send Carrie by daylht; and now we find her picking herjy carefully along, slipping oc- casionally on the shAshy stones, and giving vent to her opinions in her own peculiar manner. "Lawful sakes alive! if this ere mud ain't equal to soft soap; it's most the slipperiest thing I ever seen. If I ain't keerful I shall be landed flat on my back in one o' these ere deep gutters. These back streets ain't the safest places in the world for a body to be pokin' along in, in one o' these ere fogs that you could almost cut with a knife, it's so thick. Oh, for the land sake! good Lord protect us!" she exclaim- ed, as a large dog, in pursuit of a mammoth speci- men of the rat species, rushed out of an alley way, and steered straight between the astonished lady's pedal extremities, and gave her an extempore ride backwards a few places, free of charge. O my gor a mighty! ole missus, where in de worl' is you goin'?" exclaimed Betsy, jumping out of the way, and then sinking on a door-step, con- vulsed with laughter. "Stop your sniggerin', you jackanapes! I might a had my back broke," said she, stamping herself free of her unlooked-for propeller, who, by way of revenge for the insult, gave a little growling bark, and shook her skirts between his clenched teeth.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     UJO Getting a pretty smart blow from the lady's um- brella, he betook himself howling off a short distance, then halting, and facing about, evaporated his indig- nation in a loud bark. "Git out, you good-for-nothin' varmint," said she, shaking her umbrella at him, which ofly inflamed him the more; and she prepared to pursue her way, leaving the field to her adversary, and breaking into a universal anathema against the whole canine race and their keepers, as she walked along. "I wonder what on airth people keep dogs for! I think it oughter be a State prison offence, or come under the lunatic act. Good-for-nothin' nuisances! Barkin' all night at the moon, and wakin' all the babies in the neighborhood jist as their tired mothers has hushed 'em to sleep for the twentieth time, be- sides skeerin' unsuspectin' human bein's almost out o' their lives as they're walkin' quietly along, by rushin' at some fence, and almost tarin' down the planks with their furius barkin'; but jist raise a stick at 'em, and they're nowhere, and will run from a robber like he was mortal pison. Well, here we are, home at last, and mighty tired I am too." Ringing for admittance, she soon exchanged the disagreeable atmosphere without for the more com- fortable one of her own chamber, where Betsy lighted a fire to dispel the dampness, and her mistress pre- pared to seek her couch, after dispatching the former to Carrie with the information of what had taken place within the last few hours.     304     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, The funeral was over. And now Carrie insisted that Katy should return and take up her residence with them, at least until something better offered. We will use her own words on the occasion-they proved conclusive in over-ruling Katy's scruples, and may please the reader better than ours. "What will you do here, dear Katy?" said she. "You will be entirely alone, with the exception of Willie, and who will you leave him with when you go to school?" "The temptations that you hold out to me are very great," said Katy, wiping away her tears; I should much prefer being with you all, but cannot consent, unless you will agree to let me pay my board. Now that I have but myself and Willie to take care of, my salary is amply sufficient for that purpoe, and also to supply all my wants." Carrie hesitated a moment, and then replied: I understand your feelings perfectly, Katy, and will accept your proposition, not from avariciousness, but because I know it will make you feel independent, and, as a consequence, more comfortable. Besides, I have several poor families whom your board money will keep in shoes for the little ones, and thus a double purpose will be gained." So it was arranged. Katy disposed of all her household articles, and took up her abode with the dear friends who formed the only ties now, with the exception of her child, to link her to the great human family.   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEA/S.     305 A snug little party they made on the dark and rainy evening of Katy's removal to her new home. The inclemency without served to render more striking, by contrast, the genial warmth and comfort within, as, grouped around the glowing fire in the back parlor, they sat conversing by its gleams, pre- vious to the lighting of the lamps for the night. The flame, as it shot up and flickered through the apartment, brought into relief or threw into shadow the various countenances circled around, now light- ing up the silver streaks that were beginning to show themselves through Mrs. Percival's dark locks, and anon gleaming athwart Carrie's sunny curls, as, bending low, she whispered little childish nothings into Willie's ear, as he sat on Edward's lap eagerly examining the mechanism of the open watch which the latter held in his hand, explaining its mysteries to his wondering auditor. Ella's rocking-chair was placed where the shadow, flung from the mantel-piece, rested upon it, and its occupant, who was now fast improving in health and spirits, under the influence of Hope, was engaged in a conversation with Katy, who, seated on a low otto- man beside her, with her finger inserted between the pages of a book she had been reading aloud, until the waning light forbade its continuance, replied to her remarks, and an animated criticism was carried on between the two, regarding the work in question. Thus were the party disposed, when the rttling of wheels, with their sudden stoppage in the icinity "*      306      CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, of the house, and a loud ring at the door-bell, fore-  shadowed a visitor. Expectation sat upon the faces of all, and every eye turned to the door, as it was thrown open to announce the new-comer-who, not waiting for such a ceremony to be performed, pushed aside the astonished servant, and-stood in their midst-a manly, handsome fellow, with a glowing countenance, and inquiring eye that scanned the group, until resting on Carrie's upturned face, he extended his arms, and in an instant she was clasped to his honest heart while "dear, dear brother!" and "darling Carrie!" revealed to the listeners the whole secret. "Lawful sakes alive!" said good Mrs. Percival, in her honest joy, going up to him, and giving him a hug, also; "is it you, my dear boy? God bless your good-lookin' face! I'm real glad to see it agin." "And I, dear madam, hail yours-as the ocean- tossed mariner does the friendly light that gleams o'er the wave, revealing his home near by;" said Robert, giving her a good, hearty sailor's kiss. ' Oh, for the land sake!" said the gratified old lady; " do you intend passin' it round? I s'pect these young folks 'ill be jealous if you don't." "Most willingly!" said he, gallantly; and neither Katy nor Ella refused his manly salute, so grace- fully offered. Take care, Katy; you were caught by a kiss at first sight, once before in your life! Edward was now introduced by Carrie, as " her   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    307 husband," and blushingly did she enjoy her brother's astonishment at the announcement. "Why, Carrie, what does all this mean?" said he, after returning Edward's cordial grasp. "I don't understand it at all!" "  My good lady," said he, turning to Mrs. Percival, "pray give an account of your stewardship. I left this little craft safely moored in your harbor, expect- ing the anchorage would last until my return; but I find her under sailing orders, in convoy of a gal. lant barque, to whom I am afraid I shall have to lower my flag." "A breeze sprang up from Cupid's point," said Katy, answering for Mrs. Percival, and giving Carrie and Edward a -roguish look, " and wafted the little craft to the port of Hymen; leaving this good lady very much in the plight of a heavy 'man-of-war,' when some clipper-built barque takes the wind of her-sailing past like a seabird on the wing." "A very nautical exposition of the state of affairs ;" said Robert, regarding her more attentively than he had yet done; and struck by the happy, good-natured expression that formed the chief beauty of her coun- tenance ; the result of his inspection was a determi- nation to become better acquainted with her. "And your husband, dear madam;" said he again, turning to Mrs. Percival; "how and where is he?" A sudden start, and quiver of the lip from Ella- a glance at her black dress from the old lady, and     308     CARRIE ARRINGTON; OR, the instant gravity of the whole party, were sufficient answer. "Oh, forgive me," said Robert, inexpressibly shocked; ' pardon me, if I have struck upon a chord that vibrates painfully. One year has made many changes, I perceive. But seeing you here, ill your own house, dear madam, and not knowing that any- thing had gone amiss, it was but natural I should fall into the unhappy error I have committed." " "Yes, more than one error ;" said the poor old lady, pressing his hand to re-assure him; "this house is no longer ours. The tables is turned; and instead o' my takin' care o' that little sister o' your'n, she's doin' the like by me now." Here her feelings over- powered her, and she applied her handkerchief to her fast-filling eyes. Carrie arose to put an end to the painful scene, and rang for lights, saying: "We have much to tell you, dear brother, that will astonish you, but will await a fitting opportunity to do so. In the meantime you must account for your sudden appearance, and, like 'Sinbad,' tell us of your last voyage; but we- promise not to expect from you the purse of gold that Sinbad received in his capacity of auditor-a tax which I have always thought if it were levied upon all descriptive. travelers would put a stop to many a long-winded tale of hair- breadth escapes and imaginary dangers, surmounted by these self-renowned heroes of their own exploits." Acting upon your suggestion," said her brother,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    309 with a good-natured smile, "I will try to be as brief as possible, and not weary you with an account of the perils of the deep,' which I have happily con- quered, but simply state that my voyage has been an unusually prosperous one, encountering very little rough weather, except something of a squall off the Bermudas, and getting back to port again a month or six weeks sooner than I expected. 'So now my story's done,' as Mother Goose says. Give me credit for abridging it most systematically." "'Honor to whom honor is due,'" said his sister, laughing; "and now we will go to tea, and when that important process is gotten through with, I will deliver you over to the custody of your brother-in- law, who will edify you as regards the past. You will stay with us to-night?" "No, I must be aboard by ten o'clock." "Well, we must submit I suppose, for a little while, as this no doubt will prove to be 'Sinbad's last voyage.'"     t 1  310-  CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, CHAPTER XXXI "Still wouldst thou speak then hear the truth: ---- there is a noble youth-- If yet he is!-exposed for me And mine to dread extremity. Thou hast the secret of my heart, Forgive, be generous, and depart." SIR W. SCOTT. THE expiring lamp in the library warned the newly. made brothers of the time that had stolen away while they sat conversing on the "passing strange" events that had brought matters to their present crisis. Robert had been sitting for some time with his fingers run through his dark locks, and his eyes fixed with a steadfast gaze upon the glowing coal in the grate, as if, child-like, he was picturing therein fairy castles, and peopling them with the beings of his own imaginings. Not quite so ethereal, however, were the figures that moved over his nental kaleidoscope-assuming tangibility, as the prospect of realising some of his dreams and aspirations came nearer than even Hope had bid him look for, a few brief hours ago. Yes, he'now   felt he had it in his power to buy   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    3" "golden opinions from all sorts of men;" ay, and women too. It would be no longer presumption in him to lay his heart-now that a fortune accompa-, nied it-at the feet of the gentle girl whose image had followed him through the many changes of place and circumstance, that his roving life subjected him to; since the day when, like an angel of mercy, she had sought his home of sorrow, and with loving smiles and gentle words, had soothed the anguished spirits of the grief-stricken and helpless. He almost rejoiced at the change in her own con- dition, which would give him the sweet privilege of placing her again in the position she was so well cal- culated to adorn. Oh, what joy would be-his, to call back the sun- shine and roses to her sad, pale face, and win her, by fond attentions and gentle care, to lay her sorrows upon his bosom, and repose in peace and security upon his manly love and protection! Dream on, fond youth, while yet you may; an ob- stacle you little suspect lies in the way of the fulfill- ment of your tender wishes. "I think we had better adjourn to the parlor," said Edward, " as our light has taken French leave." Robert started. "Up in cloud-land?" said Edward, with a quiet smile. "What time is it?" asked Robert; "I must be back to my ship. I expect I have already infringed upon my leave of absence."     U'312 ,CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, "It is past eleven ; replied Edward, looking at his watch; " you had better remain here to-night. I presume, in your altered circumstances, you will not continue your present avocation; so punctuality is not of so much consequence in your case." "While I do retain it," said Robert impressively, "I shall faithfully discharge its duties. I hold my- self responsible, until I have resigned my office." "You are right," said Edward, pausing a moment to regard him with a look of increased respect; " you are right, and I was wrong for one moment to sup- pose that adventitious circumstances should absolve a man from faithfully fulfilling his engagements. I see you are tinged with Carrie's matter-of fact ideas of right and wrong; and sturdily will she contend for her opinions, if disagreed with." "To our dear mother," said Robert, reverentially, are we indebted for inculcating the principles of justice, which compel us 'to render unto Cesar the things which are Cbesar's,' and never let self step between us and our duty. But I am neglecting mine by standing here. Good night, my dear sir; and believe a plain, straightforward sailor, when he tells you that he rejoices to find his beloved sister under such good pilotage." A gratified flush rose to Edward's brow, as he grasped the hand extended to him in good faith: and in after years, when he shone the "bright particular star" in the galaxy of the forensic firmament, when eloquent eyes flashed back approval of his senti-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     313 ments-and the learned and noble of the land ap- plauled, ,never did he experience more heart-felt emotions of pride, than when his ears drank in the simple praise that fell from the uncorrupted lips before him! "Make my adieus to the ladies," said Robert, "I presume they have retired. I will try to be with you home time to-morrow." "We shall expect you to dine with us?" said Ed- ward, calling after him from the street door. "Ay, ay," came back through the darkness. "And this is your final answer, Miss Percival?" "Call me Ella, dear Robert, you see I am not formal with you. I do not wish to lose your friend- ship, if I cannot give you my love." "And why can you not? Oh! if yu knew the hours that I have paced the lonely deck, thinking of you, worshiping you from afar, while the echoing winds brought back my sighs, and the long dark night rolled away as I told the moments o'er that kept me from your side! Not that I then presumed to lift my thoughts to you, save as an angel of light that might suffer me to gaze upon her wings as she unfurled them in an atmosphere I never dreamed of soaring in. But now that fortune has placed it in my power to raise to my lips the cup I deemed in- accessible-oh! dash it not away, just as the intoxi- cating draught has come within my reach. I will     8314     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, await your time. Put me upon any probatory course you please: but crush me not by telling me that I am unlovable."  "Nay, nay, dear Robert, I do not say that. To many your manly love would be a priceless treasure. And such you yet will find: hearts are sometimes caught in the rebound, and this, I predict, will be your case. Don't shake your head, and look so woe- begone; I feel I am uttering an, at present, unap- preciated truth." "Do not mock me, Ella, by light words, when my heart is on the rack." "No, Robert," said she gravely, and laying her hand upon his, "I will not; and, as a proof of my sincerity aud friendly feelings, I will repose in your honor, and entrust you with my confidence; well convinced, from a knowledge of your disposition, that when you see how utterly impossible it is for me to listen to your suit, you will at once-lay aside the character of lover, and merge it into that of friend." She then, with some little maidenly hesitation, and in a low, trembling tone, '.told her love" for the absent one, far from the home of his childhoold-per- haps sick, pining, and toiling for her; could she prove a renegade, a faithless, cold-hearted trifler? "Ah, no!" were her concluding words, "I know that he is true to me, whatever may be his fate; and that our prayers will meet, mingling like incense, and go upward to the throne of the Searcher of all Hearts. Thus you see, dear Robert, how impossible   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    315 it is for me to bestow on you that which it is no long- er in my power to give. Do I plead for your friend- ship in vain?" "No! on my life, no!" said he, pressing the little hand that had lain all this while confidingly in his own. , It is astonishing how quickly it disenchants a man to let him find out positively that he is not loved- that another occupies the 'vantage ground he fondly hoped to fill. Our Robert was but a mortal, and strange to re- late, a reasonable one! He saw at once,that he would make himself ridiculous and obnoxious in urging the matter any farther; and being young, his sympathies were readily enlisted for those whom cruel destiny had thus rudely forced asunder. Ella had indeed secured a firm friend and adviser in the person of her rejected lover; and it is not every little maiden that is thus fortunate. He even carried matters so far as to propose start- ing himself to California, to drum up the runaway; but was prevented by Edward, who said nothing could be possibly gained by such proceedings, as the only effectual means had been resorted to, and now they must be contented to wait the issue of events. In due course of time the .returning mail brought a letter from nMr. Browning, stating-but we will suffer you to read for yourself, reader. *       I         fi S316    CARRIE HACRINGTON; OR, "EDWARD LORING, ESQ.: "My dear Friend:-Your letter of the 4th inst: reached its destination in safety; and agreeably to your instructions I inserted the advertisement, and  met with the unlooked-for result of receiving an im- mediate call from a young man who was well posted as regards your young relative's affairs. "From this source I learned that Mr. Nelson, un- der an assumed name (which. my informer refused to make known, saying his honor was pledged,) had left California for Australia-not meeting with the success here he had anticipated, he had gone with a party of young men to that land of promise. That he (nmy informer) possessed his address, and the means of communicating with him; and any pack- ages entrusted to him would meet with prompt at-  tention, and, I might be sure, safe delivery to the person they were designed for. Farther than this, he was not at liberty to make known his friend's af- fairs, but would give his own name, ' William Hast- ings'; that he was the person to whom Mr. Nelson had hastened immediately on his arrival, as he was an old school-mate. They had worked together in the mines, and he expected soon to follow him to the distant land to which he had gone. "I thought I could not do better than to entrust him with the letter enclosed in mine for your cousin; and also write to that personage the particulars you had made known to me. I have no doubt they will reach their destination in safety. In the mean-   SUENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    317 time, if there is anything further that I can do-for you in the matter, command me. "Believe me, with esteem, your friend, "JAS. BROWNING. "San Francisco, Feb. 7th, 18-." "There," said Edward, tossing the letter to Ella, as they were taking their seats at the dinner table, the day he received it, "I expect that will be as much dinner as you will want' to-day! Read it aloud for the benefit of the company-wont you? Come back here," said he, as Ella, looking at the superscription, and-finding it post-marked ' California,' disappeared from the room, followed rapidly by Car- rie; who, ascertaining the cause of her abrupt re- treat, hastened after her to hear tidings of the wan- derer, leaving the omer two ladies to do the honors to Edward and Robert, who was now an inmate of the family. "A bad move, that," said Edward, preparing to carve; "I should not have given them that letter until after dinner, only I was afraid I should walk off with it in my pocket." "Any news?" asked Robert, looking up at Ed- ward, and at the same time, hitching his chair a lit- tle nearer Katy's, on the pretence that the table-leg annoyed him. Yes; I expect we shall have another pair of turtle-doves in our midst one of these days," an- swered Edward, looking slyly out of the corner of p     -318    CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, his eye, over the turkey, and at Katy, who dropped her napkin at the moment, and had to stoop to pick it up, which must account for her face looking so flushed. Robert, too, to show his gallantry, had to reach for the same article; and a not very gentle bump their heads got by the operation. "What a clashing of ideas!" said Katy, who, woman-like, was the first to recover herself, laugh- ing, and rubbing her forehead: " you have increased my organ of 'causality' considerably, Mr. Harring- ton. I should not be surprised if I astonished you all by my learned expositions of cause and effect." "Pray then," said Edward, helping her as he spoke, " can you tell the effect upon a bachelor, of having a pair of roguish eyes, and saucy lips, in close propinquity to him daily; the one looking right at him, the other talking to him;. and the owner of said eyes and lips apparently unconscious of the dangerous weapons she is using?" "I should imagine," said Katy, understanding him perfectly, but determined not to be thrown off her guard again, " that if the unfortunate victim was of a nervous temperament, a severe headache would be the consequence; if of a bilious, a fit of indi- gestion." ' And what-if of a loving?"' "Oh! a coach and six, orange flowers, and white kids; one month of 'my dearing' and honeymoon- ship, and a whole life-time of repentance!" said she,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     319 laughing, while Robert's eye lighted up, as if he thought the first part of the arrangement was not bad to take. -"I think it must have been your bump of 'cautiousness' that got the knock," said Edward. Carrie and Ella now returned, and the conversa- tion turned upon the probability of Horace's return bung deferred to an indefinite period. At all events, hey had heard from him; he was alive-and this assurance was grateful balm to the anxious heart that had lingered in suspense so long. She felt confident that when he received Carrie's letter all would be well; and a thankful prayer swelled from her heart to the Giver of all blessings.                I     '; . ,     .    2O ' - S0 = CARRIE HARRINOTON; OR; CHAPTER XXXII. "In jovial June, How sweet the merry linnet's tune, How blythe the blackbird's lay! The wild buck bells from ferny brake, The coot dives merry on the lake- The saddest heart might pleasure take To see all nature gay." SIR WALTER ISCOTT. OUR readers must excuse us if we take occasional leaps in our narrative, passing over months that have glided on in the quiet interchange of kindly thoughts and feelings among our actors in life's drama. March has blown along with its shrill whistle and piping blast, April has alternately smiled and wept itself away, and May has blushed itself into ex- istence, with its opening buds and   blossoms, and with it- "Comes a wish to be away, Wasting in wood-paths the voluptuous hours." Our friends are planning a northern tour: a fami- ly party, to pursue the journey at their leisure, stop. ping anywhere that inclination may point to, and en- joying the beauties of the route by a daylight inspec-   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      821 tion, instead of tackling on to the tail-end of a loco- motive engine, and trying like. Puck, to "Put a girdle about the earth it .forty minutes." All are going. Carrie's generosity is wholesale, and wont accept of Katy's "' No ;" little Willie is looking feeble and delicate, and the change will do him good; so her scruples are hushed, leave of ab- sence is obtained for her, and one balmy delicious evening early in the " merry month of June," found our novelty seekers on board of one of those palaces afloat, that adorn our Western waters; fully armed and equipped for the journey. The last bell is tolling, the plank is drawn in, and the moorings cast off; and, backing out from the wharf, carefully, so as not to come in collision with the numerous water craft that hedge in our Levee, like an advanced body-guard for the protection of the city, the gallant boat shoots out into the middle of the river, where, swinging gracefully around, as if making a parting salute, she heads up stream, leav- ing the tapering spars of the vessels, and forests of tall chimneys of the steamboats in port, the gothic spires of St. Patrick's and St. Louis' Cathedrals, the lofty dome of the Odd-Fellows' Hall, and snowy walls of the St. Charles, With other prominent points, to form a confused back-ground; while the leafy shores of Carrollton appear, as the setting sun's last rays tinge the tree-tops with their burnished lustre. 15      322   CARRIE HARRINOGTON ; Ot, Our party remained on the hurricane deck, regard- ing the objects of interest that presented themselves, until the wings of night were folded around the -  dimly-fading shores, and "darkness was upon the face of the deep." The bell now rang for supper, and a new phase of life was presented to our travelers, to whom, with the exception of Edward, this up-river trip was a novelty. The table was spread the entire length of the for- ward cabin, and was surrounded by  eager ex- pectants of the masculine gender, who stood with their hands on the chair-backs, around the lower end of the board, awaiting the appearance of the peram- bulating dry goods of the species "mammalia," who, according to steamboat etiquette, must be seated, ere the grab game commences below; then fall to, and spare naught. Look out for number one, is the, order of performance; and quick-witted must he be, and "golden opinions" must he purchase from the attend- ants, who expects to get his share of the good things before him. Edward well understood this manceuvre, and beck- oning one of the white-aproned gentry to him, as the ladies were taking their seats, told him to remember that he wanted him to attend to his party, at the same time crossing his palm with a glittering re- mmider, in the shape of a five dollar gold piece. It is astonishing how the touch of the "almighty dollar" improves a poor memory! There's magic in   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     323 the ring of the metal surely-as potent as the rub- bing of Aladdin's lamp to summon the genius to ful. fill his wishes. Our travelers had no cause of com- plaint in regard to their alimentary requirements. A glance at the company ere we bid them good- night. In no place will an observer have a more ample field of investigation, as to the character and pecu- liarities of the inhabitants of each separate State in the Union, than on board of one of our Mississippi steamboats, at this season of the year, when the tide of immigration sets northward. The migratory flocks of ' bipeds without feathers,' that have made their nests in Southern bowers dur. ing the reign of the frost-king, now strike a bee line for a cooler latitude, when Sirius heralds borth his approaching supremacy, by breathing his simoomian sighs a month or two in advance, and at the signal a general stampede ensues. As the river route is considered the most agreeable, our boats are crowded by a heterogeneous assemblage from different quarters. ' From the vale of Tawasentha, From the valley of Wyoming, From the groves of Tuscaloosa, From the far off Rocky Mountains, From the northern lakes and rivers." Some wending their way homewards, others leaving home and its comforts, to put up with the traveler's perquisites, in the shape of narrow, cramped up     24      C..ttImI ,4RRINATO Of,01tt ' erths, with suspicious looking sheets and pilloW- cases, on steamboats; swinging seats, that threaten i    4he occupant with a tlislocated back at each movet meit, in rail-road cars; cooped up pens, denominated "cabins," on canal boats, where, if a lover of nature venture to peep out, there is the possibility of a cracked cranium by the prospect seeker, who may be oblivious of the close proximity of a low bridge; and hotel fare, where soup forms a -standing dish, manufactured from the scraps of yesterday's plates- consisting of gristly bones, mumbled over by ancient dames, who for want of teeth, have to eschew many dainty morsels; drumsticks, half consumed by juve. nile precocities, who have changed their plates for another course; bits of meat and fowl carcasses-in fact, anything will do for soup, is a hotel maxim; and " where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise;" so soup is taken as a matter of course, and other edibles which it would hardly be safe to guarantee, by our victimised aspirants for fashionable notoriety, who will put up with all these inconveniencies, for the questionable reputation of never passing a sum- mer at home  Our boat contained the usual complement of re- presentatives from different points of the compass. Here, the wealthy Mississippi planter, with his daughter, returning from a trip to the city to pur- chase Spring fashions; the latter-named personages blooming out in Iris-colored garments, bows, and a ithehlws, as the present moment is to them the   SCENES IN SEW-ORLEsAW      325 most propitious for displaying their finery; there, the "live Yankee," with his peculiar physiognomy- which some writer (who ought to be immortalised) describes as "looking as if chasing a dollar ;" keen, shrewd, not easily imposed on, but ready to entrap a " green-horn" at a moment's notice; and beside him, the rough-and-tumble, whole-hearted. Kentuckian, with his "half-horse, half-alligator" air, leading you toesuppose he was a locomotive volcano on the point of eruption, were it not for the honest smile, bespeaking his native generosity, and the benevolent expression, mingling with one of active good-nature, "Like those verdant spots that bloom Around the crater's burning lips," showing the soil to be productive of good, in spite of its unprepossessing exterior. Also, the well-educated, hospitable Virginian; perhaps a little too much inclined to boast of his de- scent, but withal, courteous, affable, and polite; proving to the world, that if "first families" exist anywhere in the Union, it must be in Virginia; for her noble sons and lovely daughters bear the unmis. takable stamp of gentility; and the true lady and gentleman shine out in bold relief from the back- ground of " snobbery," furnished from a higher de- gree of latitude. Many more " ower true" pictures could be drawn; but we do not wish to tire out our readers with por-     Sl? ^'71" "' t , 'C 3; 6 38CABRIU    HABRR(NGTON; OR, traits, of which daguerreotype copies may be met on any route between this and the Canadas; therefore, as we see the stewardess is closing the sliding doors between the cabins for the night, we will wish our travelers bon nuit, and leave them to repose,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS,      327 CHAPTER     XXXIII. She had known-much of sorrow, And I of stirring strife, When Hope's long-pictured morrow First dawned upon our life. We saw-and loved-each other, For mind was linked with mind- And leaning towards each other, How soon our hearts entwined!" MRS. L. F. MORGAN. OUR party reached the goodly city of Louisville in safety, where, changing boats, they arrived in due season at Cincinnati. And now the question arose- which route should they pursue in order to reach Niagara? The most direct way lay by the lakes, to Buffalo; but after putting it to vote, it was decided to go by the way of Wheeling, over the mountains, to Baltimore and Washington, thence to Philadelphia and New-York, and so on to " the Falls," returning by the other way on their homeward route. After remaining a day or two at the "Burnet House" to rest, they bade adieu to the Queen City of the Buckeye State, and embarked on a "stern-wheel- er" on the lovely waters of the Ohio. The boat was crowded, as is usual at this season, and not until it was too late to mend the matter, did our travelers     wit s        . f cAiil . AlftkxlNGTOt; - bi, discover that every state-room was occupied, and they i would-have to content themselves with cots in the cabin to repose on at night, and get along through the day as well as they could. However, they laughed at the trifling contretemps, and amused themselves,' while daylight lasted, with gazing upon the lovely shores-enraptured with the prospect that everywhere presented itself-of pic- turesque scenery, most beautifully diversified, and nowhere more lavishly displayed than upon the ver- dant banks of the clear waters of this noble river. Night came at last, and with it the hour for re- tiring. Out sight-seers had lingered so long on deck, that when they entered the cabin they found that most of the lady passengers-who like themselves were room- less-had secured the lower and middle berths, in the three-story frames that were dignified with the ap- pellation of "cots"--leaving the upper, or "high shelves," as Mrs. Percival called them, vacant for the loiterers.  "Lawful-sakes-alive, girls," said that lady, eying the sleeping arrangements with a dubious expression, 4' how on airth 'ill I ever git up on that ar Jacob's lad- der? Seems to me it's a oncommon dangerous way o contrivin' a place to sleep. This is one o' the pleasures o' trav'lin', I s'pose?" "We will only be on the boat a few days," said Carrie. "I'm sure. I hope so," replied: she, disrobing herself   SCN3S rw r W-ORU1ANS.     829 as she spoke; I don't care to be laid out afore my time. Here, Katy-you're the strongest; give me a lift. Excuse me, ma'am," said she, to the middle occupant of the triple row of shelves-putting her foot very close to that lady's face, and clambering up to the top of the tier: " please don't take offence if I should happen to break through, and come down on you. It's rather a teeterish bed, and I'm none o' the lightest." "Yea, friend," came from beneath theprim-looking night-cap, that showed itself above the coverlet- "verily, thee must be prepared for anything the Lord seeth fit to send on thee." "That's jist it exactly, ma'am. I'm preparin' you, in case He sees fit to send me on you afore mornin'; which I think is more an' likely, if this ere boat keeps a kickin' up behind so, like a restive mare. Well, girls, here I am--laid out, right under the lamp, seems to me." Rip - bump -thump - went something, which shook the boat from stem to stern, and effectually out short the good lady's speech for the moment. "Good Lord!, what on airth's that?" said she, starting' up-when her head coming in contact with the iron frame of the cabin lamp, back she went again, rather unceremoniously :-" well, this is what I call pleasant, very ;" said she, soliloquising-while 'night-capped heads were thrust from state-room doors, and anxious faces peered from all quarters, to know what was the matter. 15*     A- RIt HARRINNGGTOWN, OR, -"Dl^  -on't- be plarmnned, ladies," said the chamber-maid; i :ap Taring at the moment, "the boat has only got ;' upon a sand-bar. There's no damage done; they i& xpeot to get her off in a few minutes." But the few minutes lasted all night-the boat la- - boriig and groaning, scratching and thumping, with ineffectual efforts to free herself from her unpleasant predicament; and the early dawn of the mid-sum- mer's morning broke o'er the scene ere she "backed outo' the scrape, and went on her way rejoicin'," to  -use Mrs. Percival's words. They arrived, without further mishap, at Wheeling;. and now the most beautiful part of their journey lay before them-the road over the mountains! They preferred the stage route, as it afforded greater facilities for observation; and resting a day or tWo to recruit them for loss of sleep on the boat, they took the six o'clock evening coach, so as to get over the first part of the way at night, and have day- light for inspecting the grand views that the more lofty prominences afforded. We are not going to inflict upon you, reader, a long description of mountain scenery. Although wegreatly admire nature in the rough, we never thought the beauty of a prospect enhanced by pen and ink deface- ments. All we can say, is-the mountain prospect was lovely beyond description, as all must feel who have ver viewed it. To those who have not, we would advise an ex- , , ,   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     331 cursion immediately-time and purse being propi-' tious-and when once standing, as we have stood, upon the highest peak of 'the Blue Ridge with the mountain sides forming a vast amphitheatre of tree- tops below, and heaven's arch above, spanning all in with an azure canopy burnished with golden light, you will be ready to exclaim with the Poet:- ,--These are miracles, which man, Caged in the bounds of Europe's pigmy plan, Can scarcely dream of; which his eye must see, To know how beautiful this world can be! "Lawful sakes, where are we now?" said Mrs. Percival, popping her head out of the window of the stage, and addressing the driver. "We are on the tip top of the back-bone of the United States," answered that individual, changing his quid of tobacco from the right to the left side of his mouth. "For the land sake! a oncommon high back-bone it must have!-rather of the camel order." "This is the place," continued the loquacious Je- hu, who, like most of his class, was ifond of large stories, "where, some years ago, a stage tipped over and spilt its passengers, one dark night, when two coaches-were passing each other." "Oh, poor creeters! wasn't that orful? drive keer- ful if you please. Lawful sakes alive! I shouldn't like to be turned upside down a standin' on my head in one o' them ar trees." "Willie," said Katy, "come and sit on my lap--     S X -.t - CARIE 1lRRlt N NRXOt O; OR, 'Harrington must certainly be tired 'of holding you- so long." - "Let the little fellow stay where he is," said Ro- bert, folding the shawl more carefully around his charge, for the mountain air was chilly. 'Ohs yes, mamma, let me sit here," said Willie, nestling his pretty head down on the broad chest of his supporter; "I love Mr. Harrington so much, mamma, don't you?" An irrepressible smile, which deepened into a loud laugh, broke from the party (who had the stage to themselves) at Willie's home question, while his mother's blushing countenance, and the tightening clasp of Robert's arms, who hugged the little fellow up to him unconsciously, told the effect upon the I principal personages concerned in the inquiry.. ;-You hav'nt answered Willie's question, Katy," said Edward, pulling back the edge of her bonnet to look in her face. "Willie talks too much," said she, affecting a pettishness that she did -not feel, to hide her embar- rassmnent. The sensitive child, unused to a reproachful tone from such a quarter, regarded her a moment with a flushing cheek and a fast filling eye; then sliding quickly down from Robert's knee, and burying his little face on her shoulder, sobbed out: "Dear mam- ma, are you angry with Willie? Willie didn't know if he did anything naughty. Mr. Harrington will let u .ailiove him, wont you, Mr. Robert " said he, as,   SCENES IN lEW-ORLEANS.     83: with one little arm tight around his mother's neck, he looked back a moment at his favorite, awaiting his answer. Here was a dilemma! Wilhe had made matters ten times worse, and his mother told him she would put him in the corner of the coach for half an hour if he talked any more; whereupon he sobbed so loud that all pleaded for him, and he was restored to favor on the joint prom. ises of the party as to future good conduct, but his intelligent gray eyes wandered from one face to the other, as if asking of what he had been guilty. Robert took him upon his knee again, and soon called back his smiles, by pointing out to him the wild flowers adorning the road, and the little rills leaping and sparkling down the mountain sides-and losing themselves in the tangled undergrowth-until he forgot his momentary grief. "The tear down childhood's cheek that flows, Is like the dew-drop on the rose; When the next summer breeze comes by And waves the bush, the flower is dry." Not so the hearts he had unconsciously shaken by his innocent questions. Up-heaving, like the waves of ocean, when, after the breeze has died away that called them into ex- istence, the swell continues for a time to agitate their depths; so, long after the rest had forgotten the little     vS^/t'l"'/1 '/ ' ' @ -- * : ' ' ' '  ai? c   ' ^ e-ARIB HARRINTON; Ol .R, ; :inmtteni did the two sit with thoughtful brows,-and :5- . Iby. imaginations, pondering upon the "Shaft at random -ent," ? 'which had found mark in either bosom-and struck home. You could see it in Katy's dark gray eye, 'which gazed upon the prospect out of the stage win- dow, but took in nought; its light being turned in-  ward, deep down in the recesses of her own, most 'secret thoughts, which an unconscious hand had torn from their hiding place, and laid bare to other eyes.  You might know it by the smile which occasion- ally played in the. muscles around Robert's handsome mouth, and lighted up his dark eye with an expres- sion in which mirth and tenderness were strangely blended, which would change to slight embarrass- ?-ment, when he encountered Ella's roguish look, which seemed to say, "the rebound is sooner than you looked for." A silence had fallen upon the party, after the little scene we have recounted, which was broken off at last by Edward exclaiming: "Come, Katy, you have sat there long enough, counting the trees; you will be able to tell the exact number between this and the next stopping-place, if you keep on. I vote that we all get out, and walk up the ascent which I see we are approaching. We :i1ll arrive at the summit as soon as the stage, and it ;':will rest us, as we have been sitting so long in one ^' -^ itt a. -. '            .* ". ' " '.^ '   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     335 The. proposition was agreed to by all except Mrs. Percival, who remarked: "Well, while you're all tirin' yourselves out by restin', as you call it, I'll jist stretch myself out here in the stage, and take a little nap. I s'pect I'll be the best rested o' the partyi by doin' it after my own fashion."  No one gainsaying the arrangement, she spread herself among the shawls, while the rest alighted, and commenced their pedestrian tour; Edward tak- ing little Willie in his arms, and leading the way-- Ella and Carrie having some privacy to communicate, which induced them to walk together, apart from the rest-so that there was nothing left for Katy but to accept of Robert's arm, as a support up the steep path, which wound around the mountain side, at times so abruptly as to shut out the stage and the company from the pair who unconsciously lingered- whether to remark upon the beauty of the prospect or not, we cannot say-but if it was the case, a most enthusiastic admirer of nature must Katy have been, for that admiration to have called forth the dewy lustre that shone in her eye and the deepened carna- tion that glowed upon her cheek, as she came slowly up with Robert-the rest waiting for them on the brow of the acclivity. A softening effect, too, it must have had upon her companion-for a nameless tenderness was in his look and manner, as he assisted Katy into the stage, seating himself beside her; and with an air of pride     #20     oivaue ir uanSaororr; ni"'d :affection he extended his arms for Willie, and ouddled him up, as if he had lately made a safe investment in that small personage, and was con- gratulating himself on the bargain. Carrie was one of those quiet observers, that saw a great deal but said nothing; not so Edward and Ella-they, also, saw how matters stood, and deter- mined to have their own sport. . "Well, girls," said Mrs. Percival, when they were all seated, and the stage went rattling down the op- posite side of the mountain,--" what sort of a time did you have? Did it pay you for gittin' out?" "'I am afraid," said Edward, answering for the rest, and looking quizzically demure at Katy, "there's ,some of us-to use their own words on a former oc- easion-will have a whole lifetime to repent in, for  taking that walk." * "Lawful-sakes-alive!" said the good lady, looking concerned; "have any of you got hurt?" "Desperately wounded!" said Ella, looking grave. While Carrie, good naturedly coming to the res- cue, exclaimed, "It's all nonsense, my dear madam, they are only quizzing you." "Yes," said Katy, recovering her self-possession; "'it is all a piece of nonsense from beginning to end." ": ' Then," said Edward, "you will own yourself : the embodiment of the nonsense?" .i 'Oh! I am not like the melancholy Jacques, '- ^:.abii ous for a motley coat.'    scENS rs itW-ORLtANS.    337 Motley seems to be the order of the day with us at present," said Carrie; "I am glad we are in sight of the tavern; perhaps we will grow sensible after we have had some dinner." The stage stopping, they alighted, and the ladies retired a few moments to the chambers above, to brush the dust from their clothes, and refresh them- selves a little. Carrie- and Katy happening to get in the same apartment, the former looking around, and finding they were alone, went up to the latter, and sliding her arm softly around her waist, said, lovingly: "Am I right, dear Katy; ate you to be my own little sister?" Katy raised her eyes quickly, a moment, and then buried her blushing countenance on her friend's shoulder. "I know it is so, Katy," continued Carrie; "I am sure that Robert explained himself in that walk." "He only gave me a little friendly counsel," said Katy, looking up archly. (' Of what nature?" "He advised me to marry some staid, serious, respectable person!" said she, drawing down her chin. And do you feel inclined to take his advice?" "Why, my dear, he had the impudence to offer himself with his advice, and as I could not well re- fuse both, I made a compromise with my conscience, and accepted him, and declined the advice; for I     BRREB H RING TON; Okt to tld him he did not at all answer to the description of person he had recommended. So the matter is settled. I have promised to make him miserable for life; and he is to take me for better or worse; if he finds me worse than he took me for, that's his oon- cern, you know." So may all your sorrows end, dear Katy," said Carrie, sealing the congratulation with a hearty kiss. :The two now hastily repaired their neglected toilets, and then went into the next chamber, where they found Mrs. Percival busily engaged in cutting patterns frdm the numberless variety of patch-work quilts that ornamented the clean-looking, nicely made feather beds. ' Lawful-sakes, girls! did you ever see anything like these ere quilts? Why, they're handsome as pic- ters!"  "Yes,"' said Carrie, they are very beautiful and ingenious; but you had better come down to dinner; you know they do not give us many minutes to eat it in." "Well; you all go along; I'll be there in no time," said she; and the rest taking her advice, went below, and had but hastily swallowed a few -mouthfuls, when ' tra-ra-ra-ra" went the stage horn, and the party had to scamper to the vehicle, which, like "time and tide," waits for nobody; with what etables they could conveniently carry in their - b:.ds, and some crackers in their pockets for the   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     339 old lady, whose dinner consisted of these, and the patch-work patterns in her possession, which were the cause of her curtailed share of the feast. "Lawful-sakes-alive," said she, puffing from her hasty flight down stairs, and lying back in the coach corner to rest, "I should think a body 'd have indergestion all their lives, after comin' this ere way, and havin' to swaller their vittles whole, for fear o' losin their seats."  "I don't think your dinner will distress you to. day, my dear madam," sad Edward. "I am afraid your digestive organs will cry 'cupboard' before we smell food again." "Yes," said she, "I'm 'feared they will. I thought I'd a jumped out o' my skin when I heard that ar plaguy horn a tootin' afore I'd had my dinner." "Well, it can't be helped now," said he, "we all had rather a short allowance; but we will know better another time." The party now grew thoughtful, and continued so until the shades of night deepened into gloom around them, and drowsiness began to creep over their senses, as the previous night had been passed in the coach without much sleep.              . It was near midnight when our exhausted travel. ers reached Cumberland, and gladly sought their pillows, determining to wait a day and rest ere taking the train to Baltimore,     CHAPTER XXXIV. Oh, why should the girl of my soul be in tears, At a meeting of rapture like this; When the gloom of the past, and the sorrows of years, -Have been paid by a moment of bliss . MooCR.   ATED in one of the private parlors at the Astor House, are two of our travelers on the morning after their arrival in the London of the Western hemi- sphere., A month has been consumed by them    since we parted at the foot of the mountains, in visiting the capitaD and all places of note therein, in brief so- joumings in the "Monumental," and "City of Broth- erly Love," and now the latter end of July finds them quartered, for a time, among the Gothamites, ready to visit all the lions of this far-famed place, and make the most of their short stay,--  Ella oi sitting by one of the front windows, gazing out upon the Babylonian thoroughfare beneath, with its ever varying pictures, like the shifting scenes of a panorama gliding past; while Carrie stands by her chair, twining her friend's soft curlsaround her fin- -outupo th Baylolia thoougfar beeat, wth    saot  Is x trW -OfliAS.   341 . ers, and admiring the glossy rings as they fall from. er hands; and anon, attracted by some renmrk tom Ella, her attention is directed to the street, * where the multitudinous novelties of Broadway form bod for amusement to the stranger's eye. Our fair friends are alone, as the rest have gone ,ut to do a little shopping, and feast their eyes with lome of the sights of this great curiosity-shop.    "Is it not strange, Carrie, that your husband does iot hear again from his friend, Mr. Browning?" said Ella, suddenly,--showing the bent of her thoughts, although her eyes seemed occupied without. "It is strange," said Carrie, sitting down, and  leaning her brow thoughtfully on her hand; "Ed- ward and I were speaking of it this morning. He left directions at home for all letters to be forwarded here, and retained by the clerk until his arrival. He inquired last night, and received a number from New-Orleans, but none from California." "I cannot help feeling uneasy sometimes," said Ella, looking out of the window to hide her blinding tears. "Never despair," said Carrie, taking her hand; "when matters are at the worst they generally begin to mend-at least I have always found it so. Come in," said she, as a knock on the door announced an intruder. One of the servants entered with a card, saying, the gentleman had inquired for Mr. Loring or his lady.     -CARKIE HARRINOTON; OR, * F;Canrie took the card, and read: "Thomas Baxter, : F tiJhanoisco." It was written with a penoil, in-a b:: ; -;i, ,manly hand. /: L  O.-"Where is the gentleman?" she asked. "- ' Waiting in the ladies' parlor, madam." "-Is he a boarder, or simply a visitor?" 4 "He has just arrived by the Southern train, which should have arrived last night, but was delayed by an accident." "Who is it, dear Carrie?" said Ella, reaching for the card.; " let me see; why do you hesitate, and look so strangely?" 4' Shall I go to him?" said Carrie, thinking aloud, -and then turning to the waiter, she said: Ask the the gentleman up." The man bowed and disappeared. - ' Tell me, Carrie, what s the matter? you almost alarm me." ' I believe I am very foolish, darling," replied Carrie, taking her hand; "but I could not help feel- ing a little confused for the moment. The gentleman is from California; there now, you look agitated, and this is what I feared. I hesitated-to invite him up here, for fear that if he had news, you would not be able to command yourself. Perhaps now you had better retire to your room, and I will let you know the object of his visit." "Oh! no, no; I never could endure the suspense; '  let me remain and hear what he says; I will behave myself, never fear," said she, pressing her hand on   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.      343 her heart, to quell its throbbings; while, with a vio- lent effort, she composed her features to somei'ng like calmness, although her face was deadly pale; and taking a seat where the window-drapery partly concealed her from any person entering, she turned her face towards the street, so that the stranger should not perceive its agitation. The door was thrown open by the bowing attend- ant, and a gentlemanly-looking young man entered, removing his traveling cap as he did so, and reveal- ing a complexion well bronzed by exposure, but glow- ing with health and manly beauty, while the well- knit frame bespoke an acquaintance with out-door exercise, and hardy habits of endurance, that had developed the symmetrical limbs, and brought them to their present state of perfection. He advanced, cap in hand, to the middle of the room, where Carrie stood waiting to receive him; and bowing low to her, said in rich, musical tones: "Mrs. Loring, I presume?" Carrie has no time to reply, for a sudden jerk of the window-curtain, a wild cry, and a rush past her of snowy garments, and Ella has fainted on the stranger's bosom. "'Twas his own voice-she could not err- Throughout the breathing world's extent There was but one such voice for her, So kind, so soft, so eloquent!" Not long did her senses remain spell-bound. The breath of Love is a speedy restorative, and when she     ;!   shihe: foumn. -that Carrie had stolen i tiw fr  Ai- z and its only occupant beside e eItieloved being that clasped her to his ,^1 '; , 9 i'and showered the thousand kisses upon j: Meeks, and lips, that had brought her back l existence. "Oh!/ Horace!--dear, dear Horade!" was all she could sai, as tears of joy came to her relief. D"Darlng,' this repays me for all!" was his fond response, as, with his arm encircling her, he led her to a sofa, and seated himself beside her. It was some time ere they could compose themb selves sufficiently, either to give or listen to explana- tions, regarding his sudden appearance. At last, after exhausting most of the terms of en- dearment in the vocabulary, and testifying their joy at re-union, as lovers will, in gt thousand little fool- eries, uninteresting to any but themselves, they sud- denly remembered that other beings existed in the world-and Ella went in search of Carrie. She found her in her own chamber, explaining to Edward, who had just come in, the unexpected turn affairs had taken, and on Ella's appearing, that gen- tieman caught her in his arms, and twirling her *i : round, exclaimed:- "Hurra for our side! No more 'sighing like a furnace' now. You must thank me for falling upon a plan to bring back the truant; but one good turn deserves another-if it had not been for you I never should have caged my shy bird."   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     -345 Ella struggled to release herself, but did not suc- ceed until she had received a congratulatory kiss from her privileged friend, who now, with, Carrie, accom- panied her to the parlor, to welcome the absentee back to his home in their hearts. And now explanations had to be entered into all round. Horace had to be edified on many points that Mr. Browning's letter did not elucidate-and he, in his turn, had to recount the train of circumstances that led to the happy result before them. He condensed his narrative as much as possible, leaving his numberless adventures in the gold regions, to form food for entertainment on future occasions- and only touching on the principal features of his movements, from the time of his leaving New-Or- leans until the present moment. We will follow his example, reader, and not weary you by a tedious account of all he suffered, and the many privations he endured. His story has a host of illustrations in that of others, who, like him have braved the storm, and battled with the gale, though not all like him, successfully. You are already aware that he failed in realising his hopes in California, and started for Australia, de- termined to leave no stone unturned on the road to fortune; and as if to prove that he had taken the tide at its turn, by one of those mysterious guid- ances, which some call "luck" and others "Provi- dence," his wandering footsteps had been directed into the right channel, and the blind goddess showered 16     346     CARRIE HARRINGTON; OR, golden favors on her willing recipient, who more than realised his most sanguine expectations. The party with whom he went happened to select a most fruitful spot for the scene of their labors, and a few months of toil furnished them with the means of indulging in long years of luxury and ease. He had made up his mind to return to the United States in the fall, when his cousin's letter reached him-and chains would scarcely have fettered his im- patience, which magnified the moments to hours, and the hours to ages, that kept him from the loved one's presence-whose soul was, perhaps, at that moment fluttering from its feeble body, that had sunk under the accumulated griefs, of pressing misfortune on the one hand, and deferred hope and anxiety on his ac- count, on the other. What if her gentle spirit should bid adieu to earthly scenes, ere he could reach her to stay its flight? Horror! perish the thought-in it lay madness! His only relief was in action, and- "Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow" would he have flown to her side, if, it were possible; but he had to content himself with less romantic modes of conveyance, and came as fast as such means permitted to New-Orleans--where, receiving the blest assurance that she lived-although the dis- tance that lay between them seemed lengthening, as he fondly hoped it had terminated-he started with   SCENES IN -NEW-ORLEANS.     347 renewed hope in pursuit of the fugitives, whom he overtook, as we have seen, in time to join their party. When he found he was actually under the same roof with her who was his day-star, he was fearful his too sudden appearance might prove injurious in her present weak state; so he determined to seek his cousin first, who could gradually prepare his idol for the unlooked-for pleasure in store for her. For this reason he sent his assumed name in by the waiter; but Ella's unexpected presence, and her recognition of his voice, entirely defeated his precau- tions, as we have seen. However, they neither re- gretted the discovery; and a happy party they form- ed when the others returned, and were informed of the events of the last few hours. A fortnight glided quickly away in the round of sight-seeing, which everywhere presented itself in the great metropolis; and now our travelers began to thing about an onward march. "Grachus knows," exclaimed Mrs. Percival, tak- ing a seat in a large arm chair, in the midst of the group that were assembled in the parlor, after the gas was lighted for the evening, as none felt inclined to go out, but had gathered around the centre-table for a good sociable chat, "I'm tired lookin', for once in my life. Settin' aside the shops and their fixins', the handsome buildins' and parks, and fountins', it's worth a trip to New-York, if it was only to see the women!  How on airth they manage to carry so     348     CARRIE HARRtNGTON; OR, much about 'em, I can't contrive. I thought they dressed some at home; but you could put about six little creole girls under one lady's hoop that I saw to- day; yes, you might almost hide away a bale of cot- ton besides." "They take Job's advice," said Katy, laughing; "he says: 'Though fhy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase.' " "What a horrid perversion of Scripture!" said Ed- ward, with mock gravity; "in order to punish you for such irreverence, I impose upon you the penance of silence for the next twenty minutes." "That just goes to prove the truth of all that the good book contains," replied Katy; " for another pas- sage runs thus: 'Woe unto all ye lawyers! for ye lade men with burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers.'"   . Edward acknowledged himself vanquished, and re- moved the edict, saying that Satan could quote Scripture sometimes to suit his own purposes. "And now," said Carrie, " don't you think it is time we should come to some conclusion as to what day we shall start for the great ' Falls'? I confess' to some impatience to 'Tread this wondrous world, See all its store of inland waters hurl'd In one vast volume down Niagara's steep.'" "Well," answered Edward, "I meant to have   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.    349 started the day after to-morrow, but our brother, here, has let me into a little arrangement that he has been planning, which will cause us to delay our move for about a week, as it involves some little preparation. He thinks," he continued, drawing down his mouth and looking at Katy, " that he would look more re- spectable traveling as the father of a family, and so proposes (all agreed) turning our pleasure trip into a bridal-tour for the rest of the way." Katy vanished; leaving her pocket-handkerchief in Edward's hands, as he extended them to stop her flight, and caught that fluttering appendage instead of her dress; while Horace, who was seated near one of the windows with Ella, whispered- "Deaiest, why not make a joint affair of it? Shall we finish our journey as two or one?"     350     CARRIE HARRINGTON OHR,  CHAPTER    XXXV. "How cold he hearkens to some bankrupt's woe, Nods his wise head, and cries-' I told you so.'" SPRAGUE. GENTLE READER-for that you will be gentle with us, we feel confident, be you of the sex that comes under that appellation, or that of the sterner mould- have patience with us while, with the deepening twi- light that closes in the past, we turn from the con- templation of the bright picture, and, through the' glimmering dawn of advancing years. view some of the darkened tints, laid on by nq dabster at the busi- ness. Our old friend, Miss Letty, is entertaining a coterie of fashionables with the on dits of the day, as at one of their houses she prepares their robes for the New Year which is approaching. "Two brides to flourish this winter," said she, pinning up a lining, and dex- terously putting the padding where it was needed, on the wiry figure she was modeling into shape- ' two brides introduced into society by Mrs. Edward Loring." "Who is this Mrs. Edward Loring?" came from within the animated frame, in its armor of wadding   'SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     351 and whalebone; "I never heard of her before her marriage." "She hadn't a golden bell, then, to ring her into notice," said Miss Letty, "and was glad enough to pull her needle for her living, as some of her betters have to do. I expect she's forgot the day of small things now-and would hardly know a pair of scis- sors from a pitchfork. That's the way of the world. I've seen folks raised to wash dishes and scour plat- ters, stumble into an unexpected streak of luck-and spread out like caterpillars when they turn to butter- flies; forgetting that they once crawled, dirty worms, upon the ground-and not seeming to know that their present gay coats remind people more forcibly of what they once were-by the contrast. Just so with human caterpillars; they sail round, with their rough paws cased in white kids, and hold up their heads as if they were born with a silver spoon in their mouths-when there's always somebody that remembers when the key of the kitchen hung on their foreheads."             . "Do tell us, Miss Letty, all about their houses; you have been there, and ought to know." "Well, you can see for yourselves-the three are exactly alike. As Mr. Hartington is Mrs. Loring'I brother, and Mr. Nelson her cousin, and the three ladies are bosom friends, they are determined to be to: gether. The two new edifices are built on either side of what used to'be Mr. Edward Loring's resi- dence, but his brother-in-law has re-purchased it. It     352     CARRIE' HARRINGTON; OR, formerly belonged to the Peroivals, and the wife and mother (oldfuss-and-feathers, you know,) feel more at home in it." ' They have all been living together, have they not?" said one of her auditors. "Yes," she replied, releasing the bony young lady from thraldom, and: sitting down to enter into detail; "I see I might as well begin at the beginning. Well, to make a long story short-they were married in New-York, and wrote out immediately for their houses to be commenced, and finished as soon as pos- sible. Of course they were not complete when they got back in the fall, so they all stayed with the Lorings until their own dwellings were ready, and furnished-and now they intend to throw them open on New Year's Day." "I suppose old Mrs. Loring and the Judge are very proud of their new grand-child?" ' "Yes-like all old fools, they like the second edi- tion of descendants better than the first. But for my part I shouldn't think they'd want any more girls in the family after that affair of Belle's. They tried to hush the matter up, and succeeded pretty well, because they had money, and stood high in society; but, Lord! if she'd been poor, they'd have all been nobodies now. I always knew what Belle Loring was, when she was holding her head so high, and walking along as if the earth wasn't good enough for her to step upon. I said to myself-' Pride goeth before destruction, and a Jhaughty spirit before a fall.'   SCENES IN NEW-ORLEANS.     353 And when I was at the house preparing for the wed- ding, I knew some day would come, when the hum- ming-bird would get tired of, being caged with the old eagle, and would fly away-leaving him to pick his claws for entertainment." "I think Ella Percival has been lucky, after her misfortunes, to make so eligible a match." "Oh! I knew all about that." Miss Letty didn't say how she obtained her information. "I always  knew that young Nelson would come back and marry her. I expect her old mother will lopm out large now; but she'd better take care she don't come down again  I knew she carried too much sail for her ballast, and was sure she'd be on her beam- ends, and I was right." Thus did Miss Letty entertain her eager listeners,. who, like the rest of their class, were ever ready to grasp at anything that cast a shadow upon the sunny path of those whom fortune had favored more than themselves, and would gloat over it to each other, although they were cringingly polite, and showered sycophantic smiles upon those self-same indi- viduals, when the usages of society brought them in contact. And now, dear reader, having gone hand-in-hand thus far together, and seeing our mutual friends happily through all their trials and sorrows, we will separate, with the parting wishes on our. side, that     354     CARRIE HRRINGTON, ETC. your own troubles (and who among us are exempt?) may have-as blissful a termination; that the sun of prosperity, the smiles of friendship and affection, may gild the evening of your life; and dast, but not least) that kind Heaven will protect you from the tender mercies of those "wiseacres" who always know everything after it has happened. THE END.      
         
      
   
