
    ----CITATION----
        Jones, J. B. (1810-1866). The Spanglers and Tingles, or, The Rival Belles .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6919
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The Spanglers and Tingles, or, The rival belles
             
                 OR, THE RIVAL BELLES. A TALE, UNVEILING SOME OF THE MYSTERIES OF SOCIETY AND POLITICS AS THERE EXIST AT THE PRESENT TIME IN THE UNITED STATES.  BY J. B. JONES, AUTHOR OF "WILD WESTERN SCENES, &C.  A TALE, PHLADELPHA: A. HART, LATE CAREY & HART.  1852.     Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by A. HART, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,  B. MEARS, STEREOTYSBB.      . K. & P, G. COLLINS, PRINTERS.   PREFACE. DOUBTLESS the one who attempts a faithful delineation of the features of society and politics as they exist at the time in which he writes, is liable to the imputation of personality in the portraiture of reprehensible characters; but the liability to misconstruction should not deter him from presenting the bad, as well as the good aspects, always observable in a promiscuous group of individuals. The author's purpose has been to produce a picture not untrue to nathio yet free from injurious personal allu- sions ; and if he has not succeeded in accomplishing the one, he hopes he has, at all events, avoided the other. PHLADELPHA, Feb. 1852.      THE, SPANGLERS AND TINGLE  OR} THE RIVAL BELLES. PART I. IT was a cold brilliant evening in December. The stars we glittering in a cloudless sky, one of those pure and peal firmaments which almost invariably succeeds a winter stol in our climate. Snow was upon the ground, and the sleig bells were jingling in. the streets. There was no moon, a the public lamps were burning, although there was really pressing necessitqr fheir rays being superadded to the lig thrown below fro the glorious illumination above. Had been the proper time for the moon '-t shine, every one ktio that no gas would have been consumed by the di&cretions officials of the pav6, if even a thousand fathoms of der clouds had been piled above, and darkest torrents had rush beneath. The city authorities, or the contractors, who are t sub-authorities, recognise no right on the part of the elemer to interfere with their arrangements. So many nights in t calendar should be light, and so many dark; at all events certain quantity of gas must be consumed, rain or shine. Among the gaudy equipages that glided through the fas ionable thoroughfares, there was one sleigh, distinguished abo the rest for its beautiful horses, its gay colours, its liveri attendants, and, above all, its joyous and splendid occupan 1*     16     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;   In it were two sisters and a brother; one of the former being the acknowledged belle of the two preceding seasons, and the latter a mere boy, who had escaped from Princeton and was enjoying his first vacation in a manner exactly suited to his tastes. On they glided, or rather flew, for the vehicle seemed to be hardly in contact with the earth, so smooth and rapid was its motion; and the only sounds that accompanied it, save an occasional merry laugh, were those of the silver-toned bells. They had measured the distance between Delaware Third and Schuylkill Fourth streets repeatedly, in an incredi- bly short space of time, traversing Chestnut, Walnut, and Spruce streets, and attracting universal attention. For the Misses Tingle were known to everybody, by reputation, and not personally, for they were quite aristocratic and exclusive in society. But Mr. Tingle, their father, was known to be rich; and of course every one knew he had two daughters and one son; that his daughters were belles, and that his son was to acquire one of the learned professions. Yet most of those who knew all these things, and could easily recognise the equipage of the Misses Tingle, which was now so generally admired, never had been, as we have intimated, honoured by a personal acquaintance with any member of the family, excepting, perhaps, with the head of it, and that was, in all probability, anterior to Mr. Tingle's retirement from business. And thus, in the largest cities, are the circumstances and pro- jects of conspicuous characters, even in spite of their efforts to the contrary, known to the community. But then, what were fine equipages, rich dresses, and magnificent mansions, if it were not known to whom they belonged? Without this, one might as well be poor as rich, so far as enjoyment is con- cerned. The poor, or those whose time is occupied in provid- ing a comfortable subsistence, are as fully clothed, eat as much,- and possibly sleep as soundly, as the opulent. Notoriety, dis- tinction, is the great aim in all countries, republican as well as     monarchical; and happiness seems to be measured by com- parison, and enjoyed by contrast. Girard thought himself poor, and was quite miserable, when he learned the amount of Napoleon's treasure, just before the Russian campaign. The enamelled and gaudily painted sleigh of the Misses Tingle, after making the many proud flourishes indicated above, at length dashed off down Third from Chestnut street, passed the Exchange, and pursuing its way along Dock street, finally halted before a jeweller's shop at a corner, :dark and gloomy, a locality not much frequented by fashionable ladies, but which was once upon the great business avenue of the city. Most of the tenements were old and of a sombre aspect, and some of them in a state of repulsive dilapidation. The jeweller's shop had two broad windows, one fronting on the east and one on the north. They were both illuminated within, but neither of them cast any bright rays without, for the panes were covered thickly with dust, and rows of dark watches hung within. It was a chilling spectacle. It seemed as if the hand of renovation had ceased its labours there many years before, when the merchants had taken their flight into High street. A drapery of cobwebs hung from the walls; the sign had almost lost its letters; and the door and window shutters had certainly changed their hue so much that even a painter himself could not have pronounced in a word their original colour. Mr. Spangler, the jeweller, was himself an antique speci- men. He was very pale and thin, with lustrous black eyes and snowy white hair. He was alone, diligently burnishing some jewels, which were to be called for that evening. Ever and anon he held them  up before him, and moving them backwards and forwards, and from right to left, seemed to be lost in admiration of their brilliance and beauty. His lustrous eyes vied in brightness with the precious stones, and a joyous smile played on his lips as he unconsciously gave utterance to   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.     17     18      TIIE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; his thoughts. "They are as grand as ever! just the same as when I was a little child, and my beautiful mother wore them. And my father's mother wore them! They would sparkle like stars on my poor Julia! Poor? yes, that's the true word," he continued, his head drooping on his breast; "Poor is the word. They are not for Julia. She's too poor. Her m rother, grandmother, and great-grandmother wore them, but she cannot do it. They have passed into other hands. They had to go, to save my house. Well, well, the house was saved, at all events. But, then, who would have thought our old neighbours, the Tingles, were to possess them? It is strange, but there is no accounting for fortune. The first Tingle was a servant, then a small family grocer, and used most obsequiously to solicit our patronage, and his son is a millionaire. Ship after ship came up the river safely to them, in spite of storm and the British, while none of ours escaped. Chance seems to be everything!"In the midst of such medi- tations as these the Tingles arrived, and rushed unceremoni- ously into the shop, radiant with mocking smiles, and redolent of costly perfumes. "Are they done, Mr. Spangler?" inquired Miss Emily, the youngest, and shortest, and most impudent of the sisters. "Just finished," said the jeweller; "but," he continued, still pursuing the idea he had conceived before the arrival of the sisters, "it is a pity that my Julia can't wear them." "Your Julia!" exclaimed Miss Emily, contracting her brows, and lifting her hands. At that instantJulia entered the shop from a room in the- rear, with a book in her hand. She was a lovely girl of six- teen. Her complexion was neither brunette nor blond; nor her eyes distinctly black or blue; and they were designated as being both the one and the other by different persons. She was tall for her age, and so perfect in form and features, that no one had ever hinted at a blemish, or indicated what would Kl   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES. add either to her external appearance, or to her superior endow- ments of mind and heart. No sooner had Julia entered the shop than Anne Tingle, the eldest and tallest of the sisters, who had hitherto remained silent, extended her hand, and taking from the casket a neck- lace, placed it upon the grave and serious gil, who had merely thowed slightly to the sisters; -for, although she had been at i their house, she was never intimate with them. She made no resistance, nor seemed at all astonished. She supposed the ladies desired to see how well the jewels looked, after under- going the progress of cleaning and burnishing anew.' She could not suppose they were mocking and bantering her and her aged father. Truth, she did not know the jewels had once belonged to her family. "They are perfectly lovely!" said Anne; " and it is a pity she ian't always wear them herself, as her grandmother did." "Quite charming, in truth ; said Mr. Thomas Tingle, who had just entered, and was holding his hands before the stove, having grown impatient without, after waiting some moments for his sisters to join him in the sleigh. Quite charming, indeed; really exquisite, upon my honour," he continued, smiling gallantly. He then advanced to Julia, and pretend- ing to adjust the precious stones, contrived to press his fingers on the alabaster neck beneath. A scarlet flush spread over the neck and face of the indignant girl, almost with the rapidity of a flash of lightning. Instantly she unhooked the necklace, and threw it with some degree of violence towards Miss Anne, who had perceived the trembling hand of the agitated girl, and feared she might do some injury to the pearls. Emily laughed outright, and sent an encouraging glance to her im- pudent brother. Julia cast a scornful look at them all, and then withdrew behind the counter, taking refuge near her father, whose deep abstraction had prevented him from observ- ing what had occurred.    20      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES: "She's a deuced handsome girl, and I will see her again," remarked the brother, as the trio withdrew. These words, though spoken in a low voice to Miss Emily, were distinctly heard by Julia. But her father had not heard them-nor did he even turn his face towards the door when the party bid him a cold "good evening." "Father," said Julia, a moment afterwards, placing her hand somewhat energetically on the arm of her parent, (" what did Miss Tingle mean when she said the jewels had been worn by my grandmother ?" "Ay, she said that, did she? Did she say that?" conti- nued the old man, rousing from his lethargic ruminations. "Julia, if she said so, it was simply the truth; a truth they would fain have suppressed in the proud society where they move. Yes, truly, those jewels belonged to your ancestors, I don't know how many generations back. And I am the degenerate scion that parted with them. But it was unavoid- able, my poor child. Had I not sold them, this house would have been sold over our heads. I know, Julia, you prefer a comfortable home to a mere bauble. The poet says of beauty, that when it is unadorned, it is adorned the most; and you are beautiful enough, my child, without artificial adornments." Tears rose in the eyes of the pale girl-pale with grateful emotion-and, pressing her father's hand between both of hers, she begged him to gratify her curiosity, by telling the history of the jewels, and how the selling of them saved their house from being sold. Just as the old man was about to begin his narration, his remaining child (he had but two, and was a widower) came in from the street. This was a young man, just one-and-twenty years of age, and was a book-keeper in one of the importing and commission houses in Front street. Harry, usually gay and frolicsome, yet ever affectionately devoted to his parent and sister, had strangely lost his accustomed smile and playful    atOB: ArOR, THE RIVAL BELLES.           s salutation. He sat down in silence, and gazed steadily at the burning coals in the stove, as if desirous of listening to the narrative of his father, having heard a portion of the earnest request of his sister, as he paused at the door, and hesitated a moment before entering. Had not Julia been so intent on learning the secret connected with the jewels, she could not have failed to perceive, in the serious visage of her brother, that something of unusual import had agitated his mind; and she would not have been satisfied without a full explanation. As it was, she did not remove her eager eyes from the placid face of her father, and Harry seemed to adopt a listening atti- tude, although he was quite familiar with the brief history his father was about to relate, and had long deeply mourned in secret the adverse circumstances which had reduced his family to their present humble condition. "Julia, the tale may be told in few words," said the old man, "and I see no harm in telling it thee. Know then that my father, and your grandfather, was a rich man; and the father of Mr. Tingle, and grandfather of the young ladies who were here a few minutes ago, was a very poor man. Very poor, indeed! Very-nay, the whole truth may as well be told-he was a servant, the white waiter/at my father's table, whom he had brought from London with him. But you know, my child-my children--" he added, looking round at Harry, upon whose lips there was a bitter smile, "that any honest vocation is respectable in this country, and you have too much prudent discernment ever to mention this thing to the injury or mortification of the Tingles." "But, sir," interrogated Harry, "if his vocation was respectable, how can the mentioning of it either injure or imor- tify the family?" "It should not-but it would," replied his father, decisively. "There is a pride-called false pride--growing up among us, which bids fair, at no remote period, to run the same career    K  22    THE SPANGLERS, AND TINGLES; here, as it did with our race in England. Yes, we too M have an aristocracy, as they have had in all civilized natio But you should remember that if the first Tingle worked ii menial capacity for a living, the last Spangler is compelled do pretty much the same thing." "But the last Spangler won't do the same thing!" sV Harry, with a clenched hand and contracted brow. "I the last Spangler, and I won't do it-and you won't do much longer!" "Why, what does all this, mean Y" ejaculated the old m arching his brows, and really amused, if not gratified, at outhurst of the aspiring spirit of his son. "I mean what I say, father; when you have finished y history, I will begin mine." "Well, Jule," resumed the father, looking down at upturned face of his beautiful daughter, who was all attenti her eyes glowing, and her parted lips exposing to view tips of her pearly teeth, "I am almost done. What w expensive entertainments, and the loss of several valua ships (seized by the British cruisers), my father was sudde and most unexpectedly reduced, not exactly to poverty, but very limited means. X This house, and the family jewels ( cepting a few hundred pounds in money), comprised all wealth he possessed. At that time this was quite a conveni mansion, and the rich and the learned dwelt in this portion the city. Since then they have all gone west, and their houses are turned into shops, groceries, and taverns! father, of course, broke up his expensive establishment. waiter, the elder Tingle, had to be dismissed with the r But he. had been a faithful servant, and my father resolved do something for him. He sold a diamond pin for 50 had a passion for precious stones, and fortunately possesse rich collection of them), which he presented to Tingle, with that sum he commenced business as a family grocer.   f tOR, THE RIVAL BELLES. had his old master's patronage and -influence, and succeeded surprisingly well in the business. At the end of a few years his operations were enlarged, and, disdaining any longer to deal out his goods by the retail, he took commodious ware- rooms on the wharf, and became a wholesale dealer and im- porter. From one step to another he mounted with giant strides, until he reached the pinnacle of fortune.\ During all his time my father was living on the proceeds of the sales of his jewels, and was gradually sinking. But the elder Tingle never turned his back upon his benefactor, nor failed to acknowledge the debt of gratitude he owed him. They both died about the same time, without either of them  having ever reproached the other for want of kindness or respect. The present Mr. Tingle, when he was of age and master of his own-fortune, finding that he was the possessor of sufficient wealth, declined continuing the business in a year or so, and attended only to the investing of his funds in real estate and other good securities and collecting his ample income. He was among the first to move westward from the river, and it became the fashion soon afterward.   I remained. I had no profession or trade, and am now only an amateur repairer of watches and jewels. But I had some nechanical genius, and inherited my father's passion for precious stones. Yet I had the courage to part with all he left me (save the ones you saw to-night), and with the proceeds turned my parlour into a shop, and commenced the business I am now engaged in.  At first I was successful for my profits were large. I had the services of a skilful workman, and from  him I learned a great deal myself.  Indeed, I was getting rich quite fast. - I had already many thousands - in t   stocks and was deriving a handsome revenue from the dividends. But all at once came the dread- ful financial crisis. The banks failed, and stocks were worth- - less before I dreamed of danger. My money was lost, and to procure funds to meet certain liabilities I mortgaged my house. ?4    21      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; Instead of mending, the times continued to grow worse. The house was about to be sold, and would have been, if the younger Tingle (who for a long time continued to visit my shop frequently, and still does occasionally) had not come to my rescue. He did not want my house; but he gave me the amount for which it was mortgaged for the jewels. No doubt they cost much more originally, but they would not then have brought so large a sum in the market; nor would the t::   house have brought enough, at a time when everything sold was sacrificed, to have satisfied the debt. That is all, my child," said the old man, gazing at the pale brow of his daugh- ter.  "But we are comfortable now," he continued, encourag- ingly; " if the shop don't produce much profit, our wants are few; and by the time I follow my father, Harry will become, perhaps, a great merchant, and will take care of his sister. What say you, my boy ?" I am glad you ask the question, sir; and I hope you will hear patiently what I have to say," replied Harry, with un- wonted decision and emphasis. His father and sister stared at him in astonishment. What could have so moved the gentle and affectionate Harry?  No words had ever before been uttered by him, in tht presence of his father and sister, that struck so boldly and harshly upon the ear. And now, that they looked him full in the face, they could easily discern that he was paler than usual, and that his eyes exhibited traces of recent excitement, or painful thought. " I am convinced, sir," continued Harry, " that it would be a long time before I could make anything more than a mere support in the counting-room of Messrs. Domet & Co. The senior partner himself was but a clerk for fifteen years; and, although he is immensely rich now, still he thinks there can be no young man more deserving of advancement than he was, and that none should be discontented to follow his example in every particular. Then just to think that one must be a clerk         OR, THE RIVAL BELLES. fifteen years in the establishment before he can possibly become a junior partner! Why, during the last fifteen years no less than ten of the young men in the house have died! It will not do for me; I must think of something else." "Wh'y Harry," sald his father, "you are now getting a very fine salary for one of your years. It will doubtless be increased, and, by adhering to your present economical system of living, you will have amassed a considerable sum long before the expiration of the term of years you mention." "But I am not willing to spend the best years of my life, laying up the paltry sumw of thirty dollars per month. I am resolved to make a fortune during the next five years!" "Harry, what do you mean?" asked the astonished old man. "Bravo, brother Harry!" exclaimed Julia, clapping her lit- tle hands. "And when you get rich mind} I am to have the jewels back again. Am I not?" "You shall, Jule; I have said it," replied Harry, with a playful smile. "And we will have a nice house in Walnut street, won't we? continued Julia. "Oh yes; and sleighs and coaches, too!" "And servants in livery, and fine dinners, ana fashionable parties, just as grandpa had; won't we?" "Certainly," replied Harry, resuming his grave tone. "I have found out two things: the lowest beings in society become respectable when they become rich, and the most exalted lose caste when they become poor." "Harry," said the old man, seriously, "I am afraid some one has been putting pernicious notions in your head. I am poor! who respects me the less on that account?" "Where is the gay company that used to assemble here when - you were a boy? why have they fled from our house? It is true they do not insult us because we are poor; but they     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;   avoid us, and cease to recognise us when we meet. Heaven forbid, dear father, I should insinuate that you are not as deserving of respect as ever you were, or your father before you; but it is nevertheless true that friends have fallen away because you no longer have the means of entertaining them sumptuously. Oh, I am resolved to be a very rich man -" "Bravo, Harry!" repeated Julia. "Bravo, Harry!" was repeated by a voice in a distant corner of the room. All of them turned quickly, and looked in the direction from whence the sound came. Good!" said Harry.  "It is the parrot. Poor Polly! why are you not asleep? And will I be a rich man?" "Yes!" replied the bird promptly. "Father," continued Harry, " there are three or four young men in the house of Messrs. Domet & Co., whose parents are rich. The young men themselves have no special merits to recommend them; in truth, several of them are my juniors; but they are often invited to the fashionable parties in the west end of the city, while your poor son is most carefully overlooked." "You have not the means, my boy, to make a fashionable appearance at those parties." "That's it, father! I know it. Last night there was a party at Mr. Tingle's house. Several of our young gentlemen were there, but not Harry." "But Mr. Tingle calls in to see me, rich as he is and poor as I am," said the old man, with a smile. "True, father; you know the history of the family, and he is fearful of your divulging the secret." "Then, Harry," he continued in a half playful tone, " since it is a settled matter with you that you will be a rich man, I suppose-you can have no objection to inform me of the mode you will adopt to become so?" "No objection in the world, father. It has been my inten-   tion, for several days past, to. tell you how I am to make a fortune, and there can be no better time than this very night." "Bravo, Harry!" again exclaimed Julia, her bright eyes evincing the interest she took in the conversation. Bravo!" repeated the parrot. "I am going to California, sir, if you do not break my heart by forbidding it." "Oh no, Harry!" cried Julia, throwing her arms round his neck. "Go, Harry!" said the parrot. "To California, my son?" interrogated the old man, in amazement. Yes, dear father, to California, or else die of a broken heart, or be an inmate of a lunatic asylum. For several months past the determination has been fixed in my mind, and I have saved enough money to pay my passage thither. The only obstacle will be your objection--" "And mine, Harry," said Julia, with tearful eyes. Recollect the jewels, the fine house, &c.," said Harry. Go, Harry! Go, Harry!" continued the parrot. The old man seemed to be stunned, and for a long time remained silent; while the parrot repeated his new song of "Go, Harry! Go, Harry!" "And what would you do there, my boy?" asked the old man. "You could not undergo the exposure and fatigue, which they say must be endured, to realize anything from the mines." "Only let me go, and I will answer for the rest.- I will make discoveries and sell them, if I cannot dig. But I am young and strong, and may endure anything, since my only present purpose is to grow rich. Depend upon it, I will enjoy good health, and soon send you much gold. If you desire to venture something, let me take with me some of these old watches -which have been hanging here these forty years.       28      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; There are spectacles, spy-glasses, and divers things in thes old cases, which never sell here, and which may bring goo( * prices in California. Or let me go alone. I ask nothing bu to be permitted to go." "You may go, Harry, if you promise to take card of you health." The parrot cried "Bravo!" while Julia wept. But she di not now interpose any objection, since her father had prc nounced his permission for Harry to seek his fortune on th, distant shore of the Pacific Ocean. And long after the family had retired to their respectiv, couches, Harry, who remained wakeful, still heard the parro repeating "Bravo! go, Harry!"It was an unprecedented thing for the bird to be heard after nightfall, and the yount man interpreted it as a good omen. The party of Tingles, after receiving the jewels, resumec their seats in the sleigh, and dashed again through the street, where were found the greatest number of pedestrians and ob servers; and not the least gratifying portion of the enjoymen was, the frequent recognitions, night as it was, interchanges between the girls and certain fashionable parties on the side walks. Sometimes they heard their names mentioned by pei sons whom they did not khiow; and this was a proud satis faction, for it indicated truly that the Tingles were famou throughout the city. They were not only rich, and extremel. profuse in their expenditures, but they were really handsome dashing girls-bating the stature of Miss Emily, which wa a span or two too short. But this species of notoriety wa sometimes rather thrilling; for once, perhaps twice, tha evening, the ears of the young ladies were shocked by the cries of "Go it, Tingles; go it while you're young!" fron some mischievous venders of "Ledgees" and "'Eralds" at the corners of the streets, and before the principal hotels. These cries mortified Anne, who was the most modest of the sisters   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       2 Emily was only enraged, and turned fiercely round, quite will- ing, had an opportunity presented itself, to punish the impu- dent urchins with her own delicate hand. Tom begged his sisters to order the driver to stop, so he might chastise the. boys; but this was done after they had gone past the group of offenders, and when they could not have been identified in the moving mass which thronged the pavement. Emily did bend forward and give some instructions to the driver. Although the youngest, Emily was the mistress, and led on all occasions. The sleigh presently diverged from the principal thoroughfare and turned into one of the cross Streets running north and south, and then, gliding round another cor- ner, halted in a comparatively obscure avenue. "Now, Tom," said Emily, " have you the nerve to follow me?" "The nerve to follow my little sister! ha! ha! that's good!" replied the brother, staring round, quite unacquainted with the locality, and altogether unable to conjecture the meaning and purpose of his daring sister. Anne seemed to be aware of Emily's intention, and laughed slightly at Tom's embarrass- ment. "Where are you going?" demanded Tom, seeing that his sisters were making preparations to descend from the vehicle. Do you keep silent, Tom, and follow us," replied Emily, drawing closely her furs about her neck and arms. "No, no! this is no place for us to walk. Come back, or I will tell on you when we go home." "If you do you shall never ride with us again; and I will get pa to make you spend the next vacation at Princeton among the white-necked Presbyterians," said Emily, laughing. "But, Em, just tell me what ,it is you are about to do, and where you are going. Perhaps I'll like it." "We are going into yonder house to have our fortunes told. I suppose you are not afraid of the great astrologer?"      380     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "No! oh, no!" replied Tom. "Why didn't'you say so at first? You are always bantering and browheating to no pur- pose. I'll get him to tell mine, too, if you will lend me the money." The party then proceeded some twelve paces, and paused before a door upon which was a tin sign, sporting in the gas- light these words, Dr. GULLEM, THE GREAT ASTROLOGER. The window shutters were open, and the blinds within were slightly agitated by some one peeping through them. This was observed by Tom, and he hesitated to ring the bell when bidden to do so by his sisters. Seeing his hesitation, Emily pushed him aside and rang it herself, and very boldly, too. Several moments elapsed in silence before any one was heard in the passage. Indeed no one was heard there at all; but presently the door swung back, and a large coarse young woman in a white gown stood before them; and after scru- tinizing them closely led the way into the front parlour, where there was just enough light emitted from an almost extin- guished gas-burner, to enable them to distinguish an old sofa, covered with dilapidated hair-cloth, upon which the visiters seated themselves. "Is Dr. Gullem in?" inquired Emily. "He is always in," was the brief, cold answer. We wish to see him, and to have our fortunes told," con- tinued Emily, Tom and Anne maintaining a strict silence, and both intimidated by the darkness, and the vague consciousness of being so near the presence of the famous Dr. G., whose won- derful feats were duly set forth every morning in the papers. The ghostly attendant withdrew without uttering a single word. But it was understood that she would inform the pro- fessor of their visit. But minute after minute passed, and not a sound was heard, and still no one appeared. The only change observable was a slight increase in the size of the jet of gas over the mantel-piece, which enabled them to see each          4   -- -        OR, TIIE RIVAL BELLES.       31 others' faces and the mean furniture irregularly placed in the room. They perceived likewise that the recesses on either side of the fireplace were hung with black cambric, and which they supposed concealed portions of the magician's apparatus. Once Emily thought she saw one of the curtains move; but she said nothing. It did not disturb her, but she knew it would frighten her cdmpanions if she drew their attention to the circumstance. Next she heard sounds which resembled the human voice spoken through a pipe. She could not distinguish the words, but they seemed to be in the back room, which was separated from them by the closed folding door. This occurrence effectually put a stop to the whispers of the party, which had continued some moments, and had increased in boldness and vivacity. Then followed a startling gong- like sound, which filled them with terror. This was succeeded by a diminution of light, until the flame was no larger than a pea, and they sat in almost total darkness. Next the folding door opened slowly, as if by the agency of an invisible hand. The sofa had been so placed that the scene about to be enacted was directly in front of them. A pale orange-coloured light revealed the objects at the extremity of the room in the rear. The great Dr. Gullem was standing in the centre of it, arrayed in the imposing habiliments of his profession. His purple robe was spangled over with glittering symbols and devices; stars and moons, and astronomical figures shone upon its ample folds. Upon his head there was a sort of pontifical crown, embroidered with tinsel and bespattered with spangles resembling precious stones. Many nondescript implements, all bright and gaudy, were ranged upon a table before him, and upon which likewise was the huge lamp that emitted the orange rays, and the misty smoke which perfumed his pre- sence and caused the trembling party more than once to sneeze. "' The first thing to be done," said he, in a real or affected     32      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; foreign accent, " is to propitiate the spirits of the planets, whom you have presumed, through my agency, to summon hither." He turned slowly towards a door on his left, communicating with the passage, and made a sign, which was followed by the entrance of the female that had ushered in the party. She had birds and beasts made of silver foil pinned on the same white gown she had already appeared in; and the bright rays that now illuminated her person revealed very perceptibly sundry unhandsome stains upon her dress, and several no less uncomely pimples and blotches upon her immodest face. She performed her duty without embarrassment, which was simply to go round and exact the propitiatory dollar from each of the visiters. When this was accomplished, the astrologer turned to a coarse astronomical chart illuminated within, and beckoned the party to approach and occupy seats immediately in his vicinity. They did so, timidly, Emily leading the way. When they were seated, the great Dr. looked them steadily in the face for several moments without speaking. Tom and Anne averted their eyes under his pompous gaze. Not so Emily. Her self-possession was recovered, and she had not often been stared out of countenance. She not only looked him steadily in the eye, but actually smiled derisively. The truculent impostor was momentarily thrown from his guard, and turned away to adjust his apparatus. He seemed to whisper something in a corner where there was another curtain suspended, and received a reply which Emily heard, but she could not discern the purport of it. He then advanced with paper and pencil, and desired his visiters to mark down the initials of their names, the year, month, day, hour, and minute of their birth. They did so, as nearly as possible. The astrologer then assured them that he was practising no imposition, nor pretending to possess any supernatural powers himself. Astrology was a science, which he had made the study of his life, and the results of his predictions had satis-   ;-.-:4     OOR, THE RIVAL BELLfS         383 ;  fled nearly all the crowned heads of Europe, that he was enabled to foretell coming events, "That the planets have spirits, which can and do influence the fates of mortals," said the learned professor, "I can see no reason to doubt, after my experience and practice of more than forty years-" "Why, you don't seem to be thirty years old, now," said Emily. "That plainly proves the power of my planet," replied the professor. "And it is quite possible yours may be as kind to you, and preserve your youth and beauty for many, many. years. But, before I proceed to ascertain the things you desire to know, permit me first to explain briefly, very briefly, the manner of my operations. I do things rationally, without mystery or supernatural agency. I have studied a science, not witchcraft, and I do not wish to conceal my modus ope. randi from my patrons. This candour on my part has acquired me the confidence of the most illustrious personages of two continents, and perhaps saved me from mobs and prosecutions. In short, the equal spaces on this chart (pointing to the one before him) are called the twelve houses of the heavens, and the circles by which they are circumscribed are called circles of position. The circles of position remain fixed, so that a celestial body is carried through each of the twelve hbuses in the course of a day by the diurnal rotation. The first house is contained between the eastern horizon and the next circle of position, going to the eastward; consequently the- seventh will commence with the western horizon, and the tenth with the meridian or culminating point of the ecliptic. The be- ginning of the first house, or the point of the ecliptic just rising, is called the horoscope. The first house is the house of life; the second, of riches; the third, of brothers; the fourth, of parents; the fifth, of children; the sixth, of health; the seventh, of marriage; the eighth, of death; the ninth, of :- ' religion; the tenth, of dignities; the eleventh, of friends; i     34      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; and the twelfth, of enemies. Each of the houses has one of the heavenly bodies as its peculiar lord. They have also dif- ferent powers, the strongest of all being the first, and the next in power the tenth; so that if two planets are equally power- ful, ceteris paribus, that will prevail which is in the strongest house. I trust, now," continued the professor, looking learn- edly and proudly at his auditors, " that I have been sufficiently explicit, and will proceed at once to consider the aspects or configurations, in respect to each of you." "Em!" whispered Tom, pulling his sister's sleeve, "that speech is something like a paragraph I read in Brand's Dic- tionary, in the college library." "Silence!" said the astrologer, firmly, and silence certainly ensued; but it was soon succeeded by the gong, and other dis- cordant noises, which gradually subsided, and then followed what was designed for heavenly music, but which was nothing more than the notes of a common street organ playing in the yard. During this very imposing and very mysterious cere- mony, the astrologer was writing away with great expedition on the slips of paper which had been received back from his visiters. Ever and anon the pen ceased to move, while the professor looked up as if deriving inspiration from above. It was truly a disgusting scene to witness the vain attempt of the ignorant impostor to assume a spiritual aspect, after say- ing he did not pretend to invoke supernatural agency. Emily did nothing but smile derisively, and whisper disparaging remarks to her sister and brother. When the Dr. had finished writing, he folded up the papers separately and endorsed the initials on them. Then the orange light faded away, and the front room became suddenly and brilliantly illuminated. The party retreated back towards the sofa they had at first occupied, followed by the professor, and the folding doors closed after them. "Now, ladies, my fee, if you please. You must not open   ?           OOR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       85 the papers until you reach home," said the astrologer; and making a signal for the female attendant, that personage re- appeared, and demanded another dollar from each of the party. "I tlought we had already paid you," said Tom. That was for the planets," said Dr. Gullem. "Oh, she's one of the satellites," observed Tom. The female made an awkward affirmative bow. "Or rather, I should think," said Emily, " a parasite." To this she bowed acquiescence likewise. "See that the ladies have forgotten nothing," said the astrologer to then attendant, as thev hastily prepared to with. draw. All of them cast their eyes upon the sofa from which they had just risen, and perceiving nothing left on it, they departed. When they were again seated in the sleigh, they directed the driver to speed for home, each being impatient to read what had been written by the astrologer. When the sleigh drew up before the stately mansion of Mr. Tingle, the party hastily descended, and hurried without paus- ing or separating up into the chamber of the girls, which they entered in a body, and having locked the door, and ignited a wax taper, proceeded with great expedition (as if they really attached importance to what the fortune-teller might say) to peruse what had been written respecting their destiny. A pause succeeded the perusal. They were all silent, and seemed to be chagrined. "I don't believe a word he says," exclaimed Emily, throw- ing down her paper. "He's only an impostor," said Tom. "And to think he has cheated us so; six dollars given for this nonsense," said Anne. I don't regret the amount we paid him," replied Emily; "we can afford to pay for anything that amuses us; but the scamp has only provoked us. Let me see what he says of you." 3     36       THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; They looked' at each other's papers, and found them to be as follows: ANNE'S.      EMLY'S.      TOM'S. 1st House-Life. Live to the age of 45. Age of 40.    Age of 21. 2d House-Riches. Comfortable circum- Wealthy-       Poor- stances, but soon will Soon sustain a  A loss soon. sustain a loss.   loss.      I  8d House-Brothers. One.        One.        None. 4th House-Parents. Both alive.     Ditto.       Ditto. 6th House-Children. Two.        One.        Three. 6th House-Health. Good.        Good.        Good. 7th-Marriage. Two husbands.    Many lovers.     Three wives. 8th-Death. Die of consumption. Of poison.     Accident. 9'th-Religion. Pious.       Professor.     Unconcerned. 10th- Dignities. Distinguished.   Famous.       Notorious. "th-Friends. Few.        Many.        Thousands. 12th-Enemies. Few.        Numerous.      Innumerable. "I'm to have the best luck of any," said Tom, reperusing his paper; "three wives and as many children!" "And you are to be poor," said Emily. "They say the poor have the most children," remairked Anne.   -       OBOR, THE RIVAL BELLES.      37 That reminds me of a good tale I heard yesterday," said Emily. "And it was told me by Dr. -- , our exceedingly grave minister. It made me laugh a great deal. But le told me I must never repeat it to gentlemen." "Oh, I'm only a school-boy," said Tom; and in truth, al- though he was pretty well grown, he was not yet a gentleman, nor likely to be soon, if one might judge from his inclinations and manners. "It was short, and as follows," continued Emily, yielding to the wish of the others to relate it: "'Up -- street (in the Dr.'s parish, too) there dwelt a very rich man with only one child, for which, even when two years old, he had employed three nurses. They were constantly near the little boy, mrini- tering to his caprices and guarding him against dangers. Just opposite there lived a poor man, having nine children, and no nurse. One day the attention of the three nurses of the rich man's child was attracted for an instant by some object in the street; and at that moment the child fell down the stairs and broke its neck. The poor man, upon hearing what had happened, opened all his doors, windows, and the cellar; but it was to no use. Every evening when he returned from his hard labour, he found every member of his family well and hearty." They laughed at this tale very much, but wondered how the Rev. Dr. could narrate such shocking things. "But, Em," said Tom, nobody believes anything this Mr. Gullem says; do you?" Do I? Why-no! Anne," said she, rising, "have you got the box of jewels?" "No!" replied Anne, turning very pale. "Nor I, either," said Tom. "Good gracious! if it should be lost! Wouldn't the old ones turn the house upside down? Wouldn't they send me hopping back to college! IBut I :',i,     88      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; didn't propose going to the astrologer's. It was none of my doing." "It was not left there," said Anne, trembling greatly; not so much, perhaps, on account of the pecuniary loss involved, as the disappointment, should they not be able to sport the brilliants in future. The casket of jewels was nowhere to be found. It was not left in the sleigh, nor had the driver or footman seen it. It was recollected that before departing from the astrologer's they examined the sofa for the purpose of guarding against leaving anything there. Still the girls suspected that the famous Dr. Gullem knew something of its whereabouts; for had he not stated they were to meet with a loss? They were quite mise- rable, and knew not what steps to take. "Pa and ma must not know that we were at the astrolo- ger's," said Emily. "Go, Tom, and tell John and William to remember only that we were at Mr. Spangler's, and were driv- ing about the city the rest of the evening." Tom withdrew and obeyed his imperious little sister. Anne said nothing, but seemed to acquiesce, as she always did, in everything Emily resolved upon. It so happened, the next morning at the breakfast table, that the first paragraph Mr. Tingle's eyes rested on in the paper, was headed "An editorial voice from the Sunday Journal." Mr. T., his features denoting amusement (and he was constantly in the habit of amusing his family circle by reading aloud the ludicrous advertisements), read as follows: "EXTRAORDINARY RECOVERY OF LOST MONEY.-Professor Gullem has the happiness (this purported to be an 'editorial voice') once more of appearing before the public as a benefactor. By the subjoined affidavit, sworn to before Alderman Bribed, it will be seen that a gentleman from the South either lost or had stolen from him a few days since, ten one hundred dollar notes, which bereft him of all the funds he possessed, except- ,/   : -OBOR, THE RIVAL BEL3E.             39 ing a ten dollar bill. With this, it appears, he called, upon Professor G., and received his advice. He followed the pro- fessor's instructions literally, and at the end of twenty-four hours, eight hundred of the thousand dollars were returned to him, and no questions asked." While Nrr, T. was reading, his children listened with breath- less attention. This was more respectful conduct than he usually met with from them; anCd perceiving it over his glasses, during the silence which was prolong;e the gratified parent continued to edify his auditors by reading many other similar paragraph during the repast. Mr. Templeton Tingle, the head of the family, as the reader has been informed, was a very rich man--a mnillionair.  fortune, as has been already mentioned, was left tX him by hIs father, who made it by his industry and bsinequaifications. But we are sorry to say, yet it should be said, that the inlie- ritor of this great fortune did not possess either the qualities of head or heart which had distinguished his first paternl ancestor in this country. His only merit was to live within his income, which was undoubtedly quite an ample one, being no less than 6o0,00,0 per annum. So far from emb arfing in commerce himself, or een, contributing any ting, direly, towards the encouragement of trade, he had not been known for many years, to make the slightest allusion to the manper, in which his parent had acquied the fortune he enjoyed, ie never alluded to his father by name. He was in the habit merely of saying, his fortune was inherited; which was an indication that he was fa4t becoming an aristocrat. Yet, fully acquainted with the history of his father, from the 'ime le accompanied Mr. Sp angler to Philadelphia (and further back his information regarding his ancestry did not run) to the memorable epoch of his death, when he succeeded to his princely estates, it seemed to be one of the leading objects of X  his life to destroy all the traces of his origin. With this view 3   8 3*     40      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; several of the aged. contemporaries of his father, who survived the demise of their old, acquaintance and associate, were pro- vided with the means of prosecuting business, or of subsist- ence, in obscure places distant from the city, which were designated by Mr. T. These acts, when known (and the generous patron did not use many endeavours to give them notoriety), certainly were calculated to add to the already great name of Tingle in the community. There was one, however, and a principal one, too, of the elder Tingle's acquaintances, who could not be approached, it seemed, with a proposition for any such purpose-the pur- pose nearest the present Mr. T.'s heart. This was Mr. Span- gler, the old jeweller. He was a quiet man, who never left his house. But he had a son and daughter, who occasioned many anxious thoughts to the rich man. He could not wholly turn his back upon them. Poor as they were, Mr. Tingle, weak man as he was, imagined himself to be in their power; and, as his parent had doubtless done before him, he could not avoid playing the sycophant when thrown in contact with any of the Spangler family. Several times, at long intervals, Julia had been invited to his house, where she was treated with the utmost kindness at his express solicitation. On such occasions it was contrived that his son should be absent, and that Mrs. T. and her daughters (who knew nothing of the his- tory of his family) should be conciliated by munificent pre- sents, and be found, at least, in a condescending humour. But on grand occasions, when company was to be entertained at. the magnificent mansion, all power was claimed and exercised by the ladies, and poor Julia was never thought of by them. Een Harry, after being present once at a brilliant party, was scratched from the list, in spite of Mr. T.'s opposition, purely on the ground that the young man was too poor to make a fine appearance. This occurrence caused Mr, T, to accost the young man several times in the street, in the most familiar   :     OR, THE RIVAL BELLES        41 and deprecating manner; and he it was who first displayed before the excited imagination of Harry the glowing pictures of inexhaustible deposits of shining gold in the distant region of the inhospitable Cordilleras. He urged him to try .his fortune in California, and intimated that if he required pecu- niary assistance to fit him out and to defray his expenses thither, he had only to send his father to him, and they would arrange the matter between them. Mr. T. saw very plainly that his scheme was working well. Harry would probably never get back if he once embarked on such a long voyage, and his father would soon, in the course of nature, be removed from among the living. Then there would be no one, or not more than one, remaining in the city who could know any- thing or say anything in relation to the servile employment of his first ancestor on this side of the water. ' In person Mr. Tingle was rotund-short and fat; and with the exception of the provoking incident in the history of his family, above referred to, which preyed upon his diminutive mind, he was one of the most happy, as he was one of the most fortunate, parents living. He was proud of his wife, and of his children, and of his fortune, which he enjoyed with exquisite delight. When walking in the street, one would suppose him to be the most popular as well as the most happy man in the city. Almost every genteelly dressed individual he met bowed to him, while his short arms waved a triumph- ant salutation to all in return, and his pleasant features beam- ed as benevolently as it was possible for features to do devoid of any considerable intellectual substratum. In a word, his face expressed solely that description of pleasure produced by the enjoyment of the good things of this life, which money can buy, and of which he had an abundance. Mrs. Tingle was quite a different sort of person. She was tall and thin; ever proud of her family; purse-proud now, but having been poor before marriage, she was qualified to     42      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; contribute most valuable advice in matters of business and economy. She was devoted to her children, particularly to Anne and Tom, and intent upon securing them exalted posi- tions in the -world; but, like her husband, she had gradually yielded to the ascendency which the aspiring Emily strove to maintain in the family. Mr. Tingle had met with Miss Wortley Prince after she had completed the short probation of a single year at one of the fashionable city boarding-schools. She was sought by him and married on account of her name, and the state from whence she came. Coming from Virginia, Mr. T. was con- vinced, without instituting any particular inquiries on the subject, that she was a member of one of the first families who dated back, in this country, to the expulsion of the Cava- liers from England under Oliver Cromwell. But this was a great mistake. It was true her ancestors had come to this I. ;. country at an early day; but one of them, at least, had been transported as a felon, and had been purchased for a term of years by a rich planter on the James river, for the sum of ", payable in tobacco. This had long since been forgotten by the family, and perhaps the Princes, while rejoicing in the nture they bore, and which had been assumed by their first paternal ancestor in Virginia, were now entirely ignorant of the unpleasant incident in their history. The Princes had rifen from a servile condition to the elevation of overseers, and finally became small landholders and qualified voters. One of them had been a member of the house of delegates, and sat side by side with the truly l6ite of the glorious Old Dominion. The parents of Miss Wortley Prince were by no means wealthy; but they had a good farm and some twenty slaves. They kept their carriage, and educated their children, as well as they were able to do with their limited means. There were three brothers and two sisters, five children in all. Two of   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       43 the sons studied professions, one becoming a physician, the other a lawyer, and the third was to be a gentleman farmer, to keep the homestead in the family. Miss Wortley, now Mrs. Tingle, was the youngest of the sisters and the best educated, as Miss Silvia, the eldest, had positively declined leaving home to trust herself at a fashionable boarding-school in the city. Miss Silvia was now an old maid, short and fat, just the oppo- site of Mrs. T., though her equal in hauteur, and proud of her name and family. Every summer, "Aunt Silvy," as she was called, made a fashionable tour with the Tingles, and some- times prolonged her visits to her rich relations for many months after the travelling season was over. She was still lingering with them at the time of the introduction of the family to the reader. While Mr. Tingle was reading the newspaper, Mrs. T. and Aunt Silvy seemed to be the only ones present who had not suspended the healthful exercise of eating. What is there in all that silly stuff to rivet your attention so much?" inquired M3rs. T., looking round the table. "Why don't you drink your coffee?" Anne and Tom hung down their heads in confusion, but not so Emily. "Pa," said she, with apparent premeditated deliberation, "what would you do if you were to meet with a loss of a thousand or so?" "What would I do, Em? I suppose I should bear it with becoming equanimity. It would not ruin me, nor disturb my ?  dignity." Mr. T. affected to be, and really thought he was, a v6ry dignified gentleman. "No," continued Miss Emily, smiling at the artifice she had conceived, "it surely could not ruin you-you who have an income of forty thous-" "Sixty thousand dollars per annum, Miss Emily. I beg pardon for interrupting you." Mr. T. bowed, his face glowing with pride and pleasure.     "     TIE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "But, pa, would not such a loss provoke you and render you unhappy for a time?"  ' "Miss Emily, may I ask when it was that you saw my spirits ruffled? May I ask that question?" "Never, never, from any such cause. I do not recollect a single instance, pa." If she could remember no instance of vexation and annoyance occasioned by any pecuniary loss, it might not have been difficult for Miss Emily to have reverted to instances when her own spirit of opposition and contradic- tion had at least given her indulgent parent very visible pain. But she never recalled such unpleasant things. "Though, pa, I have never heard of your losing anything," she added, in a gentle voice, as she proceeded gracefully to sip her coffee. "Of course, Miss Emily," said her considerate and highly gratified father, "you have never heard of any of my losses. Why should any of the members of my family be afflicted by the relation of such petty affairs? I presume I may say with entire confidence that even Mrs. T. herself," to whom he appealed with a look of great kindness, "has never been troubled with the relation, on my part, of a single loss-" "Once I was, Mr. Tingle," responded that lady, with im- perturbable gravity; "have you forgotten so soon (I hope you won't forget it), that when we were travelling from Albany to Buffalo, you lost your ticket?" ,     "u I beg pardon, Mrs. T.," said Mr. T., uneasy in his chair, while a slight perspiration was perceptible on his broad, low forehead; "I had forgotten that. It was an inexcusable neglect, and I apologized for it at the time, and never shall cease to lament the occurrence. But you know the loss was nothing. It was only the suffering occasioned you by'the im- pertinence of the conductor-" ' The brute seemed to doubt my word, that you had once paid for tickets.' "Yes, madam, he seemed to doubt the word of Mrs. Tin-   X! -i OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.             45 gle-!" continued Mr. T., evidently flushed with anger at the -'-' thought of such an indignity, which he did n'ot realize so fully at the time of its occurrence. "But he got his deserts when I got holt of him!" said Aunt Silvy; which was very true, for she had'a tongue of her own, and she had rated him most unmercifully. "To return, pa, to the subject;" said Emily, w we were dis- cussing. Have you really met with losses?" "Repeatedly, Em; they are constantly, continually occur- ring. I suppose they do not fall short of several thousand a year. Yet I do not repine at it. They do not trouble me. I am thankful the fortune I inherited'was iuffiienitly ample to enable me to sustain these trifling dimi'nutions of income without serious regret, or making them tie disagreeable sub- ject of remark in my family circle." "My dear pa, what would be the effeect if I were to name a loss with which you are as yet unacquainted?" This speech : caused Mrs. T. and Aunt Silvy to put down their cups and regard Emily with astonishment'. The effect it had on , Mr. T., who was not accustomed to hear such endearing epi- thets from his spirited daughter, was an excessive agitation. My dear child, I would treat it precisely as I have done the other losses mentioned." , Then, pa, I will try you!" said Emily, slightly paler than usual. "The casket of jewels is lost. We got them last night from Mr. Spangler; but' whein we reached home, ' after several pleasant drives through the principal streets, we 'j  missed them, and we have no conception of the manner in which thiey could have been lost." Now Mr. T., when he purchased the jewels, had given a written pledge to Mr. Spangler that when he or his represent- ative should tender the price then paid for them, they were to ; be transferred back to the family; and although Mr. Tingle a I saw no probability of such a demand being made, yet, it     "     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; flashed upon him, that if such a contingency should ever hap. pen he might be unable to comply with the agreement, and such inability might be followed by painful consequences. It might be the means of opening the old wound, now in the process of cicatrization. Hence, although he strove to look calm, and even made an effect to smile, yet his face was flushed, and large drops of perspiration protruded from his forehead. "My goodness gracious l" exclaimed Aunt Silvy, dropping her toast. "What will you wear at the ball in Washington next week, Emily?" asked Mrs. T., while streaks of red ran along her brow, like the fleeting colours of the aurora borealis. Her lips quivered with suppressed passion; but she had long been in the habit of suppressing her anger before the indomitable looks of her spirited little belle. "Ma, I presume there are more jewels to be had," said Emily, without the slightest emotion. "And pa has plenty of money," said Tom, looking at his sister. "He has an income of sixty thousand dollars; why, we don't spend ten thousand." "Ha, ha, ha! Master Thomas, where did you learn your notions of economy? When you become the head of a family I hope the sum you name will be as much as you will require to meet your expenditures. But it is undeniable that I do not expend all my income. Ha, ha, ha!"Mr. Tingle made a powerful effort to seem unconcerned, and to convince his daughter that the loss was a mere bagatelle. No doubt the loss of the jewels would be the subject of conversation in the fashionable circles, and his calm demeanour would be admi- ringly referred to. Nevertheless, Mr. Tingle, in spite of appearances, was secretly pained by the announcement. It was true he had not the genius of accumulation which his father possessed; he had, strictly speaking, no business qua-   :;0-3 OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.             47 lifications; but he seemed to have the faculty of preserving what he was so proud of having inherited, and was really as much annoyed at a considerable loss as rich men generally are. He was strongly tempted to name the sum the jewels had cost him-some $3000--but he could not do it incidentally, and without making himself liable to the inference that he regret- ted the loss of so much of his wealth. And this he would not do, even in the presence of his family. Yet he determined within himself to take the necessary steps to recover the casket, if such a thing were possible. "Maybe they can be found again," said Aunt Silvy, taking up the paper, and vainly trying to find the paragraph she was in quest of, for she had left her gold spectacles in her chamber. "They would not be advertised so soon," said Mr. T. "I hope they may have fallen into honest hands." "I'm not looking for the losts and founds," said Aunt 1 Silvy; it's precious seldom that such valuable plunder falls into honest hands; or if it does, it's dead sure to make 'em dishonest, before it's given up again. I was looking for Dr. Gullem's advertisement. I believe in astrollogical incati- nations." Astrological incantations, sister," said Mrs. T. "Well, la me! didn't I say so?" continued Aunt Silvy. Let me alone, and see if I don't get the jewels back again. M ars. Greatpin in   Row, told me the other day that she got back her spoons and mugs (I wonder what they call such things plate for?) by consulting Dr. Gullem. She paid ten dollars only, and the silver things she got back cost a hundred. -  Just let me manage this thing. Depend on it I won't com- prommis you." "Compromise, sister." "Well, Mrs. T., I promise you I won't; I repeat it again." And Aunt Silvy rose from the table, intent upon putting her 4     48      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; scheme in execution, and delighted to have something on hand which would afford her excitement. Besides, she thought her nieces were "perfect angels upon -the face of the earth," as she was wont to describe them in her letters to Virginia; and as she wished to accompany the family to Washington, a wish not to be gratified, she desired to see the really rare and beautiful jewels sparkle at the Presidential mansion. '.4 i- Ri   kv--v     OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        49 PART II. THE next morning but one after the visit of the Tingles to the apartments of the astrologer, there was a party of some half-dozen men, and several females, assembled in a dark room which was faintly illuminated by an iron lamp. The sun was shining very brightly without; but that was not the kind of light the party was partial to on the present occasion; and hence the enlivening beams were excluded by the closed window shutters. The room was inSoult street, a narrow alley being dignified with that celebrated name, showing plainly that the old saying had been seriously acted upon in this matter as well as in politics, viz. "if we cannot alter things, we'll change their names, sir." The men, into the midst of whom it is our intention to intro- duce the reader, were technically termed " professional gentle- man;" why they have been so called, it is not for us to say, for in truth we do not know; but we doubt the etymological legitimacy of the appellation. First of all, there was Dr. Gullem, the astrologer, in plain citizen's attire, occupying the highest seat at the table, upon the centre of which were some half-dozen uncorked bottles of wine. Ranged on the right and left were several notorious characters, known to the police by the characteristic names of Snatcher, Creeper, Smasher, Slungshot, and Picker; and opposite were Kate Wheedle, Betty Glowworm, and Dolly Diamond. "Here's the news, this morning," said the pimpled-faced fortune-teller, holding up the paper so that the dim light of the lamp fell upon the advertisement he was about to read. Silence     50      THE SPA*GLERS AND TINGLES; immediately ensued, thit4he great captain of the rogues might read and expound what was before him to his obedient company, as was his usual custom every morning. He read as follows: "$100 REWARD. "Lost on the evening of the-inst., between Fifth and Broad streets, east and west, and between Spruce and Mulberry streets, north and south, a small ivory casket, containing divers jewels. The finder will receive the above reward by leaving the articles at the office of this paper, where there has been deposited a full description of them, with a bank-note." "Gents, that was not so :bad a night's work, was it?" con- tinued the astrologer, throwing down the paper, and knocking off the neck from one of the bottles. "It was my work, partly, I should think, and take the liberty of saying," observed Creeper, " provided it is the same little white box, and the curious tiny shining insects, that was accidentally picked up by me." "Tell us how it was done," said Dolly, smiling rapturously -at the modest thief. "I was, as is common, snoozing very snugly in my old corner, behind the black rag (you know where I mean, DolD, when this conjurer's yellow blazes and sweet smoke in the back room awoke me. You know how uncommon and particular unpleasant such things is to me when 1 am asleep. They always wake me up, and there's no more sleep for me in that place. Well, as I couldn't stay there, I got up and walked out, and as I goes along, I sees the little white thing laying lonely by itself on the sophy. It was dark, you know, and as nobody was there to own the' poor thing, I just thought I would take care of it out of pity. So I brought it along." "That's you, all over," said Kate. "It was so monstrous dark you couldn't see any owner for the trifle, but you could   XI       OKOR, THE IIVAL BELYES. '     51 J see the thing itself. That would be a pretty tale to tell a judge or jury!" "But there is no judge here except our dear Dr. Gullem," said Doll, "and no jury but us. I'm for acquitting him. : What do the rest of the jury of his peers say?" There was doubtless great unanimity in the verdict, if the affirmative j :  response that followed was any indication. "But what's the gravel worth? where's the beauties?" demanded Picker.   "Here," cried Gullem, in imitation of a juryman, producing the casket. They all bent forward and scrutinized the articles, as they were lifted out one at a time and placed upon the table. "Honour bright, gents!" said the astrologer, following ! -  each piece with his eyes as it passed from hand to hand. ta4  "No danger of any one here stealing any of theme" said Betty Glowworm; "how could they do such a thing when they know the great conjurer can always tell where stolen things is, and who steals 'em!" Betty was the nymph who officiated on behalf of the planets at the Doctor's rooms. She had been selected for that service on account of her supersti- tious nature, and because she really believed the conjuror pos- sessed supernatural powers. And the rest of the gang, if they did not credit to the full extent the mysterious attributes claimed by the professor, were satisfied he was the smartest and most accomplished rascal of the fraternity, and were gene- rally quite willing to be governed by his advice, and to allow ,:  him a double share of the plunder. "What are they worth?" asked Slungshot.    "They must be worth more than $200, or $100 would not have been offered," said Creeper, an old English pickpocket H'  who had escaped from New South Wales. "They never offers half, gents, unless, they are particular family ornaments, and there's nothing of that sort said in the spelling, if I heard it all." 4*     5:2     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "And 6ld Tingle is not the gent to buy such a handful of beauties for his beautiful gals for the cussed little sum .of $200;,'" said Dolly Diamond. "Diamond cut Diamond," said the astrologer, which was followed by laughter, but which was checked by the master- --spirit when it began to grow boisterous, and might be heard by persons passing through the alley, ialbeit most of those who passed there. were not much better than themselves. -But Dolly was offended. She did not know whence the observa- tion was derived, and supposed they were laughing at her. "I an'tdll you what, gents and misses," said the displeased Dolly, whose face had become quite red, and proved her capa- bility of blushing, even by the dim lamp-light, "if Diamond is to .cut Diamond, this Diamond can do her share of -cutting. It is no new thing to ker; so any of you as has a mind to try the fun, only jest has to begin." And she displayed a for- midable dagger, the -scabbard of which ran down by her corset board. "It was only a common saying, Doll," said Gullem, " which was written before any of us were born. I meant no;harm,  Doll." "Well, what is the things worth, and what is to be done -with em?" again demanded Slungshot. "Don't be in sich a hurry," said Snatcher, who was like- wise a London thief, a silent, meditative rascal. -"I must be in a hurry, for I have use for my -share of the money. I'm as dry as a powder horn." "Why don'tyou drink?" -said the other. "- I don't mean that. Hmean I haven't got the -first red cent in pocket, and must make a raise this-morning,-or elseI can't -travel." He was in the habit of remainirg out of the city, during the day, and returning at night. "Then what will you take for-your share of the lift? "Ten dollars."   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        53 "I'll give you fifteen," said Dr. Gullem, taking three five- dollar notes from his pocket-book. "Hand 'em over; it's a bargain," said Slungshot. "Plank 'em  down, and I'll leave you and be off. I'm outrageous sleepy, and you know Philadelphia is not big enough for me to sleep in. The rooms are too close." He received the money and withdrew. When the door was made fast, the important question as to l what was the value of the jewels, and .the disposition which should be made of them, was further discussed. "Suppose we ask old Goldball his opinion of their worth?" ', -,? said Snatcher. ? -  "Ask the d-1!" responded Smasher. "Don't you know aiold Goldball is travelling for his health-?" :-:'-: "Oh yes," replied the other; I forgot some of the tickers that came all the way from Pittsburgh were identified in his I  den. The pawnbrokers are not so smart as they used to be. He's the first one I've knowed to let the sharks get;their eyes on him. No receivers hung.; none, hardly, in the big stone country-seat at Moyamensing. What honest felows they are!" '  ("They are keen, at all events," said the great Gullem; ' they get all we find, and are not often found outthemselves. And when they do happen to be caught, the rest give them up and excommunicate them from the lodge.  Old GoIdbal's securities have offered a reward for him; it is stuck up on the lamp-posts; and when he's caught, and he will be, if he don't give himself up, -and rely upon the papers sent to Harrisburg, he will be treatedlike "a stranger, and get a long term, for being a bungler at his trade. 1But never mind him. Let us settle the business the best we can without him. I think the Ad:, jewels are worth $1000." I- : ' "Double that, if they ain't paste," said Creeper. A   "But what if they are paste?"     to'     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;  "Old Tingle don't deal in paste,' said Creeper.  "Can't tell," observed Picker, shaking his long unkempt black locks over his elongated pale face. "Sometimes the rich folks make a big show with a little money. I found a  mighty bright pin once in the crowd that was huzzaing for  Clay. The stone fell out afterwards in my hand-it was acci-  dent; and all the jewellers in Chestnut street said it was only i paste. Now the man that was so unfortunate as to lose it had I  on the most beautifulest kid gloves, and was looking through a mighty neat eye-glass as the procession went by. He was  a uncommon eloquent political writer, as I heard afterwards. How do you know these man-traps belong to the Tingle gals?"            . "How do I know I am Creeper?  Because I creep. How do I know the Tingle gals? Because I see 'em often enough.  And didn't I see 'em that night---  "You said it was dark," replied the other. "I saw their sled before they came in; I saw them before they were let in; I saw them before I went to sleep, after they got in; and I saw them ride home after they got out. Was that seeing them enough?"                ? "It won't do to give them up for $100," said Gullem.  "No," responded the rest.  "At least it won't do to give them up for that price," con- tinued the astrologer, "at present. We must wait and try to - find out what they are worth." At that moment the tinkling of a bell was heard at some  distance. The sound was familiar to the ears of the doctor, and to Betty. The latter disappeared through a small secret door in the rear of the room, and after being absent a few moments came running back, saying, half breathless, " Doctor, it's Mrs. Greatpin, from-- Row, and the fat woman that lives with the Tingles?"  The doctor lost no time in answering the call, but requested a/i   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       56  his friends to remain where they were until he returned. They required no special persuasion to do so, as all knew in a moment that the visit would have something to do with the jewels, and they were curious to learn the result of the profes- sor's conference. Betty, who had hastened back to the profes- sor's rooms, after announcing who it was that rang, lost no time in admitting the ladies.  The astrologer appeared before the visiters in the gorgeous costume of a conjuror, and in his most imposing attitude. They regarded him with profound respect, both being intel- lectually -weak, and consequently excessively superstitious. Mrs. Greatpin, in particular, had a reverence for his supposed powers, confirmed by the recovery of her plate, which she attributed, and very justly, but not by the means she supposed, to his agency; and the ancient Miss Prince was a delighted proteg6 of that credulous matron. "Doctor," said Mrs. G., "this lady is Mrs. Tingle's sister, and on my recommendation has come to consult you about some jewels which have been lost. Mr. Tingle has put an advertisement in the papers, offering a reward of $100 to the finder. But Mrs. Tingle and her daughters have authorized Miss Prince, the lady now before you, to say they will give you a hundred dollars each, making in all, three hundred dollars, if you will restore them immediately." "Madam, I cannot restore them immediately," said the astrologer, " because I am not the fortunate finder. But by my art, no doubt I can discover who did find them, and may be the means of restoring them to their owner very soon. I say I may be able to do this, but I am not certain. It may depend on their value. Say they should be worth a thousand dollars-" "Pshaw, doctor!" said Mrs. Greatpit, " they did not cost more than five hundred. When you have found out the one who has them, you know he can be compelled to give them i     "     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; up upon the tender of the $100 reward which has been offered." "No, madam, such unfortunately is not the case. I can never find those who possess the articles I am in quest of, only by making a solemn pledge that their names are never to be mentioned. Such was the case when I recovered your plate." "But my plate was stolen." "No matter; it is the same in all instances. But if the jewels really did not cost more than $500, I think we will succeed in getting them back. The three hundred from the ladies, and the $100 from Mr. Tingle, will make four--"' "You-are not to get Mr. Tingle's one hundred," said Aunt Silvy; "that's not the bargain. I want to convince Mr. T., that you are not the humbug he takes you to be, and that I'm not the weak superstitious old maid that he takes me for." "I see," said the astrologer, bowing respectfully; " it is to compliment me that the reward is to be relinquished. I feel flattered, madam, and will do my utmost to deserve your good opinion. If the jewels are recovered, your friendship for me and advocacy of my art in fashionable society will be worth much. More, a great deal, than $100 spent in advertising," he added, aside. "Then we may rely on you, doctor?" "Yes; I think so. Bring, or send the funds, at 9 o'clock this evening." Saying this, the professor dismissed the ladies with an awkward motion of the hand, which he intended for a graceful gesticulation. He joined the party of thieves im- mediately, and informed them fully of what had transpired. "Don't like it," said Picker. Nor I," said Smasher. "Three hundred's not enough," said Creeper. "No," said Doll, slapping the table so violently that the glasses jingled. "Here are three ladies of us," said Kate, "we can raise a   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        57 hundred apiece; suppose we redeem them, and wear them - ourselves!" A pretty figure you would cut in them!" said Gullem; "and they would soon be exchanged for iron necklaces and : wristhands." This caused a laugh against the ladies, who did : not resent it, as they knew there was great probability in the i picture the doctor presented to their quick imaginations. "Still," said Smasher, doggedly, "When we've got any- /i thing that is real waluable in our gripe, I don't like to see it ;? going back for not half its walue." How much do you think the pawnbrokers would advance on the jewels?" asked the astrologer. "Well," responded Smasher, looking very candid and honest, "I can't say that they would be more generous than the rightful owners. They're wolves in sheeps' clothing with A other folks; with us they're lions, and take the lion's share." This sally produced general good humour, and it was agreed A that the astrologer might do as he pleased, and they would be ' satisfied. And he took this occasion to impress upon them the : necessity of his not being too exacting in his negotiations for : the recovery of stolen goods, so as not to excite suspicion, and - endanger the prosperity of their trade. He convinced them - that by his means information could often -be obtained where  rich "lifts" were to be had, and when such intelligence could not be obtained in any other way. He was continually prying :1 into the secrets and condition of families, by means of the : astonishing number of servants, male and female, that habitu- ally resorted to him for his advice and to learn the hidden Xg things of the future. Independently of what the doctor received as a mediator ! between parties who had been robbed and the thieves who des- j polled them-to say nothing of what he stole himself occa- i sionally, for roguery had been his sole profession before he turned astrologer-he must have realized considerable sums     58      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; by pretending to consult the planets, and to cast the nativities of the many gullible applicants at his door. He expended thousands in advertisements, and succeeded in securing the editorial advocacy of several needy publications. So famous had become his name, and so effectually had he worked upon the many weak minds throughout the country, by means of skilful advertisements and fictitious affidavits, that every mail brought him enclosures of bank notes from every point of the compass, for he professed to be able to give any information desired, as well in the absence of the applicant as in his pre- sence. Not only did he pretend to foretell future events, but he could give such instruction as would, if implicitly obeyed, produce the consummation of any desire. Thus he bestowed distinction on members of Congress, insured the election of candidates for judicial stations, gave fortunes to the poor, husbands to women, children to the barren, and, finally, health to the afflicted. At least his daily publications, purporting to be attested by the oaths of his gratified and grateful subjects, declared that all these things had been done by him. A won- derful man was Dr. Gullem! At the hour appointed, Aunt Silvy, Emily, and the hopeful Tom, were ushered by the nymph Betty into the presence of the astrologer. Emily produced the amount of money which had been stipulated, and listened impatiently to several long and edifying speeches from the professor, designed to impress upon his visiters the vast powers he possessed by means of his art, which he said had been the study of his life, and which enabled him to bestow immeasurable benefits upon the com- munity. He had offers from the first crowned heads in Europe, of infinite wealth and high titles, to take up his abode abroad; but he was the enemy of tyrants, and having become natu- ralized here, loved the free institutions of our country. He said, however, that his recovery of the lost treasure on the present occasion, had been attended with difficulty. He had   TOH, THf iI? L LtL . 9. been at great expense, and had run some risk of losing his life by assassination, before he could succeed. "Finally," said he, in a very low tone, " to be ca did wth you, the jewela were not in honest hands; And Ha' y safely venttre .e pre- diction that had not my services been gepued, .they would at have been  o recpvered by yoi." Aunt 1Silvy vas elolqpt w' the bestowal of her thanks upon .the doctor; and .veen dtol 5 him to his face that he was the most wonderful and 'extrr- ordinary great man she ever laid hier two eyes .on t" Emily looked him keenly in th facceduring ,the whole of the cer- mony. She was completely self-possseed, -and .by .no mnp disposed :to attach much importance to anything he said. She had more than a slight suspicion that the doctor knew the mai- ner in which the jewels had been lost, before he had been con- sulted by Aunt Silvy, ad this by means independent of his black art, which she had but little faith in. The more she reflected on the subet, the more she became convinced that she had taken the casket with her inmher muff, when she visited the astrologer to have her fortune read. The muff had befp left on the sofa for at least twenty minutes,and he had not thought of the jewels until she got home, when she missed them for the first time. "'II im Iprry tposay," eontiOtl-dctQc X ,when he handed the jewelsto Anunt Silvy t(he dild pt w,t, muc h attention on the 4old,, ip eiousd ilpY," ht 0o0er two Srctoures h*ay occurred in this necklace," which he held up, displaying ,:tp l;links bTroken; Ibut perxhaps hey wt;eerqon e heforieOthpy Bwre X g lost." "'No!" said Emily. "They were .pet.      We ;hji-jnst 4  received them from the jeweller,^h bhad epaired iejn. h-iey were all pect." "That's true," said Tom, "we had juit;gpt t epn frpn qld -  Spangler." Justt4hen Emily .rceit4glpslintm9rntpntof the ac dbapery eorizg the ireqsa behwind ghich .  r*e j-   5 Ii      60      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; Creeper had been concealed on the former occasion. She boldly thrust it aside, and that astonished individual was discovered lying on a settee apparently fast asleep. "Don't be alarmed, ladies!" exclaimed the Doctor, on per- ceiving what had been done. "That is a special police officer employed by me to watch the premises, and to keep the riotous visiters who sometimes thrust themselves in my presence, in peaceable order." "Suppose we go to Spangler's again, and get him to mend the jewels over," said Aunt Silvy, who was anxious to exhibit them in a perfect state to Mr. Tingle, and to inform him triumphantly of their recovery by means of the conjuror. She was likewise resolved to keep the fact of a large reward having been paid, a profound secret from Mr. Tingle. "Not to-night," said Emily, decisively, taking the casket in her own hands and depositing it in her muff. When the party departed, Creeper threw aside the curtain and walked out of his hiding-place, rubbing his hands with delight. But Dr. Gullem was not so well pleased with him. "Why the d--- didn't you keep still?" demanded he. "Oh, I could'nt, when I heard old Spangler's name men- tioned. He's the very man we're going to patronize next, and if we wait a few days and watch the motions of the Tingle gals, we'll get back our precious jewels. When that bright idea struck me, it made me jump a little. Couldn't help it, doctor." "If you can't command yourself better, you won't do for me. I must get a better man." "The d-- 1 you say!" a Yes, I say it, and I'll have it so." Why, what harm was done, when you cured it all by say- ing I was a policeman?" "I'll tell you. Suppose, some of these days, as is not improbable, you should fall into the hands of the law, and be   X,^ OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.             61 recognised in the prisoner's box as the man seen sleeping in I;  my room?"  "   Oh, doctor) don't talk that way! Don't say such a thing as my being nabbed is probable. It makes me shiver all over. But we must all take our chances. You are as deep in the mud as I am in the mire. Remember that." I only want to guard against such a thing happening. If it had not been for my speech, what would that keen-eyed girl have supposed you were doing there?" ?;  a All right, doctor, it was your incomparable genius fixed it :  all. Better luck with me next time. Gad! she's a nice gal, that, but she has the courage of the d---. When she looked at me, I watched her through my fingers. She didn't catch her breath or turn pale, no more than Doll would have done." "If you do happen to snatch the jewels again, recollect they are to be brought straight to me," 'said Gullem, reverting to what the robber had said in relation to Mr. Spangler. "The Tingles are rich, and will bleed freely. The next time I will make them pay four hundred dollars for them, at least." On the fifth night after the occurrence narrated above, old Mr. Spangler might have been seen sitting in his dingy shop, once more at work on the famous jewels of the as equally famous Tingles. Julia, a little paler than usual, but not less beautiful, sat beside him with a book in her hand, from which she occasionally turned her eyes away, as in deep mental abstraction. The show-cases on the counter, seemed to have been almost emptied of their contents, and at least one-half of the old-time time-pieces had disappeared. The determined Harry was at that moment tossed upon the waves of the ocean, his thoughts far before him, already dwelling in the land of gold, and his heart confident of success. But he did not go relying solely upon making a fortune from the profits that might be realized from the sale of the trinkets and old trumpery which , ,- = 1ti-     "32     TH SPAGLEIS AND TIN GLES; i is father could spare front his shop. It is true he took with him all such articles as had remained long on hand, and which could bd spafed Without detriment to the little business at hiftne. Birt, Mr. Tingle, true to his; promise, had advanced hiid $3000, to secure the payment of which Mr. Spangler had again given a mortgage ont his house. And, indeed, since the deprOciition in n the Value of real1 estate ini that nieighbourhood,  itr *a ddobtful if fhe pr eiise would have brought such a sum if they had been sold. Harry had opposed' thfe arrangement; iA his kitAd father, *hobe affectioii for hlli only boy, Vith lbfi' he was parttirig for tlf first tim', add prit ps for ever, fftit odflowed,- resoNed to h"av his 6iw Wr ay.; ad a1 rtfibu- lriy whien Mr. Tirig1d eeing do urge hhii tot the -tep. Harty could only prevail: 6o himi to retain a portion of the lIba to pay the first year's interest, and to provide for the mainte- "ance of the little family, until his remittances should begin ti6 itrive. And he made many solemn agsurances that if he lived, his father and sister iould, one day, and: that Should iot ibe a distant one, resume the comforts of life and station in society which his family had been accustomed to a half- cenittrY before. The old many having finished niending the necklace, was now burnishing the precious stones which had been dimmed by the operation. But more than once his sight became dim likewise. It was not owing to his age, for the old man had still a lustrous black eye; or for the lack of sufficient light in the room; neither could it have been regret at having parted With the jewels, which seemed in a most uinaceountable man- ner to -e contiiiually finding their way back to his shop. It could hardly have beeni fromr any one of these causes singly: but perhaps there might have been sufficient in tien, when combined with the thought that his good and lovely boy-,his only son--o-Was gone, to suffuse his eyes. He was not only separated from him for the first time in his life, but at that   X:!:;     OR, TIE RIVAL BELLES.        63 moment he was departing farther and farther away, and per- haps would never, never return. The old man's eyes might never rest upon his dear boy again. No wonder they grew -  dim when such apprehensions overwhelmed him. Once or twice he shook his head smartly, as if striving to drive, these X painful thoughts away; and then he wiped his face with : his handkerchief, and finding that his emaciated cheeks were -  really quite wet with tears, he turned his back towards his daughter, so as to conceal his tender weakness from her obser- -? vation. But she had perceived it; she had seen several drops trickle down from his face and fall on the table, even before X  he was aware of the extent of his emotion himself; and she, too, had inclined her face away, so as not to let him suspect she had been observing him. And when her face was averted, her eyes, too, were filled with tears. They were the first tears she had seen her father shed since her poor mother was buried :  at Laurel Hill; and she knew he was weeping now because he -, had lost for a very long time, if not for ever, his brave son. But she would not let him know that she was aware of his h being overcome with an electric thrill of affection while think- :  ing of the absent Harry. He was endeavouring to conceal it from her, and she would not defeat his endeavours for any consideration. It was soon over. It passed like a fleeting cloud before the moon, which now beamed in the firmament with its wonted 1 clearness and splendour. In truth; the old man was soon him- self again, and the mournful expression of his features had given place to a sweet smile. ' "Jule," said he, placing his slim hand on her head, which '  he patted gently, "we will be company for each other now* You will always be with your old father of evenings, won't you?" Yes, dear father," said she, looking up in his face, as with  *,X5* -. ...     4r   TTHE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; FAirprise. "But haven't I always been in the habit of staying with you-almost always?" "True, Jule, I do not think I could say with truth that you have been away from me of evenings three times during the last twelve months. But now, it seems as if I would be unhappy for you to be away once during the next year." "Do you think Harry will be gone a whole year, father?" "A whole year, my child? Why-yes; and it may be- - two. But we must submit, Jule; there is no help for it, now.-' "Good Harry! Good Harry! Poor Jule! Pretty Jule!" cried the parrot. This unexpected sally of Poll, made both parent and child smile, and Julia ran to the corner where the cage was suspended, and caressed the bird, which held down its head for that purpose. "We must submit, child, even if it should be the will of Providence that we are never to see Harry again," said the old man, shaking his head. "Oh, I pray constantly that he may be permitted to return, and will continue to offer up prayers daily in his behalf until he shall come back. Father, I know he will come back, well, and rich!" Julia said this with a mingled enthusiasm: and spirituality in her expression which caused her father to start, and to regard her ap'hic features for some moments in silence, nd with a thrill of awe which a divine revelation might have -.;i inspired. '   "!"I trust, my sweet child," said he, "that you utter the words of prophecy; and if any one can do so, I am sure i one more pure and guilleess could have the gift bestowed upon them." "Rely upon it, father, he will come back. I have a pre- sentiment of it. Yet I would have been happier in his absence, ierhaps, if Dr. -. had prrayed for his safety, on Sunday last. I saw him on. Saturday, and begged him to do so. He f   Xl       OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       65 did not promise, nor did he refuse me. But he said such prayers consumed time when the congregation were impatient. Still he smiled, and I took my leave. On Sunday I was there, as usual. But no supplication was offered by him for poor Harry. There were thanks for a rich man who had crossed the Atlantic, but nothing for poor Harry! I think, though, t God hears all my prayers in secret; for I always feel comforted; and I Will not cease offering my humble petition until Harry returns."  "That is right, Jule. God will hear your and it may be grant your requests. When your grandfather went on a jour- ney, prayers Were not omitted in church for his safety. He W as rich. We are poor, Jule. But God is no respecter of persons" "Father, what is the nature of a mortgage?" asked the girl, : reverting suddenly to the scene she had Witnessed a few days before. She had heard the word mortgage mentioned; and had seen her father's hand tremble when he affied his signa- ft ure to a document. : "It is a pledge to deliver up to be sold certain property in default of paying a certain sum or sums of money. The pro.  perty is pledged as security for the payment." ")"  Then if Mr. Tingle should demand payment of the money, when you are inable to pay, he might take our house?" ": YeA, my child-that is, he could have it sold, and pay Al  himself with the proceeds. But if it sold for more than his A  claim, I Would get the balance." :1 "I Wish you had borrowed the money of some other man," said Julia, musing.               I "Why, Jule?" demanded the old man. "Because-indeed I hardly know why, father; I am silly, ;ll: I know; but still I wish as I have said, when I can't give a reason for it. I don't like Mr. Tingle, notwithstanding he always seems to be very kind to me. But I can't like any     "     THEI SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; one that Mr. Tweed don't like. Mr. Tweed always frowns when Mr. Tingle's name is mentioned, and says he is not a good man." This Mr. Tweed was a gentleman upwards of fifty years old, and, next to his father, the nearest and dearest friend of Harry, and of course of Julia. He had once been an opulent merchant, but was ruined by the financial revulsion in 1838. Fortunately he was unmarried, and none near and dear to him had been involved in his ruin. Previous to his failure in busi- ness, he had been reserved and dignified in his speech and manners; but when the disaster befell him, he became sud- denly the reverse, being apparently exceedingly cheerful and communicative. His friends thought his mind had been affected by the change in his affairs; and while they pitied him, they;still thought it fortunate that his slight aberration of intellect produced no worse results. He was employed as a salesman, by Messrs. Domet & Co., at a- salary of $1000 per annum, and it turned out that there was not a more efficient man in the establishment than the smiling, active William Tweed. From the first day that Harry entered the house of Domet & Co., Mr. Tweed felt drawn towards him; and he had not been there a month, before Mr. Tweed regarded him with almost as strong an affection as a parent feels for a child. And Harry loved his gray-haired fellow-clerk, next to his father and sister. He followed his advice in all things, but one. Mr. Tweed at first opposed the California expedition, solely, as he confessed, from the selfish consideration that he must lose Harry's society. Since the young man had embarked, Mr. Tweed was a daily visiter at Mr. Spangler's house, and was always received with the same unreserve and cordiality by Julia as if he had been an uncle, and by Mr. Spangler as if he had been a brother. "Mr. Tingle is a rich man," said Mr. Spangler, "and had the money to spare; besides, his father was under obligations   XIll-'-      OR, THE RIVAL BELEtS.        67 to mine, as you know. I gave him the preference for those reasons. Besides, I have never seen anything in his conduct to make me suppose he was a bad man." -  "But, father, if his family owed a debt of gratitude to yours, as they undoubtedly do, why should he require you to sign a mortgage?" "Well, child, truly there was no need for such--but it is the custom, and I was willing to make the venture for Harry's sake. If the venture be lost, Jule, Harry will have appropri- I ated the whole of the estate, one-half of Which was designed for you, and was justly yours. But you are willing to trust Harry,--", "Oh, father, I would trust everything in the world with Harry; and if he lost it all, I would neither murmur nor have any the less confidence in him. Besides, you kno,- I cin make a living;" and asshe said fiis, she held up a smooth wooden block, on which she had beeni sketching a design illus- : trative of a scene which she had been reading in the b6ol that lay before her. Her friend, Mr. Tweed, who was really a :  gentleman of education and taste, observing, some months i; j previously to Harry's embarkation, the talent displayed ifi  Julia's drawings, with which occupation she was continually . amusing herself, as she became interested in the books she perused, conceived the idea of turning her labours to account. : ; For this purpose he exhibited several specimens of her outline drawings of scenes and characters in a work which was soon to be reprinted, to the publisher of the book, who was so much pleased with them that le offered five dollars ea6h for them, !  and for as many more f the same kind as the artist might send him. Julia remained unknown to her patron, while the business was negotiated by Mr. Tweed; and that which was first merely a source of amusement and of agreeable employ- ; ment, soon became likewise a means of profit. Every week * a j . . '-          '         4     68      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; she sent to the publisher two designs, and received by the ' hands of the joyous old Mr. Tweed ten dollars in return. "That is true, Jule," said the old man, with a proud smile. "God has endowed you with more than ordinary genius, te enable you to make such perfect designs. You had no ex- pensive instructions in that art, and yet Mr. Tweed says you really excel in it. So, if the worst comes to the worst, you can still live in comfort, as long as you have health. And upon my word, I believe ,your labours have yielded a better i return of late than mine!"With the exception of the mend- ing of the jewels belonging to the Tingles, the old man had ; not recently realized five dollars a week from the few jobs that found their way to his shop. "Oh, we'll be economical till Harry returns. Susan (the coloured cook) says she won't receive more than one dollar a week till he comes back, instead of one dollar and a quarter. Our bread, three loaves a day, will only be eighty-four cents; and the marketing and groceries will not exceed three dollars. Why, one of my sketches will support us!" "Bravo, Jule!" said her father, folding her in his arms, and kissing her noble forehead. "But when Harry returns, we'll be rich-rich, dear father!---mind what I say. Then we will leave this old cor- ner, and live in a beautiful mansion in the western part of the city. The house will be furnished like Mr. Tingle's. The girls took me through their house once, and showed me  everything." "You will have a piano, of course, Julia?" said her father, his features relaxing to a smile.  "I don't know," she replied, shaking her head slowly. "Mr. Tweed says that instrument is pretty much of a humbug. He thinks it looks very well as a piece of furniture, and serves for a lady to show off with. She can display a fine figure sitting before it, and pretty hands suspended over the   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       69 keys; but he says he was never often charmed with its music. Few ladies play perfectly, and the majority of them very im-  perfectly. If instrumental music-is desired he thinks it would be better to have a huge musical box, which would play ma- thematically correct, and never be subject to the caprices and ? embarrassments of the performers, who would have only to take the key and wind it up when it ran down: and as for singing, he says I need desire nothing better with which to accompany my voice, than the guitar." "That is my opinion, too," said her father. :/  "Oh, Mr. Tweed's opinions are always right, for they never fail to agree with yours. But we will have a large house, like / Mr. Tingle's, with a wide hall, and stately rooms on both sides of it, and a flower garden and yard on the premises. To be A sure these would cost a great sum of money; but I am sup- : posing Harry will bring back a million of gold." Suppose he should not bring any, Jule?" "I would not be unhappy. Pray don't think I shall be disappointed and miserable, dear father, if my hopes are not ;g to be realized. I would not build these castles in the air, if I X thought the disappointment at never realizing them might make me unhappy. No, no; I only do it to keep my mind / employed, and to furnish pleasant dreams, while Harry is 1 away." "And I, Jule, I too sometimes let my fancy slip, and then ; I see you decked as I recollect to have seen my mother when I was a very young boy. She was beautiful, and you resem- ble her, my poor child. Yes, I have often thought you would be equally as beautiful and as queenly, with these jewels glit- tering on your brow; and I have always hoped that I might live to redeem them." "And so you may, father; and you will, I have no doubt, when Harry returns. But I could do well enough without jewels. It would make me far happier to see you occupy a     70     THE 8PANQLEUS AND TINGLES;         I fine house, and ride about the city at your ease, like Mr. Tin- gle. He who was once your father's servant--"      , I  J ulia!" interrupted her father, seriously, "don't dwell  upon t hat, my child. I hope you .have never mentioned that circumstance." "-No, father, I have never mentioned it to any one. Why hould I?" - S;"'That is a good girl. True, why should it be mentioned? It might pain the Tingles, and could dp no one any good. In  this country the lowly may rise, and the lofty may sink, aId their original stations be alike forgotten. Such is the effect  of our mititution.- But low .or high, all who are -virtuous deserve respect." "But they do not have it, father." "It may be that they do not. But the good should not be the ones to withhold it." "Who's Tingle? who's Tingle?" utterd the parrot. "Who taught him that?" dem need the old man, turning - round and looking towards the bhird wi it tonnishment. "Dear father, no one. ie often repeats word I never  hear any one utter bqfore him. h he has been taught them, it wpb-hefore mytrecccti^  replied Juia. And such might have been the case, for the bird was some forty years old, at the least, and had doubtless heard of Mr. Tingle before Julia was born. Precisely at ten o'clock, the father and daughter retired, as was their custom, to their respective rooms. All the lights were extinguished, and perfect silence prevailed throughout the  building. In the tretr et t gh-ells were still heard ro ca siopally but they too, ,at length, 1pasd at t nger intervals Prayers, both for the absent and for those pr-esgt, ;nqar and dg ar tohe pe titionqrs, ,hbd been devoulyff qff ed, id Ite the paewly d yighter and the soliitpy parent pankito peafaul rppe. T  r . slwumbers were dee prtQp tofouod fr thqp . to u*bpr     e             . A   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       -71 be enabled to discern the muffled strokes without, that might have been detected by the ears of more unquiet and less peace- ful individuals. Low, cautious sounds-the evil workings of unprincipled men--vibrated near them. The auger and the chisel were at work at their door, while they were plunged in that deep repose which solaces the guileless spirit, whatever may be its wrongs and its weariness by day. Sleep on! Angels will guard the good, whatever storms arise, and however adverse the circumstances which may seem to surround them. -. And seeming calamities, and apparently inevitable ruin, are often but the precursors of good. Ye who are good, hever   despair! "I have bored round," whispered Creeper. "Then cut out the piece," said Slungshot. "Be quick, or else Snatcher will be here to see how we get on." "If he comes we'll let him enter first," said Creeper; " the old fellow here may have a spring gun, or some other sort of  trap to catch meddlers. I don't like to trust these folks who use edged tools, and work with wires, and triggers, and such  like." "You're a timid fool, Creeper!" replied Slungshot. "Make the hole big enough, and I'll enter first. What I two men like us to be afraid of a pale, weak old dotard, and a young girl!" "You forget the black cook, with her carving knife and iron poker, to say nothing of the guns and pistols that may be set for us."  "You was in to 'connoiter to-day, and also watched the old man shut up to-night; did you see anything like guns or pistols '" No, I did not, it'sa fact; but such things are never placed where they can be seen."  "Hurry out the panel, and let me in. If any of'em inter- fere with my business, I'll settle the hash with 'em!" As Slungshot said this, he prepared the instrument of destruction,     72      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLEA;  which he had used more than once on such occasions, and from which the name he was known by had been derived. Hush!" said Creeper, as the watchman turned the corner and passed near them. Immediately they ceased their dia- bolical work, and stood near the curb, apparently engaged in a conversation on some indifferent subject. The watchman scrutinized them closely as he strode by; but it was impossible  for him to recognise them, as they were muffled up closely, and it was intensely cold. He did not take the liberty of i addressing them. Such an impudence would not be tolerated in this land of liberty. Official interference is only excusable in instances where the offenders may be taken flagrante delictu. "There!" said Creeper, again applying his instruments, as he recognised the whistle of Snatcher, who was stationed at the corner below. "That was Snatcher's signal. He's out of the way, without suspecting anything; so here goes!" The next moment Slungshot entered the premises, followed slowly by the cautious Creeper. They carefully closed the orifice on the inside, and struck a light. "There isn't much here for us," said Slungshot, holding up his lamp and looking round the room. "We want nothing but a little ivory box, and its contents," replied his companion, "and they're here, as sure as you're born. There's no iron safe about, that's a fact; and I'm afeard the jewels are up stairs." "What if they are?" said Slungshot, observing Creeper's disappointment. "We must grab 'em, even if they're under the old man's head or in the gal's nightcap." "Go out! go out!'" said the parrot. "Who's that?" cried Slungshot, drawing a ferocious-looking knife from his bosom. "We're done for!" said Creeper. "Done be d---d!" said his companion, examining the places   H          OR, TiIE RIVAL BELLES.       78 of concealment in the recesses under the counter, with the savage resolution of taking the life of the one who had spoken, as soon as he could find him. But the search was in vain for the supposed man who dared to order them out of the house. At length they discovered the poor bird. It was in great alarm, and trembled violently; but its presence of mind - seemed to be not entirely gone, for when they approached, it turned its head round on its back and closed its eyes, as if preparing to sleep. "Aha!" said Slungshot, "you're the big man who ordered us out! I'll soon make short work with you." ' Stop, Slung!" said Creeper, quickly, and interposing. "He's quiet now; but if you try to kill him, he'll make a d   1 of a splutter before you can finish him. I know them t green covies of old; one sent Jack Ripper to Moyamensing Xi for five years, and came within an ace of giving me a hempen cravat. He would kill it, and before he' could do so, its cries roused the whole neighbourhood." Slungshot desisted, mut- tering an execration. After examining the premises more thoroughly, without finding the prize they were in quest of, the burglars succeeded in opening the door communicating with the dining-room, and then ascended the stairway without making the slightest noise. I  The first chamber they entered was Julia's. The. girl was sleeping calmly, with a sweet smile upon her lip. Creeper pulled his companion by the sleeve, and pointed at the picture before them. The latter made an impatient movement, the long knife still in his hand. He did not come there to be stayed by the attractions of beauty; and so he set himself to the business in hand. After searching the closets, and the drawers of the bureau, without finding the casket, they opened the door communicating with the front room, and stood in the presence of the sleeping father. He breathed as softly as an infant in its slumber, for his heart was altogether guileless. 8  -                      .     74      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;  The burglars were at once attracted by a black wooden chest under the bed of the sleeping man, and the next moment they both crept under the drapery and commenced operations upon the lock, which was truly the only bar between them and the object of their search. Their skill soon triumphed, and Creeper held the prize in his trembling hand. They might have now withdiawn without giving the slightest alarm to the family. But the insatiable cupidity of Slungshot overruled the timidity and prudence of his companion. They lingered : for many minutes, examining the entire contents of the chest, which consisted mostly of papers, and in opening an old hair trunk in a corner of the room, which they had not observed on first entering. The opening of this proved to be a more difficult task than the other. They wrenched off the lock, however, not without making considerable noise, and were rewarded with the joyful sight of a considerable amount of money, it being the sum which Harry had prevailed on his father to retain in his possession. Just as they were depositing it in their pockets, they were startled by a cry below of "Watch! Watch!" "That's the d--d parrot!" whispered Slungshot; "why didn't you let me kill it?" "Come!" responded Creeper, pointing to the bed of Mr. Spangler. The old man had become restless, and soon awoke. Instantly he was conscious of the presence of persons in the room. He sprang up and seized a sword from a closet, which he brandished-about him, and succeeded in keeping Slungshot at a distance, who had at first endeavoured to stab him. For a considerable length of time the old man stood with his back against the door and presented the burglars from retreating, while he cried for help. His assailants strove to silence him  by throwing such heavy missiles at his head, as they had with  them or could find in the room. Finally one of them took effect in his temple and prostrated him, when they rushed out i'                    ,    OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        75 precipitately, without pausing to do him further injury. But 2: they were met by Susan, at the landing, crying "Lors a'mighty I Lors a'mighty!" They rushed against her, and all three of them rolled down the stairs together, while the parrot shouted vociferously, "Fire!" and "Murder!" alternately. As the thieves passed through the shop, Slungshot paused and aimed a blow at the cage, which came near silencing poor Poll for ?  ever. It missed him, however, and fortunately did no other   damage than demolishing the cage. The indignant bird, now a released from its confinement, flew to the door, from which they !  were escaping, and renewed its cries with redoubled vigour. :  And they were not without effect. Rattle answered rattle in all the neighbouring streets; and the tramp of men pursuing : or pursued were heard in different directions. But that was ? all. The burglars were not taken. In the morning, between three o'clock and sunrise, the -  thieves were assembled in the private withdrawing-room of Professor Gullem. The dim lamp threw a sombre hue over their strongly marked features. 'None of them, not even the abandoned females, had slept any during the night; and X although a kind of joy at their good fortune was expressed in j their faces, yet the whole picture was tinted with gloom, and. despite of the spasmodic emotions of delight, it betokened the i uneasiness within of danger and of crime. X  "You have done well, comrades," said the astrologer, taking X up the casket, which had been placed on the table. "But it will not do for us to restore the jewels a second time in my house." "Don't restore 'em at all; that's my idea," said Slungshot, slapping his broad, bony hand on the table.  "They must be restored," said the astrologer. "If we desire to thrive by our trade, we must follow it steadfastly. The greater my reputation becomes, for being able to restore stolen goods, the greater will be the profits of the business. 6*                   -  I                                /.     76      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; You know I divide all I get among you, and it is by means of me that you are enabled to make your best hauls." "That's true, doctor," said Creeper. ct Our professor is a great man-there's no denying it," said the women. "What do you say?" demanded the astrologer, turning to Snatcher, who seemed to be in a sullen mood, his cheek rest- ing on his hand. "All right, I s'pose, about the trinkets. But, doctor, I've , been thinking if you was such a great doctor, you might just as well try your hand to cure me." "Cure you I And pray what's the matter with you?" de- manded Doll. "I've got a horrifical toothache. That's the reason I was off my post so long when the gents were tapping the shop. I went to the dentist's." "Well, couldn't he cure you?" "Yes. I got well the moment he took up the pullers." Frightened!" said Doll, sneeringly. ' S'pose so. It stopped aching at the sight of the steel. Then I wouldn't have it pulled. The doctor-the dentists are  doctors, as well as astrologers-said it would ache again when  I went out, and the pullers should be no longer before my eyes. Thinks I, my cove, if that's it, I'll keep well, and not pay you anything for your bloody work, nother. So I just watched  for a good chance, and the first time he turned his head I bor- rowed his pullers, and vamosed with 'em in my pocket. But!! it was no go. When the ache returned, I pulled 'em out and looked at 'em by the gaslight, yet it done no good. I even  rubbed 'em 'gainst the jaw, bit the cussed tooth jumped and stung worse and worse."  "Let me pull it out," said the astrologer, taking up the instrument. And suiting the action to the word, and notwith-?/ standing the thief declared it had again ceased to ache, he per- [i   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.  sisted, and actually extracted the tooth, amidst the merriment of the company. "There!" he continued, "you owe me fifty cents." :  "You may have the pullers," said Snatcher. "That is finished," said the astrologer; "and now to busi- ness. They will be after me about these jewels. How much shall I ask for them?" ;:  "I say $500, as the lowest figure," said Slungshot. "That's a big figure," replied the astrologer. "We mustn't overdo the thing. If we want to do a brisk trade, we must be moderate in our prices." "For we will have a great many goods to sell," said Betty Glowworm, who possessed the most exalted opinion of the I  doctor's qualities. "I will get $500 if I can; and I will appoint a place some- !  where else than here, to deliver them. We must be careful this time, as they were not lost-that is, accidentally." "Only borrowed, like the pullers," said Snatcher. "To be returned when we're done with 'em," said Doll. "Yes. And I am to exchange them for the rags, as I got the loan of them, and came plaguy near falling into the hands of Ketch," said Slungshot. J  "And I run my nose right agin the nigger. Think of that,   gents!" said Creeper. "Yes, and you blated out, ' e're done'--and she blatedc out ' Lor's A'mighty.'  Then they both rolled over each other. But, gents, there's one thing I ought to have done, and my conscience aches me for not doing it. I ought to have killed the cussed parrot. It yelled 'fire' and 'murder' as loud and plain as I could do. It did make my blood run cold once, and troubled me more than the old man with the long sword, though he did know how to fence. These talking birds are a great nuisance, gents, and we ought to fix on some plan  to get rid of 'em. I thought I had killed it once; but the                      "1     78     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; next moment it was yelling 'fire' ' murder ' 'robbersl'  And it could be heard two squares off." About eight o'clock, A. M., Mr. Spangler and his daughter were sitting in the shop, plunged in profound grief. Traces of tears were visible on the face of Julia. The old man was pale and silent. The full extent of the robbery was known in that part of the city, and had been communicated to the Tin-  gles, who were inconsolable, and inclined to become furiously vindictive. The whole body of the police seemed to be in a state of uncommon agitation, and the captains or lieutenants of the corps had already waited upon Mr. Tingle to ascertain the pre-  cise value of the jewels, and to learn, if possible, what reward  would be given for their restoration; for these gentlemen, as well as the worthy Dr. Gullem, were sometimes fortunate in their negotiations for the recovery of stolen goods.' Two of them entered the shop of the aged jeweller, and propounded to him numerous grave interrogatories, which, to the unfeigned astonishment of the old man, implied a suspicion on their part that the whole affair of the robbery might be a sham. "Go!" at length exclaimed the old man, burning with indignation, and assuming a look and attitude of command which awed his visiters. "Leave my house! You are thieves, yourselves, or worse; and if you came here to catch a thief, you have been set upon the wrong track."  "We don't charge you with it," muttered the officers.  " Who do you charge, then? My daughter?" "No, no." "Then why come hither, at all? Go, I say! Leave my premises this instant, I command you!" They did as he bade them, well satisfied that they were on the wrong scent. The old man seized his hat and cane, and proceeded with great expedition to the lordly mansion of Mr.  Tingle. He found the girls in great perturbation, lamenting   IOX ,OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.            79 their bereavement, and protesting that their contemplated visit to Washington would be deprived of half its pleasure. Mr. Tingle was walking backwards and forwards in the parlour in a troubled state of mind, with his hands thrust in his breeches pockets. "You have doubtless heard of my misfortune," said Mr. Spangler, walking up to Mr. Tingle. "Of my misfortune, you mean," said Mr. Tingle, with quick emphasis. "Of mine, sir; they were mine and Ahne's, and we can't afford to lose them," said Emily. The old man looked a moment at the vexed faces of the t young ladies, but did not speak to them. "I came, sir," he continued, again addressing Mr. Tingle, "to ask if you instructed or authorized two policemen to visit my house this morning." "I certainly did," replied Mr. Tingle. "And knew that they would insult me?" "I did not know they would do that!" "Then why did they come?" "To get what information they could." "They might have done that without entering the. house. They could see from the street that a burglary had been corn- mitted." "Did they search the house? What have they found?" added Mr. Tingle, quickly. "They will report to you, I suppose. And if they tell the truth," said Mr. Spangler, with dignity, "they will say that I i ordered them out of my house." "Your house?" I understand yoti, I understand you, sir!" said the old man, striving to control his emotion. "But, sir, in regard to this robbery-I have nothing more to say in relation to it, "i                             !:     80     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; than that it took place. What steps do you propose taking, sir?" "I shall see my attorney." "Mr. Tingle-Mr. Tingle!" continued the old man, throw- ing a glance round at the females of the family, "can I have a minute with you alone?" "Oh, certainly! in the next room."  "Now, sir," said the old man, when they were alone, "I wish to understand distinctly your meaning; I do not want to ' labour under any misapprehension in regard to your suspicions and intentions. In a word, do youharbour the slightest doubt as to the reality of the robbery?" I won't answer the question, sir!" replied the rich man,  thrusting his thumbs in the arm-holes of his vest, and throwing back his head in a defiant attitude.  "Enough, sir; quite enough, sir!" said the poor man,  haughtily; "I have nothing more to say to you. Take your : course. God, and the law, will do me right. I might say  more, sir; and I will say that your conduct is unworthy of  the son of your honest father-"  "My father! How dare you name my father, sir?" ex-  claimed Mr. Tingle, livid with rage. "I will have you placed,  sir, where you can never be heard to mention my father's  name, or mine, sir!"  "I say, sir, so far as I was informed by msy father-and the  mention of his name can never offend me-your paternal parent was an honest and industrious man. It was only last i night, or rather this morning, sir, that I discovered he had ever been guilty of any species of deception, and the one I  allude to was not of a nature to injure any person." "What was it, sir, what was it?" cried Mr. Tingle, in a t husky voice.  "I found, sir, in the chest which had been forced open by  the robbers, an old letter written by Lord Ponsonby to my s!   X   O    IOR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       81 father, when he was on the eve of departing for America. It was a letter recommending your father as a good waiter and - faithful servant, and urging my father to take him into his - service. His name then was O'Tingle, and the letter states : that he had but a slight brogue--' At this moment several  thrilling screams were heard, and all the ladies, who had been X listening, burst into the room with dishevelled hair, and hys- terical cries. Mr. Spangler turned away, and withdrew. A scene ensued in that stately mansion, which, for violence 1 of temper and boisterousness of speech, no pen would be fully i adequate to describe. The storm was up, and the poor million- : aire, assailed from such an unexpected quarter, was unable to withstand its fury. In vain did he throw up his arms and : attempt to deprecate the wrath which burst upon his devoted X head. Wife and daughters alike assailed and reproached him : -and for what? Because he was his father's son! He might X have been censurable for concealing the secret from his family; JI : and it was cruel to permit the exalted ideas, the engendering ! of which he had encouraged, to be brought low in such a  sudden manner; yet who would not be fashionable and rich  on such conditions? They knew his father had been a grocer  at the commencement of his career,; and what is a shop-keeper but a servant of the public, and. a waiter upon the tastes and caprices of his customers? Besides, many a rich grocer's daughter aspires to rank in fashionable society, and is so ranked, while her parent still bends over his ledger. But the Tingles really supposed they occupied, and were entitled to occupy, a pre-eminence in society. And this was their j impending downfall. Yet the walls of their own, magnificent  mansion hid their humiliation from the world, and perhaps  they were not destined to undergo a public exposure. "Wretches, miserable wretches! to be the granddaughters of a servant-a waiter at the table of Spangler's father-shop-  keeper's father " cried Emily, wringing her hands.  I .  -      -             ' '1     82      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;        I "You should not have listened to us," said her bulky I father, now prostrate on a sofa, where he had thrown him.  self. He seemed to be very miserable, and resigned to his  misery. "That would not have *made it otherwise, Mr. Tingle," said Mrs. T. "you have basely deceived me, sir--you have brought misery and disgrace upon myself and my daughters,  and upon my whole family I To think that the Princes should be allied to the O'Tingles! the O'Tingles, who have,-  no doubt, been mere menials for generations! It was criminal in you, sir!" "Keep your temper, my dear. We are all the descendants a of Adam. You are a member of the church, and a commu- : nicant. Don't you recollect the bishop said it was not much I worse in the eyes of God for a woman to lose her virtue than X to lose her temper? How would it look for a woman noto-  riously unchaste to commune every month?"      ! You are a brute, sir, to talk so! You shan't change the  subject."                        "The bishop added," continued Mr. Tingle, "that when? one's passions are roused, he is fit for every kind of sin and :: crime. He is ready to rob, or kill, or commit----"  "Mr. Tingle! Mr. Tingle! Mr. Tingle--"  "Mr. O'Tingle, ma!" cried Anne, prompting her mother. Mention not the odious name!" cried Emily.  "Mr. Tingle," continued Mrs. T., "why will you aggravate  us still more by such irrelevant remarks? It is this world we  have now to do with, and not the next."  "Well, what would you have me do? What have I done?  I did not beget my father, did I?" "Why did you not tell me all this before we were married?  Then my name and blood would have remained untarnished." : "Yes, and you would have remained as poor asJob's turkey. I I wanted children, to enjoy my fortune."  '              '        * ^       I   OR, TIIE RIVAL BELLES.       83 4. "Ma," said Emily, who grew suddenly composed, "blame him no more. The Tingles are as good as other people." j Emily had reflected that if the revelation had been miade to  her mother, and if the union had not taken place, there would have-been no daughters, now the great heiresses and the belles . She was satisfied that the matter had been so compounded, and would not have had the arrangement undone, were such a ; thing possible. She now took her father's part, and instantly silenced the batteries against him. The rich man was so much  H overjoyed at this unexpected turn of affairs, for the briery tongue of his youngest daughter he had always the most reason to dread, that he would have willingly bestowed upon her one- X  half his estate. As it was, he slipped into her hand a bank X note for $500.  What was done before any of us were born, ma," said the gratified Emily, "certainly cannot now be undone by us."  "I know that, my child," replied Mrs. Tingle, in a mild  X  voice. '  g "But we can act for the best in future, can't we, pa?" "You are a sensible girl, Em," said her subdued parent, till holding her hand, which he had grasped when she came to his relief. Speak on, Em." ' "Well, can't we keep this secret among ourselves?" '  "I will never tell it," said Anne. "Of course not," said her sister; "but the Spanglers will. Pa, can't the Spanglers be put out of the way?" "What do you mean?" asked her father, fearful she would , propose something terrible and dangerous. "I mean that they can be removed from the city, or at least be so circumscribed in their associations that those to whom they may tell the horrible tale can never be heard in the  circles where we move. The wretchedly poor are never re- spected, nor believed, when they tell such stories as this one  on the rich." Cool, calculating girl!  7                           I j     84      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "I see i" said Mr. Tingle, starting up. "They will be as ! poor as church mice, if I foreclose the mortgage I have on their : house." Tingle supposed this could be done at once.  "Let them live in Cedar street, or down Second," said  Mrs. Tingle; and then, tell what they please, it will never be heard by any of those whom we are in the habit of meeting."  "You will do it, pa?" asked Emily. Do it? I'll send for the attorney at once. To insult me, in my own house! I'll turn him out, bag and baggage! I will!" "Pa, wouldn't it be better to paty the Spanglers to say : nothing on the subject?" suggested Anne.  "Let me see-" began her father, apparently reflecting on the suggestion, which had not occurred to him before. "If he  would take the pay-but I know his nature. He would be  thankful for any kindness; but he has a haughty spirit, and  would say the other was too much like a bribe."     i "It wouldn't do!" said Emily. "Even if he would receive - pay to hold his tongue, then we would ever be in his power.  They would come and go when they pleased. We would be  required to introduce them to our acquaintances, to invite them  to our parties, and tvsit Aeir house. It won't do! We must cast them off, and crush he!" No one demurred to t 's entence, nor ventured another  suggestion. Anne was inclined to be merciful, but what could  she do in opposition to the decree of her imperious little sister? Even her weak parents durst not interpose. At this juncture Aunt Silvy entered the room in great ex- citement-a joyful excitement. I've had an audience with the great man, the most con- descendingest---"  Aunt Silvy! that was wrong!" said Anne. "I know what's prudentest and properest, as well as any    OR, TH RIVAL BELLES.        85 of the Prindes, if I hain't been to a boardintgschool. But  I've seen him; and I took with -me that good creature, Mrs. Greatpin, whose husband was tendered 'a high offiee once by the administration-:and sure she's respectable enough. The astrologer ays w s shall have the jewels, again, and that within t two days " That's joyful news!" said the girls. "  But," continued Aunt Silvy, "we'll have to pay the rogues at least $500, and bind ourselves not to persecut  !  them." X  "Prosecute them," said Anne. I  "They cost $3000," said Mr. Tingle.   "Had we not better pay it " asked Emily. l i Certainly," said her father, poihting to the banki-ote she i  held in her hand. Emily scrutinized it closely for the fir  ' time, and perceiving it to be a sum quite sufficient to redeem the jewels, which she was so anxious to wear at Washington,   she smiled so sweetly, that no one, when looking at her face, could have supposed her capable of harbouring a wicked pur-  pose in her breast. "If we get the jewels," said Anne, "  we will not be such  great losers by the Spanglers, after all; and perhaps the mi- 1 understanding with the old jeweller can be made up, Em." "No!" replied her sister, the red fading from her cheeks. : "They must be put out of the way; and it had better be doth at once, than put off to some future day. It must be done, sooner or later, must it not, pa?" "It shall be done, Em," said he.  X  "And without delay?" "Without delay!" he replied in a low voice. "That's a good pa!" replied she, kissing him. - In due course of time the jewels were restored through the instrumentality of Dr. Gullem, and the stipulated sum, viz. $500, paid for their recovery. This last feat of the astrologer      86      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; was celebrated in the advertising columns of all the papers;  and it was literally true, as he subsequently declared, that his  share of the reward was mostly transferred into the pockets  of the publishers. Advertising with him was a necessity, not an inclination; for his feats were attracting more attention than he desired, and he was becoming quite uneasy under the sus- picious glances of the police not in his pay, and the denuncia- tions of divers members of the community, who believed him to be in partnership with the rogues. He called a special  council of his nefarious confederates, and laid his case before them. He impressed upon them the necessity of operating with greater caution, and submitted it as the best policy for them to be governed by his advice in every particular. Some of them had occasionally engaged in enterprises without con- sulting him, and had not only endangered the existence of i: their system of raising money, but had appropriated the pro-.?: ceeds of their speculations exclusively to themselves. -ic "In short, gents," remarked the astrologer, "my business  won't pay, unless I have at least one-fourth of the proceeds."?i "That won't do, gents!" said Snatcher. "We do all the - hard work, and run all the chances of being stuck in the paunch, -:. or getting a bullet through the head; and all the time he's lolling like a gentleman barkeeper in his fine house." Yes," said the astrologer, ' I stay in the house; but who  pays the rent? If the firm will pay expenses, I shall be satis- [1 fled. But the rent's a mere drop in the bucket. I pay thou- i sands for advertising. I don't want to advertise, and could r do without it-" "Then stop it," said one.  "I dare not. Every time I neglect to renew my advertise- 7 ments, the papers begin to hint something about mountebanks, impositions, and the humbugs of fortune-tellers. Money is ' the only thing will stop their mouths. When I pay, they are  silent. When I don't pay, they growl and show their teeth. i '3 i^   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        87 These publishers are as greedy as sharks, and I wish we could once make a raise from them. They get the lion's share of all our stealing, and they know it-and they are no better than we are, if the receiver of stolen goods is as bad as the i thief. They are worse than the simple fortune-teller, who makes a living by false pretenees and telling lies; for they assert that the shopkeeper who advertises the most necessarily does the best business, when it isn't always true. In fact, ! three-fourths of the clothing men and quack doctors who adver- H tise so extravagantly, upon such assurances, fail in biusine A from that cause alone. Last night one of those dealers, thb will be a bankrupt next week, consulted me. I learned frdii I him that his bills for advertising, cards, handbills, and circu- lars, amounted during the year, to the enoibmous suih of $40O! I advised him not to pay them; but inluckily he had paid id advance. Now if he had not advertised, and had saved that sum, he would have done an excellent business. These pub- lishers are the only ones getting rich, while their credulou10 dupes are becoming bankrupt. But, gents, my case i; beforeb you. I must advertise, or rather pay black mail, or leave thi  I city; and I cannot pay and live on a les proportion of the proceeds than I have named." -;  The vote was taken, and the doctor's eloquence gained tih day; but those who voted in the negative, and among themi was Dolly Diamond, withdrew from the association, and formed  a partnership among themselves. 7* ig -                       I "-i     TIIE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; TIIE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;   PART   III. THE time had arrived for the Tingles to set out on their visit to Washington. Innumerable were the preparations and pre- liminaries made and settled the last few days preceding their departure. And not the least of their difficulties was the dis- position to be made of Aunt Silvy. She was the only Prince in the party, and her very name would give eclat to the family. But she was so oblivious or disregardful of the rules of orthography, etymology, and syntax, that the charm of her name would be more than counterbalanced by the mortifying slips of her tongue. It was arranged, finally, by Emily, whose decision was generally final, that she should remain behind and be mistress of the mansion. The carriage would be at her service, so that she could visit her particular friend, Mrs. Greatpin, in great state; and she might also entertain the habitual guests of the family at the mansion in the most approved style, according to her own notions. In short, she was to be sole mistress of the house, during the absence of the family. Early in the morning of the day of departure, the family coach was at the door, attended by a footman in livery; and a few paces in the rear was a -furniture car filled with trunks. On the opposite side of the street was a boarding-house, from the windows of which more than a dozen people were gazing at the scene. They had been accustomed to see the Tingles set out for the fashionable watering-places in the summer, when all the rich and fashionable families made it a rule to leave town; but it was winter now, and every one was lost in   v    ,     * OR, TlE  X t LT BELLES.       89 conjecture as to what point thaey iglht be rmoing, and why they were going at all. It was vain conjecture. The Tingles knew none of the inmates of the boarding-lhouse, as there hap- pened to be no students there from the south that season. Even the-servants of the family scorned to bestow any notice on the servants at the boarding-house. They were above that. Their acquaintance was confined to their peers in the proud families intimate with the Tingles. But still the Tingles were human beings, and had a share of the frailties of their kind. They were rather gratified to perceive their neighbours over the way, although they were entire strangers to them, watching their movements, and no doubt admiring the display they were making. The last trunk was placed in the furniture car, and the driver was ordered to proceed to the depot, accompanied by the servant who was to get the checks from the baggage- master. Then came baskets, portmanteaus, carpet-bags, band- boxes, hat-boxes, and two lap-dogs, which were placed either in the coach or beside the driver. At last Mr. and Mrs. Tingle appeared. The first in a blue coat with metal buttons, and on his arm an overcoat; the last in a rich velvet dress with a profusion of furs. These were followed closely by the Misses Tingle, dressed precisely alike, that it might be known they were sisters. They wore purple velvet, a royal colour, as their ancestors, on one side, had been Princes. After many adieus to Aunt Silvy, and to Mrs. Greatpin, who came to see them off, the four were seated in the coach. Mr. Tingle, however, in sitting down beside his spouse, had come near crushing one of the little dogs to death. It screamed most piteously, and whined pathetically, until Emily kissed it several times and pressed it against her bosom, bestowing, at thie same time, some censure upon her father, who excused his conduct on account of the darkness of the coach. Just as     90      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; the horses began to move, Mrs. Tingle, who had been thought-  ful and silent, pulled the cord for the driver to stop.  "La me " said she, "I have forgotten my gloves! Get down and ring the bell, Randolph ;" said she, to the ebony- faced footman. But the pause had been observed from the window by Aunt Silvy, who, hastening to anticipate Randolph, succeeded in opening the door before the bell rang.  "Oh, Aunt Silvy! I hope you will never do the like again. It is shocking!" said Miss Anne.           I "Why, what have I done?" asked her aunt, with a look of surprise. a You came to the door yourself, instead of letting the ser-  vant do it. When we are away, aunty, never do such a  thing. It would be talked of all over the city, if you were  to be seen admitting any one."  "But there can be no harm in opening the door for one's  own kin. Run, Rose!" said she, addressing the girl who was  hastening to answer the bell, "run up stairs and bring down! my sister's gloves." She said " my sister" in a loud voice, as  she stood in the door. Aunt Silvy, unsophisticated as she was, -i had no notion of being taken by the passing pedestrians for I a mere housekeeper. When the gloves were brought, and the horses once more lifted their feet, Mrs. Tingle caused them to halt again. ;   i' Oh, me my handkerchief is up stairs on the bed!" "Run, Rose, and bring my sister's handkerchief," cried Aunt Silvy. This was done, and then Mr. Tingle, who had long suppressed his impatience, hoped everything had been  thought of. He had never known Mrs. Tingle to leave the  house, even when going to church, without turning back at least once after the door had been closed, for something for- gotten. But now they were under the necessity of being at? the depot at a certain time, viz. 8 o'clock, or they would be i left behind, notwithstanding he was a large shareholder of M   OR, TIIE RIVAL BELLES.       91 the company's bonds. It was a quarter past eight, and there was no time to lose. My album, my autograph album!" cried Emily. "Run, Rose!" "I'll buy you one in Washington," said Mr. Tingle. "No! I must have my own. It has Queen Victoria's and I Count Hairy's autographs in it." The first had been purchased I from Barnum, and the last was a name which we have not been able to find in any of the books of heraldry. "Make haste, Rose! why do you creep and poke that way?" she con-  tinued, as the girl approached the coach window. When they arrived at the depot in Market street, they found everything in confusion. Cars, drays, omnibuses, hacks, cabs, ! and handbarrows, blocked up the way in front of the unsightly entrance to the office, so that the lordly equipage of the Tin- gles could not get within a hundred feet of the point they desired to reach. It was in vain that the liveried coachman and footman yelled and swore; the tangled mass of vehicles remained unmoved. But the plate-glass, and above all the silver eagle (rampant) on the panel of the carriage, attracted a crowd of porters, who thronged the door in eagerness to aid the alight- ing travellers in conveying their light baggage within the depot.  "Never mind. We have our own servants," said Mrs. Tin- gle, seeing Anne and Emily beset by two Irishmen, who wished to relieve them of their lapdogs. "True, ma," said Emily, quickly, "we have our own ser- vants; but we never trust these dear creatures in the hands of servants." - This would have been enough to convince all within hearing that Anne and Emily were not servants; but it did not convince the porters that the dogs were dear crea- tures; for, as the girls pressed through the crowd, their dear pets screamed more than once, and one of them had a bloody ear.     92      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "'Where is Patrick, now?" exclaimed Mr. Tingle, after getting his tickets, and when the first bell had been rung. "You must look for him, Mr. Tingle," said Mrs. Tingle, "and you must be in a hurry, orwe will be left behind. I hate this odious way of travelling. They won't wait a minute for anybody." "My dear, let me conduct you and my daughters to your seats, and then I will look after this stupid Patrick," said Mr. Tingle, with as much composure as possible under his pressure  of excitement and vexation. He succeeded only in getting them within the door of a car, where he was obliged to leave them to find seats for themselves, as they were talking loudly ! and hurriedly at the baggage car, and calling for the owners.  of trunks. He made his way thither, and found both Patrick ? and his trunks. "Why, you stupid rascal, haven't you brought the checks?"  said he, bustling about.  "They wouldn't give 'em to me, sir, till you came for them  yourself."  "Then why didn't you inform me sooner?"' "I had my orders, sir, not to take my eyes off 'em till after- they were locked in the cars." "Why would you not give the checks to my servant?" demanded Mr. Tingle, taking them himself from the baggage- ! master. "It is against the rules to deliver checks to any but the owners," was the reply. "Against the rules! Who made such rules? I'll see the President. You keep a man's baggage here when it should be on the way--" without uttering more he hastened back to the passenger car, which had begun to move forward.  "Run for it, or you'll be left, my old fellow!" was the only i reply uttered by the baggage-master. He did run, and just  succeeded in reaching the platform as the horses emerged from  ii   OR, TIlE RIVAL BELLES.        93     i under the shelter. And when he entered the car he found his  wife and daughters still standing where he had left them. Why, Mrs. Tingle," said he, in surprise, "why don't you take a seat? And you, girls, why don't you sit down? There seems to be room enough."  "Room enough, Mr. Tingle?"-she called his name dis- i tinctly, hoping to produce an impression on those present-- : "where is it? I don't observe any seats empty." In truth X there was not a, seat in the car whplly unoccupied;. nor was there more than one or two entirely filled. Mrq, Tingld had waited, standing, hoping to have two whole setas offered her party; but there was "no politeness; in the world," as she i asserted several times, and she waited in vain. None but Kitty, the waiting-maid, who had been sent in advance with Patrick, seemed willing to share a seat with a stranger; and surely the strangers had the best title to the space they occu-  pied, as they were already in possession. Kitty, however,  held both the dogs, and had the carpet-bags, valices, baskets, bandboxes, &c., &c., piled around her. Mr. Tingle stepped forward and scrutinized the passengers minutely, hoping to be recognised by some one, who would  doubtless surrender his seat, or at least exchange it for one partly occupied. Of all that company, unfortunately, there was not one whom Mr. Tingle recollected ever to have seen before. "Go to the conductor, Mr. Tingle!" said Mrs. T., losing the last semblage of restraint upon her temper, as the car moved briskly along, and several times jostled her so much that it was with difficulty she could keep from falling. "Tell the conductor we must have seats, and that it is his business to see to it." Mr. Tingle made no reply, but immediately opened the door to do her bidding. The conductor looked in, a moment, and, after saying there was "plenty of room," turned away again. \     ,              -     "     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;        X -;   u "There is plenty of room, ma," said Anne, "if we take  the inner seats; and then we will be all in a row, one behind ,- the other." Anne saw several well-dressed young gentlemen  present, and began to feel that she would be quite as well pleased to sit beside one of them as at the elbow of her sister. "I will not stand any longer!" said Emily, whose eyes had followed Anne's to the face of a handsome young man with a  naval button on his cap, and, suiting the action to the word,  she slipped past her elder sister and sat down beside him.  Anne sat immediately in front of Emily, beside another young!t man. Mr. and Mrs. Tingle still remained standing. "Get up, sir!" said an aged gentleman of bronzed features to a youth in front of him. "Go and sit yonder, beside that I? old lady, and let the gentleman arid his wife have the entire  bench." This was spoken with such decision that it was in- . stinctively obeyed. And if Mrs. Tingle had made a direct ;: request, instead of hints and innuendoes, she might have been  accommodated before. The old gentleman who had spoken sat beside another of  still more advanced age, who was very pale, and seemed to be ": much palsied in his hands. The latter was neatly dressed in ^ a fine brown coat; the other in simple homespun. Yet they ' were old acquaintances, as was evident from their familiar ( conversation.  When Mr. and Mrs. Tingle took possession of the seats I which had been surrendered to them, their first impulse was aii to express some thanks to the one who had so unexpectedly! interposed in their behalf; but upon looking at his dark fea-  tures, his long beard (at least two days old), his soiled shirt- : collar, and his plain garments, they declined making any i acknowledgments to such a "common-looking" person. The common-looking old gentleman, as the Birls had fre-  quently termed him when whispering to each other, sat next    OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        95 the window, which he raised occasionally to expel the saliva ' from his mouth. Undoubtedly he was a chewer of tobacco! And the conversation going on between him and the friend beside him was on that subject. A.  "I was addicted to the practice in my youth, and even in my manhood," remarked the most aged and the best dressed of the two. "I thought it a great comfort; and indeed it' was a luxury. But like other luxuries it was expensive; not  in money, but in the sacrifice of health. It affected my nerves, I and my stomach.  I believe the indulgence of the use of X tobacco often shortens a man's life. I think mine would have been of longer duration, if I had abstained from it." "Pooh, pooh  I think not. How long would you live? Nothing that you could do, would make yours a short life.. Your feebleness proceeds from the sedentary manner in which you have lived. I have lived differently, as you know; on horseback or walking; always in the fresh air. I am strong, and old too. Most of us in our state use tobacco, or have done so till within the last twenty years. Our fathers raised it, you know, and I suppose they deemed it expedient to en- courage its consumption." The Tingles, old and young, were exceedingly anxious to g find out who the two old gentlemen were, and for some time listened attentively to the conversation on various subjects, which was maintained between them. But as they did not address each other by name, and seemed to studiously avoid any expression which might lead to their identification, the attempt was a failure. One thing, however, was certain; their language indicated that they were not deficient in education, or ignorant of the passing events throughout the civilized world. Indeed they seemed to be familiar with the cha- racters and merits of personages of the highest station in Europe; but as these discussions were not fully comprehended by the listening Tingles, they could not form an idea of their  ' ^     '   \     S96     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; merits. And hence it was an easy matter for them to come to  the conclusion that they were not the equals of themselves, and : therefore they determined not to speak to them. One of them  was addicted to the use of tobacco, and the other confessed he  had used it-and this in the presence of ldies! They were, no doubt, thought the ladies, nothing more than ordinary  farmers, who had picked up a smattering of information from  the papers. It was different with the young gentlemen in the blue caps.  Emily and Anne whispered to each other so much and so loudly!  about their fashionable acquaintances in the city, and the par. : ticulars of their own rich household, that the young gentlemen  (who were companions) were not long in being made aware that they were in the immediate vicinity of two rich, unmar- ried young ladies. Nor was an occasion long wanted for anl opportunity to enter into conversation with them; and when it did occur, the young gentlemen spoke so sweetly, and pro-  nounced their words so distinctly and fashionably, that the sisters were not averse to its prolongation. Nothing but a  conviction that the young gentlemen were of good family, and in the navy, would have induced the sisters to exchange words and glances with them. They were ordinarily haughty and 1 reserved, and fastidiously careful not to permit the slightest familiarity on the part of strangers. But these young gentle- : men seemed to be no more than eighteen years of age, were dressed so tastefully, and acted with so much modesty and pro-  priety, that the proud sisters simultaneously threw off all reserve, and resolved at least to be entertained during the jour-  ney. When questioned as to their place of abode, the young f men said they had been spending several months in Phila- delphia, and intimated that although it had not been their good fortune to meet with the Tingles, they had frequently heard of them-which was doubtless true.  "Gentlemen from the south frequently remain months in   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        97 our city," said Emily, " before their names are known in society. Some of them prefer seclusion, and others unfortu- nately fall into the hands of the wrong set, which precludes c: them from enjoying the acquaintance of the most pleasant families. My father often meets with people of the highest respectability in his travels, to whom we show attention when they visit the city. Returning from Saratoga last fall, we were seated near some southerners in the cars, with whom we conversed freely, and learned they designed staying a week or I so in Philadelphia. We exchanged cards, and after we reached home, we not only had them frequently at our house, but we introduced them to our friends; and instead of drag  ing out their week monotonously at the hotel, they declared 7 they had never spent their time more delightfully. And we found them the most pleasant companions in the world." "They were the Washtons from North Carolina," said Anne. "They were rich, elegant in their manners, and re- fined in their educations. We shall never regret that we became acquainted with them." "On the contrary," continued Emily, "we have every reason to rejoice. We correspond with them regularly, and expect to have the pleasure of their agreeable society every  year. Pa says although the rules of propriety ordinarily require the usual formalities to be observed in extending one's acquaintance, it is quite different with those whom we fall in with in our travels, when there is no possible mode of being introduced in the usual way. In such cases, if the ice were not broken suddenly, instead of being melted by stately intro- ductions, there would be no enjoyment, and nothing but cold looks and frigid feelings during a whole trip." "Besides," said Anne, "he thinks it is the special duty of northern people--" "-But we are not northern people," said Emily. "No, our mother is a Virginian, and Philadelphia is more  / :t i,     98      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; of a southern city than a northern one. But he thinks that  strangers from a distance visiting our section of the country : should be shown especial attention, and share freely of our  hospitality. For they say it is in this manner they treat ' strangers who visit them." "It is not difficult for travellers," said Emily, "to judge  pretty correctly, from appearances, whether those with whom i they are thrown in contact are genteel or not. I believe I can tell most men's profession by looking at them." She smiled i significantly at the young men as she said this.  And what would you suppose ours to be?" asked one of  them. "The Navy. Are you not midshipmen?" "No-not yet," said they. "But you are preparing to enter the service, I am sure.  And you are not from the north." "We are southerners," they replied. And they seemed to! prove it by their asserted familiarity with the leading charac-  ters of the southern states. They were, especially, well  acquainted with the editors in New Orleans, Louisville, Charleston, &c., &c., and indeed with some of those in Boston, New York, and Philadelphia. They even mentioned the  names of several who had often been the guests of Mr. Tingle. This was satisfactory as to their respectability; and the ice ! being completely broken, the party continued their conversa- tion with redoubled vivacity. Mr. and Mrs. Tingle acted very differently. They indulged in no familiarity with their immediate neighbours. And the k old gentlemen in their vicinity paid no manner of attention to  them. Mrs. T. could not avoid, however, occasionally making some observations calculated, if not designed, to attract notice. "Mr. Tingle," said she, "I hope the iron box which you had placed in the house, and which contains all the plate, was a strong one."   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        99 Perfectly strong, my dear; the plate will be entirely safe during our absence." Several of the passengers did look round upon hearing these X  remarks. But not so the two aged gentlemen. They were X  not startled in the least, but continued their conversation with-  out the slightest pause. This was downright rudeness in the estimation of Mr. and Mrs. Tingle. They were not in the habit of having their words treated with indifference, and they determined to produce the effect they desired by still more extravagant and ridiculous observations. In the course of their remarks, any one within hearing could not have failed to learn that they were very  rich-that their income was sixty thousand dollars--that they were travelling for pleasure, and were in the habit of visiting all the fashionable watering-places in the summer; that they I  had but three children, two daughters, then in the car, and one son at Princeton College; and finally that Mrs. Tingle was ori- ginally from Virginia. If such a broadside as that would pro- duce no impression on the passengers, they must have been made of most impenetrable material. It did produce a decided effect upon most of those who heard it; and they seemed to regard Mr. and Mrs. Tingle as very superior beings. But not so the strange old gentlemen. Their curiosity was not suffi- ciently roused to cause them to look in the direction of the speakers. The Tingles could account for such strange conduct in no other way than that the old men did not credit their assertions. This of course was not flattering to their vanity, and they concluded, without further hesitation, that the imper- turbable listeners (for they must have heard them, whether willing or not) were a couple of captious, opinionated old snarlers, who more properly belonged to an obsolete genera- tion than the genteel society of the present day. They then remained silent -and vexed, till they reached Havre de Grace, where all was again confusion. When they descended from 8*     r                 ,    ;     100     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; the cars to the boat, they discovered that several articles of their  travelling equipage had been left in the car; and as some of K them were indispensable to their convenience, they vented 13 many reproaches on the waiting-maid, much to the chagrin I of the poor girl, who was already literally loaded down with?: boxes, bags, &c., and more to the annoyance of the company. t i But Anne and Emily'were in the finest spirits, and seemed  to be perfectly amiable. And when Mrs. Tingle had a full  view of the young gentlemen who attended them, her displea- sure seemed to be modified.              I "Do you know who they are?" she asked of Mr. Tingle,  whom she perceived to be likewise looking at the young gentlemen. "I can't say that I do recognise them," he replied; "but our daughters have acquaintances that we do not know, and doubtless these are some of them." "I suppose so," said Mrs. Tingle, as the girls vanished with  their attendants in the crowd. The young gentlemen had  contrived to keep at a distance from the elder Tingles, who had been pointed out to them, and the girls were not averse  to the arrangement, as it afforded them more freedom of speech, and greater enjoyment of the novelty. Their parents did not follow them too closely, being always aware that their daughters were fully sensible of their own importance,  and knew what was due to their sex and to their station in  society. Upon being seated in the cars again, it was ascertained that  the conductor had not omitted to gather up the packages for- gotten on the other side of the river, and supposed to be lost, and for which the maid had been publicly scolded. When  they were delivered, Mr. Tingle thanked the conductor, and would have tendered him something by way of a reward for his services; but he was restrained by Mrs. T., who remem-  bered the conduct of the other conductor, who had treated her   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       101 with such indifference when called upon to get her a seat. She never forgave an affront; and if she could not find means to revenge it on the one who offered it, she was willing to  signify her displeasure to one of his class, however innocent he might be. Matters continued thus, no other incident worthy of notice happening, until they reached Baltimore. There the same trouble occurred about the baggage, and the same difficulty in getting seated to their satisfaction. The young gentlemen and ladies managed, however, to find positions similar to their former ones, which were as good as could be desired. Mr. and Mrs. Tingle, on the other hand, seeing the two old gentlemen seated together again, still engaged in their discussions, and not even turning their eyes once in the direction of the richest couple of all the company present, resolved to find some other seat than the one immediately in front of them. "Mrs. T. declared she would not sit near them, if she had to stand up the remainder of the journey. This they were not under the  necessity of doing, as they found a seat unoccupied near the door, where they could exhibit their supereminent importance to the many staring eyes fixed upon them.      . There was another scene of confusion when the cars arrived at the Washington depot; and perhaps the most considerable stir, and point of greatest excitement, was observable around the two aged gentlemen, so "common-looking," when they descended from the platform. The crowd which pressed for- ward with eagerness to shake hands with them, was composed of persons that looked fine enough. This was seen by Mr. and Mrs. Tingle, and it struck them with astonishment. "Who can they be, I wonder?" whispered Mrs. Tingle. "I'll find out, my dear," replied Mr. T., turning to some  one and making the inquiry. "My dear," said he, turning again to Mrs. T., "it is most astonishing that we should have laboured under such a mistake. They are among the highest Thy r aog h-hges1 ",     102     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;  and most respectable people in the country. The pale one is i the Hon. Mr. A--, now a member of Congress; and the  dark one is the wealthy Mr. C- , whose family became con. . nected with that of the great W."           i "What a blunder!" cried Mrs. Tingle; "but it'is not too  late to repair it yet." She seized the arm of Mr. T., and did not cease to urge him through the dense mass of beings, until the  two stood in front of the gentlemen who now attracted so much attention. Mr. Tingle did not know exactly the inten- tion of his spouse, and he looked very silly. She had not told ; him what to say, and hence he said nothing. But she was equal to the emergency.  "Permit us, gentlemen," said she, bowing very courteously, "before we separate, to render our thanks to you, for your  very kind interference in our behalf in the cars; to you we  were indebted for our very comfortable seats." "Not at all, not at all, madam," replied Mr. C-- "We are both extremely obliged to you," said Mr. Tingle; "and it would make me very much delighted to have it in my  power to reciprocate the favour." The gentlemen bowed, and withdrew to the carriage awaiting  them without, while Mr. and Mrs. Tingle, well satisfied with their stroke of policy, went in quest of their daughters, from  whom they had become separated. Anne and Emily had been equally as much interested as their parents. The young men with the blue caps had con- trived to place their cards in the hands of the unobjecting sisters. The young ladies, however, did not at first deem it necessary to communicate to each other what had been done; but rather strove to conceal it. But they found an opportunity to read the names. The card which Anne concealed in her muff bore the romantic appellation of George Gordon, and Emily's that of Charles Pelham. Was there ever an incident more perfectly delightful than their accidental :    OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        108 encounter with such handsome, well-bred, and aristocratic young men! It was true that they were very young, hardly more than mere boys; but that fact did not in the least inter. pose any obstacle in the way of the girls. On the contrary, it rather facilitated their flirtation with them, as they could act with more freedom and assume a greater familiarity with hand- some youths of their age, than with older men. And in accordance with this disposition of entire abandon, the girls had vied with each other in their endeavours to succeed so far in captivating their travelling companions, as to secure their attendance, at least occasionally, and when they should not have more important attendants, while they remained in the city. With this view they did not omit to make known to them that their pa had taken a suite of rooms at Brown's, and at an expense of $100 per week. This was communicated skilfully, and not directly, which would have looked like an  assignation. They dwelt upon the difficulties their agent had in securing proper rooms at all, and finally the necessity they X were under of going to Brown's, which they very much re- gretted, not on account of the expense (merely $100 per week), but the noise and confusion of a hotel during the session. But if the two aged gentlemen had met with a cordial greeting upon their arrival at the depot, such was not to be the happy fate of the Messrs. Gordon and Pelham. For no sooner had they taken a tender leave of the young ladies, than they were accosted familiarly by several acquaintances, whose garments, to say the best of them, were rather the worse for wear. Emily likewise thought she detected sundry smiles and winks of recognition directed towards their travelling gallants, from several females who had accompanied them in the cars, but who had not before evinced the slightest evidence of an acquaintance with them. The Tingles were soon established in their quarters, and were highly pleased with their apartments, which were really kr     10     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; worthy of admiration. They seemed to be well pleased with themselves, and quite enraptured with the recollection of the lofty and pleasant companions of their journey. None of them complained of being fatigued; and as there was to be a public reception at the President's mansion that evening, they de. termined to go. Emily, who was au fait in such matters, lost no time in sending her father to hunt up Mr. Parolee, one of the attaches or correspondents to the New York Brazen Trumpet; and during his absence she enaployed herself, pen in hand, in mak- ing a schedule of the qualities, colours, &c., of the dresses and ornaments they were to wear. She wrote down "White tulle over a jupe of rich pink satin-waist and point of mode- rate length-sleeves and front of corsage covered with fullings of tulle, clasped at equal distances by narrow bands of green satin-skirt full, looped up on each side-trimming on each side the point to the bottom of the skirt--loops of green satin ribbon edged with gold-Valenciennes lace, diamonds, pearls, &c., &C." "There " she cried, throwing down the pen. "I hate the sight of the odious creature Parolee, and I don't see why it is necessary for me to furnish such a catalogue. But, as he says it is necessary, we must admit him as usual. I hope you will try to entertain him, Anne." "He is more odious to me, if possible, than he can be to youe" replied the eldest sister, looking over what had been written. "But it is necessary that he should be pleased," replied Emily, or we will have no very flattering description in the Brazen Trumpet." "Don't pa pay him for writing it?" "Of course he does; but you know the same thing can be detailed in different ways, and yet not be incorrectly stated. It depends on the humour of the writer. Pa pays Parolee   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        105 for writing, but we alone can inspire him with the disposition to throw in the extra embellishments." "Inspire him! Heigh ho!-he inspires me with disgust. The contemptible fellow affects sometimes to be a great lady's man, and would, it seems, forget he has a wife and children in the north." A timid knock was heard, and the next moment Mr. Tingle apeared, ushering in Mr. Parolee. This Washington corres- pondent was a thick-set Englishman, nearly forty years of age, ! with a red, impudent face, and an ill-affected easy carriage. H Iis salutations were extremely profuse, and he even went so far as to indicate by his motions that he expected to touch the fingers of the girls. In this he was not successful, but the sisters compensated him for his disappointment by their well- practised smiles. He- sat with them a few moments, and then Emily handed him the notes she had prepared. He placed i them in his hat, which he said contained a great many others, from the daughters of the greatest people in the Union. When this was done and said, the impatient sisters had hoped he i would leave them to continue their preparations for the grand display; but he lingered quite long, endeavouring to extract as many smiles and words as possible. Finally he rose to depart, after observing Emily more than once cast her eyes at her watch. The sisters smiled more sweetly than ever when he took his leave of them, and there really was an exhibition of unaffected animation and pleasure in their faces. Mr. Tin- gle departed with him, pulling out his pocket-book as they passed through the door. The sisters remained long in their chanmber arraying them- selves for the fete at the Presidential Palace. The jewelry was apportioned between them, according to the views and taste of Emily. There could be no choice in anything else, as their respective statures indicated the articles which should be worn by them. ---':/     106     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; ". Anne, who do you expect to see there, or, rather, who do you desire most to meet to-night?" asked Emily. I expect to see--" "Who?" demanded Emily, seeing her sister hesitate. "Why, one that you will see likewise, to a certainty. But neither of us will desire to see him." "Parolee?" "Yes. And we can't cut him, either, if he should speak to us." "He had better not be troublesome!" said Emily, shaking her head threateningly. ' Perhaps we'll see our young blue caps, of the cars." "That would not be so unpleasant," said Emily. "I should like above all things to know who they are. Charles Pelham; that is too romantic a name to be the real one." "Was that the name of your passenger beau? Well, the name of mine was almost as pleasant." I:   "What was it?" "George Gordon." "How did you ascertain it? Did he give you his card?" "Yes, there it is." When Anne threw down on the table the card which had been given her, Emily did likewise. They were plain glazed cards, with the names written in pencil mark, and evidently by the same hand. "It would be well to know something more about them before we recognise them in public," said Emily, turning to a window, from which she could see by moonlight the carriage in waiting to convey them to the President's house. They were joined by Mr. and Mrs. Tingle, who were both dressed with great care for the occasion, and they descended together to the street.- Here the usual scene of sending up stairs a half-dozen times for small things, forgotten by Mrs. Tingle, ensued, and it was quite late before they passed through the iron gate in front of the White House. \   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       107 There is no semblance of aristocracy about the mansion of the Chief Executive of the United States government. Peo- ple of every station in life seem to enter and r tire without ceremony. There was no rule as to the precise time when the President would be visible, and no special invitatipn was requi- site before one could be presented. No precedence of birth or merit, no peculiarity of costume, impeded the progress of any one, so disposed, to the presence of the chief of the nation. This was Democracy to any one's heart's content. A Demo- cracy, the chiefs of which would, if they dared, become' aris-  tocrats; and being once firmly fixed in position, and independ. ent of the undiscriminating multitude, might act precisely as other tyrants have done. The problem will be solved at the termination of the struggle-the struggle between the leaders and the masses-continually in operation, not with apparent hostility, but with the design on the part of the former to inveigle the latter into subjection, when we may have empe- rors, lords, and commons. If the masses should triumph-  should rise in their might before their chains are irrevocably  riveted on them--then the voice of the multitude-a majority of the people, however convoked, or wherever assembled, will be the supreme law, revoking all former ordinances and enact- ments. And this would perhaps be worse than monarchy.  When the Tingles reached the porch of the White House, they perceived that many hundreds of visiters had already -  arrived. A dense mass of beings were pushing through the  broad door, with their faces towards the green room. There was not even a polite queue, as is spontaneously formed before a the opera house in Paris, that those who come first may enter before those who come after them. The boldest and the rudest 1 here gained admission first.  "This is shocking!" remarked Mrs. Tingle. "Why don't they keep back the rabble?" "Who are the rabble, madam?" asked one of the footmen, ,^     I,  108     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; of the British minister, who was jammed by her sharp elbow into one of the recesses near the door, and who was smilingly enjoying the scene. "Why, that rude fellow is one!" she replied, pointing towards a shabbily dressed individual who had just pressed her aside and made his way in before her. "That is a sovereign, madam," said the amused English. man. "He is the huckster who supplies my master with oats for his horses." Mr. Tingle! Mr. Tingle!" cried the affronted lady, "make room for us to pass in at once, or else let us go back. This is horrid, to be so mixed up with all sorts of people! No won- der so many folks despise the President and all others in autho- rity, since they have authority to such little purpose, that they 'cannot maintain the least show of decency before their doors, and even in their presence. No doubt that low fellow will shake hands with the President! Won't he!" "To be sure, my dear; it is a rule with all the Presidents to take every one by the hand." "Then the rule will be broken, Mr. 3ingle. He shall not take tne by the hand, if I see him tafe that of such a low fellow."  "Hush, ma!" said Emily. "We are in, now. We came to see the President and the great men of the country, and I, for one, am determined to do so, and to shake hands with them, even if they have pitch on them." They were truly within the house, and in the midst of the great area, from which passages led east and west to both wings of the house; but they had yet to wait (or push through the company at the hazard of rending their garments) until the crowd before them entered the door of the room just opposite, and in the middle of which stood the President, and the Marshal of the District. The latter functionary strove to act in the capacity of master of ceremonies-and had he   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       109 succeeded he would have truly been a master-spirit-by main- taining a contracted empty space around him, and immediately  in front of the President.* Here he announced the names of those who presented themselves, holding them sometimes by their arms, and sometimes with his arm round their shoulders, lest the President should look at the wrong person when a name was announced. The ordeal was passed, and the Tingles faced the Marshal, whom they supposed (as most strangers did at first) to be the President himself. He demanded their names, anu (holding  them securely) announced, amidst the confusionof tongues,  the tramping of feet, and the notes of the brazen band with-  out, "Mr. Tingle, Mrs. Tingle-the Misses Tingle." Although this was uttered in a voice loud enough, yet it was evident the President did not comprehend it clearly, for he stepped a few- inches forward, and, despite the determination of Mrs. Tingle to the contrary, taking her hand, and that of Mr. Tingle, and really evincing unusual delight at beholding them, observed:  i It affords me much pleasure to see you, Mr. Tyng-and Mrs. Tyng-I am glad you have done me this honour. I have never had this happiness before, and will do myself the pleasure of calling on you at your apartments, if you purpose staying any length of time in the city, Where are you stopping?" "At Brown's!" said Mr. Tingle, suddenly inflated at thue great and undreamed of honour intended him. "I will remember," said the great functionary, indicating by a gesture that. they might pass on, which they did; and the next moment he was equally as complaisant with the Misses Tingle, and in the same manner he abbreviated their names. When the Tingles found themselves together in the east room, they drew apart to take breath, and to congratulate themselves on their fine reception. Every vestige of Mrs.  Tingle's anger had vanished in thin air, and she declared the /5     "O     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; President was the finest gentleman and the best bred man of her extensive acquaintance. "But I don't like the mistake he made," said Mr. Tingle. "He called us all wrong. My name, it does seem to me, ought t# be sufficiently well known to every one, to enable. them to avoid such mistakes in pronouncing it." "He was flurried, Mr. Tingle," said his spouse; "how should he be conscious of half he was saying, when he had to say something to every one presented? It is a wonder how he finds words at all, or speaks as correctly as he does, amid such a deafening clamour. I'm sure he can't recollect one-half he utters." "You'll see, my dear, if he don't recollect his promise to visit us," said Mr. Tingle, rather more loudly than his words usually were pronounced, that they might be heard-and they were heard--by a score of persons in the vicinity. "He mis- took the name, but not the man. He knows who are the large holders of the government stocks." And as Mr. Tingle said this, he seemed to swell out to a much larger size than his ordinary proportions. Emily and Anne both declared that they were enchanted with the President, and hoped he would be re-elected; and even Mrs. T., so lately shocked at the ple- beian appearances about the mansion, could no longer hesitate  in avowing herself a decided advocate and supporter of the then occupant of the White House. Such rich people as the Tingles were not destined to move long in a promiscuous assemblage without encountering smiling faces and receiving marked attentions. A member of Con- gress, representing one of the districts in the state in which Mr. Tingle lived (although Mr. Tingle had not voted for him, nor voted at all, simply because it seemed ungenteel to mix with the crowd at the ward window where the ballots were depo- sited), presuming upon the fact that Mr. Tingle was a Penn- sylvanian, introduced himself, and then introduced some forty   OR,- THE RIVAL BELLES.       111   ! or fifty others, many of them being members of Congress.  Now, although the Hon. Mr. Doubter was known to have ob-  tained his nomination in pursuance of a contract, and had not, for sundry causes, among which were alleged objectionable man- ners, and an -unhandsome personal appearance, been invited into the fashionable society to which the Tingles had been -admitted, still that haughty and aristocratic group were under very many obligations to 'him on the present occasion, and  they expressed their thanks in the most lively terms. They went further; they declared they would never forget his kind- ness: Mr. Tingle even promised to advocate his cause at e : next election, if he got the nomination; and Mrs. Tingle in- vited him to be a frequent -guest at her house when in the city. 'These assurances, if they evinced the .grateful feelings of the rich family, which they doubtless did for the time being, like-' wise produced a lively sensation of gratification in the breast of the politician. He described to the members and others whose attention had been attracted by the party of Philadel- phians, the immense riches of the family, and dwelt upon the high accomplishments of Anne and Emily, in regard to which he was utterly ignorant. However, they did possess one accomplishment he had not named; and when the musicians were brought into the east room, in obedience to the im- promptu suggestion of an old bachelor Senator from the south, they exhibited their unsurpassable skill in the waltz. But the enjoyments of the evening could not pass off un- mixed with alloy. Both Anne and Emily were under the necessity of returning the salutations of Mr. Parolee, the Washington correspondent of the New York Brazen Trumpet. They knew they were in his power, and were too wise, silly as they were in other matters, then to provoke his wrath.  Senators, and even the highest members of the government, were under the like necessity of bowing and smiling when  nodded to by the potential Mr. Parolee. And yet, if it could 9*         '    .-                .          "     "2     THE PANGLERS AND TINGLES; have been done without their agency in it being known or sus. pected, they would gladly have contributed to plunge him head- long in the foulest horse-pond in the vicinity. Such was the universal contempt conceived for an individual whom great men and fashionable ladies were compelled to tolerate and entertain! Ever and anon thesisters cast their searching looks among the crowd, in quest of the bright faces of their young travelling companions of the morning. But neither Mr. Pelham nor Mr. Gordon appeared. The triumph they now contended for was to attract the greatest number of admirers. And this sug- gested an idea, often recurring in politics, to the courteous and gallant bachelor statesman from Pennsylvania. "Do you know," said he to the sisters, "why you are the best democrats in the room?" "No!" said they, and truly. I   '"You confer the greatest good upon the greatest number." I   s"Oh, Mr. B----," said Emily, " how could you make such a remark! Surely your proverbial foresight might have per- ceived the reply it was likely to provoke." The reply! the reply, by all means!" exclaimed several members of Congress, of the opposite party. "Be merciful!" cried the great statesman, archly. - "Judge between us," said Emily, glancing round. "If we are the best democrats for the reason he alleges, how can he avoid being the worst? for all the good he possesses is re- served for himself." "Bravo! capital!" exclaimed the gentlemen composing the charmed circle, while Mr. Parolee was seen to make a note of the repartee. I sigh for the years that are past," said the gallant great 1\  man. "And that would make a good beginning of a lamentable song," said Emily, singing the words,   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       113 "I sigh," said he, "because the disparity of our years, while it emboldens you to banter me, would prevent you from accept- ing me. At all events, do me the honour to receive my arm for the promenade." This she did without hesitation (as she would willingly, perhaps, have done his hand, had it been ten- ^ -dered), and the gay and smiling statesman carried off the prize amidst her more juvenile worshippers. Anne accepted the earm of the Hon. Mr. Doubter, and, preceded by Mr. and Mrs. Tingle, the party moved round the room at an easy, if not a stately and graceful, pace. The latter Mr. Doubter was inca- pable of executing; but nature was most to blame for his seeming uncouth appearance and awkward carriage. He was a good teacher, and enlightened Anne by not only naming the remarkable individuals they passed, but by describing their peculiarities of character, which were sometimes not admira- bly embellished. When they paused again the sisters observed their mother in conversation with a tall gentleman of dark hair and expres- sive black eyes, who had been introduced by the bachelor Senator from Alabama. This gentleman, a member of the  House, was one amongst its youngest members, and yet had won distinction by his eloquence in debate, and his bravery on the field of battle. Mrs. Tingle beckoned Anne and Emily to her, and introduced the "Hon. Charles Edward Dudley, of --- Carolina." Mr. Dudley had been admiring the handsome features of Emily, and her fine flashing eyes. He resolved to become acquainted with her, and adopted the excellent method of being introduced to Mr. and Mrs. Tingle first. No sooner did Mrs. Tingle hear he was from the south, than she made known her origin (as well as she knew it) and place of nativity,  and declared that the south, the land of sunshine and flowers," was all the dearer to her heart by being separated from it so long. This declaration came like music to the southerner, for he had feared the Tingles were like many other opulent     "4     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; families of the north, inclined to favour the views of the abolitionists. On that point he soon had sufficient evi. dence of the liberal sentiments of the party around him, for each of the Tingles in turn distinctly denounced the designs of the abolitionists, free-soilers, and quakers. This could not fail to beget a decided partiality for the Tingles in the breast of the young member, who was an enthusiast on the subject of southern rights, a nullifier, and, in a certain contingency, a disunionist. His expressive features became extremely animated, and so eloquent was his speech, that in an almost incredible short space of time, he had produced an impression upon his listeners, and especially upon Emily (who always spoke with more warmth and freedom than Anne), which at once established an intimacy between them more significant than ordinarily followed such accidental encounters. It was not difficult for the artful Emily to detach him from the rest, and to monopolize his attention during the. remainder of the evening. And when Mr. Dudley parted with her at the plate-glass door of the carriage, he felt a sensation within him which made him believe he was almost in love with her already. It was the feeling Emily had striven zealously to produce, while the feeling within her own bosom was merely a desire that the honourable member from -   Carolina might be numbered among her devoted slaves. Her thoughts undoubtedly dwelt upon his manly and noble image with I pleasure-a proud pleasure-but as yet she seemed to be incapable of loving -as women do who renounce all else for the object of their passion. The Tingles returned in raptures at a late hour to their apartments. They had never before met, face to face, and conversed with such a vast number of great men and great ladies. Their conversation had been with members of Con- gress, cabinet ministers, the ministers of the various foreign governments resident at Washington, and, above all, with the   OR, THE, RIVAL BELLES.        115  President. The disagreeable incidents attending their approach to the saloons of the executive palace were entirely forgotten, and Mr. Tingle declared that the gratification he enjoyed that night doubly compensated him for all the expenditures he might incur. He was delighted with the excursion, and freely accorded Mrs. Tingle the full credit of it, as the proposition to Ispend a portion of the winter in Washington had proceeded : . from her. It was true she had uttered the proposition to him ' li! ,but he was not aware of the fact that the project was the -':;:i exclusive conception of Emily, who had induced'her mother to coincide in her ambitious projects. Many soft words had been whispered in the ears of the two sisters, which sufficiently flattered their pride. In that vast concentration of the strategy and dissimulation of the land, where office-seekers, fortune-hunters, gamesters, and ambitious aspirants for distinction, meet as in a common focus, to prose- cute their selfish schemes, it was but natural that the greats c - I wealth, and the not despicable beauty and vivacity of the Tin'ii  gles, should produce more than an ordinary excitement among ':" such a promiscuous assemblage. Emily well knew that she  and her sister would be the subjects of conversation in the highest circles, and that their fame would be wafted throughout every section of the country, when their numberless admirers separated for their respective homes. With such exquisite visions and meditations as these, the artful Emily, diminutive as she was, placed her proud head upon the downy pillow and slept profoundly. It might have been different with Anne, had the tender words and subdued glances of the Hon. Charles Edward Dudley been meant that night for her. Her ambi- tious views might have been bounded by the desire of securing a substantial happiness; and it may be questioned whether deep slumber would have visited her eyes with such facility. But Emily, although she would not surrender her meditated conquest to a rival for any consideration, yet never once, for a  :!. W                        ,     "6     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; single moment, entertained the thought that she might con. sent, in any contingency likely to arise, to become the wife of the honourable gentleman whose attentions were so agreeable to her. Would she bury herself at the domestic whprgq. husband, whose place of abode was probably in an obscure village, or on some secluded plantation? If he did at present occupy a seat in the federal legislature, who could tell how soon the caprice of an unenlightened and unappreciating con- stituency might prefer some one else for a representative? It would be quite a different thing, if the member enjoyed his seat by the right of noble birth, or had won .a life-tenure by meritorious services. The fashionable ladies are the real aris- toerats, and will be the first to propose kings and lords. Kings and lords, it is feared by many, the Saxons and the Celts will, sooner or later, have; for ostentation is an ineradi- cable ingredient of their nature. Day after day the scene of admiration, laudation, and syco- phancy was the same. The Tingles were surrounded by gay friends, and were flattered and caressed to an?, ent which far exceeded even Emily's calculations. Mr. P'iJe :had sur- passed even himself in his correspondence. '^The Brazen 'Trumpet was filled with praises of the Tingles; but the loud- est notes were for "the enchanting, the heart-captivating, and irresistible Miss E--y." Her dress, her gait, her jewels, her bon-mots, her conquests, were all paraded before the curious gaze of the lovers of fashionable gossip in all portions of the union; and Mr. Parolee was admitted with the rest to her salons. Among the number present on one occasion were the travelling beaux of the sisters, George Gordon and Charles Pelham. They had been forgotten in the blaze of fashion which had blinded the Tingles, as one nail drives out another; and they had ceased to speak of them. Yet there was almost a cry of joy on the lips of the sisters when they unexpectedly beheld them one evening among a company of some twenty   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       117 members of Congress, their wives and daughters, who came to pay their accustomed respects. "Anne," said Emily, "we must now find out who they are. Do you inquire of air. Parolee, andI will try to ascertain something from thenmelves." A few moments afterwards Enily waentertaining the young gentlemen in her most captivating -manner, and yet with some apparent restraint, so far, as her conduct might be observed by the rest of the company; for she was not willing to run the risk of compromising her dignity and importance by too great an exhibition of familiarity with persons of whom she knew so little. Nevertheless, the youthful appearance, handsome features, and fashionable dress of George and Charles were well calculated to create an impression in their favour. "Why have we not had the pleasure of seeing you before?" asked Emily, in low sweet tones. "We were prevented from coming by our duties--" "On duty?" interrupted Emily, quickly. "At the arsenal, or on board a ship?" "Not exactly, either,' stammered Charles;. but we had an engagement-----" "Not a rendezvous at Bladensburg!" "No," said George.' "We have not been out of the city. We have been studying, preparatory-- "'. "Ah! you have been preparing yourselves to undergo an, examination before the board----" "True, we have been undergoing an examination, and it is not over yet!" said Charles, with an undue amount of perspira- tion perceptible on his forehead, and yet with a waggish leer at his comrade, whose predetermined boldness had momentarily  given way to a palpable fit of embarrassment. Perhaps I can aid you, if you are not quite perfect in your , parts," said Emily, really sympathizing with the young gentle- ,  ' I , '     "8     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; men, and quite willing to make a display of her influence at court in their behalf. "Perfect in our parts!" iterated Charles, aside to his con. panion. "Thank you, miss; but there will really be no necessity. We are quite perfect. Since we have been here we have seve- ral times rehearsed--" "Rehearsed!" repeated Charles, in surprise. "That is," said Emily, "you have several times repeated what you will have to say." "That is it, exactly!" replied both the young men, much relieved, and seeing quite a commotion near the entrance, where Mr. and Mrs. Tingle were entertaining their coterie, and supposing some visiters of distinction were arriving, they hoped to escape further examination, for the present at least. "How long do you remain in the city?" asked Emily, hurriedly, and slightly turning, as if she intended to receive other visiters. "It will depend upon the public," said Charles. "Upon the public? That is incomprehensible," said Emily, completely foiled. "Upon the public favour," continued the young man, in spite of the efforts of his companion to restrain him. "I don't understand you," said the piqued young lady. "That is the way actors might speak. Why not say at once you are destined for the army or navy, whichever it may be? I suppose it is one or the other." Saying this, with some marks of displeasure mingled with her impatience to know who it was whose arrival had created such a sensation, and around whom and her parents there was now formed so dense a crowd that her eyes could not penetrate the centre of it, she turned abruptly away, and approached the scene of attrac- tion.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        119 "How foolish it was in you to make such a remark!" said George. "The game is up with us, I fear." "Why do you fear it?"  Because it is a pleasant..thing to visit the Tingles." "But did you not observe Miss Anne, over there by the window, in conversation with Parolee? He knows us. Of course he has told everything."                "The d-- 1!" replied George. "And if he has," continued Charles, "the d--l's in it,  if he could say anything to our dishonour without he lied. We are as good as the Tingles, any day, and our parents quite as respectable. But here comes Parolee himself." "Your most obedient servant, gentlemen," said that func- tionary of the quill, with a significant smile. "Out with it, Parolee," said Charles boldly; "what have you told Miss Tingle concerning us?" "Nothing, upon my honour!" he replied, with an emphasis which carried a conviction of its truth along with it. "But she has told me a great deal more than she intended, or is aware of herself, concerning you, or at least one of you." "Which one of us?" "Why, George." "What has she told concerning me?" aiked George. "She has told me she is more than half in love with you. She did not .tell it in so many words, but her looks and gestures convinced me it must be so. Finding the cat jumped in that direction, I put on my diplomacy, as the gret-secretary says; and you may be assured she elicited nothing from me which can be of any injury to you. On the contrary, if I can aid you, I will do so with great pleasure. I love elopements, and all romances of that sort, when they pay well. This would pay. -Should such a speculation be accomplished, how much would be my share?" "Ha! ha! ha! Say five thousand, George." 10 "     120     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "Nonsense, Charles," replied his companion, gravely. "Parolee is only jesting." "Not at all," said that gentleman. "Say five thousand, or for ever hold your peace." And the young man made no reply.  The visiter who had entered was no less a person than the President of the United States. Mr. Tingle was ready to ex- pire with delight. The cup of his ambition was full, He had lived to see the day when the chief executive officer of the United States, the head of this great government, had waited upon him in person. There was no greater honour or distinction for him to covet. He had reached the highest round of his aspiring ladder, and now his head was in the clouds. Many such acknowledgments were stammered out by him during his bows and congees before the President. It was quite different with Mrs. Tingle. NA proud frigidity seemed to have ossified her features, which bore an unalterable expression of hauteur and aristocratic importance. She cast disdainful looks on all things else, and only had a slightly perceptible smile of gratified vanity for the exalted functionary before her. If ever there was a time when her maiden name of "Prince" seemed to be more vividly present in her memory than another, it was on this occasion. It was to her name, her blood, undoubtedly, in her estimation, that they were indebted for the presence of their august visiter. Mr. Tingle attributed it to his wealth. Emily to her personal accomplish- ments and mental endowments. But in the midst of these secret attributions, the President, who was an extremely candid man, notwithstanding his fond- ness for refined female society and his proverbial gallantry, without due reflection announced the real cause of his presence there. Hearing the distinct and unmistakeable pronunciation of Mr. Tingle's name, from the thin pale lips of Mrs. Tingle, he started slightly, and observed, fortunately so low that none J     OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       121 but the Tingles (who of course were entitled to be the nearest to him) could hear him, "I perceive I have made a slight mistake; but a very agreeable one," he added immediately, "and I hope you will pardon me." "Pardon you ." echoed Mr. Tingle, with inflated cheeks, and most beneficent eyes. "Of course, sir!" "Pray, what mistake, Mr. President?" asked Mrs. Tingle. (' Why-really-the truth is-I thought it was Mr. Tyng, and his family, I was visiting!" "Mr. Tyng!" exclaimed the ladies, but scarcely above their breath, which indeed had well nigh left their bodies, while the blood had completely abandoned their lips. "Truly I supposed it to be the Rev. Mr. Tyng and his family," continued the President, quite unconscious that he was plunging daggers in the hearts of his listeners. "But," he continued, with his well known affability and bonhomie, "if I have made a mistake, I have not been disappointed." This was the signal for Emily to bring forward her artillery. "If you will not, then, confess to a disappointment," said she, in her most captivating manner, "neither will we abate one particle of the gratification we feel at beholding you here. And surely an acquaintance begun in this manner cannot be doomed to be ruptured and forgotten the moment after." "Upon the honour of a man, or the word of a President (take which you please, or both), it will not be ruptured by me; nor could it be forgotten, even if the pleasure of meeting again should not be permitted by any action of yours: and to test my sincerity, and to put your good disposition to the proof, I shall expect you all to dine with me to-morrow, at four o'clock. I will hear no denial. Mind, at four; a family din* ner; no public guests, and no ceremony." Saying this, the President departed, just as Mr. Parolee drew near and had prepared the tablets of his brain for the inscriptions which he     122     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; intended to transmit to New York in his next letter. He heard, however, nothing more than the invitation to dinner; and although he bowed very low to-the President, and strove to thrust himself upon his notice by almost throwing his body between that distinguished individual and the door, yet he did not succeed in getting himself included in the invitation. This memorable visit produced a marked alteration in the bearing of Mr. Tingle. He was no more, at least for some days afterwards, the same smilingly-condescending, sociable millionaire that he used to be. And the change was so sud- den and so complete that no one could fail to observe it. He was now studiously grave, and seriously thoughtful. What the nature and process of his ratiocinations might be, of course could only be surmised with some degree of dubiety. Whe. ther or not his cogitations assumed a form of connexion and consistent, was certainly extremely doubtful. Nevertheless, they must have been all of the same high-toned complexion, for the aspiring Emily, and her towering mother, were the vigilant prompters who never suffered the idea of winning dis. tinction to slumber or sleep in his throbbing head. And the fact that they had been visited by the President of the United States at their hotel, which was soon known throughout the city, and which was immediately chronicled in all the gossip- ing newspapers of the country, increased the number of honourable guests at their lodgings, and multiplied the atten- tions and compliments daily enjoyed by the fat rich man and his intriguing daughter. Mr. Parolee was almost constantly in attendance, taking his notes and preparing memoranda for his voluminous letters; and more than once he was successful in extracting bank bills of large denomination from his gratified patrons. But he met with no success whatever in his innocent attempts at sociable familiarity with the Misses Tingle. The less sophisticated Anne made no secret of her disinclination to converse with him i                ". ^.     OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       128 on any subject but one-and that was in relation to George Gordon, whom Parolee was well acquainted with. Emily treated with him in a reserved, unfeeling manner; and, as in A  matters of business, never ceased to require an exact equivalent in services for the payments which she required her father to make him. In short, the penetrating and intellectual girl was using Mr. Parolee as an instrument in furthering her ambi- tious projects, and he had the sagacity to perceive it. But he  was labouring in his vocation, and had no right whatever to demur to her exactions. Still, Mr. Parolee could not resist the temptation to play a j little game of his own, but not against Emily, for he knew she  was his superior, and that he had reason to fear her. The  gentler and more susceptible Anne was his destined victim. he had intimated that George Gordon was the son of a rich planter in Louisiana, and was now travelling for amusement and instruction under various disguises. Sometimes, Mr. Paro- lee represented him, as pretending to be a student at West Point, and at others as a midshipman. And Charles, his com- panion, was of similar parentage, of equal fortune, and accom- panied him from the same motire. He would not be absolutely certain whether the names they bore were real or assumed;  but he had been credibly informed that they were really such romantic young men as he had described them. When Anne had repeated this tale to Emily, after the with- drawal of the company, that decisive girl pondered a moment, and then simply replied, "Nonsense! I don't believe a word of it. And I caution you, Anne, not to credit anything Paro- lee says. You see how he falsifies things in his letters. It is so with his words. Habit has rendered him incapable of  uttering the truth. He is a dealer in news. The truth is not news. Those boys have evaded my inquiries; and if I am at  a loss to know precisely who they are, do you think the thick- headed Parolee could meet with better success? Stftl, they  10 *                          ' , .1     TUB umAXULEMS AND 'T'IN'GLES; are handsome and sprightly, and look well in society. We must encourage them to come, with the rest. Their appear. m.^  ance is well. enough. It matters not if they be really nothing more than well-dressed strolling vagabonds; being young men of good address, we can tolerate them, and others will follow our example. In short, if they are not respectable, we can make them so. We are to set the fashions. But, remember, no private interviews, no heart attachment. We must use them simply as ornaments, as pages of the olden time, while pursuing our higher objects."  In the evening the Tingles visited the theatre-all but Mrs. i-Tingle, and she did not "visit such places." As far as the  heatre1 was concerned, she was a "strict constructionist" of vow she had taken to renounce the pomps and vanities of -'!" .  .:World-and no farther; for she was fond of parties, and liked to see her daughters dance at the watering-places, and even at her own mansion. Mr. Tingle was reasonable in every- thing relating to moral and religious duty, and acted precisely as Emily desired him to do. They occupied a private box on the left of the stage, from whence the bright eyes of the voung ladies, and the brilliant jewels they wore, glittered continually in view of the audience. The Hon. Mr. Dudley was seated at the side of Emily, and a son of the President whispered "soft nonsense" in the ear of 'Anne. Mr. Tingle sat behind them, occupying the rest of the box (which might have accommodated ten persons), with ihis arms folded, and his broad face expressing (if it really could express anything felt within) the proud satisfac- tion. he enjoyed. This, thought he, is what wealth is for. Twenty dollars expended for such a triumph was well spent. One daughter attended by an eloquent and high-born member of Congress, and the other by the son of the President of all these United States! Well might Mr. Tingle fold his arms in conf!nted dignity! And as he gazed upon the scene before    OR, THE RIVAL BELTES.       125 him, and observed a thousand curious eyes directed ever and anon towards his party, did he once think of his origin? Did he picture to himself his respectable father in a short jacket, : and a snowy napkin under his chin, changing the dishes on the elder Mr. Spangler's table? Most indubitably not! The '  very thought would have annihilated him. Nor did he think of the untoward circumstances and distressful condition of the jeweller, and his poor daughter, Julia. It was well for them, perhaps, that he did not call them to his mind at such a moment. For the recollection of them might probably have had the effect of dispelling or darkening the bright visions of greatness which dazzled his eyes; and then terrible might  have been their doom in consequence. It was enough for the poor Spanglers to bear the inflictions conceived by the ambitious Emily, and merely put in execution by her father, without undergoing any of the scourges which might have been suggested by the less refined man of wealth himself. But neither the one nor the other bestowed a thought on the obscure Spanglers. ' Mr. Parolee occupied t seat far down in the parquet, in the. vicinity of the private box of the Tingles. This was an occa- sion on which he could not resist an inclination to indicate to  the whole house, that he was on the most familiar terms with i the party which seemed to be, and really was the centre of at-  traction, at least previously to the rising of the curtain.. Selecting his time, he made a profound bow to the occupants I of the private box. Although the ladies had studiously  avoided a recognition of him, and did not return the .saluta- tion, yet Mr. Parolee was not altogether defeated; for Mr.  Tingle, perceiving the motion, and not knowing who it was,  bowed in return, and smiled very graciously. Mr. Parolee re- peated his bow; but Mr. Tingle, adjusting his glasses very deliberately, and making a careful examination, turned his face  with a mortified air in another direction. This Mr. Parolee  f  1:x  * *      126     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; hoped had not been observed, and he continued his bows to other personages in other parts of the house, with equal success. But he had hoped that Mr. Tingle would call him into his box, to keep him company, while the girls were entertained by their honourable attendants; and so he cursed him in his heart for an old monopolist. The play was Goldsmith's best, "She Stoops to Conquer." And lo! Hastings and Marlow were personated by no others than the veritable George Gordon and Charles Pelham! An exclamation of astonishment escaped the lips of Anne on mak. ing this discovery, and she grew quite pale. This was observed by the quick-sighted Emily, who laughed merrily, and instantly told the gentlemen present of their adventure with the young actors. "But they were respectful, and well cultivated," she con- tinued; "and we have had the pleasure of seeing them since at our apartments." "Forbear, Emily, to mention their names at all!" said Anne, in rising indignation, who was much shocked at the discovery, for she had suffered the image of George to make something of an impression on her heart, under the belief, that he was in what she considered quite a different and more respectable sphere of life. And she was now momentarily angry with herself for having permitted him to speak to her, and with him for -having dared to do it. "Don't mention them, Emily!" she continued, " you know Iwould never have conversed with them for a moment, if I had known they were impostors!" "Impostors, sister!" said Emily, with rebuking emphasis; ' why should they be called impostors? I regard the profes- sion they have chosen as altogether equal in respectability to that pursued by many who call themselves professors-I mean the pedantic teachers of schools. The latter teach the boys and girls grammar and mathematics; the former instruct men   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        127  and women in the noble lessons of life. They teach, likewise, the proper mode of pronunciation; while many of the most glo- rious sentiments conceived by the greatest geniuses of the world are made familiar to the people through their instrumentality. For instance, what could be more edifying, and at the same  time innocently entertaining, than the play now enacting  before us? And in truth, our gay gallants do their parts most admirably. I must say I have as much respect for them as ever, and shall not hesitate to receive them with the same civility hereafter as we have done heretofore." This determination was applauded by both the son of the President and the Hon. Mr. Dudley. Anne could not oppose any argument advanced by her sister, and she acquiesced in the general sentiment with what resignation she could. When the sisters retired to rest at a late hour that night, Emily repeated her resolution not only to see the young actors, when not engaged in more important affairs, but even went so far as to indicate an inclination to become their patron and protector, and thus, by her example, make them popular with the public, and enable them to realize fortunes. The thought of being instrumental in producing such a result was Iattering to her boundless vanity, and yet, perhaps, not beyond the possibility of accomplishment. "Besides," said she, "you know Mr. Parolee says they assume different characters. Perhaps, after all, they are just playing the actors. Let us not be too hasty in turning from them." "Ii     128     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; PART IV. "ET us now follow one of the characters who is destined to act a part in this true drama. We see him on the good ship "Gray Eagle," which has her broad wings spread to the breeze, and is ploughing her diligent way through the track- less waste of waters. Harry stands on the deck in apparent solitude and silence. It is the hour of twilight, and yet a few of the ocean birds-"Mother Cary's chickens"--flit along over the white track of the ship. Do they still wing their way at night, and during the night, in company with the dark mass of timbers surmounted with the slender masts, and creak- ing under the weight of multitudinous sails? In the morning they are still there, fluttering, and crying for their food. The lonely Harry stands and watches these birds of the storm until they disappear in the darkness. Then he leans over the side of the vessel, and gazes listlessly at the phospho- rescent spangles streaming out in the wake. The ship ran briskly in a fresh breeze, and the temperature was pleasant in the low latitude they had reached. The night air at sea, unlike what it is on land, was not dangerous; and the brave boy, unable to participate in the pleasures of the table below, where the merry jest, or the fascinating game, retained the rest of the passengers, lingered alone, with his thoughts alter- nately dwelling on those he had left behind, and on the uncer- tain future awaiting him. But his stout heart never blanched for a moment, although a tear occasionally stole down his cheek, when he thought of his lonely condition, and the perils which he must encounter; perils, which, if they should de-   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        129- stroy him, would involve those who were dearer to him than life. These reflections only inspired him with a firmer reso- lution to omit nothing, in his power to accomplish, which might contribute to the attainment of the: object he had in view. He might have banished his painful thoughts and apprehensions, as others did, in the idle amusements of the hour; but the mission he was engaged in seemed to him to be too momentous to admit of any meditations or employment of a character calculated for a moment to cause him to forget his absorbing purpose. A scene ensued at a late hour which startled and interested the wondering boy. A school of large porpoises darted up as if from the depths of the blue ocean, and careered in every direction in the vicinity of the ship. The darkness of the night only made their luminous tracks the more plainly visible; and the courses in which they ran, and even their slightest motions, could be easily discerned, in the showers of golden : phosphorescent sparks emitted in the blue element below.  "That is grand!" said Harry,' unconscious of there being " any other witness of the scene. "They seem to me like spirits of the golden land, giving me glimpses of the bright reward I have dreamed of realizing in California. Heaven grant it may be a true augury!" "I hope so, too, my brave lad!" said a gentleman, leaning over Harry's shoulder. The young man looked up in surprise, and-said, "It's you, Mr. Ange! I was not aware that any one was within hearing. I thought you were below." "I was below until recently; but finding you not there, I came up to look after you." "Indeed! May I ask why you desire to look after me?"  "Yes, you may, and I will tell you. I have watched you ever since we sailed, and I will watch over you till we land, and perhaps afterwards. I have seen you look melancholy,     130     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; and feared you might in a moment of gloom and despair be tempted to jump overboard." "If that be the reason, Mr. Ange," said Harry, with an offended air, "you need give yourself no further trouble on my account. I love life too well, and feel too deep an interest in the welfare of those I left behind, who are dearer to me than life itself, ever to think of such a thing. Why should I commit suicide, sir? I am young, in good health, and have the whole world before me. How can I know that I am not destined to make a fortune in the land of gold? If I were returning home, disappointed, and defeated in my object, there might be more probability of such a desperate occurrence. But neither disappointment nor defeat shall drive me to despair, so long as I am young, and have my health. 'Try again' is my motto, whenever I fail in a project. And after failing a hundred times, I shall change it to 'die trying.'" "Good! That's it, Harry! You're the boy for me. I learned all about your circumstances from Mr. Domet, of whom I made some purchases, and he it was who recommended you to me." "Did he?" asked Harry, quickly. "Mr. Domet has a kind heart, after all, notwithstanding his hard exterior." "Yes, Harry; but the man he spoke to had as soft and as big a one as his own. No one hears me, Harry, but you, and the One above, and I think I may say that much for myself, because I feel that it is so every time I look at you. I think of the time when I was a poor boy, many years ago-a great many years, Harry,-and I am getting old-old, Harry, and an old bachelor, at that. Yes, I remember when I was just such an honest, intrepid, stout-hearted young man, as yourself --mind, I don't say any better-with my face turned westward in quest of fortune. It was far away in the wilderness. I gazed of nights from the puffing steamer on the dark waters x,!"            OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        131 i of the mad Missouri. No golden sparkles were there, Harry,  but yet, I too had a determined spirit within me. And dis.  appointment and hardships did not deter me. I kept trying again and again, until I succeeded. Yes, I succeeded, and made money, a great deal, perhaps enough for an old bachelor. But what could I do? I could not sit down and fold my hands in idleness. No, no, business is the word, if a man wants to be happy; and so I am adventuring again. Yet I get lonesome occasionally, and require some one to cheer me. Won't you do it?" "Mr. Ange," said Harry, in reply to this unlooked-for ques- tion from one who had just confessed that he had been watch- ing over his welfare, "I will gladly do anything in my power to serve you. You have only to indicate what you wish me to do." "And will yot do it?" asled Mr. Ange. "Yes, I think so. I will do anything for you which may not be deemed wrong." "I want you to be my confidential clerk, when we arrive at San Francisco." "That is exactly what I want! I have been thinking that it would be better for me to get employment as a clerk for the first year." "And after the first year?" "Why, when I get accustomed to the climate and the people, and the mode of working in the mines----" "You will dig?" "Yes." "That won't do-provided you intend to make a fortune. In the first place, you will never be hardy enough and strong enough to work in the mines; and in the next place, those who get fortunes in California don't dig the gold themselves, no more than the mules and packhorses which carry the metal. You must speculate. It is all a speculation. You have "     132     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; nothing to lose--everything to gain. I owe no one for my goods, and I may speculate without involving others. The keenest wits, the smartest men, will get the most gold, no matter who digs it. You have some goods?" "Oh, yes; they are on board. But only a few thousand dollars' worth." "You can put them in my store, and sell them along with mine. I will charge no rent, and your salary will be going on while you are working for yourself as well as for me." "And what salary will you give me?" "Let me see--" said Mr. Ange, hesitating. "I cannot say, exactly, Harry. Salaries are up in California, and will be higher, if San Francisco improves and becomes a city. Suppose I say $500, and the rise, whatever that may be." ' That is as well as I could do in Philadelphia, and will answer until I can do better," said Harry, not at all dazzled by-the sum named. "How much does Mr. Domet give young men of your age?" asked Mr. Ange. "He pays about $50.0 per annum." "Per annum! But it is so much per month, in California." "Per month! Did you mean $500 per month?" "That is what I meant." "What! six thousand dollars a year?" "Exactly, with the rise." "Why, Mr. Ange, you can't mean it, and I can't take it. It is too much." "Not a bit. If I don't pay you as much as other young men get, of the same qualifications, I shall lose you. You will suit me, I am sure; and I shall not want to part with you. If we succeed, I shall leave you in charge of The esta- blishment, and return by way of Panama and Chagres for more goods. The second year you shall be a partner, and have one-third the profits."   OR, TIIE RIVAL BELLES.      133 , Mr. Ange, I thank---" No, don't! It's for my benefit as well as yours. I'll be as much a gainer as you. Honest young men, upon whom one can rely, are equivalent to capital in a new country. Your services in California will be worth as much as my money. And I think you will do better with me than you could in the mines." "No doubt of it, sir. But I must thank you for your gene- rous offer, which I accept. And in the first letter I write home I will tell my father and sister of my good fortune. How it will cheer them! It will make them bless you- --" "No, don't! Don't do any such foolish thing. If I had a father and sister, they would bless you for consenting to be my clerk. I know they would, if they only knew what valuable services a competent and honest young man can ren-  der, and how few there are faithful to their trusts. I have tried many, Harry, and have found but few who would be governed by my counsels when I was absent. They are apt to know too much. Now it is not knowledge or genius which is required to make money. It is stability and economy. None of the rich men make fortunes- " "Pray, then, Mr. Ange, how do they get them?" "They save them. Thousands of men, now poor, have made fortunes. It is only the stable, careful, patient man who gets rich. Do you wish to become rich, Harry?" "I am determined to be, if I live!" "Right. I forgot the first prerequisite-you have it. You must first have the determination, and never forget it when you are inclined to spend anything which may be avoided. Stick to that, Harry, and you will be rich." "And then my father and sister will be happy." "Right again, Harry; you are always right, as Mr. Domet said." "Did he say that?"     134     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "He did. And he told me, if I found you in need of money, to advance it, and draw on him." "Bless him!' cried Harry, while tears gushed from his eyes, and his voice faltered. "Don't! don't, Harry!" said Mr. Ange, without specifying what it was he wished him to forbear doing. Harry remained silent, while Mr. Ange continued. "I say you are right, my boy, in desiring to acquire wealth to bestow on those who are dear to you, and who may stand in need of it. After all, I don't know whether it is best for any man to get wealth (by saving, mind), provided he hoards it up for his own exclusive benefit, and yet stints himself in everything desirable which money will buy. It is inconsistent. I have often thought of it. But if I don't expend much on myself, I sometimes- never mind-that's neither here nor there. As I was saying, the gold will be of service to those you leave at home; and it is a noble object you have in view. God will prosper and pro- tect you if you are always actuated by such motives." Thus the adventurers conversed until it was very late, and both, when they retired to rest, slumbered with light hearts. On the other hand, there were scores revelling, in the cabin, and in anticipation of gaining inexhaustible riches in the new land of promise-anticipations never to be realized by many of them-were already throwing away their surplus funds with a liberal hand, at the card-table. The day after Harry's engagement with Mr. Ange, that gen- tleman was taken ill, and remained in a feeble condition during the remainder of the voyage. Harry, although unused to nursing the sick, ministered incessantly to the wants of his friend, who acknowledged the kindness, in words of earnest import. At one time it was announced by a physician on board that he could not recover, and Mr. Ange made his will, in which a full half of the proceeds of his adventure were bestowed upon Harry, who was to take charge of all the goods   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       135 and do the best he could with them. The remaining moiety of his wealth Harry was to distribute among the legatees named in the will. Harry, it was true, had not been made acquainted with the contents of the will, although it was placed in his possession by the testator, sealed, and addressed to him, and superscribed "to be opened when I am dead." But, to the great joy of Harry, Mr. Ange did not die. Nor did he wholly recover, but remained in a very feeble condition the remainder of the voyage. Harry gave him back the sealed instrument, and encouraged him greatly by declaring that his amendment was daily becoming more apparent in his improved looks.                           : At length the good ship Gray Eagle entered the bay of San Francisco, and Mr. Ange was strong enough to stand on deck (holding the arm of Harry), and join the rest in congratula-  tions upon their safe arrival in port. The town, then a mere village, did not, it was true, present any very striking aspect; but the inexhaustible mines beyond, if the representationsthey had heard were not without foundation, would soon pour their precious treasures into the town, and would, as if by magic, ere lo1g, cause a glittering city to spring up there. This was the decided opinion of Mr. Ange, who had witnessed the magical change of insignificant villages into cities in the western states; and he advised his young friend to invest the proceeds of the sales of his various articles of merchandise in houses and lots. For this reason Harry was not among the number who felt disappointed upon finding so many mere huts in the midst of the town, and so many lots unoccupied. When the ship came to anchor, Mr. Ange found himself quite incapacitated, from his extreme debility, to perform the duties incumbent upon him. Harry, therefore, was under the necessity of taking upon himself the important charge of selecting a location, and a house in which to place the goods. And this was no easy task; indeed there was no building then     1 16  THE SPANOLERS AND TINGLES; unoccupied, and which could be procured, of sufficient capacity to hold all the goods. Harry's effects were of such a nature as to occupy but little space; but Mr. Ange's goods consisted of some five hundred packages, mostly staple goods, and of domestic manufacture. The first day was spent in fruitless negotiations; and Harry returned to the small boarding-house : (a log cabin), to announce his ill success to his principal. "Don't despair," said Mr. Ange, after listening to his clerk's report. "You remember the motto, 'try again;' better luck next time, as Jacob Faithful said." "Die trying, rather than give up," was Harry's response. The next day Harry returned at an early hour, and an- nounced to his principal that he had been offered a cabin one story high and twenty-five feet square, for $600 a month. "Did you take it?" asked Mr. Ange quickly. "No, sir; I would do no such thing without first consult. ing you, and getting your approbation." "Lose no time in getting the house, Harry," said Mr. Ange, evincing impatience, for he had just been called upon by a number of small traders from the mines, who were waiting to replenish their stocks in the interior. "But stay!" he con. tinued, seeing Harry about to hurry away. "Suppose you buy the house and lot. Did he not offer to sell it?" "He did. But he wanted $10,000 for it." "What size is the lot?" "Twenty-five feet in front by one hundred in depth." "Then buy it, Harry; and make the payments in three, six, nine, and twelve months. You say it is a good location?" "I think so, and others say so." "Then hasten away and buy it; and employ men to build' a row of other cabins communicating with each other, the whole depth of the lot." Harry lost no time in obeying his instructions. And before. the expiration of another month Mr. Ange's store was in the   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       13.7 midst of a dense block of buildings. This was a sufficient proof of Harry's sagacity and foresight, and Mr. Ange repeated his advice to his young friend to make similar investments for himself. The young man very soon disposed of all his goods. His little stock had been sold without difficulty, and at a large advance on the cost and expense of transportation; and yet the time occupied in disposing of them did not prevent him from discharging his duties to his employer. Mr. Ange grew better daily, and was soon enabled to per- form a principal part in the store; yet his business was so brisk that it was necessary for him to employ several clerks in his establishment; but Harry still retained his confidence and esteem. Our young adventurer delayed making his investments so long that several desirable properties he had been looking at, were taken by other speculators. The delay was occasioned by his desire to remit home the proceeds of his sales, which he was long tempted to do, and perhaps his wish to surprise his father and sister with a bag of gold dust would have tri- umphed, had it not been ascertained that the party who offered to deliver it in Philadelphia, were not worthy of trust. Harry then abandoned the idea of buying property on the same street where Mr. Ange was located, which was now a principal one, and which would require more funds than he would be likely to have at command when the payments should become due. He therefore went beyond the thickly occupied portion of the town and bought several very large lots, almost entirely unim- proved. Upon these he had erected a number of frail shanties, but for which he soon found eager tenants, as the numerous  daily arrivals from the States, and indeed from all parts of the world, rendered it impossible for the hotels and boarding- houses to accommodate one-fourth of the people who applied at them..     138      TIE SPANOLERS AND TINGLES; Months went by, and the stream of emigration, or rather the hordes of adventurers, increased in volume from all the different civilized nations. Hundreds of vessels rode at anchor in the bay, as if lying before some vast city of immense and ancient commerce. But their decks were not manned by their accustomed crews. No sooner did a ship cast its anchor, and disgorge its mass of living freight, than from that moment it resembled an abandoned wreck. Such was the uncontrollable passion for gold which seized upon all who landed on that shore, that thousands fled precipitately to the mountains and gulches, leaving their baggage on board, and not even providing for themselves the food necessary to sustain life a short month; forgetting that gold, which it is said will command everything desirable in civilized communities, is rendered worthless in a wild land where the necessaries of life do not exist, or where they are only found in such small quantities as to be the para- mount objects of pursuit. Hence it was no uncommon occur- rence for the improvident miner, after his labours of the day in water and mud, to be glad to exchange his gold, ounce for ounce, for the coarsest food; and hence the man of reflection, who anticipated such a state of things, and provided for them, reaped a richer reward by vending the articles most in request, than he who dug the precious metal from the bowels of the earth. In the process of time the street upon which the premises of Mr. Ange were situated, became almost exclusively occupied by the merchants; and Mrs. Jay, who lived upon the same street, and who was the lady with whom Mr. Ange and all his clerks boarded, was notified by her landlord that she must vacate the house, as he had agreed to let it to a merchant whose goods were on board a ship then in the harbour. She had only a month's notice; and if it seemed a short space of time in which to provide another habitation, it was likewise probable that the merchant in question would not be likely to   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        139 precipitate her removal, for she learned that the entire crew of the vessel, captain, mate, and all, had gone in a body to the mines, without collecting their dues, or assisting to discharge the freight; and the owners of the goods on board were endea- vouring, so far without much success, to employ persons in the town to assist in getting out the cargo. Hitherto the merchant who was to occupy the boarding-house, had succeeded in employ- ing only three men, at the rate of twenty dollars, each, per day. Two of these were physicians, graduates of the University of Pennsylvania; and the third was a lawyer, from New York, who had served two terms in Congress. One morning at the breakfast table, Mr. Ange, after listen- ing some time to the relation of Mrs. Jay's grievances, sug- gested that she ought to remove to a cross-street upon which one of Harry's large lots lay. She said she would be perfectly willing to do so, if there was a fit building to go into. "And I can't afford to build," said Harry. "Yes, you can," said Mr. Ange. Where will I get men and material?" "Take the logs from my old house-you may have them for nothing." Mr. Ange had immediately begun the process of improvement after his purchase, and now had the remnant of his stock in a nicely painted frame tenement. "But how shall I get carpenters? They will charge me about $30, each, per day." "Well, pay them-but employ only two. We, I mean all of us, who are Mrs. Jay's boarders, will help to raise the house by moonlight, after the business for the day is over. Will we not?" There was a boisterous response in the affirmative. And a few days afterwards Mrs. Jay occupied a better and a larger house on Harry's lot than the one she had abandoned. The landlord of the latter released her from any obligation to pay the rent after she gave him possession, as he desired time to     "O      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; make the necessary alterations in the building preparatory for its conversion into a store. And Harry became Mrs. Jay's landlord, realizing $400 per month as the rent of a property which did not cost him exceeding $1000. So far everything had gone on prosperously. But there was to be an ebb in the golden tide, which was to appal the stoutest hearts. Mr. Ange, however, who had already reaped a rich harvest, was not destined to be a witness of the terrific spectacle. His stock of goods, which had originally cost him some $25,000, had, previously to the happening of the cala- mity immediately to be described, yielded him some $50,000 in gold, with which he had started for the States, for the pur- pose of purchasing another assortment of merchandise. And yet it was estimated that the goods remaining unsold, and left in the superintending charge of Harry, would bring some $25,000 more. Such were the profits which the first adven- turers in California realized. Mr. Ange had been gone some ten days, when the occur- rence transpired which we are about to narrate. It was late in the night when Harry, who always slept in the counting-room of the store, heard, for the first time since his residence in San Francisco, the awful cry of "Fire!"It could not be otherwise than an awful sound to him, who, aware of the absence of the necessary apparatus, and even the water, to extinguish the flames, was likewise assured, from the nature of the materials of which the houses were con- structed, and the compactness with which the blocks had been built, that, the torch once applied, there must ensue an exten- sive conflagration. With his heart beating audibly in his bosom, Harry sprang to his feet, and ran to the door opening on the main street. At first he could perceive no light, and he soon grew calmer. But ever and anon, and at shorter intervals, he could still hear the alarming cry of "Fire!" He hastened back and aroused   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        141' the other clerks. When he had hastily. dressed, and before  he could reach the front door again, there was added to the sound of distant voices, the clangour of the-bell of a neighbour-  ing hotel. As he once more stepped into the street, he per-  ceived the light of the burning house, and was in some degree relieved to find it was several squares removed from the estab-- lishment of Mr. Ange. But there was a fresh breeze blowing from the scene of the  fire in the direction of the establishment, and the apprehen- sions of the young man were revived. He knew there was no insurance on the goods or the house, and he felt the weight of his responsibility pressing heavily upon him. "Fire! fire! fire!" yelled one of the inmates of the store, upon seeing the increasing light, and rushing past, ran in the direction of the fire without heeding the cries of Harry to stop. "Who -was that?" he asked, of one of the clerks. "Timothy Trott," was the answer. Timothy, or Tim, as he was usually called, had arrived at San Francisco but a few days previously, and had been ten- dered a lodging in Mr. Ange's establishment by Harry, who had known him in Philadelphia. Tim had been one of those venders of papers and periodicals, called "newsboys," for many years, and was a boy still-at least in his exterior appearance and dimensions. He could not have been less than nineteen years of age, and yet he was not exceeding four feet and three inches in height. But he was broad-shouldered and deep-chested, and combined the agility of the monkey with the strength of the leopard. His voice was very shrill, his face freckled, and his hair red. Tim had no kin, near or remote, that he knew of; but he had managed to earn a subsistence by his industry in vending  his frail and perishable commodities. And although it had been said that he had been known to sell papers out of date, ,-                  "a'     "2     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; that is, not of the most recent date, while hurrying through the market-houses, or just-when the cars were starting froiu the depot, yet Harry had never been so deceived by him, nor had he heard these things from any authentic source. He was, therefore, inclined to lend a helping hand to the little wanderer upon recognising him as he came ashore from ono of the newly-arrived vessels anchored in the bay. He learned from Tim that it took every cent he had laid up at home, and all he could raise from his sales on the voyage, to pay his pas. sage, and buy his victuals; and when he landed, all the wealth he possessed in the world consisted of his scanty stock of clothing, and some thousands of papers, magazines, and cheap pamphlet novels. With these he intended to open a periodical depot, and had, the day before the night of the fire, been engaged, by permission, in erecting a frail tenement on one of Harry's lots, composed in part of slight timbers, and fragments of boxes, which he had picked up about the store, and partly of canvas. Harry became his security for the payment of his board, and charged him nothing for his bed. The flames increased in volume, and the fire was evidently spreading with fearful rapidity in the direction of Mr. Ange's store. And, if any additional confirmation of the danger were needed, it was soon supplied by the almost breathless Timothy Trott, who came running back, his shrill voice announcing his approach before his diminutive body became visible. "It can't be put out! It can't be put out!" cried he, rush- ing up to Harry, amazement depicted in his features, and speaking so loudly that his words would have been distinctly audible two hundred paces distant, although his lips were thrust within an inch of the ear of the one he was addressing. "It's no use waiting for it to be put out! It can't be done! The whole town will be burnt down! What shall I do? What shall I do "  He wrung his hands and sobbed in despair. v   OR, TlE RIVAL BELLES.       143  "Tim," said Harry, "what are you crying about? Let us  all be men, now." "What shall I do  What is to become of us all? We'll starve! I wish I had never seen this cussed place. I was a fool to come here." "Tim, the people won't be burned, nor will the fire put out their eyes, so as to prevent them from reading. Listen to me, all of you " said Harry, with 4eat firmness of manner. "I believe the fire will reach these premises, and that all the houses in the street will be consumed. The flames are now within two squares of us, and, as well as I can judge, no one is striving to arrest their progress. Every person seems to be engaged in the work of saving their property in the houses. We must do the same; and it is time we were at it. Follow my example, and lose not a moment's time in listening to what any one else may say-to you." They immediately went to work removing the-goods, and piling them up in the middle of the street, where it was sup- posed they would be safe from the devouring clement. Cloths, cassimeres, satinets, and flannels, were first taken out by the clerks, they being considered the most valuable. But Tim's first load consisted of double Brother Jonathans, and Sartain's, Godey's, and Graham's Magazines. He depo- sited his stock in trade along with the dry goods, quite satis- fied he would be able to identify them after the conflagration. And when he had finished removing his entire stock, he con- tinued his labours in assisting the young men to remove the goods of Mr. Ange. The process of removing the goods had not been begun a moment too soon. On-the contrary, it was evident it had been delayed too long; for the wind increased in violence, and the flames seemed to leap upon their prey with such fury, that  Harry feared the store would be consumed before they could  save all the goods. That the establishment was doomed to  12     "4      THE. SPANGLERS AND TINQLES; destruction, no one could doubt for a moment. The fire had now reached within a half-dozen doors of the store, and no earthly agency, at the command of the excited and yelling mul. titude there assembled, could arrest, its progress. All was tumult and confusion; and the effects of the occupants of the con. suming buildings were hurled without order or system into the middle of the street, where many of the most valuable articles were seized upon and carrie away by the scores of wretches whose vocation was to pluncW, and who had found a refuge there from most of the prisons of the world. By the red glare of the crackling element of destruction could be seen the flit- ting figures of Englishmen, Frenchmen, Germans, Spaniards, Italians, Africans, Mexicans, Indians, Chinese, and swarthy Islanders. Every tongue, civilized and savage, seemed to be heard in the horrible melee. And all were busy-some saving their effects, while others stole what they had rescued. Harry, observing this, stationed Tim, with a revolver in his hand, upon the summit of the pile of merchandise which they had carried into the street. His next care was to save the iron chest, which contained but little else than invoices and other papers of no value to any one but Mr. Ange. This was accomplished with difficulty, and the moment the iron box was rolled against the pile of goods upon which Tim stood, a party of rogues who had been reconnoitering, as if to determine where their depre- dations should begin, abandoned all else and fixed their gleam- ing eyes upon the anticipated treasure. "Keep away, you ravening rascals!" cried Tim, flourishing his pistol, "or I'll send a half-dozen bullets through you in a minute." The threats of so diminutive a guardian did not deter them. Under the license of the moment, when it might be presumed every one exerted himself only to serve the un- fortunate victims of the fire, the passion for gain knew no restraint, and rapacious men seized upon objects of supposed value without the slightest hesitation. Hence it was that,   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        145 without heeding the warning voice of Tim, some half-dozen ill-looking individuals rushed forward and seized upon the iron chest. Had Tim known the nature of the contents of the chest, it is likely he would have suffered it to be conveyed away without any interposition on his part to prevent it, and would have been glad to be rid of the rogues on such terms. But he supposed there might be a large amount of " the dust" in it. And so, when the roguejhad succeeded in rolling it a few paces into the darkness occasioned by the shadow of the pile of goods (the roof of the store being now in a bright blaze), and were about to bear it off by their united exertions, the faithful little sentinel fired in their midst, and had the satisfaction of seeing their burden, which they had bodily lifted up, fall to the ground; and one of their number limp away muttering deep curses, while the rest faced their assail- ant with threats and hostile demonstrations. "Begone! you thieves! or we will shoot down every one of you!" cried Harry, at the head of two or three clerks, Who had come to Trott's rescue. "Let's lynch 'em!" cried Trott, and the applauding response from the crowd around, who had witnessed his discharge of the pistol, and admired his spirit, served to intimidate his assailants, who, being aware of the danger of such a proposition being put- in summary execution, lost no time in withdrawing to some less perilous field of operations. Encouraged by his success, Trott's voice was heard above the confusion of tongues with perfect distinctness, and many a depredator was deterred from pilfering by the weapon he still flourished, and which it had been seen he was not afraid to use. At length the roof of the store fell in, and soon after the walls 'likewise gave way, and all being in a bright blaze, the  heat became so intense that Harry was fearful the goods in the street would take fire. His first impulse was to remove them  -;     "6     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; again; but this he was prevented from doing by his retreat being cut off on all sides, for the flames had communicated to the row of buildings on the opposite side of the street, and the dense mass of writhing beings, both up and down the centre of the avenue, rendered it almost impossible for any one to find a passage through with the slightest burden. But the young man's heart did not fail him in this emergency. He seized upon a bale of blankets, whic he distributed among the clerks, and such other persons as were willing to assist him, which they immersed in the ditches of water along the side-walks, and then spread them over the goods, now smoking with the intense and increasing heat. When this was accomplished, the whole party, with the exception of Trott, were forced to retire into a cooler atmosphere. Trott maintained his ground, but not exactly his position-astride of the apex of the cone of merchandise. He dodged behind it, and enveloped himself in a wet blanket. "Tim Trott!" cried Harry, not quite satisfied that the boy was in a place of safety, and convinced that no one would venture to molest the goods in such a heated atmosphere, in which it was almost impossible to breathe; "Come away, Tim!" said he, "that is no place for you. You can do no good there, now. If the sparks continue to fall till the blan- kets become dry, the goods must burn, and there is no help for it." I'm very well here, I thank you," was Trott's response; and the moment after he was observed to disappear entirely beneath the blankets, for the shower of sparks seemed to increase in volume and intensity. The store next door to that of Mr. Ange had been filled with groceries, and neither the proprietors nor the clerks attempted to save any of its contents from the moment the fire had reached the premises.  This seemed incomprehensible to Harry, who had continued to carry out the property of Mr.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        147 Ange up to within a few moments of the falling in of the roof - of the building. The goods of his next door neighbours had likewise been abandoned to their fate in the street. Both the principals and the subordinates of the grocery store had vanished, no one knewwhither, or why they had -gone. But the mystery was soon solved by a tremendous explosion of gunpowder. Hundreds of men were prostrated by the shock; yet none, fortunately, were killed. And when they rose they found themselves enveloped on all sides with burning brands and smoking timbers, while the air was filled with descending sparks, and innumerable fragments of blazing shingles. It is needless to say the men availed themselves of the quickest method of withdrawal from such a dangerous vicinity. As Harry retreated from the fearful scene, he cast a despairing look at the goods he had laboured to save. The sparks, still glowing, were several inches in depth on the blankets, which were soon consumed. The next moment a bright flame sprang up from the whole mass,'and it was beyond the power of human exertion to arrest its progress. "T Tim! Trott!" shouted Harry, "come away, instantly, or you will be burned alive!" This was- responded to instantly by Trott, although he did not perhaps hear the words. He 'doubtless felt the heat, for he was in immediate proximity to the fire; and, throwing aside the fragment of consuming blanket which had hitherto sheltered him, he sprang out, hold- ing under either arm a bundle of double Brother Jonathans, and ran off with the velocity of a gopher, a little animal of the prairie which is never distinctly seen, so quick and nimble are its motions. 'tHarry could do nothing 'more than gaze in dismay upon the destruction of the property left by his good employer in his charge. 'He did not reproach himself for the omission of any duty. Nothing had been left undone, which could have been thought of and accomplished'had Mr. Ange himself been pre- 12*                          i     "8     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; sent. And all was gone, save perhaps a few hundred dollars in the iron safe, which would hardly suffice to pay the arrears of salaries to the clerks. What was he to do? This question constantly recurred to him, as he stood with folded arms, and gazed at the flaming mass in the street. "I can do nothing," said he, "nothing but take charge of the iron chest when the goods are reduced to ashes, and it becomes cold." "What amount of gold is in it, Mr. Spangler?" asked Trott, who stood at Harry's elbow unobserved. "But little, Tim; not enough to support us till Mr. Ange returns with more goods. And we have no means of rebuild- ing the house. We are in a dreadful condition, Tim." We are in California, sir; jest the place we started for." "True, Tim-that is very true. But are we not in an un- happy predicament? What have we now?" "We have our pickers and stealers, sir," said the boy, drop- ping his bundles of paper, and displaying his hands, the fingers spread apart and bent in the shape of grasping some- thing. And we have stout hearts yet, Tim, to use our pickers, but not 'stealers,' I hope." "I spoke figuratively, sir. What I meant, sir, was that we can work. My stock is all gone too, but these few sheets, and they are specked so much by the sparks, I am afeard I can't sell 'em." Harry turned into the next cross street, still followed by Tim, and strode slowly towards the boarding-house. He was rejoiced to find that this property had escaped the devouring element, there being a vacant lot or two intervening between it and the last house consumed in that direction. In truth all his houses, or rather frail shanties, had escaped from the same cause, and this was no little alleviation in the midst of his gloomy reflections. Towards morning the ravages of the conflagration had                    ... OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       149 ceased, and a comparative quiet succeeded the roar of leaping flames, falling timbers, and discordant human voices. Harry requested one or two of the clerks to watch the iron chest, telling them that its contents would be divided among them in the morning, or whenever it could be opened. He then sought repose at his boarding-house, still accompanied by Tim Trott, who seemed to follow him instinctively. They both prostrated themselves on a slight couch on the floor of the landlady's room, every other one in the house being fully occupied, where their exhausted forms were soon somewhat refreshed by fitful slumbers. It was at a late hour in the morning when they were roused, the good Mrs. Jay having withdrawn at an early hour, with- out disturbing them. When they arose, they found a good breakfast provided for them, of which they partook quite boun- tifully, while the hostess never ceased to cheer them with words of encouragement. "I shall go to the mines, now," said Harry. "And I am with you," said Tim. "Yes, we will go together, Tim; and we will share equally the gold we may find." "No," said Tim, emphatically; "a fourth, or at most a third, shall be my share. I will not be a full partner; but I'll do the best I can to raise the dust for both of us. I have no money, and no way of getting an-outfit." "And I have but precious little money myself. The rents were paid me last Saturday, and the money was all expended on the carpenters for the additions they had built to this house." "But you know I agreed to give $100 more per month when the addition was made," said Mrs. Jay. "I,will pay you a month's rent in advance on the whole house." "Good!" said Tim, "we are in funds now. It will outfit us both."     150      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "Yes," replied Harry, with reviving spirits, "you shall share that, at all events. There is no reason for delaying here. It will be at least six months before Mr. Ange returns. I will just write him a full account of the whole affair, and then We will be off to the country." A loud knocking was heard at the door, before which there was'a group of men assembled, who called for Harry to come 6ut. He hastened thither, still accompanied by the ever pre. sent Tim. "Why, that's the man I shot!" said Tim, when: they reached the street, and beheld an ill-looking individual: in the custody of a number of the citizens. "Yes, he's the one you shot; and:he'll soon be the one we hung!" replied one of the men, who grasped the prisoner by the arm. "What does all this mean?" asked' Harry, in-astonishment. "It means that this rogue and two of his accomplices'were the ones who set fire to the town;/so they might fteal our goods and money in the confusion of removing them," sald the self- constituted executioner. The' other two we have strung up already, and would have finished this one's business before this, had he not begged us to let'him see'you a moment. 'He says he has something to tell you about sOme robbery he committed in'Philadelphia, in which you were concehind." "I concerned 'in 'a 'robbery!" 'cried 'Harry, in utter amazement. "No,-that's not it," said the doomed man, lifting np his pallid'face. "You 'had no part in the crime; you were only connected with the party robbed. It was your father who was robbed." "My father!" cried Harry. "Yes. 'The jewels of the Tingles were taken there to be mended again, andI broke into the house and stole' em. The   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        151 police tracked me so closely that I left the city before I knew what had been done with your father by Mr. Tingle's lawyer, who threatened to prosecute him. As my end approaches, I want to do what good I can. I can do no more evil. Perhaps Mr. Tingle may have accused your father of having taken the jewels-- Accuse my father! He would not dare-" I don't know that he did, or would do such a thing," said Slungshot, for he it was who was now the victim of Judge Lynch; "but I thought if such a thing should have been done, my dying confession of having committed the robbery, might be of service." "Is that all?" demanded the executioner. "That's all," replied the prisoner. "I am ready now," continued he, turning away and limping in great pain as they led him off., It was truly the man Tim had fired at, and the great quantity of blood on his pantaloons showed that the ball had taken effect. Slungshot had but a short shrift after his trial and condem- nation before an impromptu tribunal and sentence by Judge Lynch. He seemed to be penitent, but gave no signs of ner-  vous weakness. In short, "he died game," to use a sports- man's phrase. Harry and Tim having resolved upon trying their luck at the mines, lost no time in making the necessary preparations. The first object was to procure a supply of provisions, to sus- tain life while they should be "prospecting," and while they were digging. And this was no easy task, for all seemed to be too intent upon getting "the dust," which should enable them to command all the luxuries and comforts of life at some future period, to bestow much attention upon the sub- stantials indispensably necessary for their present subsistence; and the consequence was that such articles of food as might be transported to-the interior, were very scarce and enor-     152     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; mously dear. Our young adventurers found it necessary to expend $100 for an amount of provisions which could have been procured at home for less than $10. Implements for digging and washing were proportionably high. The next consideration was, how were they to transport their provisions, &c., to the distant gold region. A wagon was out of the question. It would cost more money,/with its appendages of team, harness, &c., than they could conveniently procure, and so they abandoned the idea. Harry was ofered a diminutive mule for a large sum, which would be able to carry about half the baggage, but nothing more. Trott, who was now not to be easily dismayed by common obstacles, proposed to carry the rest on his back; but this, Harry c6nsidered impracticable. He doubted not they could make the journey on foot them- selves, if unencumbered; but had his misgivings of Trott's ability to bear as heavy a burden as a mule, and keep up with it. - Something had to be determined on and done, without delay. Both of them were too impatient to be picking up gold, to lose any time, and so Harry directed Trott to hunt about the town for another mule, or a cheap horse. After some time spent on this mission, Trott returned to the boarding-house with a confident look and cheerful aspect. "Well, Tim," said Harry, who had just finished loading afresh his gun and pistols, "what is it? I see you have got something." "Yes," said the other, "I've bargained for an animal that will do, provided the price isn't too high." "How high'?" "Eighty-five dollars." "That's not much. Here's the money. But is it strong enough?" "Well, it's nothing else. You'll say he's strong enough when you see him." ' Is it a horse?"   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       153 'cA mare?" i  No." "A mule?" i  No."- "No? Then what is it?" "Its mate was burnt up in the fire. But this was. so, strong, he broke the yoke apart, and then tearing down. the stable, walked out before he was singed much. I have exa- mined him, and find he's not at all injured." "Oh, it's an ox-.-a steer?"       , 4  "Yes-no it ain't, either!" I "Then what in the world is it?" "It's a curly-headed, broad-horned three year old, black bull, and its mate that was burnt was a cow. I'm told bulls and cows are often seen yoked together out here." "Yes, we see strange sights here every day. I hope we won't 'see the elephant' next. But is this bull gentle?" "Gentle as a lamb. They have broken him so completely with clubs, that a child could manage him. They'd break a rhinoceros here and yoke him with the d--l, I believe, and make them work, too, if it was necessary. Nothing can prevent men from getting gold, but death; ana they tell me even when they do die, they die a kicking and grabbing," "Will your bull carry you and your baggage on his back?" Oh, yes; I tried him. He'll work any way, and. support himself. If there's no grass, he'll live on bushes and the bark of the trees, I rode him round the plaza several times, and found his. gait easy.. They laughed a little as I went pst the workmen who are building up the town again already; but I didn't mind that. He answers to the bridle as well as a horse, and will carry anything on his back-but fire." "Then buy him," said Harry, reflecting seriously. "I                            ' A:     154     THE "SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; would prefer, however,' said he, "to have a good, gentle cow. Can't you get a cow, or swap the bull for one?" "I don't know-perhaps I can. I see; it would be best for us to have a cow. If we ran short of provisions, we could live on her milk. I'll try and get one; but I fear they are too dear about town here. Perhaps we'll meet with one on the road." Trott did not succeed in swapping for a cow in San Fran- cisco. A good one, that gave a large amount of milk, would have commanded $250. In the afternoon the young men were in readiness to set out on their travels in quest of gold. Mrs. Jay had procured them canvass for a tent, and had hastily arranged such other matters for them as she had learned from her experienced boarders would be necessary. The black bull seemed to be just as Trott had described him. He submitted to the operation of having blankets, spades, a skillet and pickaxe, &c., &c., fastened on his back; and then, when all these were surmounted by Trott, he moved off quietly enough, and without any symptoms of reluctance, or dislike for the service required of him. Harry vaulted into the rude Spanish saddle on his little mule, and set out after his comrade. His feet almost touched the ground; but nevertheless his mule winced not under his mode- rate weight, and trotted along freely enough. For several days our young adventurers pursued their jour- ney without any accident occurring, or without any diminution of the high hopes they had formed of realizing a handsome amount of gold as a reward for the toils and perils they well knew they must undergo. Their stock of provisions, however, soon began to grow very light. They had not economized them as they should have done; Trott had become very much attached to his huge animal, which was quite as gentle as could have been desired; and to reward it for its fine beha- viour, he had too often regaled it with a biscuit. This was alto-   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        155 gether unnecessary, for there was an abundance of good grass in the valleys running down from the mountains, where they generally encamped at night. But the scantiness of their  little store was easily replenished by Harry, who was provided with a good gun, and small game was plenty. Trott still had possession of the revolver, that had been placed in his hand on the memorable night of the fire, which he used freely, as the quails or the grouse flew up before him; but he had not e the same success in bringing them down, that he had when he fired at the rogue. This being but a useless expenditure of ammunition, Harry desired him to cease the experiment, as it was likely to be but a costly amusement. Powder was almost worth its weight in gold dust, and was by no means as easily obtained. They were now in a region where they met many adven- turers in quest of gold, and almost every hour they were applied to by some one to exchange some of their implements, their food, or their ammunition, for the dust. Already both I Harry and Trott had picked up a good many specimens of the precious metal, but not more in weight than they could carry in their pockets without deeming themselves much encum-   i bered. The mule and the bull were to be laden before they returned; and this was to be accomplished previously to the return of Mr. Ange, who had been written to, and given a circumstantial account of the destruction of his property. They were likewise in a region where there were bands of roving Indians. Men had been murdered by them on several occasions, whether deliberately, or growing out of quarrels, which were of frequent occurrence, was not distinctly known; but it was necessary for the two young men to be very cir- cumspect. And others, of a more civilized class, but scarce less savage in disposition, had likewise to be guarded against. White men were often the depredators; and it was no unusual thing for small parties to awake in the morning and find the 13     156     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES proceeds of many a day's labour stolen from their tents. Harry and Trott could see the fires of other camps and huts every night, and began to feel less secure than they did in the prairies and the unfrequented wilderness. Almost every man he fell in-with or met, proposed to "swap horses" with Trott. Of course such offers were promptly rejected, and quite seri. ously too on the part of Trott, who always inquired of them in turn if they had a dog for sale. He wished most earnestly to possess a dog to watch his bull, for an exchange of "teams" was frequently effected while one of the parties slept, and sometimes a man awoke in the morning and found himself bereft of everything but the clothes upon his person. Trott was not the first to be robbed. One morning early, as was his custom, while Harry was preparing their slight repast, Trott entered the tent with a visage betokening a strange tumult of emotions. "What's the matter, Tim?" asked Harry. "Matter enough for you, no doubt." "What is it? Have you lost your bull?" "No, but you have lost your mule." "That's no great loss, Tim; he fell down six times yester- day; and you know we had to lift him out of the branch the other day. We only lose time by keeping him, and get the baggage wet every time we come to a brook. He wallows in the mud like a hog." Yes, but he cost a good deal of money." "True; but not more than the lump I picked up last evening. Whoever has him, I wish him joy of the acquisition. I sup- pose the bull will carry double?" Oh, yes; he'll do anything. He's as gentle as a nurse. He'll do for us both. But he seemed to love the mule; the mule used to lick his face after they had got done browsing. But this other thing they have left in its place is as cross and ill-natured as a oatamount."   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       167 "What other thing? Have they left another animal?" "Yes, sir."  "Then it was an exchange, and not a robbery."  "I don't think you'll like the bargain." "What kind of an animal is it? A horse?" , No."  "A mule?"  No." "A cow-an ox--a bull?" "No, none of them." "No? What canit be, then? Not a ram, I suppose?" No--a jack!" "What? An ass?" "Yes, truly, and no bigger than the mule. The bull smelt him all over, and instead of licking his face, the fierce thing bit him on the cheek." "Perhaps the ass may not have been left in exchange for my mule?" "No doubt it was. The mule's rope is on the jack, and it's tied to the same stake." ' "If that's the case it was an even swap, and no mistake." After breakfast the young men struck their tent, and pro.  ceeded on their journey, Harry driving the ass before him,  i with the mule's burden lashed on its back. It did not, how- ever, submit to this treatment long. At the first fine field of grass they came to, the ass paused abruptly and began to help himself, without regard to the objections of his new master. Harry cut him a switch, with which he sought to enforce his  commands ' but the ass, in return for such usage, turned back his head and severed with his teeth the cords which bound  the burden to his back, and then shook himself free of his en- cumbrance. This was an indignity Harry could not bear with any degree of patience. Trott characterized the procedure  as an act of the greatest impudence, and even the black bull     158     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; seemed to look on with astonishment. Harry, in his fury, picked up a club and knocked the rebellious animal down, where it lay for some moments apparently stunned. When it arose, it was, to the surprise of the master, submissive enough. He suffered the pack to be readjusted on his back, and during the remainder of the pay behaved as well, if not better, than the mule had ever done. "That's the secret, Tim," said Harry, as they were prepar. ing to take their rest at night; "I have learned how an ass is to be managed. I found it out accidentally. A good blow with a club, and an ass is as gentle as a lamb. No doubt the man who had it, was ignorant of the secret, and made but a bad exchange, after all." "I believe you got the best of the bargain," replied Trott; "but my poor bull don't like him, and will be lonesome with. out the mule. After they had grazed enough they always had their heads together, as if they were whispering something. I believe the animals understand one another, and can enter- tain themselves by telling amusing tales, just as we do." "Nonsense, Tim! But what's that?"  There was a tre- mendous commotion in the bushes a few paces distant from the tent, which was soon followed by the l9ud and furious bray- ing of the ass. Not many moments afterwards, and before the young men could arrive at the scene of combat, the bull set up a most harrowing bellowing, and, as he pawed the earth, the vibrations of his mighty strokes could be distinctly felt. The moon-was shining dimly through some fleecy clouds, but there was afforded sufficient light for the young men to perceive in a moment what had occurred. There had been a hostile encounter between the animals, and in their struggles the earth had been torn up in many places round the stakes where they had been fastened. Both of them had broken the cords with which fthey had been bound, and the ass was no-   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        156 where seen in the vicinity. The bull stood some twenty paces  distant from the place where Trott had left him; where he still pawed the earth, and bellowed like a lion.  "' Where's the ass?" asked Harry.  "I staked him there," replied Trott; "but he's broke away,  and the bull has moved off too, for the first time since I've known him. Something's turned up between 'em;' they've had a fight; see the ground, here; I hope the bull pitched the jack over the mountain!" "If he did, he'll have to carry the ass's load to-morrow," said Harry. "He'll be willing enough to do that, just to get rid of such  a disagreeable travelling companion. But what is the matter with Blackey? Why does he hold his head to one side, and still keep pawing?" As Trott said this, he approached the animal, and, to the utter astonishment of both the young men, they beheld the ass holding on to the ear of the bull with his teeth, while his front feet were raised from the ground, just in the attitude of a butcher's dog! "What do you think of that, Tim?" asked Harry, smiling, "Is not the gray ass the better horse?" "He's a savage tiger! Let go, sir!" he cried, endeavouring to make the ass relinquish his hold. But it was in vain; no bull-dog ever maintained his grasp with greater tenacity. "I'll try my favourite argument with him," said Harry, cutting a club from a young tree hard by. But before he had approached near enough to aim a blow, the ass let go the bull's ear, and came towards him with an appearance of so much submission and humility, that the club dropped from his hanS unused, and he led his pugnacious animal back to the stake where he had been originally placed. Trott was not satisfied to see the ass escape the punishment he doubted not had been richly merited. In truth, the poor 13*      vv    A"li iE SPANU iLEiRS AND TINGLES; bull's ear was dreadfully lacerated, and occupied the care and attention of Trott for a long space of time. The next morning, when the young men approached the place of the recent conflict, another scene was presented to their vision, which surprised them more than anything they had yet beheld, and delighted them beyond measure. Where the earth had been thrown up the preceding evening, they found numerous lumps of gold, and some of them of very large dimensions. These they gathered up with avidity, and at once they resolved to commence the operation of digging where they were, in preference to going further in quest of other places which they had heard described, and which, like Jacks o' the lantern, had hitherto eluded their search. "This is the spot, perhaps, Tim, where we are destined to get our fortunes," said Harry, in high spirits. "Let us give it a fair trial before we hunt further." 'I agree," said Tim, thrusting in his spade, and turning up several rich specimens of the metal. "See here! That lump is worth a hundred dollars! If it hadn't been for the bull, this place wouldn't have been found." "How say you it was the bull? Didn't the ass begin the fight, think you?" "No doubt he did; but the bull tore up the ground." "But the ass held him by the ear, and made him do it," "Well, we're in luck, anyhow. Look at that!"  It was worth looking at. Harry had turned up a massy fragment of gold, worth a thousand dollars! Our young miners were amply provided with skins to hold heir dust, as well as the larger particles. Like other sanguine young men, their imaginations had been filled with splendid visions; and the great success they anticipated, was, in this instance, to be realized. For days and weeks their labours continued to be reward- ed with the most astonishing results, and they gradually   \OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       IJLI enlarged the area of their operations. Their greatest fear was that other adventurers would participate in the benefits of their discovery, and thereby diminish their gains. It was impossible for any party, however small, to remain stationary without attracting notice, and producing in others the belief that a rich discovery had been made. Hence it was not long before a number of prying individuals visited Harry's tent under various pretexts, but really for no other purpose than to ascertain if he were not finding large quantities of gold. Harry strove ingeniously to conceal his good luck from them, without utter-  ing any falsehoods; but it was in vain; he soon had neighbours, who, when they began to reap the precious harvest of gold, were not so scrupulous in their words when sounded by others of equal cupidity. Harry, however, had been so fortunate as to stumble upon the best location, and no others gathered as large an amount of the precious metal in so small a space of ground as he did. Having exhausted the soil upon which he had begun his labours, he extended his lines down to one of the tributary branches of the Sacramento river which ran in the immediate neigh- bourhood. He planted stakes to designate the limits of the ground he claimed, and for a long time his domain was not encroached upon, for the simple reason that all the industrious miners in the vicinity, who were daily increasing in numbers, were well satisfied with their findings. And in compliment to  Trott's animal they called the place "The Bully Diggins." The greatest drawhack was the scarcity of provisions. The animals had grass enough, and grew fat, while the men, how- ever much they increased in wealth, daily became paler, and really spectral in appearance. Articles of food commanded an exorbitant price. It was no unusual thing for a single  ham to be sold for $100, and a biscuit would bring $10. .And  there were not wanting those who preferred making their for-  tunes by vending such articles at such prices, to digging for tunes. gging% x!:     162     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES;   -them. So great a daily drain upon the treasury of our young men had this description of expenditure become, that they were fearful their heaps of gold would prove but a mere mock- ery and illusion after all. a Tim," said Harry, one morning, just after they had finished their scanty repast, "I wish now the bull was a steer; it would make our fortune to kill him and sell his meat." "I'm glad he's a bull, then. I would rather we should draw lots and eat one another, than see my gallant Blackey slaughtered. Suppose you kill the jack." "Pah! the flesh could not be eaten." "Suppose we hunt, then; we can make as much that way now as by digging." "I believe we can, and I am disposed to try it. But our powder is gone, or nearly so. I will try my luck first among the fish. Here's a hook and line I brought from Philadel- phia." Saying this, Harry, who was a faithful disciple of Walton, rigged himself a long rod, and catching some grass- hoppers, hastened to put his skill to the test, while Trott re- mained to watch over their wealth. The sheet of sparkling water upon which he cast his line was within the limits of his claim, and ran dancing and curl- ing over a rocky bed. Just below a huge fragment of rock in the middle of the stream, the hook fell, and the living bait was whirled round in the circling eddy but once, when there was a slight splash, and it had disappeared. Harry knew his game, and lie knew that it was a game fish, and one of noble dimensions, which made his line whiz through the water, and his rod bend into a semicircle. He was a practised angler, and was besides too eager for a rich repast, to run the hazard of losing his prize by handling it rashy. He followed his desperate victim along the margin of the stream, and some- times from one side to the other, wading up to his knees, until it became weak and manageable, when he carefully landed it.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       163 It proved to be a salmon of fifteen pounds weight, and a most beautiful specimen. Harry had likewise perceived something in one of the "pockets" of the rock, when wading after the fish, which resembled gold; and, before returning in triumph  to the tent, he again waded to the place, and lifted out several lumps of the yellow metal, worth altogether at least $500. These he concealed in his pockets; and after carefully envelop- ing the salmon in green leaves, and hiding his rod, he wended his way back to Trott, avoiding as much as possible the observa- tion of his neighbours. Trott was thrown into ecstasies on beholding the noble fish unrolled from the foliage. So great was his admiration of the salmon, that he scarcely bestowed a word of exultation on the large lumps of gold which Harry drew from his pocket and deposited in the leathern bag. It is needless to say the young men lost no time in preparing dinner, and that they did it full justice when it was ready. Many times did Harry repeat his piscatory expeditions, with decided success each time, both in catching salmon and in finding gold. But even in this mode of operating, he did not long have a monopoly. Trott opened a sort of shop in the tent, and reaped enormous profits from the sale of fish. This caused others to angle for salmon, and in doing so they espied the gold at the bottom of the shallow water, and soon hun- dreds of men might have been seen wading and delving in the stream from morning 'till night; and ere long this was fol- lowed by successful attempts to divert the stream itself from its accustomed channel. Among the miners in the immediate vicinity was the indi- vidual who had taken Harry's mule in exchange for the ass left in its place. This person, strange to say, had been, up to - the time of his arrival in the gold region, a strolling tempe- rance lecturer, abolitionist, and preacher. His career was a remarkable specimen of what a man can do by his wits. In .             'l     164     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; Ohio, he had made wages by denouncing the south, and the institution of slavery; in Illinois, by lecturing on temperance; and in Missouri, by preaching what he declared to be the gospel. From Missouri he took the overland route to Cali- fornia, and arrived in the gold region with more money than he had when he abandoned his wife and children in the east; and much more than he had left behind to support those who had the best claims upon him, and should have been far dearer to him than any mere preferment at the hands of the political leaders who had sent him to that distant region to renew his denunciations of the " hated institution." Parson Rekrap worked with his pick and pan during the week, and preached on Sunday; and the burden of his song (and really his sermons had a nasal twang to them, which made them resemble unharmonious songs) was the sin and impolicy of the "institution." And, his congregation being mostly composed of northern men, he was listened to with approval, if not with patience. Harry had seen his mule in the possession of the parson without saying a word in relation to the exchange, for he was satisfied with his bargain. But the parson had not seen the ass, although one night, in the midst of his prayers, when the animal brayed loudly in the vicinity, Harry observed him pause, as if he had recognised the sound. On the next Sun- day Harry watched him as he approached the rude hut used as a church edifice, on his mule; and mounting his ass, he rode up to him, saluting him in a friendly manner, and conversing freely on divers subjects as they passed along. Upon recognis- ing the ass Parson Rekrap really blushed, and so great was his confusion that he could hardly maintain his seat. Harry, affecting not to observe it, continued his lively remarks, until his-reverend companion, becoming reassured by degrees, finally supposed that Harry had bought the animal, and was not the one it had originally been deposited with.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       165 You seem to admire my ass," remarked Harry, seeing the parson casting his glances at him from time to time.  "He is strong, and seems to be gentle enough. How do you manage to make him so humble?" "Oh, he's as gentle as a lamb, and as wise as a serpent," said Harry, "Would you not like to swap?" "Not to-day, my son. Indeed I tremble with apprehension that it is sinful for us even to ride our beasts on the Sabbath day of the Lord." "t Christ and his apostles did it, I believe," said Harry. i  Christ was lord of the Sabbath." "What prophet was it under the old law who used to ride an ass?" inquired Harry. "Balaam." "Balaam and his ass. You ought to have this ass of mine. He can talk, too." "Talk? Do you say he can talk? Surely you are jesting!" i "SNever more serious in my life. He speaks a strange language, but I have learned to be his interpreter. Would you like to hear him, now?" . "Yes, truly, if it be not the devil's voice." "It was not Satan's voice, sir, which Balaam heard." Say- ing this Harry reined up in front of the parson, and scratching the back of the animal, it set up a prolonged braying, which was followed by responding echoes and rumbling reverberations from hill to hill and through the peaceful valleys. Did you understand that?" asked Harry. "Oh, yes; quite well. Can you interpret it?" responded the parson, with a smile. "Easily and truly," said Harry, with a serious face. "He says he was abandoned in the woods by his former master, and had not been suffered to have enough to eat." "What! what!" exclaimed the parson, as pale as death. "Did you understand him to say that?"     166     TIE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "Certainly. And he says his master was a parson. But he is willing to forgive him, provided he will repent, and pro. mise not to meddle hereafter with politics or the institutions of the south." No sooner had Harry uttered these words than the trem. bling parson sprang to the ground and fell upon his knees. He prayed lustily for forgiveness from above, and at the same time invoked Harry to pardon what he had done (all of which he confessed), and not to expose him. There was no preaching that day. Harry assured Rekrap that he had learned everything from the ass; and, to impress that belief upon the parson, he said he had bought the animal but a few days before, and of course could not have learned anything of its former history save from its own mouth. Parson Rekrap was missing the next day. It was supposed at first that he had been slain by the Indians, who were known to be prowling about in the vicinity. Soon after, however, he was heard of, preaching at a settlement on Feather river, beyond the mountains. But he was never heard to rant against the south and slavery again. It was not long before the lords of the woods, the Indians, in relation to whose hostile purposes many reports had been circulated among the gold hunters, made a descent on the intruding adventurers. That they were originally peaceably disposed, and had been subsequently incensed by certain acts of violence on the part of the white people, was beyond ques- tion; but when their vengeful passions were roused, as in all former instances, they were indiscriminating and extreme in their deeds of retaliation. Some few of their people had fallen in conflicts with the reckless and debased rovers from the American settlements, and now they deemed it a justifiable procedure to slay any one, old or young, male or female, of the same race. The night was dark and stormy when the yells of the savages   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        167 burst upon the ears of the affrighted miners. Each one instinctively sought to save his gold; and as there could be no concert of action under the circumstances, they fled in different directions, and often encountered each other in the attitude of deadly strife. Harry and Trott concealed themselves in a clump of tangled briers which grew in the vicinity, in preference to making an attempt to escape, for they knew not in which direction the. danger lay, and they might, by endeavouring to retreat, run headlong into the jaws of destruction. The miners were armed, and some of them were men of indomitable courage, who would not abandon their property, or oven their ground, without a struggle. Hence, for several hours, a brisk fire of rifles was kept up on both sides, and ever and anon the death-scream was heard between the- deafening peals of thunder. The Missouri hunters reserved their fire as much as possible, and never discharged their pieces without aiming at the enemy, whom they occasionally saw by the vivid flashes of the lightning, or distinguished by the fire of their own guns.  Harry and Tim were idle but not composed spectators of this scene. Their first care was to bury their treasure in the midst of the little thicket, by means of their butcher-knives. When the bags were deposited, they strewed leaves over the surface of the ground, and then remained as quiet as possible, with the desperate determination to, sell their lives dearly, should their hiding-place be discovered. Although they took no part in the fray, yet they were by no means out of danger, for seve- ral random shots, whether from friend or enemy they could not tell, penetrated the bushes which concealed them, and whistled near their heads. Doubtless they would have pre- ferred another patch of briers farther removed from the scene of action, and of which there were an abundance in the vici- "        -     168     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; nity; but they wisely concluded that it was no time to be hunting for more comfortable quarters. Gradually the miners gave way, being pressed by greatly superior numbers. Soon the retreat was general, and shortly after it became a complete rout. Our young men, when they heard the discharges of fire-arms becoming more distant, felt greater security, and began to breathe more freely. But this consolation was of but short duration, when they reflected that their friends were driven from the ground in haste, and that the savages would probably return to the abandoned tents in quest of plunder. So they resolved to remain where they were, and await the issue on the day following, when they supposed the white people would rally their forces and pursue the enemy in turn. They knew the miners could easily recruit their numbers by circulating reports of the success they had met with in that vicinity; and they were convinced they never would relinquish such ground without another conflict, and a more desperate one than that which had just occurred. Our young men actually fell asleep towards morning, after the sounds of the battle had ceased to echo through the woods, and the storm had abated. They slept until the sun was an hour high, when they were awakened by the chattering of paroquets on a tall tree in the neighbourhood. They peeped out in every direction, and discovered neither savage nor civilized man in the vicinity. "I don't hear any of 'em," whispered Trott, "and I'm very hungry. Suppose we creep back to the tent, and get some food." "No," responded Harry, in a low tone. "They no doubt suspect some of us are concealed in this manner within gun- shot of our tents, and it is probable they are lying in ambush, to shoot us when we show ourselves." "True, I didn't think of that. But I wish we had brought   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.         169 with us something to eat. How long do you think one can live without eating?" "You will never starve to death, Tim." I   "No, I'll be shot, first," was the reply.  Several hours more elapsed, and yet nothing had occurred to indicate the presence of an enemy. The young men could distinctly hear the bells of the cattle in divers directions, as usual, and it seemed to be a most remarkable thing that the savages had not yet driven off the stock and rifled the tents. "That's Blackey's bell," said Trott, as a jingling sound rang out, not more than fifty paces from them. "It sounds like our bell," observed Harry. "I know it's our bell," said Trott; "and I'm  going to have a peep at the bull, any how."  Saying this, he crept cautiously in the direction of the sound. He had not been gone many minutes, however, before he returned in the same noiseless manner, with the pallor of death upon his face. "What's the matter, Tim?" asked Harry. "The bells we hear ringing are in the hands of the Indians. I saw a great big one ringing the bull's bell, and he does it  ,exactly as Blackey did. What are they after, do you think?" "Our scalps!" "Eh!" said Trott, putting his hand on his head. "We must-keep still, and be patient," said Harry. "Never mind the bull-let him go; and as for eating, you mustn't think of it." "I'm not hungry, now; my appetite's gone. Indeed I'm sick, and wish I was away from here. I'd give half my share of the gold to be in San Francisco." "Wouldn't you give it all, Tim?" "No! I came here to make money or die.  I wouldn't give half, now." ".Then be quiet." Towards noon all the bells ceased to tinkle, and the savages     170      THE SPANGLERB AND TINGLES; could be seen, from the hiding-place of the young men, mov. ing about hurriedly. They ran to the tents and seized upon such articles as they could convey away easily, leaving behind the heavier culinary and digging utensils. Then came the cattle in a drove, urged forward by their captors. Trott could not distinguish the bull among them, and congratulated him. self With the conviction that he had been rejected by the Indians. But the ass was there, lingering in the rear, and going very reluctantly. We'll get him, again," said Trott, if the whites pursue." "The whites,. I think," said Harry, " are now close at hand; and that is the reason of this sudden movement." No sooner had he whispered this to his comrade, than the ass set up a tremendous braying. "' Just hear the jack!" exclaimed Trott. They'll kill him to a certainty." The next moment the black bull was heard to bellow furiously. "What a fool he is!" said Trott; " but he always will do it when the jack brays." These sounds were succeeded by several discharges of rifles; and Trott could hardly be prevented from rising up and aveng- ing the supposed death of the animal he was so much attached to. The discharges had been the signal of the return of the miners, reinforced, and eager to chastise the savages who had so unceremoniously driven them away from their possessions. They came with rapidity, dashing in the very midst of their enemies, who were all either killed or routed in the space of a very few minutes. So sudden had been the charge that all the cattle and other articles of plunder were abandoned on the ground. But still our young men were not wholly released from their perils, for the bullets of both parties again rattled through the bushes which concealed them. "Let us show ourselves to our friends," said Harry, "and   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        171 have one fire at the enemy." Suiting the action to the word, he rose up and fired at the flying savages, with what effect he did not ascertain. Trott followed his example, after a short delay, discharging the six barrels of his revolver at the dis- tant enemy, and certainly doing no execution. One after ano- ther, other miners likewise arose and fired in the same direc- tion, and with the like success, to the astonishment of the young men, and the joy of their comrades, who had supposed  them to be dead. Perhaps one-fourth of the miners had fol- lowed the example of Harry and Trott. In short, not more than two or three of them had fallen, and about twice that number of the enemy. Yet the battle was described by letter writers for the papers in the east, as one of great magnitude, where more than a hundred on both sides had been slain. The Indians were pursued to the mountains, and the miners returned to their work with many a careless jest at the panic which had so much excited them. The sport was by no means a desirable amusement for Harry and Trott, who had not been accustomed to such exercises; and they determined to gather upwhat they had made, and depart forthwith for the town of San Francisco. The amount of wealth they had realized they had no means of ascertaining, without getting the opinions of their neighbours, who were better practised in making such estimates; and this they had not the slightest disposition to do, for fear of being relieved  of a portion, if not the whole of their burden. The bull was destined to feel its weight, and truly to wince under it. "*                           iI q,:l  '     ^        AtY     t172     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; PART V. SOME time after the departure of t]e Tingles from Phila- delphia, Mr. Ratlive, the attorney, waited upon the jeweller. Mr. Ratlive was a subservient agent, and quite ready at all times to execute his employers' commands; and it seemed that he derived the most pleasure from those cases which gave the most pain to others. He was a young man of some two or three and thirty, thin, and very pale. In the company of ladies, he was a sentimentalist; at the bar, a severe student; and in the destruction of a poor victim, a perfect demon. His sentences were pointed and pungent; and when they alarmed or pained the one whom  they were intended to distress, he smiled at their effect, and his expressive black eyes glistened with additional lustre. Such was the individual who entered the premises of Mr. Spangler, with the expression of triumph and delight on his face which is exhibited by the tiger on beholding a lamb at its mercy. "I am Mr. Tingle's attorney, sir," said he, after bowing slightly to the jeweller and his daughter. And when Julia started, he smiled excessively. "Have you any business with me?" asked the old man, looking up at him for the first time. "Yes, sir." Then what is the nature of it?" "I have come to demand the payment of this bond, sir, drawn in favour of Mr. Tingle, due from date, and the pay- ment secured by a mortgage on this house!" Poor Julia shivered with terror, and the pencil with which   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       173 she had been drawing fell from her hand. Mr. Ratlive's face denoted that he luxuriated in the powerful effect produced by his words. "I am not surprised, Jule," said Mr. Spangler, turninghis face towards his pale and trembling daughter, who seemed to breathe with difficulty. "What, what will become of you, father, if you can't pay the money? They cannot put us in prison--" "The legislature has abolished imprisonment for debt," said the attorney. "I cannot pay it, sir; I have been robbed," said the old man. "So I have been informed. But the house will bring the principal-perhaps it may sell for enough to pay the interest and costs likewise," said Ratlive, looking round, and then watching the father and daughter, to see what effect his words had on them.     - "The interest cannot be much, sir, as you may perceive by looking at the date of the bond," observed Mr. Spangler, quite  unmoved; " and aa it regards costs, I do not see how any can accrue hereafter. I remember to have been charged some $25-I believe the money was paid to you--for an examina-  tion into the title of the property, and for writing the deed of mortgage. Can there be any more expense attending the matter?" "Oh, yes!" said the attorney, evincing much delight. "It will go through the regular process; there must be judgment, execution, advertisements, &e., &c., all of which will cost a great deal; and the costs, you know, will fall upon the defendant." "There shall be no such things as you mention, sir," saig the old man, firmly. "When it is Tingle's purpose to sell my house for the debt which I contracted at his urgent soli-               . . ;1     174     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; citation, there shall be none of the law's delays and vexations interposed by me!" i    "Such is his intention-that is his purpose-and he has employed me to get the money!" :   "I do not doubt it, sir," said the old man, now smiling, himself; "but he might as well have saved you the trouble, and himself the expense, by coming in person. He may think it is dirty work, and has forgotten the time when he played among the pots and ovens in my father's kitchen---" "Father!" ejaculated Julia, fearful that such an allusion might exasperate the man who already had them in his power. "True, child, it was unworthy of me to name it. Yet, Mr. Ratter--" Ratlive, sir, if you please." "It is all the same to me, I suppose, whether the rat lives or the terrier is unchained. What I mean to say is that there shall be no proceeding at law at all. You have the bond and mortgage; sell the house as soon as possible; and if you will not do it, I will have it done myself, for the benefit of your client. So you see you can have no business with me." Say- ing this, Mr. Spangler turned his back on the attorney, who withdrew without his accustomed smile of triumph. When Mr. Ratlive was gone, poor Julia threw herself upon her father's neck and wept bitterly. "Julia, my child, don't be alarmed," said he, with compo- sure. "This thing has been looked for by me, and I should have prepared you for it. Mr. Domet, who knows Tingle well, and suspected something of the sort, was here this morn- ing, and advised me to sell the house and decline business. He says the property is diminishing in value, and is not worth half as much now as it was fifty years ago." "But where will we go? What will we do?" "We'll manage some how-Providence will guide us. Has   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        175 not God given you the talent to draw? Why, Julia, if I am old and incapable of earning anything, the proceeds of your labour will suffice to support us both till Harry sends us some of his gold." "We can get board, father, for $7 or $8 per week. Oh, yes! they pay me twice that much for my weekly labour-  labour did I call it? No, father! it will be the greatest plea- sure-the most exquisite delight, when it can be serviceable to you. I feared the change would break your heart-not that  we would suffer for the want of money."  Pooh, Jule; never fear that! My heart will never break under such pitiful blows as these. Do you but keep your health and spirits, and I will be as cheerful as ever." "Good Jule!" cried the parrot. "And - he shall go with us and share our last crust," said Julia, pointing at the cage. "Oh, yes; he's one of the family," said the old man, look- ing benignantly at the bird, which danced proudly up and down. At night, Harry's friend, Mr. Tweed, came as usual to cheer them with bright visions of the absent adventurer's success. Notwithstanding the efforts of Mr. Spangler and Julia to seem lively and gay, their visiter soon suspected some- thing had occurred to interrupt their humble enjoyment. What is it, Jule? It's something, I know; and you can't avoid telling me plainly what it is, when I ask it seriously." She could not. Old Mr. Tweed, as he was called, was just like a second father to her and Harry, and of course he had a right to know. "That's sudden i" said he, when the nature of Ratlive's in- terview had been told him; ":and it proves to me that both Tingle and this grinning lawyer are consummate---"  "Take care!' said Julia, placing her finger on his lip. You must not abuse them, for several reasons; one is, it will            .       ..)     176     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; do no good; and another is, you are so unpractised in uttering denunciations, that it might make you seem capable of resent- ments, and all manner of wickedness." "Thank you, Jule, for stopping my mouth. I believe I should have uttered an oath, before finishing the sentence-a thing I have not done these five-and-twenty years. Still it seems to me my breast would feel relieved somewhat, if I were to curse them once or twice. This'attorney came to me to-day, knowing I was a friend of the family, as he expressed it him. self, and hinted that Mr. Tingle would like to take this house and release Mr. Spangler from the debt he owed him. But he threatened no such proceedings as you 'have mentioned." ( What then was the object of his visit to you?" asked Mr. Spangler. Why, he wished me to name a proposition to you which he said he was authorized to make in Mr. Tingle's name." - And what was it?" "That you should remove to Pottsville, and occupy a house there, free of rent." "I understand," said the old man, smiling. "But he need not fear me. How would you like to go, Jule?" "Don't go, Jule! don't go!" cried the parrot. "No, indeed!" said Mr. Tweed. "No," said Jule, "unless you desire it, father." "I don't desire it, Jule." "Come to my boarding-house," said Mr. Tweed. "You shall have rooms on the second floor, one in front. They are vacant, and will just suit you." Where is the house?" asked Mr. Spangler. "Exactly opposite Tingle's splendid mansion, in the most fashionable part of the city," replied Mr. Tweed, glancing inquisitively at the young girl. "How would that do, Jule?" asked her father. "Every .   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        1" day you would see their coach, and their fine visiters. Would it break your heart?" "No, indeed, dear father. I should look with perfect indif- ference on any one who saw proper to regard our poverty as a stain, and for that reason dropped our acquaintance. In truth, after what has occurred, I shall feel disposed to have no- further communication with the Tingles." "I think that will be the best course of conduct; for truly  the pride and vanity of Tingle's daughters render them unfit companions for you. Mr. Tweed, I like your prpposi- tion--" "To go to Pottsville?" "No, the other one. There can be no harm or malice in merely sitting at one's window, occasionally, and looking into the street. We need not be considered offensive by our neigh- b ours over the way." "And you shall have the front room," said Julia; "and we will take along with us the implements you ordered from London. You can still work at your experiments, and I will sit with you and make my designs." "And H must have a place during the evenings," said Mr. Tweed. "Oh! yes, your chair shall be taken along." "Take me!" cried the parrot. "Yes, indeed!" said Julia; "you shall go too, and the landlady must take Susan." Mr. Tweed was one of those indefatigable men who never  suffer their projects to grow cold by delay. The same night on which he had his interview with the Spanglers, he had a conversation with Mrs. Sedge, in relation to the vacant rooms on the second floor of her house. There were but three rooms on that floor, one of which, and the smallest, he occupied himself, and had done so for several years. It just suited his inclination to be as near as possible to his friends, and it was     178     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; gratified. Before parting with Mrs. Sedge it was all arranged; one-third of the prite she asked was to be paid by him; but this was to remain an inviolable secret. He said the Span- glers would never remain there, if they knew he bore a portion of the expense; nor would they ever forgive him afterwards if they should learn what had been done. It was a most extraordinary thing, thought Mrs. Sedge, for a man like Mr. Tweed, who was poor himself, to be so anxious to conceal, and to be so tremblingly fearful it might be found out, that he had performed a good action. "If it was a crime," said she, as she withdrew to her room, "he could not be more fearful of detection. Heigh ho! The poor lone widows never meet with such friends. No one ever paid my rent, and kept it a secret from me. What is his motive? He is too old to want to marry, especially such a young thing as this girl. No; that's not it. It's strange, though!"Shaking her head doubtfully, she prepared to take her rest, when the subject might be elucidated in her dreams. She was a believer in dreams, and dreamed a great deal; but she had never dreamed of such philosophy as that. There was no time lost by Mr. Spangler in putting in exe- cution the scheme which had been decided upon. Mr. Rat. live was astonished. So precipitate were .the arrangements made in pursuance of the determination which had been formed, that there was no necessity for the interposition of the lawyer, and Ratlive felt that his " occupation was gne," so far as the case of Tingle v. Spangler was concerned. The house was advertised by the direction of Mr. Spangler himself, and sold, subject to the encumbrance, which was pro- claimed by the auctioneer. The result showed that Mr. Domet was right. The property brought just enough to satisfy the claim, and pay the commissions, and Ratlive attempted to make a stammering explanation of his conduct, when he took possession of the property, which he had bought in the name   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        179 of Mr. Tingle. And, truly, as he said, he had proceeded according to the letter of the instructions received from his client. Mr. Spangler and his daughter found their new lodgings quite convenient, as Mr. Tweed had said they would. They were likewise pleased with the attentions of Mrs. Sedge, who was diligent in her efforts to make them comfortable and happy. She employed Susan about the house at merely nominal wages, with the understanding that she should devote her services principally to the new boarders, whose habits and wants she was presumed- to be familiar with. In Mr. Spangler's room, which Julia insisted upon being the front one, as it was the largest and best, there was placed a table covered with blue cloth, where he could pursue his accustomed experiments, and exercise his artistic skill, as he had been in the habit of doing when in his own house. And beside it, was another, of smaller dimensions, for Julia, with comfortable chairs, arranged under the superintendence of Mr. Tweed, who knew exactly what would please them. There were three large windows to this room, running down to the floor, with inside shutters, and nice little iron balconies without, where the flower-pots of Julia were all ranged in good order in the bright sun, and whence the delicate perfume of the beautiful blossoms was wafted along the street. Here,  too, the parrot was permitted to air himself, and to gaze know- ingly at the passing objects in view, or occasionally to address a startling word, which he always spoke With surprising dis- tinctness, to the pedestrians below. Mr. Spangler was utterly unconscious of the change which had been wrought in his condition within an hour after his removal. So completely was he absorbed in the construction of an improvement in the delicate machinery of a watch, that he had been addressed several times by Julia without notieing her speech. 15     180     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "Yes," said he, "I think it will do." "I asked you, father, if that was Mrs. Tingle over there. She seems to be looking at me very inquisitively through her fine opera-glass." "And I have just invented a new lever. Mrs. Tingle did you say?" he continued, rising from his chair and approach- ing the window. "That is Tingle's house, and it is a fine one. But that is not Mrs. Tingle. They are away, at Washington, I believe, among the great people. No, that is Mrs. Tingle's sister. She has put down the glass, and I can see her face. That is Mrs. Greatpin with her. I know them both when I see them, but that is all." "And, sure, father, that is all you desire," said Julia, with something like a compression of the lip. "I don't know why I should desire more, Julia. I have never understood that they were remarkable for any good qualities which should make their society particularly desi- rable. Yet they may be very good people in their way, for what I know to the contrary." "For what you know to the contrary, father? Have they not taken advantage of our necessities, and compelled us to abandon our home?" "This is a better home, myvchild. Let us not harbour ill feelings for those who have been instrumental in effecting so agreeable an exchange for us." "But this was not their design. They had provided lodg- ings for us in a more obscure and less agreeable place than this. Father, I do not know that I can hate anybody; I have never done it yet, and it seems to me that it would not be a source of enjoyment for me to do so; but I must regard the Tingles as our enemies. We have never injured them, nor sought to do them harm. Why have they acted thus?" "-Never mind, Jule. You will have your innocent revenge   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        181 when Harry returns, if he comes back, as you say he will, with a fortune."- "I want no revenge, father. But it seems strange to me that they should treat us ill, merely because the first Mr. Tin- gle was your father's-pardon me; I promised not to mention that again." "It is one of the weaknesses of human nature, I suppose," said her father, smiling; " or at the least it is the habit of the world. As you grow older, my child, you will learn more; and the sad lessons of experience, if they do not always make us better and happier, at all events are not easily forgotten. You may become an apt scholar, in time, Jule." "I can learn, father, how others may be capable of doing such things as we refer to; but I trust I shall never be induced to imitate them." "Well spoken, my daughter! Adhere to that resolution, and nothing you may see, and nothing that they can do, will mortify you. But if I should be mistaken-if the sight of these people always opposite to us shall be disagreeable to you, and become a source of misery-we had better change our lodgings." "No, father; it would disappoint the good Mr. Tweed so much; and I am sure it will give me no pain to have the Tingles ever before my eyes. I can avoid noticing them at all; or I can learn to profit by their extravagance and vanity." "So you may; and if fortune should smile on us again, I shall never fear that my Jule will be inflated with a super- abundance of worldly pride." Aunt Silvy had sent a maid for the opera-glass in order to satisfy her curiosity, upon hearing Mrs. Greatpin's expressions, of "What an angel that is! Did you ever see such a perfect beauty? Where did she come from? When did she arrive? Who is she?"        , .     * 1802   THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; And Julia was a perfect beauty, if such a thing existed, in form, features, and complexion. "As I live upon the earth, that's old Spangler's daughter! And there's the old jeweller, too!" cried Aunt Silvy, taking down the glass and whirling her chair away, as the old man returned her gaze. "The old jeweller!" said Mrs. Greatpin; C then she's no. body, after all-a mere mechanic's daughter!" Mrs. Great- pin's husband was a lawyer of fine talents, distinguished somewhat as a politician, and had been spoken of as one likely to be elevated to some position or other of importance. She went further, and aspired to the presidency for him. She married him with the expectation that he would rise, and he married her, supposing she had a great- fortune, and because he was a bachelor. His supposition was groundless, but her hopes were not dissipated, for he was held in good estimation by the party to which he belonged. So she resolved to be in high fashion, and took both the most expensive pew in the church and the most conspicuous seat at the opera. She was so self- willed and resolute in the gratification of such desires, that there was no restraining her without a rupture, which her good, tame husband was not inclined to produce, although her extravagance always kept him impoverished. "She's impudent! How dare she turn her brazen face this way, and look at folks who'd scorn to notice her?" replied Aunt Silvy, flouncing still further away from the window. "But what do you think they are doing over there?" con- tinued Mrs. Greatpin. "I don't know. It's a boarding-house, and I suppose any people that have a mind to may go there and look inquisi- torily where they please. I wish the house was torn down. We dare not open a shutter when we have a party, for fear a crowd of prying ramscallions will be in the windows staring at   OR, THE RIVAL BELIES.       183 us. Emily has once spoken to her father-to buy the house and turn Mrs. Thingembob, or Parsley-- "  "Sedge, is the name on the door"-said Mrs. Greatpin. "Yes, Sedge-out in the street. And when Emily speaks twice, the thing's done." Perhaps the Spanglers are boarders." "Oh, yes-no doubt of it! I recollect now, Mr. Ratlive, our attorney, intimated as much to me-leastwise he said they had been sold out of house and home last Tuesday night, to pay a debt owing to Mr. Tingle. And that was' done," she continued, in a whisper, " at the investigation of Em."  "Instigation, you mean, Aunt Silvy," said Mrs. Greatpin. You do make such shocking mistakes, Aunt Silvy, when you are in too great a hurry with your words." "Never mind my little petickilarities, Mrs. G.; you under-' stand me, and that's efficient. Besides, why do you call me Aunt Silvy? Am I old enough to be your aunt?" This was a startling question to Mrs. Greatpin, who was not much, if any, the junior of the questioner. "Forgive me, my dear Miss Prince. You know I meant no harm." And perceiving a smile on the lip of her relenting pupil (for she had taken her under her especial protection, when she first arrived in the city), she continued: "But why did Em desire such a thing?" "Oh, because, because--well, I'll declare I cannot tell! But I think they had insulted the family some how or other, and you know Em's a little tyrant, and will have her own way." "Yet she has not succeeded in getting rid of them, if they have really taken board over there; and I believe they have, for that ang- , that pert young miss, I mean, is now draw- ing something, as if she was perfectly at home." Mrs. Greatpin had stepped to the window again and looked once more at Julia through her glass. 15*                          :     184     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "I should like to know where the money comes from to pay their board with, at that high-priced house," responded Aunt Silvy, likewise attracted to the window once more. "But as sure as you and I live, Em will have that house tore down, or Mrs. Sedge turned out of it, at the very least." Let us return to the family at Washington. The Tingles were punctual in their attendance at the palace. The president's family dinner party, on this occasion, was pre. cisely similar to most of their family dinner parties, consisting of some fifteen or twenty persons not belonging to the family, and strangers to each other, being invited specially by different members of the household. Thus, when the time arrived to sit down, some half-dozen parties came from as many different rooms and offices, and the formal ceremony of a gene. ral introduction had to take place before they could begin to discuss the viands. This was done, however, with grace and good hospitality, and without superfluous words the feast was begun. Mr. Tingle had not conveyed to his mouth more than his second, or at most his third, spoonful of soup, an operation which he strove to perform not too hastily, before one of the waiters placed in his hand a sealed note. He looked at it mysteriously, undecided whether he should read it then or not. Emily, in her lectures on good behaviour at the table, had never indicated what conduct would be the most genteel and high-bred in such an emergency. While he was thus in doubt, he perceived that his daughter's keen eyes had detected him in the act of receiving the note, notwithstanding the Hon. Charles Edward Dudley, who was at her elbow, strove to monopolize hler attention. Mr. Tingle sought in vain to know what he should do from the expression of his daughter's face, as she was too far from him to whisper her wishes. The President   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       185 himself had noticed the occurrence, and had sent an annihi- lating frown at the servant, who had his orders never to deli- ver notes to any of his guests, and especially to himself, when at the table. He had no doubt the waiter had been bribed on this occasion, which was the case. But the embarrassment of Mr. Tingle was growing worse, and the curiosity of the ladies becoming more unbearable; and so the President relieved them all by desiring Mr. Tingle to see, without hesitation, if the note contained anything of urgent importance. It ran thus: "VESTIBULE OF THE WHTE HOUSE, 4 o'clock, P. M. Dear and Honoured Sir: "There is a rumour in the city that you are about to be called into the Cabinet. I am about to send a letter to New York by private conveyance, which, you know, will beat those sent in the mail. As you and your family figure con- spicuously in the letter, would it not be well for me to add this last rumour in a postcript? Would it not be best for me to assert positively that it is a certainty, and not merely a rumour? Please drop me a line in pencil mark at the bottom of this note, and send it by the bearer. He will find the means of conveying it. Yours truly, and Ever faithfully, PINCHBECK PAROLEE. "P. S. How would it do to mention my name to the Presi- dent, as the writer of the note, and describing it as one of importance? I think he would send for me and invite me to join you at the table. I should ever be grateful to you for such a kindness.            Yours, &c.,      P. P.,  The effect of this epistle was to take Mr. Tingle's appetite     186     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; away from him. Although he sent it over to Emily with the remark (designed for the President's ears) that it was not of importance, yet he was alternately flushed and pale in the face, and great drops of perspiration rolled down his fat cheeks. He was relieved, however, by his host, who produced general good humour, and reaped many flattering compliments, by observing he had the "law on his side," in reply to a speech from one of the ladies, who banteringly said he had done something or other wrong. The wit of the thing consisted in his having Judge Baldhead, of the Supreme Court, on his left. When Emily glanced at the letter, she crumpled it disdain- fully in her hand, and, with her usual decision of character, signified to her father that it was only one. of Parolee's low tricks, and should not be thought of a moment after. But Mr. Tingle could not help thinking on that particular occasion, when perhaps he should have been, as was his habit on most other, occasions, thoughtlessly garrulous. Everything that had transpired since he had been in Washington seemed like a dream to him, and now his brains seemed to be in a singular states of fermentation, and his thoughts tending to one-point, viz. could this be reality, or a mere mockery of the imagination? If the other occurrences-and among them not the least was his being present then and there, cheek by jowl, at dinner with the President of the United States-were realities, why might it not be a real and " fixed fact" that he was to be a member of the Cabinet? More than once he felt an inclination to ask the President to invite Mr. Parolee to come in; but when his eyes encountered Emily's, he was chilled by her imperious air of mingled incredulity and disdain. Mrs. Tingle and Anne were entertained by the Judge, who, if he was truly the embodiment of the law on the side of the   OR, TIE RIVAL BELLES.       187 President, was likewise sufficiently conversant with the social duties demanded on such an occasion, and by such auditors, whose dispositions he could easily fathom, to obtain a verdict  in his favour, or one agreeable to his wishes. He was a gallant Judge in such society, and an adept at gastronomy at the table. So skilful was he at the table in the use of his tongue and his fork, that no one had ever been found who could talk and eat more in any given length of time, than he. And it was all done with the utmost suavity of manner and undoubted evi- dences of exquisite enjoyment. And yet he had one trait which, when imprudently elicited, and which it was extremely wrong in the President to do on such an occasion, was not often applauded by the ladies. He was an ultra and uncom- promising Democrat! Not a Republican in the sense taught by the books he was in the habit of reading: but such a Democrat as Jefferson, or Jackson himself, might have con- demned-one who would have constitutions and laws remo- delled or abolished at any time to suit the will of the "greatest number," whatever that might be. No one blamed the Judge for not being a Whig: but for him, whose tenor of office did not depend upon the approbation of the people, to hold such a doctrine, was looked upon as the effect of a sort of monomania.  He agreed with Mrs. Tingle's notions of propriety in the  ; domestic circle; he had no objection to the employment of white waiters at the table, or even to their badges of livery; but then he contended that as freemen, and voters, they were  entitled to, and should receive from him, as much respect and consideration as men engaged in any other pursuit by which they earned a living! He coincided with her exactly as to the best manner of preparing and arraying the richest deli- cacies for the table; but then, after dinner, he must be excused for taking the cook by the hand! Poor Mrs. Tingle knew not what to make of him, and Anne could only listen in profound astonishment. It was about this                       A11     .  .                 Mi.!i     188     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; time that the President resolved to destroy the good impression the Judge had made on the ladies, by attacking him on his weak point. The Judge made no hesitation in declaring his opinions. His standard of respectability was honesty of purpose, which might have suited the President well enough; but, as usual, he went further and said, all persons being equally genteel and respectable, no distinctions should be tolerated which would exclude them from the best and most refined society on any occasion, public or private. This was enough for the ladies. They regarded him as a monster, a second Robespierre, and were unanimous in their opposition to any attempt to reduce such a theory to practice. Growing warmer and bolder with the wine they drank quite freely, both Mr. and Mrs. Tingle expatiated on the delights of keeping up exclusive circles in refined society, to which none but persons of good and ancient families, and of honour. able and lofty pursuits, should be admitted. The Judge became excited; and the more excited he became, the more was the President amused. "Well, Judge," remarked his provoking host, who knew him well, and had on former occasions put the same question and received the same reply, "what can you say in opposition to all that?" "I can say this!" remarked the Judge, in tones which arrested every ear, and with an aspect and gesture which silenced every tongue: "That my great-grandfather was an ostler, my grandfather an admiral, my father a shoemaker, and myself a Judge of the Supreme Court of the United States, now sitting at the table of the Chief Executive of the govern- ment, and in free and equal conversation with him!" Several of the ladies almost screamed, and Mrs. Tingle made a motion to rise. The President and one or two others, who had heard the same thing before, rere nearly convulsed with   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       189 ill suppressed laughter. Mr. Tingle was stunned, and not knowing what to say or do, merely perspired; while Emily, escaping a moment from the whispering lips of the Hon. Mr.  Dudley, turned upon her father a cold reproachful look, which he could not understand, and yet it rendered him more con- fused than ever. If it was that his bearing was not precisely what it should be, he knew not how to improve it; if it was meant to condemn him for being the son of a menial, how in the world could he help that? In a word, all the pleasure and benefit derived by any of them, from dining with the President, as will sometimes be the case, was the reflection afterwards that they had been seated with him at his table, and the opportunity it gave them - subsequently, and during the remainder of their lives, to refer back to it as an epoch in their history. Mr. Tingle did not speak a word during the drive between  the palace and the hotel; and when he found himself in his room, with no other auditors than his own family, his first expression was, I hope Ratlive has obeyed my instructions, and packed the Spanglers off to the country!" "You know," said Emily, always seizing upon an opportu- nity to increase her power, "that was my advice. I foresaw what might be the consequences if any intimacy was permitted with that family." "True, Em," said her father, with profound reverence, you are the wisest member of my family, and I shall regret the day when we must lose you. Put it off, Em, as long as possible." "Put what off?" "Your marriage. It is easy to see you have captivated the Hon. Mr. Dudley; but don't let him rob your poor father of his greatest treasure, his only monitor, his Aladdin's lamp." "Don't be alarmed. If I have captivated MSr. Dudley, rely ,i     190     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; upon it he has made no impression on my heart. It suits my purpose to encourage his addresses; but it does not follow that I shall either love him or marry him. And yet I may do both, if I can do nothing else that will please me better." "You could not do better, I think, Em," said Mrs. Tingle, hesitatingly and artfully; for, if Emily were out of the way, she would be sole mistress of the house. "I am young, yet, ma-I may have five years to consider the matter, and will not be old then, I hope. But let us not forget our engagement to go to the Capitol. Mr. Dudley speaks to-night." Mr. Tingle's appetite having returned, he ordered dinner, of which Mrs. Tingle partook, being equally hungry, notwith. standing they had just risen from a sumptuously laden table, while Anne and Emily proceeded to the drawing-room to meet George Gordon and Charles Pelham, who had been summoned to be there at that hour. The young men stood near a window conversing in a low tone, and in the attitude of embarrassment. They were twitching at their gloves precisely as they did under supposed similar circumstances on the stage. Pelham was now the boldest and most reckless, a true specimen of the "Walking Gentleman" in genteel comedy; while Gordon was the imper. sonation of a hero in "juvenile tragedy." "It's up with us!" said George, when he heard the approach of the young ladies. "Our engagement is up at Washington, but we are to be back in Philadelphia for Monday night," replied Charles. "We did not come here to discuss professional matters." "I'll wager that will be the subject of the discussion. No matter; we have to take our leave soon. I have a curiosity to see how they will dismiss us." The young ladies entered at this juncture, and the young   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       191 men were utterly surprised on finding themselves accosted in an unusually gay and smiling manner.  ' I say, George," whispered Charles, "it's not up yet." "It will be, presently," replied the other, gravely. They were all soon seated, and the sisters particularly were in a most lively humour. Emily at length abruptly asked: "Are you engaged for to-night?"  "No-that is-I believe." "No excuse, now, for I will have none when my mind is fixed on anything." "To be candid-indeed I feel that it is my duty--" "Yes, miss," interposed Charles, quickly, 'George deems  it incumbent upon him, as a man of honour, and as one who would be considered incapable of deception, to confess that he is not engaged." "Ha! ha! ha! That is a literal quotation from the play. We heard it the other night." "And it is, I suppose," said George, "in relation to what you then saw that you have desired to see us on this occa- sion." "You are quite wrong in supposing so. We saw you the first night of the season, and at nearly every subsequent per- formance. As you are not engaged for this evening, Anne and myself desire you to accompany us to the Capitol to hear a speech. Will you go?" "Why-surely-you-Miss-" stammered George. "Certainly; by all means!" exclaimed Charles. "Why, what is the matter with Mr. Gordon?" inquired Emily. "Not in love, I hope?" she added, in a low voice, to  Charles. "Nothing of so serious a nature, I hope, will inter- pose between friends?" "I believe not," said Charles, comprehending the import of her significant words. "He merely supposed that the fact of young gentlemen of our profession being seen and recognised 16     .                At     192     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; in company with the Misses Tingle, might cause ungenerous remarks, and perhaps---" "Oh, is that it? The man's a man for a' that-is that right'? I can't quote Burns, but I remember him. If Mr. Gordon," she continued, turning her animated face towards him, " will do us the favour to suppose that we are not quite ignorant of the ways of the world, or of what is due to our characters and reputations, and will accompany us as desired, we will be very much obliged to him." "I will go with pleasure!" responded the young man, relieved from the weight of embarrassment which had almost annihilated his powers of speech. Anne had still hoped that the young men were merely acting for amusement, and would at some future time, not far distant, abandon the caprice of the moment. But the distinct avowal of the contrary grated harshy upon her ear. She stifled, however, her inclination to manifest any disappoint. ment, and, being always submissive to the plans of Emily, whose judgment she had the utmost confidence in, she strove to be as gay and cheerful as the rest. While the daughters were having their interview with the actors, Mr. Parolee was having an audience with the parents. "Come and join us at the table, Mr. Parolee," said Mrs. Tingle, with a bland smile. She had just been perusing the note that Mr. Tingle received at the President's table, and, vain woman as she was, really believed that such an appoint- ment as had been indicated, might in reality be conferred on her rich husband. "Sit down, sir, and let me help you to the fowl," said Mr. Tingle. "I am sorry I did not pay attention to the postscript of your note in time. But it is still in time for you to have your dinner." Mr. Tingle supposed he had uttered a very witty thing, and laughed heartily, while' the pale and rigid features of his spouse were relaxed.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       193 "But you paid no attention to the letter itself, which was the most important part," observed Parolee, dryly, who knew the influence and power his position had given him, and was accustomed to accomplish his ends by exciting the fears of those who were dependent upon his pen for their good fame, but knowing, at the same time, that it would be just as easy, and quite as agreeable to his nature, if provoked, to perpetrate an evil report.  i  That is what we were just discussing," said Mrs. Tingle, showing the crumpled letter in her hand. "Oh, then it is not positively decided? I have postponed sending my letter. I will communicate anything you wish by -telegraph."  "The President has said nothing to me on the subject," remarked Mr. Tingle, with perfect candour, and unaffected gravity of face. "Are you sure there is such a rumour?" "Quite sure. All the correspondents I have seen on the avenue going towards the post-office, tell me they have it in their letters. And what is more, it is said Mr.  , the  secretary of -  , is about to resign. Every one believes it to be true. A man of your wealth and weight;-it seems to be probable and natural enough." "Why shouldn't it?" said Mrs. Tingle. "A rich man could not be bribed, and he would give power and importance to the administration."  "But, my dear, how could I discharge the duties of the place? Mr.    has been bred to the business, and besides is one of the greatest men and writers in the country." This was spoken by Mr. Tingle in a very serious tone, as if he were - really undecided whether to accept or decline the office. "Pshaw, Mr. Tingle!" said she. "Don't every one know that all the labour and writing is done by the clerks, and that  the secretary just signs his name to the documents? You can sign your name, I fancy?"  I' .   '                 t     194     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "I suppose so-I think I have signed it a few times in my life. And, if I have not been misinformed, my signature is considered worth about as much as most men's in the com. munity. And what is more, Mr. T--, the cashier, thinks it would puzzle the smartest forger to counterfeit it!" "I hope, I trust, I'm sure, Mr. Tingle, you will accept the office!" said Parolee, who had conceived an idea which, in the event of the rumour being verified, might redound greatly to his own advantage. "But, sir, it has not been offered me!" replied Mr. Tingle, in manifest vexation. "It will be, though," continued the letter-writer; "I understand the manner of doing things here. The President wishes to prepare you for it. When he tenders such high appointments, he wants to be certain that they will be accepted-  " "And it will be!" said Mrs. Tingle, boldly. "To be sure of this," continued Parolee, "he has the rumour of such a change circulated in the papers; and if the editors and correspondents speak approvingly of the matter, it becomes popular at once, and the new member of -the Cabinet, seeing the popular voice in his favour, accepts, of course, and goes into office with flying colours." "Do you know what the letter-writers have said in relation to it?" asked Mr. Tingle, quickly, at the same time putting his hand in his side pocket. "Not exactly. That is, I have not seen their letters. But they know you are a rich man, and I have hinted to several that you are liberal to a fault." "Here!" said Mr. Tingle, taking out his pocket book, and spreading many ten, and even twenty-dollar notes on the table. "Lose no time. Take' the money and see these correspond- ents at once. You know what to do. May be the mail has '\ **                            I   I         "OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        195 not gone yet. They can get their letters back from the office, and add anything they wish." "Hasten, Mr. Parolee!" said Mrs. Tingle, laying her white hand kindly on the letter-writer's arm. "And if you do accept, Mr. Tingle," said Parolee, who had actually been discharged as the correspondent of the Brazen Trumpet, the proprietor of which had paid him more liberally than the proprietors of the several other papers he wrote for, "may I rely upon getting a place -" "Yes, I pledge you my honour! You shall be my chief clerk." "You shall be his under secretary," said Mrs. Tingle. The rumour referred to originated in this wise.  Mr. , the great secretary, like all other secretaries, had his partisans and his pretensions, and of course aspired to the Pre- sidency. It was necessary, according to his tactics (a policyJ which he always pursued), to "keep his name, some how or other, ever before the people ;" sometimes in connexion with a great achievement, and at others, as a slighted or injured indi- vidual, who had conferred distinguished services upon his ungrateful country. He was, besides, a wag; and if he could not at all times give the corps of letter-writers, who met him every morning in an antechamber, substantial subjects to write upon, he was occasionally in the habit of amusing himself by sending the whole pack on a wrong scent. So, learning the manner of theTPresident's acquaintance with Mr. Tingle, and that the latter had been invited to dinner in the presiden- tial mansion, it occurred to him that he might perpetrate a good joke. "Gale," said he, turning to his confidential eulogist," Gale,  see here. What do you think of that?" He handed him a sheet of paper upon which was written this paragraph: "The Hon.         ,it is said, and confidently believed, is about to retire finally from office. His health 16 * '! ,        .      X:     196     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; requires repose, and perhaps the breezes of an European cli- mate. Mr. Templeton Tingle is named as likely to be his successor. Mr. T. dined with the President on Tuesday." Mr. Gale let the paper fall from his hand, and turning pale, gazed his patron full in the face. A spasmodic quiver at the corners of the great man's mouth, reassured his penetrating confidential eulogist. "Oh, ay, I see-an excellent joke! Good! The rich num- skull will be lifted high from the earth only to have a harder fall. Ha! ha!" "Will it startle our friends at home, Gale?" "I should think it would!" "They seem to be too indifferent. They need some such shock as this, at this particular time." "Hundreds of them will be here in sixty hours," said Gale. "And when they come we must be reserved and myste. rious." "Right, sir. It's a good idea." Those alluded to were the office-holders whose tenure depended upon the permanency of their patron, and the yet more numerous class who lived in hope, and relied upon the secretary's influence with the President to procure them the places they had applied for. And there was yet another class, who would feel a deep interest in such a startling rumour; those who believed that the secretary could and would be elevated to the Presidency himself, and who were desirous that he should be.- All would be sensibly affected by such an announcement. They would expostulate with the President, who, to conciliate his secretary, would grant him additional boons; and the secretary would pacify his friends and adhe- rents by remaining where he was, provided they were suffi- ciently zealous in his cause. Money must be expended,   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       197 newspapers established and fed, and the merits of their idol be published throughout the land with redoubled assiduity.  "But, Gale," said he, after pondering on these things, " you must copy that with your own hand, and destroy the original. Then you must have the correspondent you give it to, copy yours, and pledge you that the source whence he derives his  information shall be an inviolable secret." "Where shall it appear; in the Philadelphia --?  "No; they are too aspiring themselves, to think my loss would be felt." "In the New York ---? "No; it is pretty much of the same complexion. Suppose you give it to a neutral paper? Rondo is a clever fellow-- Suppose you give him a plaything to amuse his readers with?" "It shall be done. But the -   is published in Phila- delphia, and the paper I first named there won't credit the report if Rondo gets it first. The correspondents of the two newspapers make it a point never to agree. What one asserts to be true, the other is sure to deny. Rondo telegraphed his employers that the venerable Mrs. M--- was dead eight hours before she expired, and the other contradicted it as many hours after the melancholy event took place!" "No matter; let Rondo have it. To-morrow, or the next day, we must modify and alter." "And the day after that we must again correct." "I suppose so. And in a week, or whenever it shall be deemed advisable, there must be, you know, a positive contra- diction of the whole thing, from beginning to end, and by authority." An hour afterwards Mr. Rondo might have been seen hurrying to the post-office, with an expression of grave importance on his benevolent face. After the departure of the young actors, who promised to be punctual to the appointment, the Hon. Mr. Doubter was announced and made his striking appearance in the drawing-     198     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; room. His visit was to Mr. Tingle; but, learning that that dignitary was not to be disengaged for a few minutes (being at his dinner), the honourable gentleman entered the drawing. room, and found himself tCte-L-tMte with the young ladies. "Your servant, ladies; a fine day. I hope you are very well, and have enjoyed your dinner at the President's." "Mr. Doubter," said Emily, with some piquancy, for she perceived there was some design in the words of the honour. able gentleman to pry into matters which did not concern him, "pray how did you learn we dined at the President's to-day?" "'The whole city knows it. It is upon the tongue of l   everybody."  "Indeed. And is it such an amazing thing for common citizens to dine there?  I supposed it was an every-day occurrence." It is done daily. I have had the honour repeatedly---" "But you are not a private citizen," said Anne, smiling, and wishing to dispel the cloud on Emily's ivory brow. "No, I suppose not. But, then, I was going to say that I always meet private citizens there." "Then why has the fact of our having been invited to dine with the President, been made the subject of general remark?" asked Emily, whose looks, if not her words, were sufficient to assure Mr. Doubter that she had not enjoyed the repast. "Because every one is glad to hear it, and it seems to be a confirmation of the rumour that your distinguished father will soon take up his abode in Washington." !  Emily's brow became relaxed. Her ambition to make a figure in the world was such that she derived a momentary pleasure from any species of notoriety, and this was a distinc- tion that had never seriously entered into her calculations. She mused a moment on the subject of Parolee's note, and then, with her characteristic promptness of decision, said: a-\  "Mr. Doubter, do you believe this ridiculous rumour?"   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        199  "Ridiculous rumour, Miss Emily? I believe the report to be well founded. It is the subject of conversation at the   ^  Capitol, and is credited by many of the friends of the administration." "Is it possible! Do they know anything of my father's habits and qualifications?"  "He has weight of character, and can exert a vast influence." "And these are the qualifications for the highest offices! I believe I will turn politician." "Have you not done so already? It is rumoured that the whole affair was negotiated by you." "By me!" cried Emily, a scarlet flush spreading over her handsome face. "I assure you I feel myself complimented very much, to have such powers attributed to me, even when no such negotiations ever transpired." "Why deny it, Miss Emily? At Washington you will observe that the game of the politicians is to assume to have more power than they really possess, and to have accomplished more than was ever truly consummated by them. I am tempted to mention another rumour I have heard in relation to your achievements, and would do so, were I not afraid of offending you." "Pray don't hesitate. I will not be offended, even if it should relate to my marriage." "You break the ice for me, and I will proceed. It is your marriage it relates to, in connexion with a great political move- ment, or convulsion, or still more properly a revolution, in contemplation. I hope this story is not true." "Let me hear what it is." "It is said you are about to be led to the altar by one of  the leading southern conspirators."  "It is false! false, sir!" "I thank heaven for it!" said he, with his eyes raised  toward the ceiling. "Because, if it were true, your father     200     THE SPANGLERS ANI) TINGLES; could hardly be confirmed by the Senate; and, besides, it would be setting an example to the ladies of our fashionable circles in the north which might injure our local interests." "Pause for one instant, Mr. Doubter!" exclaimed Emily, in ill-subdued excitement. "I have said it is not true that I am soon to be married. Whether I shall ever be married at all, or whether, if such a thing should take place, Mr. Dudley, or Mr. Any-one-else be the happy man, is no concern of the public's at all. But I deny that Mr. Dudley is a conspirator; and I should be glad to see some shining example set, and followed, of justice and liberality to the south. Mr. Dudley has succeeded in convincing me that unless the local preju. dices now existing be suppressed, and be succeeded by fraternal concord, there will be danger of a dissolution of the Union and should be." "I am sorry to hear you say so. Rely upon it, the south has not the power to dissolve the Union. We have the power now, henceforth, and for ever. We will scatter our northern writers and capital among them, and command their journals. We will propagate our doctrines on their soil to such an extent as to keep them divided among themselves, and all political power will belong to us. The sceptre has departed from Judah i" "No, sir! Shiloh has not yet come! They will still rule They are actuated by principle-you by interest." "We differ, we differ, Miss Tingle! But I forget my busi- ness here. I desire to see your father."  "Before you see him, Mr. Doubter, permit me to assure you that this rumour about his taking a seat in the Cabinet, is a ridiculous fabrication. I know not who did it, but I will know. Rely upon it that no such appointment has been, or will be tendered him; and if it were offered him, he could not accept it. I say he would decline it, sir, for reasons which I do not choose to name." This declaration was made with   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       201  such an emphasis and aspect, that the honourable gentleman could not fail to be convinced of its truth; and immediately  afterwards he withdrew and rode to his own lodgings, to answer letters of inquiry from divers of his constituents. When Mr. Parolee left the apartment, Mr. Tingle had for- gotten that Mr. Doubter waited to have an interview with him  and so the fact of the honourable member having subsequently returned home without seeing him at all, occasioned no dis- appointment.  No sooner had Mr. Doubter left the drawing-room than Mr. Parolee made his appearance at the door, and begged to have a few moments' conversation with the ladies. Emily nodded assent, and when he was seated she looked inquiringly at him, as if impatient for him to proceed. "I have wished for an opportunity to put you on your guard--" "You are not our guardian, sir," said Emily, interrupting him, half in anger and half jestingly. "Pardon me!" said Parolee, humbly, for he had been taken by surprise, and felt the influence of the strong mind he was now dealing with. "I merely sought this occasion to give you some information I have learned in regard to Gordon and Pelham." "Oh, is that all?" "I supposed that it might be a grave matter." "What have you learned?" asked Anne. "That they are really and in truth what they seem to be." "Then they should have statues as enduring as time!" said Emily. "If it be really so, my hand and heart and fortune are at the disposal of either of them; for other men seem, or strive to seem to be what they are not." "You mistake my meaning, miss," said the vexed letter- writer; "I mean they are truly actors." "And being what they seem, they act the truth. True -j" '\\     202       THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; actors! glorious appellation! How many act the scoundrel when they seem to play the saint!  Mr. Parolee, we are indeed much obliged to you for this information. The gentle. men you speak of will be here presently to accompany us to the Capitol. My sister and myself will manage, by artifice or otherwise to exhibit our beaux in the most conspicuous places we can find, where we will be certain to be seen by all we are acquainted with. Will it not be a triumph for us?" Parolee was entirely confounded. He gazed at the bold, handsome girl, in unaffected astonishment. But his was one of those impudent natures not apt to lose much time in recovering from its conscious abasement. With the assurance of recovered self-possession, he undertook to explain the ill effects that might grow out of such an uncommon occurrence. That young ladies of the high standing of Emily and Anne could be injured in character- by associating with gentlemen belonging to the profession, in the estimation of the wise and good, was a matter of doubt and uncertainty; but that the multitude-the mixed million-would consider it derogatory to them, was a result certain to ensue. "Mr. Parolee," said Emily, in a tone of defiance, "I care not what the vulgar rabble may think of us.    It is my ;   amusement to have them talk about me. They may censure me; but I have never known any of them to respect me the less for doing any odd thing that suited my fancy. In short, "   it is almost a matter of indifference to me whether they praise or censure." I    a"Excuse me, Miss Tingle," said he; " but you cannot have forgotten that you have been complimented in my letters." "And have you not been paid for it?" This was a turn wholly unlooked for. Poor Parolee felt that he was more than matched. He saw the wire by which he supposed he could reduce the cold and calculating Emily within his power, melted in his hand; and being astounded, he was unable to utter a a   ORB THE RIVAL BELLES.       203 word in reply. "Yes " she continued, "you have been well paid. I could testify in court to every dollar you have received; and I prepared myself to do this, thinking some day it might become necessary. But you were not paid to praise us; we merely desired notoriety, not 'fattery. Do you know, sir, that your censures would be quite as agreeable to me as your praises? They would, I assure you. And if you desire to continue to earn your wages from us, you have my permission to test the truth of my assertion. You have only to guard against falsehoods of an injurious tendency. If you should take offence at my words, which have been occasioned by your impertinent interference in matters with which you had no concern, and see proper to wreak your vengeance in the columns of any of the papers, rely upon it there are those here, and elsewhere, whose services I may command, who will call you to an account.--Right welcome, gentlemen! Be seated a moment, and we will be ready." Emily addressed Gordon and Pelham, who entered at that moment. Parolee followed the sisters, as they withdrew, with a fero- cious glance; and, without speaking to the young men, who were in full dress and fine spirits, he went away with a heavy but malignant heart. As he strode along the avenue with his dull gaze fixed upon the pavement, his first resolve was to take Emily at her word, and invent some calumny which should destroy her character. But this had been effectually provided against by the hint at punishment, for Parolee was a coward. Then it occurred to him that the idea of Mr. Tingle being made a Cabinet minister was absurd; and he determined to keep all the bank-notes in his possession. This was the best solace for his wounds, and so he was contented to labour on in his vocation. If the Tingles wanted his services again, they might send for him; if not, he was already pretty well paid for what he had done. The subject of debate in the House of Representatives, was 17 ]i     204       THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; attracting much attention. The speaking was attended with excitement, and was often protracted until a late hour of the night. The galleries were filled with anxious spectators, and even the area in front of the Speaker's chair was crowded with listening Senators, who deserted their own chamber on such occasions, and availed themselves of the privilege of sitting with the immediate representatives of the people, who were presumed to comprise the true index of the popular voice. Conspicuous in the ladies' gallery sat Emily and her party, just as she had asserted it was her intention to do, and in exact conformity with her indomitable will. She was in front of the orator then occupying the floor, Charles Edward Dudley. He seemed to be inspired with extraordinary enthusiasm. His eloquent words reached the hearts, if they did not convince the minds of his auditors, for, while he spoke, a general silence prevailed. Emily fixed her keen eyes upon him, and followed him through all the involutions of his argument, with the intensity of one who desired information on the great subject in agitation, and who might, at some period, be called to par- ticipate in the terrible scenes he pictured, as on the eve of ensuing in the event of the projects of the dominant party being adopted. His graceful form, his animated features, his perfect elocution, and his thrilling tones, made some impression (for the moment) on the adamantine heart of the ambitious girl, in spite of her resolution to the contrary; while her understand- ing was swayed by him so effectually, that she was convinced he was embarked in a cause which she could advocate with pleasure. This she determined henceforth to do, partly, per- haps, from the conviction that it would give her still greater. notoriety-the object of all her schemes-and make her the subject of remark in the fashionable circles of both extreme I    sections. Living north of Mason and Dixon's line, she would be a champion of southern rights, and turn propagandist -?   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        205 There was something truly noble and romantic in advocating the cause of the weaker party, and particularly when she really believed the south had endured many wrongs and aggressions, and withal was the victim of general ridicule and insult. This was a new field for her ambition, and she instinctively turned her eyes to where her father and mother were sitting, when meditating who should be her first converts. She perceived with delight that her parents were deeply affected by the peroration of the speaker, a peroration memorable in the annals of Congressional debate. Pausing at the conclusion of the final argument he had prepared for the occasion, the honourable member said, in tones of serious sadness: "Mr. Speaker, I have finished what I proposed to myself to say when I rose to address you. What I have said may be relied upon as the sentiment of the people whom I represent. In what I have this night declared to you, you have their ultimatum. I pray you believe it is so. They claim nothing but what was gua- rantied by their forefathers in the federal constitution. With nothing less will they be satisfied. They demand the equal privileges, immunities, and enjoyments set forth as their right in that solemn instrument. Deny their just demands, and the instrument itself is destroyed. They will not regard it any longer as binding, and will seek to establish another compact with other parties"--- With England?" demanded a member. "I know not with whom," continued he, "but with those who shall consider their signatures and oaths as binding, and who will honourably comply with their stipulated obligations. The southern states were equal copartners in the contract of confederation, and the constitution was the result of mutual agreement between parties independent of each other. All were bound, and are still bound, to abide by its provisions; but we see northern legislatures passing enactments violative both of its spirit and letter, and involving the safety and wel- !. is     !  206      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; fare of the south. This is aggression. And yet you say we must and shall be bound by the constitution, while you violate it yourselves! And you stigmatize us as nullifiers, while you, yourselves, practise undisguised nullification! You brand us as traitors when we say we will not submit to oppression. This cannot last-do not believe it will endure much longer. It was thus our forefathers were denominated when they re. solved to sever the union with the British Empire, rather than be oppressed and dishonoured by their brethren over the sea "Will you go back to them?" interrogated a member from New England. "I know not where we will go. We will leap into our graves rather than be subjugated by you. Better, far better, would it be for us to return to our allegiance to the line of princes which He who rules the world provided for the govern- ance of our race, than to become the dependants and serfs of our vaunted republican brethren of the north. If we cannot be free, I, for one, would prefer to be the subject of Old Eng- land, than the slave of New England. None can forget the horrible tyranny of the Democratic Despots of France." 4 Shame! Treason!" cried several voices. "Bravo!" cried Emily, and at the same time applauding the sentiment with her hands. Several minutes elapsed before the tumult subsided and order could be restored. "Nothing but the plainest speeci and the most solemn warn- ings," continued the orator, "will suffice; and, even then, all our efforts to save the Union will, I fear, prove unavailing. Upon that aged man," said he, pointing to Mr. Calhoun, "the concentrated bitterness of a thousand presses and a million voices is heaped, as the one chiefly instrumental in rousing the south from its slumbers, and preparing it for resistance. He is our chief. But he is the best and greatest of patriots, who would save his country from destruction. As long as the   I       OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        207 Union is worth saving, his voice is in favour of preserving it. And those who suppose that if he were removed from the scene, agitation and danger would cease, are wofully in error, as they will soon, too soon, discover. The mist of death is now set- tling upon his brow. He is sinking into the grave, with his eagle-eye, as bright and clear as ever, fixed upon the sun--and that sun is the glory of his country, his whole country, which he gazes at fondly and in holy admiration. He watches it steadily, in momentary fear that the gloom of a final eclipse will shut it out from his vision for ever. His last look will be upon it; yet he may weep over what is to follow, that which his prophetic vision beholds, and which might have been averted if his counsels had been followed. Let his calumniators continue to assail him! Their shafts will ring harmlessly against his monument, and history will vindicate his memory!" The wan features of the great Senator grew paler while the words of the orator fell upon his startled ears; but not a muscle moved, nor did he look to the right or left, but con- tinned his steadfast gaze of deep abstraction. When the orator sat down, an adjournment was proposed and carried, and the Tingles moved with the crowd along the ser- pentine avenues of the Capitol grounds. It was a calm, clear e night, and the moon shone down upon them through the leaf- less boughs of the trees. At that late hour two individuals might have been seen in one of the committee rooms in close and earnest conversation. See his physician," said the larger of the two, a portly politician; "see him to-morrow, and let me know how long he will last. If he lives twelve months, it will do; if he dies soon, I must fall." "I don't perceive why your success should depend so much upon his living," replied the other, a thin and stooping indi- 17*  \            a     208     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; vidual, advanced considerably in years. "A few thousands judiciously expended-" "Ha! Do you know who I am? I thought every man, woman, and child, in the whole universe, almost, knew my character. Did you ever know me- to diverge an inch when my course was taken? No! not if I were driving headlong into the jaws of --  No swerving-no conciliation-no. thing but downright compulsion by the power of my intellect, and the force of my uncompromising will! If he lives, I will raise such a dark cloud of odium around him, that I shall appear, in comparison, as white as wool! He must not die, if all the powers of earth and -  can save him: I tell you I would barter twelve years of my own life to add just twelve months to his." As the last words were spoken the lights were extinguished, and they groped their way out through the darkness. For several days after Mr. Tingle's interview with Parolee, that gentleman remained at his rooms in the hotel, expecting every hour to receive an official communication from the Pre- sident. He was reserved and dignified when obliged to mingle with the company which still came in great numbers to the saloons of his daughters; and when reference was made to the rumours which had furnished a topic for conversation and speculation during two or three days, he was studiously evasive and mysterious in his replies. Parolee had, not been to see him since the day he gave him the money to distribute among the letter-writers, nor had he seen what had been said of the rumour in the papers. He would not be discovered in the reading-room, and he felt a delicacy in asking any one else to go there for him. In a word, he became excessively restless, and his impatience to know what was doing, had been done, or what was likely to happen in relation to himself, began to rob him of his rest and to destroy his appetite. The quick eye of Emily could not fail to discern this change,   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        209  and she immediately learned from her mother the particulars of what had transpired between her father and Parolee. She sent without hesitation for all the papers, one file after another, and soon solved the problem of the estimation her father was held in among the political, and even the neutral journals. Truly some reference had been made to the rumour in all the papers; but as it regarded the statement that Mr. Tingle would succeed the retiring secretary, it was treated with utter incre- dulity by some, and derision by others. No one supposed for a moment that such an appointment could be seriously medi- tated by the President. They were unanimous in the belief that some mischievous wag had mentioned his name for amuse- ment. But in regard to the retirement of the secretary, fears were entertained that this portion of the rumour might be well founded, and whole columns were written in deprecation of such an occurrence. Thus additional weeks passed away without any message from the White House, and Mr. Tingle despaired of the fulfil- ment of his high hopes. Parolee still neglected to bring, or even to send him the Brazen Trumpet, and he was obliged to buy it of the newsboys. He discovered that the publishers had employed a new correspondent, who had never waited on him, nor alluded to him in his letters. But Emily, as usual, was frequently referred to as the leading belle in the fashion- able circles. This circumstance sundered the last link of his official aspirations, and he determined henceforth to continue in the role to which he had been accustomed, and which was most agreeable to his inclinations, viz. the pompous millionaire, proud of his wealth and of his daughters. But perhaps Mrs. Tingle was the most chagrined by the disappointment. She had not been quite non-committal in her communications with her friends. Not being at all versed in the uncertainties of things political, and altogether unaccus- tomed to defeat, when in pursuit of an object which might           210     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; gratify the ambition of the family, she was stricken dumb with astonishment when Emily, boldly, and in tones of frigid dis. tinctness, declared that it had never been the intention of the President to appoint her father to the office; and that if such had been his purpose, her father would have been wholly inca. pable of discharging the duties of it, and would have been compelled to decline the honour. This annunciation was the more painful to Mrs. Tingle, from the fact that she had written to Mrs. Greatpin and to her sister Silvia on the subject, and had expressed her conviction that Mr. Tingle would soon have to be addressed as the Honourable Templeton Tingle. And now, since it was generally under- stood at Washington that the whole matter had been but a joke, Mrs. Tingle's mortification was such that she could no longer be induced to appear in company. And Emily, although she knew from the first that the rumour could have no found- ation in fact, felt resentful that her father, weak and vain as he was, should be made the subject of ridicule. Her powers were not taxed in vain to trace the rumour to its proper source; and the astute secretary had cause, on more occasions than one, to dread the attacks of an adversary he had so unwittingly made, and so unwarrantably provoked. He was a northern man, and never dreamed that a storm of popular condemnation would assail him from that quarter. But there it was that Emily prepared her project of assault. Finding that the great man was seeking to conciliate all sections (as most great men do) by a little mixture of duplicity in his declarations, she preserved, in an authentic form, those things which he had uttered to secure southern popularity, and then had them pub- lished in the north. The consequence was, that many of the gentleman's oldest friends and supporters joined in the general indignation against him, which was carried to such an extent that he was almost disfranchised by his own state. This being accomplished, Emily yielded to the desire of the r ,.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       2" whole family to return to Philadelphia. But just when they were on the eve of leaving Washington, Mr. Tingle was dis-  mayed to hear that he had been enjoined by a legal process, at the suit of Mr. Parolee, from drawing his funds deposited with the bankers, Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs! Upon the heels of this startling announcement to his family, to whom he now repaired for advice and consolation in his difficulties,  the name of Byberry Spike, Esq., was announced. "t Who is Byberry Spike, Esq., I wonder?" asked Mr. Tin- gle, looking at the card. "Show him in!" said Emily, patting her foot impatiently as she sat on the sofa, and evincing no other symptom of ex- citement. The gentleman entered, and bowed very respect- fully to the company, quickly suppressing the smile which had evidently been playing on his coarse and sensual face. "Mr. Tingle, I presume?" said he. "Yes, sir. I am Mr. Tingle," that gentleman replied, with the nod of a very rich man. But Byberry Spike, Esq., was not one to be thrown from his guard. He had dealt with rich men, and with great men, in his professional career. He had recently come from Boston, of which city he was a native. "I have been desired to wait on you by my client, Mr. Parolee, on matters of business. May I have a few words in private with you?" "We all know the nature of the subject, sir," said Emily, "and you need feel no delicacy or restraint in saying before this company whatever you may have been requested to com- municate." "It is an unpleasant mission, and I hope you will not con- sider any portion of it as originating with myself. Mr. Parolee claims indemnity from Mr. Tingle (not for any alleged fraud or designed deception), but for being disappointed in getting an office promised him, the salary attached to which was to  be $2000. He is now out of employment (Mr. Spike knew t         212     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; well enough that the proprietor of the Brazen Trumpet had discharged him for appropriating to his own use the moneys he received for articles published in his paper), and deems himself entitled to some remuneration."' "Father, did you promise him this appointment?" asked Emily. l    "I merely meant that I might, perhaps, use what influence I possessed to get him appointed. Can he sue me for that, sir? You are a lawyer." ( I am not prepared to venture an opinion as to what would be the result of an action based on such grounds," said Mr. Spike; " it would be a long and tedious process, and attended of course with heavy costs to both parties, to have the suit determined in the regular way." Mr. Spike very well knew that it would not be so decided, and that if it should be, Paro- lee was not the man to pay his fees, and retain him as his counsel. And no injunction had really been granted. "What do you propose doing, then?" asked Emily. "I am authorized to make a proposition which would obviate the annoyance and notoriety of protracted proceedings in court--" - "How much does he demand?" asked Mr. Tingle, inter- rupting him, and at the same time spasmodically thrusting his hand in his side pocket, where he kept his money. "Father, that is not what he means!" said Emily. "No-not exactly," said Mr. Spike, his eyes gleaming at the prospect of success which dawned upon him. "Mr. Paro- lee proposed to leave the matter to the adjudication of arbitra- tors, and has appointed me as one, in the event of the offer being agreed to." "I must send for Ratlive!" said Mr. Tingle. "I agree to ,  it. I will write to Ratlive to come on immediately. I will have him telegraphed to come. Do you know him?" he con- tinued, seeing Mr. Spike nodding approvingly.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES,       213 I Oh, yes, sir. I know him from reputation. No doubt he will conduct your side in a proper manner. He and I then will call in a third gentleman, and in a few days the whole matter will be disposed of. Good day, good day," said he, bowing to them all, and departing to announce the result, in his own version, to his client, who waited in the bar-room below. "They will rob you, sir," said Emily, to her father. "They cannot make me pay one cent, justly," said the rich man, triumphantly. "Robbers do nothing justly. I predict they will give him damages. It will be better perhaps to pay a thousand dol- lars, than be subjected to the disagreeable vexations they have prepared for us." "A thousand dollars! But even that, what is it, to me, with an income of $60,000 a year? And, Em, I am about to double my fortune." "How?" asked his daughter, in surprise. "By purchasing all the cotton in New York. That's the way the Rothschilds realize their millions." "I think we --have enough, now, if we only take good care of it," was the cold response of the imperious daughter. Mr. Spike told Parolee that Mr. Tingle would stand a suit at law, if pressed to it, where he would be likely to come off with flying colouis. "But cannot it be managed otherwise? Did he refuse to compromise? you know that is what I desired you to ar- range?" Mr. Spike said there could be no compromise, as Mr. Tingle declined it. Now, he had not named the word to Mr. Tingle. "It must not go into court!" said Parolee, remembering the words of Emily; I will give it up, first!"  "It would be as well," said Spike, with a scowl, "since this article in the Brazen Trumpet shows very plainly that  i                       ^:     214     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; you had been discharged by the proprietor before you had Mfr. Tingle's promise of an appointment. But-don't be precipi. tate," continued the lawyer, detaining his client, who had risen to depart. "If I should get the case arbitrated, what portion of the award would be mine?" One-half!' "That won't do,.There would be three arbitrators, and one client. The award must be shared equally by all four." "I agree to that! Can anything be done?" "We'll see. Come to my office at 10 o'clock to-morrow." When the arbitrators met a few days after, the first thing to be done was to hear the statements of the plaintiff and defendant; and when this was accomplished, they retired to another room to discuss the matter between themselves, each being provided with a half-dozen ponderous law books. What think you, reader, was the subject of their consulta. tions? The merits of the case, and the law? Not at all. Mr. Spike was the only speaker. "Gentlemen," said he in an under tone, " if we decide in favour of Tingle, who shall pay the costs? Parolee has nothing. Let us divide a cool thou. sand between us-two hundred and fifty each, all round. You will get nothing extra for this business, Ratlive, and you may as well be paid for lost time, and the trouble of coming hither. It won't be a flea-bite to Tingle." Ratlive, and the other arbitrator, who was the mere creature of Spike, inter- posed no objection, and the thing was done at once. The decision was written by Spike, and signed in due form by them all. Mr. Tingle gave a check on the Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs for the amount, and swallowed Ratlive's assurances that he could do nothing when the other two were decidedly against him.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       215 , PART VI. RETURNED to their bwn stately mansion, it would have been a difficult problem to solve, whether the gratification the Tin- gles derived from their recent sojourn in Washington, more than counterbalanced the mortification growing out of the dis- appointment, which generally prevailed among them, in not attaining a fixed and high official position there. Emily had not been disappointed, for she had never supposed there was the slightest possibility of her father being called into the Cabinet; but nevertheless she was not exempt from a partici- pation in the shame and vexation experienced by the family, on finding they had been made the victims of a heartless fabri- cation. The cold, calculating girl became, in consequence, more imperious and tyrannical than ever; and all the little arrangements about the house which Aunt Silvy had made in pursuance of the hints of Mrs. Greatpin, met with her prompt condemnation, and were readjusted to suit her own superior taste. She even declined sympathizing with Anne in her joy, upon the receipt of a note from George Gordon, informing her that by the demise of a maiden aunt in Florida he had in- herited a fortune, and had determined to abandon the stage for ever. "What do you mean to do? Will you marry him?" asked Emily, with her penetrating eyes fixed upon the-face of her sister, whose heart there was no difficulty in reading at that interesting moment.  "That is a cruel question, Em!" said Anne, a tear spring-  18                          , .     216     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES'; ing to her cheek. "lIe has not proposed to marry me. Marriage was not in my mind when I came to you." "But it is in your heart-I see it. Go, with a tame hus. band, into some obscure place of retirement, and be happy if you can. Such is my advice. My career will be'different. I would rather wed Gordon as he was, without fortune, and on the stage, than as he now is." "- Really, Em?" "Really, truly, Anne! You will endeavour to teach him to forget that he ever belonged to the profession, and will associate only with those who condemn the pursuit as immoral or not respectable; and the consequence will be that you will both be often rendered very miserable. He never can forget it; and if he could, there would not be wanting mischief. makers in society to remind him of his youthful indiscretion. It was no crime: then why should he be ashamed of it? He merely read the. poets in public. We find them even in the libraries of our clergymen. Why should the one be branded with disgrace, and the other escape? It is because the former lack the courage to assert their rights. For one, I shall be the sole judge of what constitutes respectability, so far as I am concerned. Whatever I resolve to accomplish, shall be bravely done, and in defiance of carping opposition. Who brought this letter?" "Charles; and he still remains below, hoping, perhaps, to sec you." "Tell him I am engaged, and cannot see him to-day. Let him know, however, that he will not commend himself to my favour by imitating the conduct of Gordon and retiring from the stage. Tell him to renounce any legacy that may be offered him, and carve out his own fortune in the pursuit he has chosen. If he strives to do this, he has my pledge to assist him."  Even while Emily was speaking these words, her gaze was   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        217 fixed upon the lovely form and features of Miss Spangler across the street, whom she had been regarding with steadfast scrutiny before the entrance of her sister Anne. Julia was deeply absorbed in the subject before her (a scene in a work she was illustrating), and was unconscious of being observed by any other eyes than those of her parrot. She was neatly dressed, in simple white, which exhibited to great advantage her fine complexion, and perfectly symmetrical form. "Is it fate, or accident," mused Emily, "that brings us together? I cannot believe it is chance. She will cross my path at every turn, and confront me in every triumph. She sings 'like an angel,' as Mrs.. Greatpin says. And she is just at a convenient distance to entertain my company! They will ask who she is, and be in raptures with her voice. But Jenny Lind, who is coming, will cure that. She will be the rage. But then they will behold her sitting there. How effectually she displays her commanding figure! Fate wills it, and it must be done! Little does she know what I am  meditating. She must be removed out of my way, or crushed under my feet! Father!" she exclaimed, in a loud and passionate voice, as she heard his step at the landing of the stairway. "Well, Em! what's the matter?" responded he, entering the chamber with a bright smile, and his hands filled with  papers, which he was conveying to the, library when inter- rupted by the startling cry of his daughter. "Look there, sir!" she continued, pulling her father by  % the arm to the window, ahd pointing through the slightly  parted blinds to the object which she had been contemplating.  "Who is she, Em?  By the soul of St. Patrick, she's a   A: beauty!" "That's a vulgar Irish expression, sir;-but perhaps you  choose to be an O'Tingle before your daughter. No eyes are  '     21T THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; upon us; no ears will hear it. And you say she is beau. tiful?" "Why, now, Em," he stammered, as he beheld her livid paleness, and perceived that her lily hands twitched and qui- vered with excitement. "You know, Em, my eyes are none of the best, and I may be mistaken." "Put on your spectacles. No, take my opera-glass. Now what do you think?" "As I live, Em, it is Spangler's daughter!" "I did not ask you whose daughter she was. Is she still 'a beauty?'" "Em, you know I can't help it, if she is handsome. All the family were handsome. But I think your face-- "Never mind my face, nor my figure." "It was no fault of mine, I'm sure, if--" "Never mind, never mind! What I want to know is whe- ther that young lady, with personal endowments of such a superior order, is to remain there to eclipse your daughter?" "No! By Jove, never!" replied the rich and pompous parent, at once comprehending the wishes of Emily. "Yet, Em," said he despondingly, "since I reflect upon it, I don't see how we can get them away immediately, unless I give them back their-old house, which Ratlive bid off for me." "I want to be rid of the house over there, air. The very walls are hateful to me." "I'm sorry, very sorry, Em, it can't be done immediately. You know you spoke to me about that business once be- fore  " "I know it. And now you see what we would have been spared, if you had acted promptly." "I tried to do as you wished, Em; but it couldn't be done. The house belongs to minor heirs, and no one can buy it for nearly a year yet." "I see!" she continued, in a half-suppressed voice, and *1   OR, TIE RIVAL BELLES.        219 with her small taper fingers interlocked convulsively. "It is fate! We are brought in collision by our destinies. It was not of my seeking; and now I will not recoil from the en- counter. No, father, you can do nothing. They would not accept their old home as a gift. They would prefer remaining where they are, to annoy us. I know the nature of woman! (How little she knew poor Julia's nature!) Leave it to me to conduct the war which must ensue between the Tingles and the Spanglers. No quarter! shall be the word! What papers are these?" she asked, as she observed, for the first time, the letters and bills of sale in the hands of her father. "Referring to my cotton speculation, Em. I am advised by these, that if I were now to order a sale, my profits would  be a quarter of a million! That's better than a mere six thousand a year, at Washington." "' "Why don't you sell, sir?"              "The price is still going up. I want to make more." "Take care you don't make less." "Let me alone for that, Em. But I had almost forgotten the contents of a letter I received this morning from another quarter, and on a different subject. Your mother has it, and I shall want your opinion about it. Did you know this Mr. George Gordon, the travelling acquaintance of Anne, who has  got a little property by an aunt in Florida, has left the stage, and now has the assurance to ask permission to address my daughter?" "Yes, I know all about it." "What kind of a reply should we send the impudent rascal?" "Tell him to come and marry her." "What! hey? Marry Anne Tingle, and he but yesterday   " a play-actor? Em, don't joke with your father." "I am not in the habit of joking, sir. You asked me my advice, and I gave it." 18* *                       .           - "1     220     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "Well, well, but then, what do you think Anne will do? We can't force her to marry, you know." l   " "There will be no necessity for it. She fell in love with him the first time they met, and she would have married him in the end, probably, if he had not left the stage. But now, if you attempt to compel her to give him up, she will elope with him." "Elope with him! Bless my soul! this must not come to pass. Go see your mother, Em, and arrange everything to your liking, and in the manner you deem most proper. You can give it out (if they must marry) that he has just been amusing himself on the stage, by way of a juvenile frolic, you know, while at the same time he was of a great family, and large fortune. You know sometimes the nobility of England do the same thing. As Sir William Don has done, for instance." We must now hasten over events of minor interest interven- ing between the scene last described and the main features of our history. Emily, who was quite willing to dispense with the presence of her elder sister, whose susceptible heart and sentimental turn of mind rendered her both indisposed and disqualified to participate in her ambitious schemes, soon won her mother over to consent to the match, and the nuptials were celebrated accordingly in the fashionable church the family attended. An hour after the ceremony was over, the bride and groom might have been seen descending from the carriage at the foot of Walnut street, and being piloted by Capt. Searles to "No. 43, below," where the tickets were to be had for Baltimore, and the south. When Congress adjourned, the Hon. Chas. Ed. Dudley came to Philadelphia, to attend the Tingles in their flight to Saratoga, Niagara, &c. . He was regarded by the family as an accepted suitor for the hand of Emily, and it was not denied by her- self that his attentions were received with pleasure. But in   I OOR, THE RIVAL BELLES.             221 reply to his many urgent solicitations to become his affianced bride, Emily had never committed herself further than to   I agree to take the matter into consideration; and from the tedious delay she subjected him to, it seemed that she resolved to consider the matter, if not to postpone it, indefinitely. The whole family, including Aunt Silvy, and even Tom- who had been dismissed from college for promenading the campus on stilts wrapped in a white sheet, and afterwards introducing a donkey into the chapel, robed in a black gown- set out from the city on the day in June appointed for the migratory movement of the rich and fashionable, or for those  who would appear to be such. In the mean time Mr. Ange arrived from California, with letters from Harry, but no money; for when the young man  had represented to him that his father had funds sufficient to carry him through a whole year, at the least, he lad advised him to invest all he possessed in real estate in San Francisco. Mr. Ange would have willingly advanced any reasonable sum to the father of Harry; but this he was prevented from doing by Mr. Tweed, who felt assured that he could supply all the deficiencies likely to accrue, from his own humble exchequer. Mr. Anger had just embarked on his return to the Pacific coast, when tidings came of the great fire in San Francisco. This intelligence Mr. Tweed would have kept from the know- ledge of Harry's father and sister, if he could have done so. But Julia read the papers every morning, and was apprised of the sad occurrence almost as soon as any one, and without  hesitation she read it aloud to her father, whose ability to hear such tidings without being injuriously shocked, she had a better knowledge of than Mr. Tweed, himself. The old man placed his trust in God, while Julia abated not one jot of her confidence in the bright future she predicted for her brother.  Towards the end of summer, the proud mansions in the city were again occupied by their lordly owners. The Tingles were ;'.1     222     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; hlack again, and the Spanglers were just opposite, looking none the worse for having been kept at home by their poverty. Perhaps Aunt Silvy, of all the family of the Tingles, had enjoyed the northern tour the most. She admired everything, and every object had elicited her commendations. She had determined to be pleased, so that when she returned she might pour forth her delights into the patient ears of Mrs. Greatpin, whose husband's professional avocations in the city had, as usual, prevented him from departing far from it; and in truth, on the present occasion, he had not been absent from it at all, for more than a few hours at a time. On the afternoon of the day succeeding the return of the Tingles, Aunt Silvy had Mrs. Greatpin in a recess of the par- lour, expatiating in most extravagant language on the refresh- ing events of her travels; while Emily and the Hon. Mr. Dudley occupied a sofa near one of the front windows. "It was all-fresh-so!" exclaimed Aunt Silvy, when elo- quently describing a picnic in view of the Falls. "Al fresco, aunt!" said Emily, marking, as usual, every- thing said or done in her presence. "Oh, Em, Mrs. G. understands! I was only doing it up in English. How I hate the new fashion of speaking every- thing in French!" "It is Italian, aunt," remarked Emily. "It's all the same thing to me. I hate the foreign jabber altogether. We have the American language of our own-" "The English language, aunt," said Emily, who seemed to be irritated by observing Dudley occasionally looking at Julia Spangler, who was sitting near the window on the opposite side of the street. "Now tell me where you have been, and what you have been doing, Mrs. Greatpin," said Aunt Silvy, when she had completed her narrative. "I do't know where to begin, my dear Miss Prince!" said   Is v       ,OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.     228 I Irs. Greatpin. "I visited so many places, saw so many ad- ventures, and mingled with so many people, that, really, I must postpone giving you an account of them to some other occasion." The only places which had been visited by Mrs. Greatpin were Burlington, Camden, Gloucester, and Red Bank. But her house, or rather the front of it, had been closed during the whole of the season; and when they had entered it or departed from it during that period, it was by the back way, or else her egress and ingress had occurred under the shadow of night. l  The steps and pavement were unscrubbed, and the knob and  bell-handle were blackened with rust. Visiters were told by the servant that her mistress was out of town, while she was in reality peeping at them through the venitian shutters of the parlour window, and listening to their remarks as they descended the dust-covered and neglected steps. Often she had declared to her vexed husband, she would die for the want of fresh air and exercise, while she refused to accompany him to church on Sundays, merely because the pew of the Tingles was empty, and it was the season when all who aspired to be classed among the fashionables should be absent from the city.  Mr. and Mrs. Tingle joined the little party in the spacious parlour, and seemed to be in high spirits; Their own magni-  ficent rooms and exquisite f iturniture were made more agreeable to them than ever, by contrasting them with what they had  seen during their absence, and they seemed to take delight in making such comparisons.  "I wish you would throw open the shutters a little wider,"  said Emily, to her father; "it is very sultry." She was obeyed, as usual, and the next moment, amid the - profound silence that ensued, the whole party was startled by 'hearing distinctly the following song, from the parrot over the way: ?i ' ,*     224     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "Stir about briskly, The essences mingle; On with your white apron, Tommy O'Tingle, Tommy O'Tingle! The master is waiting, The dishes should jingle; Scatter your napkins, Tommy O'Tingle, Tommy O'Tingle!" Mr. Tingle sprang to his feet in great agitation and terror. His chin fell, his lips became white, his limbs trembled, and it was feared he had been taken suddenly ill. While the family gathered round him, Dudley advanced to the window to ascer- tain from whence the strange words he had heard proceeded. No one was passing in the street, and at first he regarded the occurrence as an inexplicable mystery. But a moment after he saw Julia step out on the iron balcony, and chide the parrot for singing such a song, Yet the bird continued to utter the name of "Tommy O'Tingle" in spite of her; and as he did it he kept his breast towards the mansion of the Tingles, con- tinually bowing and enunciating the name with additional emphasis, until his mistress carried him in; and then once or twice the name could be distinctly heard in the distance. If this circumstance had thrown the Tingles into a state of consternation, it was not without its effect likewise on the Spanglers. The old jeweller expressed his astonishment and regret in strong and threatening language. He deemed it altogether an unnecessary provocation, and one which, if it should be repeated, would be a sufficient cause of offence to his neighbours to justify them in proceeding to extreme acts of hostility. In a word, he said the parrot must be sent away if it were disposed to continue such mischievous practices. "Father," said Julia, "I never heard him use such words before. I know not who could have taught him such a song."   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        225     i "I have heard them before, child; but it has been a great many years ago. They used to sing it in the kitchen, but I was not aware that the parrot could sing it." IYou naughty thing!" said Julia, shaking her finger at the bird, which held down its head in the attitude of perfect submission. By the time Mr. Tingle had partially recovered from so unexpected a shock, he found himself in his library, whither Emily had led him, and whither they had been followed by Mrs. Tingle. Mr. Tingle now walked the floor in a most vio- lent rage. He foamed at the mouth, and, with his fists doubled up, presented a spectacle of such furious aspect, that even his usually indomitable daughter did not have the courage to reproach him for the unpardonable crime of being the son of his respectable father. But she was not deterred from venting her fury upon the poor unoffending Spanglers. Emily!" said her father, who now partook of her vindic- tive spirit. "You are right. I should have crushed them in the dust-destroyed them for ever, every one of them!" "It is not too late yet." I will do it! But how'? I'll murder them all!" "You are not in earnest?" asked Emily, looking her father steadily in the eye. "I am! I'll kill every one of them!" "And be hung?  Surely you don't mean to do any such thing. There are other ways to deal with them. Leave it to me." I will. I'll give you any amount of money you ask- only rid me of these people." "Very well!" replied the revengeful girl, hastening back to the parlour, her face wreathed in smiles. "He's better, sir, said she, in reply to the inquiring look of Dudley. "He is sometimes subject to these sudden spasms, but they soon pass away."     I 226     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "1 was not aware of it before," replied the gentleman, with serious concern. "At first I thought his agitation might pro- ceed from the silly words some one has taught the parrot across the street to sing. I suppose the charming young lady I have seen sitting near it, could hardly have been capable of so mis- chievous a thing?" "Whom do you mean? Oh, the mechanic's daughter! Who else could have taught it?" said Emily. "Mechanic's daughter! Is her father a mechanic?" "Yes; we used to patronize him until, some how, he lost the jewels we gave him to repair." "A jeweller, then?" "Yes. But recently his shop and tools were sold at auc- tion for debt, and of course he ceases to labour. How they manage to live, is quite a mystery," she added, with a signi- ficant smile. "Have they no fortune?" asked Dudley. "Certainly not, or else their house would not have been sold. And it seems they have but one friend, a Mr. Tweed, who boards in the same house, and lodges on the same floor. He is a clerk in one of the stores down near the river; but it is said his salary suffices for them all." "It is strange, very strange!" said Dudley, lifting his eyes, and again beholding the almost angelic countenance of Julia. "No, it cannot be!" said he, in a low and serious tone. "What cannot be?" asked Emily. ' That such a girl as that," he replied, pointing in the direction, "is capable of affording just grounds for suspicion, that her heart is not as pure as her lovely features would indicate." "How very credulous you gentlemen are! Nor would you suppose, that, because it is her misfortune to be poor, and my father's good fortune to be rich, envy and malice could find a place in her tender and noble heart, and that she would   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       227 be capable of seeking to annoy us, Without provocation on our part, by teaching her parrot to mingle our names in its vulgar songs!" "Hark!" said he, "that is not the kind of song you de- scribe!"Julia just then began to sing a mournful ditty, the burden of which was her absent brother. Never had Dudley heard such enchanting strains. The voice seemed to resemble as much that of an angel, as the features and form of the fair songster had deserved the comparison. No carriages or other vehicles passed during the time she was singing, and every sound she uttered was distinctly heard by the listeners on the opposite side of the street. "Where is her brother?" asked Dudley. "He is in California; sent thither, it is said (and of course I know not how truly), by Mr. Tweed, who takes care of the whole family, parrot and all, in his absence." "Can it be possible!" said Dudley; with an expression of mingled disgust and pity, as-he rose to depart. "At what hour shall I call, Emily?"  "At seven. The concert begins a half-hour or so later; but there will be such a crowd, it might be difficult to reach our seats after that time." After the Hon. Charles Edward Dudley had departed, Emily remained alone in the parlour awaiting another visiter; and no sooner had she contrived to get her aunt and Mrs. Greatpin to remove into another room, than the bell announced the expected one. It was Charles Pelham, and he was greeted with an excess of warmth and courtesy. Emily even suffered her hand, which she had extended in salutation, to remain several moments in his; and when he sat down, she drew her chair quite near to him, and expressed her pleasure at seeing him looking so well, in a soft half-whisper. "And now, Charles," said she, "I hope you have not con- ceived the weak notion, like Gordon, of abandoning a delight- 19     I  228     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; ful profession, merely because the white-neckerchiefed censors, whose proud faces we 'see ostentatiously exhibited in the print- shops, and their dupes the blue stockings, unite in condemn. ing it?" "Not I, unless it be to embrace a greater happiness, as George did." "What do you mean? The fortune, or the wife?" "The latter, of course." If you have ever condescended to think of Anne's sister as one with whom you might be happy, rely upon it that her ideas of life and those of her sister are the very antipodes of each other." "So I have always thought. But have you seen the papers?" "No. What do they say? Is it in relation to me?" "They all still extol you as they have ever done. But I refer now to the recent notices of your humble servant. The critics say I am fast approaching the highest place in genteel comedy; and this is done, I assure you upon my honour, with. out any instrumentality of mine. And the manager has raised my salary to $30 per week." "I am glad to hear it." "Oh, I forgot to mention that one of the reporters, Mr. Parolee, wrote an attack upon me, and when I caned him for it, the papers said he was served right, and the jury gave him one cent damages." "Good! I shall love you madly for that. But I wanted to see you on a very, very serious affair. A business which must be in strict confidence between us." "You may command me, till death!" "Look there!" said Emily, leading the young actor to the window, and pointing at Julia, one-half of whose person, and the whole of her face being distinctly visible. "Gad! She's pretty!" he exclaimed.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       229 "She is! Would you not like to have a flirtation with her?"  "Me? Oh, above all things, if it met your approbation." "It does; provided you promise not to marry her." "I promise, solemnly." "Let solemnity alone. I desire you to address her, and to  win her heart, if possible." "For what purpose?" "To crush it in the dust!" said she, fiercely. "Hear me. That girl is my enemy, and the foe of our family. You and I are friends. I have made you popular in the highest circles by my praises, and you are patronized by the rich and fashionable people of the city. But I; am not done serving you-remember that. Now, will you not do me this little service?"                          i "You have my pledge. Point out the means." "Here!" said she, giving him a purse filled with gold. "Buy her jewels; she has a passion for such trinkets; her father is a broken jeweller. When this is expended, come to me for more gold. You shall be amply provided with the means to insure success." "What I meant, more particularly, was, the means of becom- ing acquainted with her," said she, but at the same time retain- ing the purse. "I have thought of that. Her brother is in California, seeking a fortune. She never visits the theatre, nor her father;  j and neither of them can recognise you."  "I have it! Pass myself off as the friend of her brother, just returned from California."  "Yes; you can say you knew Harry well, and deliver many affectionate messages." "Leave me to manage that. But has she no brothers here?"  "None; nor sisters. She dwells there with her father.  She has no mother. But they have a friend, whom you i Is                 .             .     230      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; as   must avoid as much as possible, a Mr. Tweed, a gray-haired clerk in a store in Front street. He visits the places of amusement." "I can put on a wig-- "No-no disguise. You will prosper best as you are. He may not know you; but still you had better avoid him as much as possible. I leave the rest to your wit. Only remenm her this: The Spanglers (such are their names) are the deadly enemies of the Tingles. They are constantly devising schemes to annoy us. This Miss Julia is pretty and sings well, and she exhibits her person, and gives specimens of her voice to all our visiters. She has even taught her parrot to sing insult. ing songs about us, for the amusement of our acquaintances and the entertainment of our enemies. We are rich, Charles, and of course we are envied and hated. In short, if the. Spanglers cannot be removed from this neighbourhood, the Tingles must go. That is determined on. Leave me now! I must prepare for the concert. You know I must hear Jenny Lind every other night. The intermediate nights I will, as usual, be in my box at the theatre. Begin operations as soon as you please, and report progress to me." E.   The coach was at the door, and the Hon. Chas. Ed. Dudley was striding backwards and forwards in the parlour, awaiting the appearance of Emily to proceed to the Hall, which was already glittering with lights. Emily was putting on the last of the ill-fated Spangler jewels (they had been broken again, and repaired at a fashionable shop in Chestnut street), and looking calmly at her mirror. Her brow was white and smooth, and her handsome face bore no traces of the dark scheme which she had contrived for the destruction of an innocent and unoffending fellow-being. She was arrayed with becoming taste, in the most costly materials, and so artfully that her deficiency in height was not perceptible; and as she turned away from the mirror to descend into the street, with all her   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       231 thoughts concentrated upon the magnificent appearance she was going to make in the brilliant Hall, a smile of gratified ambition, which she already anticipated, beamed upon her fair features. There was a dense crowd assembled before the hall, and it was so difficult for carriages to pass, that frequent stoppages and delays occurred before the polished coach of the Tingles halted in front of the spacious entrance. At length Mr. Dudley and Emily, preceding Mr. and Mrs. Tingle, were conducted to the seats which had been reserved for them, and for which an enormous bonus had been paid. All eyes were turned in that direction, and the proud Tingles enjoyed for a few moments the consciousness of being the centre of observa- tion, if not of attraction; and Mr. Tingle, when looking round upon the multitude, more than once whispered to himself that the satisfaction he then felt was ample compensation for the expense he had been at in securing such conspicuous seats for his family, and for the distinguished member of Congress, who would, he hoped, ultimately become his son-in-law. Just on their right, and in a position to be half facing the Tingles, were two more reserved seats, which it was whispered were to be occupied by a son of an ex-President of the United States and his accomplished lady; and as every new party approached, the Tingles looked round for the distinguished couple who were to sit in their immediate vicinity. "Who is that coming, now?" asked Mrs. Tingle, in a voice rather louder and harsher than strict etiquette and perfect breeding warranted in such a place. Emily turned her eyes in the direction, and gazed in mute amazement. "Why that's-that's-" stammered Mr. Tingle. "Julia Spangler!" said Emily, turning away with a scorn- ful expression. It was Julia, who had been persuaded to hear Jenny Lind. She was dressed in simple white, without any attempt at extra 19*     282     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; ornament. But, ah, how beautifully had nature adorned her! Every movement was grace itself, and every feature that of a seraph! Wherever she turned her beaming eyes, they were met by admiring countenances; and as she approached, the people seemed instinctively to afford her every facility to pass with as little difficulty as possible. She held the arm of Mr. Tweed, whose benevolent face truly indicated the joy and triumph he felt within. He was dressed in the fashion, with white vest, gloves, &c., and seemed to act the part he had assigned himself as gallantly as any one of a more juvenile appearance might have done. They moved along towards the front seats without impedi- ment, and paused not until they came to the unoccupied bench near the Tingles, which they took possession of. The seats had been originally taken by the party alluded to above, and subsequently were given away again, when they reflected that it was a bad example to pay so large a sum for the mere grati- fication of hearing the enchanting songstress from a conspicuous position; and they were averse to being classified as aristocrats in a republican community. "This has been done by her just to annoy us!" whispered Emily, to her parents, but not so softly as to escape the ear of Mr. Dudley. Julia was innocent of any such purpose. She did not know the Tingles were to be there, and much less that they would be thrown so near together. But as much cannot be said of Mr. Tweed. He knew all about it. When he saw the name of the Tingles on their bench, in the morn- ing, he resolved to secure the other, cost what it might. And ascertaining that the party which had been beforehand in tak- ing it, had given it to some other persons, he set his wits to work to obtain it in exchange for another quite as good, and succeeded. Julia looked but once at the Tingles, for she perceived at a glance that they had no intention of recognising her there;   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        283, and as she cast her glorious eyes in another direction, no one could have discovered in their expression anything resembling mortification, for she felt not a particle of it. Nor was there any resentment, for she was likewise guiltless of that. Mr. Dudley gazed at her with many misgivings as to whether she could truly be the vile creature that Emily had described. If vile impulses were inscribed on her heart, he confessed to himself that he could not read them in her face. Nor could he discover anything in the manner of Mr. Tweed to justify the supposition that he was capable of leading such a bright and beautiful being aside from the path of virtue. "No, no! there must be some mistake!" said he to himself, just as the inspired Jenny appeared, amidst a thunder of plaudits which burst from that heaven of beauty and fashion. From that moment Julia lost all consciousness of the place she occupied, and of the multitude that surrounded her, in her deep abstraction, and high appreciation of the wonderful powers which had been bestowed upon the unaffected being before her. She could hardly repress the inclination she felt to give utterance to the music swelling within her own soul, as chord after chord was touched by the celestial sounds that thrilled throngh every nerve. She had never experienced such enjoyment before, and the unmingled delight she exhibited was observed by Jenny herself, and she sent several grateful smiles specially to her fair auditor. When the entertainment was over, the Tingles hastened to turn their backs on Julia and her attentive companion. They retired first; but each of them in turn contrived, unperceived as they supposed, as they were leaving the Hall, to send back to Julia, who was following, a disdainful scowl. This was observed by the fair girl, but not resented, as it gave her no pain. Neither Emily nor Mr. Dudley spoke much as the carriage rattled homewards. Mr. and Mrs. Tingle were permitted to      I  234     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; express their individual opinions without interruption, and it was not exceedingly strange if poor Jenny was that night the subject of some disparaging criticisms. When the doors of the mansion were thrown open, Mr. Dudley, instead of taking his leave as usual at such hours, was inclined to linger, and finally beckoned Emily into the unoc- cupied parlour, which was brilliantly illuminated. "Emily," said he, sitting beside her on a sofa, A I desire, to-night, to have a definite indication of what is to be the final result of my suit." -rv "Perhaps I do not understand you clearly," said she, after hesitating some moments to consider what reply she should make. "I mean, Emily-and I do not think I can be charged with precipitancy-that I wish to be resolved whether my suit is to be successful or not." "I cannot resolve you, because I do not know. You would not have me either accept you, or decline you, when Ham not certain that either step would accord with the dictates of my heart." "The dictates of one's heart are almost ever present, and may be readily consulted." "I assure you it is different with me." "I could wish it were otherwise," said he, sadly, and about to rise. "Stay, sir," said she. "What would be my condition, my duties, my enjoyments, if I were your wife?" "Your condition would be in nowise materially changed; as to your duties and enjoyments, I would fain hope that your own heart would dictate them, and that they might be in con- sonance with what mine would dictate." "You would take me to the South-to your plantation?" "When Congress is in session, you will be with me in   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       238 Washington. In the summer, with me in the North-always with me!" "Even in the event of a dissolution of the Union, and of war, would it still be so?" "T hat would alter the case. There might be exceptions. A secure retreat, the domestic hearth, would then be your post." "And that would not suit me. I remember your speech, in which you hinted that the South would return to its alle- giance to the crown of Great Britain rather than be oppressed by the North. I then pictured to myself that such a thing would occur, and that you would be rewarded by the monarch, and become the founder of an illustrious line of nobility. I fancied-mind, it was mere fancy-that I might bear a part in the heroic struggle, disdaining danger, and braving expo- sure, to aid you in serving the cause-" "Emily!" said he, in unaffected surprise, " are you devoid of a heart, and incapable of affection? In your imaginings have you never estimated the happiness of devoted love in profound retirement? Have you never supposed that you could prefer the society of your husband to that of the world, and for it alone abandon the world?" She made no response, and he continued: "Reflect, I beseech you, on these things, and be prepared to answer me definitely, when we next meet, whetlher or not I am to succeed in winning your heart and hand. Your parents are willing it should be so." He withdrew without awaiting a reply, and without observing her smile of derision at the mention of her parents. Mr. Dudley prolonged his absence for weeks from the man- sion of the Tingles, as if to give Emily ample time for reflec- tion, so that she might be prepared to make him a final answer when they met again. And this Emily had determined not to do. When she looked within her breast (which she did     236     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; but seldom), she was convinced that she could and doubtless would be enabled to love Dudley as much as any man she would be likely to meet with; but then she was aware that she felt no ardent affection for him, nor for any other man. She loved the world too well, and could not think of relin- quishing its attractions, at her age. If she had been ten years older she might not have neglected such an offer; but, consi- dering her youth, her celebrity, and her wealth, she arrived at the conclusion neither to accept nor to reject her lover, and to let him pursue whatever course he saw proper under the cir- cumstances. Her father did not dare to importune her on such a delicate subject, and her mother, who could not repress her anxiety to see her married, on attempting to obtain from her an intimation of her purpose, was defeated in her object, and received only harsh and equivocal replies in return for her parental solicitation. One day, when the bell rang violently, Emily happened to be passing across the hall, and she paused to see who it was that sought admission in such a boisterous manner. It proved to be Mr. Range, of the firm of Tipp & Range, jewellers, in Chesnut street, who had repaired the Spangler jewels. "I thought this bill had been settled," said Emily, taking the paper from the hand of the man and examining it. "Surely it was sent here last week." "It was," said the jeweller; "but Mr. Tingle refused to pay it." "Why?" ' Because he said the charge was too much." "Ninety dollars; that is a great deal, for merely repairing the set. But father is not in the habit of delaying the pay- ment of his bills. Sit down, sir, and I will see him.' The jeweller suppressed the anger which he had felt, and remained in the hall while Emily sought her father in the library. Mr. Tingle was perusing a number of letters on the table   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       237 before him, while Ratlive, his attorney, sat near him turning over a vast number of parchments. Mr. Tingle's brow was flushed with excitement and anger, when his daughter entered. "What's that?" he asked, seeing the paper in her hand. "The bill of Tipp & Range, the jewellers." "I sent that back the other day!" "But you did not pay it-it is not receipted." "No, and I never will pay it. It is extortion! Pay ninety dollars for welding a few links of gold, and polishing a few diamonds!" "The charge is exorbitant," said Ratlive. "I will not pay it!" continued Mr. Tingle, braving the looks of Emily. "Mr. Range is waiting in the hall, now, sir, for his answer." "Well, let him have it-his answer I mean-and away with him. I won't pay it, and that's enough! Let him be off, I hate his very name, and the name of his firm." "He knows I am a lawyer, sir, and perhaps he might reduce the charge, if you were to admit him here," said Ratlive. "True; we'll see him," he replied, ringing a bell, and direct- ing the servant to admit the jeweller. "Didn't I refuse to pay this bill, sir?" he continued, when Mr. Range entered. "You did, sir; but that did not satisfy me." "Not satisfy you! And pray what satisfaction would you have?" "The money." "The money! And how much?" "The whole ninety dollars." "Then you won't be satisfied, for I won't pay that amount." "Very well, sir; then I know my remedy." "Pay it, sir, rather than have a lawsuit," said Emily. "I have said I wouldn't do it, Em; and I am a man of my word. But-but," he continued, hesitating and reflecting-     238      THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "I will leave it to any three men to say how much I ouglt to pay." "That will do, sir," said the jeweller; "I will agree to that." "Then I appoint Mr. Ratlive, here, for one. Do you name another, and the two shall name the third." Emily whispered something to the jeweller. "I name," said Mr. Range, "Mr. SPANGLER." "Spangler!" exclaimed Mr. Tingle, with a start. "No! I will have nothing to do with him, or you, or anybody, in such a small matter. Here is the money; sign the receipt!" When the jeweller was gone, Emily still lingered in the library, wondering what her father could be doing with so many papers, and what it was which had thrown him into such a rebellious ill-temper; "Proceed with your business, gentlemen; don't mind me," said she, sitting down, with a book in her hand, which she appeared to read. "Well, Ratlive," said Mr. Tingle, " that is settled. Write to Mr. Shipley that he must not sell until he can get eight- pence all round, the figure which it would have brought a month ago." "But suppose cotton should continue to fall?" remarked Ratlive, timidly, and smiling slightly, but not venturing to look up to enjoy the effect of his suggestion. "No, I won't suppose it; I shan't suppose any such thing. It was worth eightpence once, and it must be worth it again, or I won't sell. That's settled! Eightpence will pay me a half-million profit, and the figure named in his letter, would realize me only three hundred thousand." "Why not make that much, father, and be done with it?" asked Emily. "Because I don't choose to, Em, that's all. I don't specu- late by halves. Let me alone for a half-million. Wait till the next steamer comes in."   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       239 A broker said to me this morning that he anticipated another decline," humbly remarked Mr. Ratlive, with a stealthy glance at Mr. Tingle. "Let it decline! It shall go up to 8d. before I sell. Say so to Shipley." "And these drafts?" remarked Ratlive, touching a number of bills which lay upon the table, with the top of his pen, and which had come back from Europe protested. Mr. Tingle had drawn upon his agents in Liverpool for the money he was to pay for the cotton, they having intimated their willingness to advance to a certain extent on the consignment. But as he had greatly exceeded thelimit in the letter of advice, a num- ber of the bills were returned to America unpaid. "Take the title deeds and raise the money. But remember that only six per cent. is to be given, and that the mortgages are to be paid off as soon as the cotton is sold-at Sd." "-You shall be obeyed," said the obsequious attorney, gathering up the documents and departing. Em," said Mr. Tingle, rising up and smiling, " what do you think of that? The Tingles mortgaging their real estate to raise money!" "I fear it is a bad business, sir. It would, have been better to have taken my advice, and been satisfied with what we possessed. It was enough. Recollect what the Spanglers were once, and what they now are." "The Tingles always advance-never recede. That is the motto, you know, we havd adopted. I am now worth three hundred thousand dollars, at the very lowest calculation, more than I was when you gave me that advice, and because I did not regard it. Think of that, Em!" "My advice now is, that you realize what you have made." "And again I won't follow it, Em. You see what I made by not following it before, and why should I not be equally as lucky this time? Em, that was a lucky hit Range made! If 20     240     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; the rascal had named any other man in the world, he would not have got his money." The more Charles Pelham reflected upon the issue of the enterprise he had undertaken, the more reluctant he became to engage in it. Although he was a man of the world, and nothing could delight him more than to be engaged in a flirt- ation with a handsome girl, yet he did not like the mode that had been suggested by which he was to approach Julia. He did not object to sailing under false colours, so far as his dress and manners could be made available in assuming different characters, for amusement; but the idea of practising a gra. tuitous and cruel fraud, for the purpose of gaining access to a young lady at her own home, and with a view ultimately to injure, if not to destroy her character, was one which could never have originated with himself, and which he determined not to put in execution to the full extent of the meaning of his promptress. He supposed that Emily had been incensed by some act of rivalry on the part of Julia, and know- ing something of the nature of woman's revenge, and of the violence of the anger of such an impetuous girl as Emily, whose co-operation and patronage he did not wish to lose, he resolved, if possible, to have an interview with the victim that had been designated for him, and then to be governed by circumstances. But he would not utter such a palpable falsehood as to say he had seen Harry in California himself. He would merely refine and dilute the deception by saying he had met with some one else who had been in Cali- fornia. This would be only such an expedient as was daily practised by gentlemen of gallantry, without hesitation, and was often considered by the ladies themselves as a species of innocent deception. And so he made his appearance under the pretext of hav- ing news from Harry.   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       241 Julia's eager joy on beholding him, convinced him of the ardour of her affection for her brother; and as she made no inquiry in relation to the extent of her brother's success in procuring the precious metal, Pelham perceived that her soli- citude for the personal welfare of Harry, occupied the most considerable portion of her thoughts. He informed her that the one whom he had met, and who was on his way to the west, had parted with Harry in San Francisco, and received from him the kindly messages which he (Pelham) had been requested to deliver. Julia was profuse in her thanks, and hoped she might have the pleasure of seeing such an obliging messenger again, par- ticularly if he chanced to hear anything further in relation to her absent brother. Pelham several times availed himself of this permission, and always contrived to have something new, directly or indi- rectly concerning the one nearest (with the exception of her father) Julia's heart. And, as he had been required, it was lis custom to report his progress to Emily, who seemed to evince an undiminished interest in the advances he represented himself to be making in the victim's esteem. But who was the victim, Emily or Julia? Pelham practised his double deception in such a skilful manner, as really to raise him daily in the estimation of both the young ladies; and the thought occurred to him that he might finally manage to secure the hand of one or the other of them, as the crowning reward of his diplomacy. Emily was rich, and Julia might become so; and either of them might prove to be a good speculation for him. As a man of honour, Dudley still felt bound to renew the tender of his hand to Emily; but, at the same time, he expe- rienced a sensible and increasing diminution of affection for her. He had scrutinized her conduct closely, and, having arrived at a true estimate of her character, he felt satisfied     242     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; that she could never be the one capable of rendering his exist. ence happy. Yet he was willing to make the sacrifice, if she saw proper to decide it so. He had again referred to the sub- ject after the lapse of weeks, and again she had refrained from giving him a decisive answer; and then he would have willingly abandoned the suit altogether, but fearing his conduct might be condemned as precipitate, and as an unjustifiable retaliation for a caprice usual with many of the sex, he was constrained, reluctantly, still to linger about the object of his once anxious pursuit. And Emily was no unskilful diplomatist. She never suffered a cloud to darkel her fair brow when in the presence of Dud- ley. On the contrary, she exerted her powers of fascination, with a view to make his visits as agreeable as possible; and seemed to be resolved, in the event of a positive rupture occur- ring between them, to have the world attribute it to his'incon- stancy and cruel neglect, and to enlist on her side all the superabundance of public sympathy which may so readily be brought inmrequisition on such occasions. Thus in silken fetters she sought to bind him, and so conscious was he of her consummate powers, and of the skill with which she played her part, that he meditated with fear and trembling upon the time and manner of his enfranchisement. It was when his mind was occupied with such thoughts as these, while he was slowly returning from the post-office to    his hotel in Chestnut street, that a spectacle was presented to his view, not calculated to lessen his anxieties in regard to his own fate, or to increase his admiration of the one who he supposed might be destined to become his fellow-voyager through life. He was met by a hooting multitude of ragged boys, and scarce less genteel-looking adult specimens of both sexes, following an individual of rather diminutive stature, dressed in the Turkish costume,-and that individual was Emily! Amid the cries of "Room for the Bloomer," and   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        243 "That's it! Look at her legs!"Emily failed to see Dudley, and he, observing it, hid himself in the crowd, overwhelmed with shame and mortification. He followed the rabble, as he could not desert her, and wished not to see her sustain any personal injury. But Emily was altogether fearless, and seemed rather to enjoy the sensation she was creating. Besides, she had taken measures to provide against insult. She had made a previous arrangement with a number of the police, whom she had sent for and seen at her father's house, and-who were now posted at the several points she had designated; and when one of the saucy urchins, a red-haired boy of some fourteen years, attempted to trip her up by striking his foot against hers, he was instantly seized and borne away a prisoner. And a broad- chested, yellow-whiskered man of a rowdy disposition, having addressed a coarse remark to her, she cast a chilling glance at him, and the next moment he, too, was arrested. A third and a fourth shared the same fate, and finally Pelham, who was cognisant of the whole affair, and followed'just in her wake, chastised several with his cane for merely looking imper- tinently at her. Such summary treatment soon dispelled the crowd, and the triumphant girl was permitted to pursue her way without further molestation. When Dudley saw the turn affairs had taken, he wended his way gloomily to his lodgings to peruse his letters. The first one he opened was from the Secretary of the Treasury, a per- sonal friend, though not belonging to the same party in poli- tics. It ran thus: "I wish you to perform for me a sort of semi-official service in Philadelphia, which will in nowise, I trust, compromise your standing in the party to which you are attached, particularly as no emolument attends the commission. It is this: We have advices from our collector in California, stating that he has purchased for the government a lot on 20*                 - 4     244     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; which to erect the custom-house in San Francisco, from a young man by the name of Spangler. Now this young man departed from Philadelphia some time last year, possessed of but little or no wealth, to seek his fortune, leaving behind an aged father and a sister, to whom he seems to be greatly attached, and whose welfare and happiness are the dearest objects of his life. He has requested the collector to prevent a publication of his name in connexion with the purchase, fearing that such unexpected news of his good fortune might, if suddenly made known, produce such a shock to his family, joyful though it would be, as to injure them in health of body or mind. And he has desired most earnestly that the matter may be communicated to a friend of the family, a Mr. Tweed, who is employed in' the very large establishment of Messrs. Domet & Co., No. -, Front street, who will make known the transaction in a proper manner to his parent and sister. Now I hope you will undertake to execute this commission for me, and you may, in return, command my services in any similar enterprise of delicacy and tenderness, requiring the interposi- tion of a third party, without regard to politics. I remain, &c., &c." This request gave birth to a new impulse in the breast of Dudley, and the information contained in the letter aroused within him a suspicion that Emily was capable of uttering a deliberate untruth in regard to one whom she designed to injure. He remembered the angelic face of the lovely being he had so often seen sitting opposite the mansion of the Tingles, and the depreciating words of Emily; and he could not believe that the sister of such a brother, an insight into whose character had been afforded by the letter of the secretary, could ever possibly become the frail and abandoned object which had been so artfully held up, for some purpose to him inexplicable, to his mental vision, by the one he was seeking to make the   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        245 partner of his bosom. And this Mr. Tweed had been repre- sented as the villain who was capable of perpetrating such heartless ruin. Dudley felt an irrepressible desire to unravel this precious web of contrarieties before it should increase in complication and magnitude. Why it was that he should be seized with so excessive an interest in the fate of Julia, he could not, and did not, pause to inquire; but nevertheless he determined to make the mission which had been tendered him, the means of obtaining a personal interview with the fair girl. Mr. Tweed, when Dudley presented himself and desired to see him alone, was utterly lost in conjecture as to what was about to follow. He had seen Dudley very often sitting with Emily, and he knew very well the extent of the enmity of the whole family for the Spanglers. He was likewise aware, as the whole reading portion of the world might have been, that Dudley was supposed to be upon the eve of leading the dis- tinguished daughter of the rich man to the hymeneal altar. But what the object of the present interview could be, was altogether beyond the range of his comprehension, and so he waited calmly for the scroll of the future to unroll itself, and walked in silence beside the honourable member of Congress to the hotel, where the matter was to be unfolded. "You are a friend of the family of Spanglers?" asked Dud- ley, when they were seated.  "Yes, sir, I am; and will be as long as I live. They are  worthy the friendship and esteem of all virtuous men." "They are poor, I believe?" "They have had their changes, like others. Once rich, now poor; but always the same in goodness. God grant they may be rich again! But they are comfortable." "I suppose they have some fortune, or else they could not be so comfortable."     246     THE SPANGLtRS AND TINGLES; "This is strange language, Mr. Dudley! Why do you make such remarks about persons who are strangers to you? Suffice it to say, sir, they cannot be oppressed while I have a dollar to spare, or an arm to protect them '" "Be patient, Mr. Tweed. I am hot their enemy nor yours. I will explain myself presently. Pray let me ask you if any one has attempted to oppress them?" There are those who would do it-and those, too, who were once as far beneath them as the earth is under the sun at noon." "I beg you to tell me their names." "It would be better for me not to name them, as you esteem them highly;" "Do not hesitate, t beseech you, on my account." "The Tingles, then!" said Mr. Tweed. ' And may I ask why?" "In truth their reason for it is most unreasonable; but they say it is human nature. The Tingles originally received bene- fits from the Spanglers, who were rich and patronized them,  and indeed, I may say, caused them to be what they are." "Most truly an tnreasonable reason! Instead of gratitude, to repay good with evil. Perhaps you will be good enough to relate the history of the two families?' No--not now, at all events. I am pledged to Julia to keep it a secret." "To Julia!-and why?" "Because, if it were repeated, and became generally known, it would cause the Tingles insufferable pain, and could do the Spaigles no good." Atnd this was the girl's motive?" "Oh, sir, she's at a:tgel! If ever there can be a perfect being on- eartih, it is Julia!"Mr. Tweed rubbed his hands in delight, while a slight moisture suffused his eyes.   OR, THE' RIVAL BELLES.       247 Dudley looked upon him in silence. He could not -be less than five-and-forty, perhaps fifty years of age; he was very gray, and doubtless felt no other affection for the young girl of whom he spoke with so much enthusiasm, than that of pure and disinterested esteem. "Now, Mr. Tweed, I will explain myself, or rather this letter will do it for me. Read it." Mr. Tweed with the aid of his spectacles perused the letter, every now and then wiping the tears from his eyes, and pausing to rub his hands, a habit he had of expressing his delight. "That's Harry--That's Harry--that's him, all over!" he exclaimed. "Mr. Dudley, that's him all over. And she's just like him. God bless them both! God bless everybody'! I am happy, now, Mr. Dudley! Oh! if you only knew how much this poor family have suffered-no! they haven't suf- fered so much either; they were too good-but if you only knew what reverses they have had-and I have had mine, but I don't mind them-you would thank heaven, too, even if you were an atheist!" And tears were really coursing each other down the cheeks of Dudley. "But, come, sir!" continued Mr. Tweed, rising hastily; "Come with me; you must see Julia-and her father-he's a genius and philosopher, sir. Oh, you'll love them all-I know you will-and you will be a happier man from knowing them." Recollect, Mr. Tweed," said Dudley, gently releasing Mr. Tweed's grasp of his arm, "that Harry desires this good news to be broken to them gradually, and carefully." "True, sir, true; I had forgotten that. It is the first time I have so far forgotten my duty for twenty years. Pray ex- cuse it. I will manage it right."     248     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "And when you deem it proper," said Dudley, "I would esteem it a favour to be permitted to wait upon them." "They will be glad to see you; indeed, I know they will ask me to bring you, the harbinger of good fortune, to see them. I will call for you, sir. Good day."   oaR THE RIVAL BELLES.       249 PART VII. THE very day on which the gratifying news was to be com- municated to Julia and her father, by Mr. Tweed, they re- ceived letters from Harry himself. They had been brought by the letter-carrier, and one was also left with Mrs. Sedge for Mr. Tweed. This occurred in the morning, after breakfast, and subsequently to Mr. Tweed's departure for the store. Mrs. Sedge would have sent it down to Messrs. Domet & Co.'s counting room, but was persuaded not to do so by Julia, who wished to place it in the hands of Mr. Tweed herself, and to enjoy his eulogiums of Harry, and to see him rub his hands, while the tears of joy started from his eyes. And Mr. Tweed forbore to go at an unusual hour to communicate to the family the intelligence he had received from the Secretary through Mr. Dudley. All the morning his thoughts were occupied in devising the manner in which he should break the news to Harry's father and sister, so as not to transport them too much. Harry had written in a cheerful strain to his fatherl and Julia, stating that he had been quite successful, but carefully avoiding setting down the amount of his wealth in figures. He dwelt upon his continued good health and spirits, and besought them to be careful of theirs. He described his jour- ney to the mines, in company with Trott, the success of their operations there, and treated the affair with the Indians as an amusing incident, from the perils of which he had so fortu- nately escaped. But the portion of his letters which gave the most pleasure was an intimation that he might surprise them     250     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; before long by presenting himself before them unexpectedly. Yet if he really had any desire to do so, he had defeated his object by putting them on their guard. They would, doubt. less, now be constantly looking for him. Mr. Tweed, immediately after entering the house at the time he had appointed, hastened to the apartment of Mr. Spangler, where he found the father and daughter both in joy- ous spirits. "Sit down, Mr. Tweed," said Mr. Spangler, shaking him heartily by the hand; a thing he had not done before for many months. Mr. Tweed stared at him, smiled, and rubbed his hands. "Oh, I see you guess that father has some news!" said Julia, observing Mr. Tweed's demeanour. "You are guessing, now. What do you suppose it is?" "Me? I? Why I'm sure you haven't heard it." Heard what?" asked Julia. "Guess," said Mr. Tweed. "It's a riddle all round," said Mr. Spangler. "If I tell you, will you promise not to faint, or scream?" "If I tell you, will you promise not to-to-- "To what?  Yes, I promise!" "No, do not promise, because you could not keep it; and besides I like to see, what I was about to forbid." "See what?" "See you rub your hands, when you hear good news from Harry." Good news from Harry! I have all the good news from Harry. You are prepared for it now, and I'll tell you." "Stop! I must tell you first," said the happy girl, running to her father's table, and taking from between the leaves of a book the letters to her father and herself. "Here are the let- ters from Harry. We got them this morning. He is well,   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       251 and perhaps will be home soon! Why don't you rub your hands? I'll permit you." Mr. Tweed had suddenly ceased to rub his hands, and seemed to be struck with astonishment mingled with mortifi- cation. "A portion of the mail must have miscarried, or it must have been robbed," said Mr. Tweed, very gravely. "Harry - never would neglect to write to me when writing home, I know. There is something wrong about it; but I don't blame Harry -mind, I say I don't blame Harry!" "Poor Mr. Tweed, won't you rub your hands for me?" said Julia, exhibiting the letter to his address, which she had hitherto concealed. "I didn't blame Harry-you know I didn't blame him!" he said quickly, with his eyes suffused, as usual when touched with kind emotions. The letter, which had come in the same envelope that contained the others, was marked "Strictly con- fidential" on the left corner, and underscored with a bold mark. "See there!" said ie; "I must not let you see it." "But why should anything be kept from us?" asked Julia, her woman's curiosity a little excited. "If there is anything bad in it, I'll tell you. If it is good, or some agreeable surprise he has in contemplation, I am to remain silent, and am not to be questioned." "Agrebd!" said Julia. "Now do keep silent, Mr. Tweed; then we will know what it is!" "You are a cunning one, Julia!" said her father, who felt himself almost like being a child again. Then Mr. Tweed embraced the opportunity to communicate as much as he deemed expedient of the intelligence he had for them. And he dilated particularly on that part of the request of Harry which evinced such a tender regard for the feelings 21     252       THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; of those most dear to him, and the delicate manner he had suggested in which the communication should be made. Tears stood upon the cheeks of both the father and sister, while their hearts beat responsively, and every pulsation was quickened with their pure affection for Harry; and all the while Mr. Tweed was rubbing his hands with such intensity that the friction absolutely produced painful sensations. "Harry says in his letters to us that he has sold a small portion of his ground in San Francisco," remarked Mr. Spangler; "but to whom, and for what sum, he does not state." "It's all right; depend upon it, my dear sir, it's all right. Do not blame Harry," said Mr. Tweed. "Blame him?  I can do nothing but invoke the choicest blessings of heaven on my dear boy. Blame him? Not I! He need not tell me in plain figures what he has made, or how he will use his wealth. I know his nature-his nature, sir ."   "Upon my word," said Mr. Tweed, "Mr. Dudley did not tell me how much the government was to give for the lot. I must see him again." This was true. And Mr. Tweed's eyes had failed to detect the brief N. B. at the bottom of the secretary's letter, which was as follows: "We give $90,000, which has been audited, and is payable here to his order." The confidential letter to Mr. Tweed contained an order for the money to Harry's credit in the United States Treasury, with many injunctions and directions, which will be developed in their execution. And Mr. Tweed hastened to commence his operations, and was closeted with a real estate broker that afternoon, having, immediately after dinner, first relinquished his employment in the establishment of Messrs. Domet & Co., and received from the senior partner a cordial shake of the hand at parting. The evening succeeding these events, there was a splendid !:   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.        253 party of the "exclusive fashionables," at Mr. Tingle's man- sion. Julia and her father sat opposite, in the obscurity of their darkened chamber, and beheld the brilliant illumination. Fine carriages were continually arriving and departing, and the sounds of mirth and revelry were distinctly heard. Unseen themselves, for the gas jet in the room was shut down to a scarcely perceptible flame, they could not avoid seeing the glittering forms of the gay party moving in the dance in the spacious parlours of their lordly neighbours. The ladies were in the Turkish costume, and bespangled over like the beauties of the harem; and, indeed, the gauzy, transparent vestments of some of them might have induced one, had they been seen in some other place, to suppose they were the "model art- ists." Dudley was there, more as a silent spectator, than a parti- cipator in their sports. He looked without admiration upon the half-nude form of Emily, and felt no inclination whatever to renew his offers that night. He sat apart, near a window in front, and ever and anon looked through the partially closed shutters, up towards the chamber where he had so often seen the beautiful creature who was so strangely an object of detestation to all the Tingles. He could perceive in the dim- ness a faint outline of the form of Julia, and he thought within himself that he would be far happier to be sitting-by the side of the slandered and injured girl in her quiet retreat, than to be where he was; a witness of so much empty pomp and vanity. And what, at that hour, were the feelings of Julia? Was she wholly devoid of any desire, to be, like Emily, or any of her numerous gay associates, an object of admiration? No, not wholly devoid of the desire; but not in the same way. She would never, she thought, if she possessed the wealth of the Tingles, seek to win admiration by the ornaments and splendours which gold could buy; nor take delight in availing     V   254     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; herself of the license which riches give, to launch into extra. vagances of presumption, or excesses of manners and habili- ments bordering upon immodesty. But she would scatter with a profuse hand the bounties bestowed by Providence, to make all her friends the happier and better. In this way she would be distinguished. But Julia was already distinguished, without being fully aware of it. No one possessing her beauty and accomplish- ments could fail to be widely known; and she was often the subject of conversation among the discriminating and generous of both sexes in the community. Her rare talents in drawing, her astonishing vocal powers, and her perfection of form and feature, were known to others besides the inmates of the man- I;   sion opposite, and the visiters to the Tingles. In truth, for many months previous to the time we are now speaking of, Mr. Tweed had been in the constant habit of yielding to the solicitations of his friends, and introducing them to his pro- teg6. And a few days after the concert of which we have spoken, Julia had been honoured by a visit from the famed Jenny herself. This was not only known throughout the city (such is the avidity with which these things are repeated from tongue to tongue), but was heralded in the distant papers. And "the Lind" herself had declared that Julia's voice was the best she had ever heard. Ix  These things only stimulated Emily the more to quicken her schemes for the humiliation of her rival-and rival she was-for whenever the celebrated belle of the Tingle mansion was spoken of, the superior beauty, and taller form, of the Miss Spangler just opposite, were quite sure to be alluded to. Pelham was encouraged to redouble his efforts; and his inge- -   nuity was taxed to the utmost to convince his patron that his operations were really in a state of progression. And to do this he still visited the boarding-house occasionally, and managed to show himself at the window. -, I    OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       255 But all this he did with great reluctance. From the first interview, he was satisfied that Julia could never be his or any other man's victim. Her mind had been so well organized by nature, that all her feelings and impulses were. strictly subor- dinate to her reason; and the principles by which she was governed in both her desires and actions, were founded upon the great truths proclaimed by Him " who spake as never man spake," and inculcated by her virtuous and intelligent parent. She was romantic; but her romance was of that kind which delighted to dwell upon the lovely features of nature, and to enjoy all the pure emotions and affections which might dwell in the heart possessed of unmingled and incorruptible inno- cence. Pelham could not fail to observe this, for it was the charm by which she won all hearts; and if he had really meditated any evil designs, they were abandoned the first moment he beheld her. She had none of that species of bantering levity possessed in such an eminent degree by Emily, and which Pelham had been accustomed to find in those with whom he associated; and it may be doubted whether, if he had been guided by his own inclination, he would have repeated his visit. Being guided otherwise, he did repeat it; but on the occasion of his second interview, and in the presence of both Julia and her father, he availed himself of an opportunity to provide against the probable consequences of having pro- pagated an untruth. He confessed that he had been mis- taken in the name of the young man in California. He had again seen his informant, who said it was a Mr. Springer who had sent the message, and that there was a family of that name in the city, consisting of a father and daughter. He also informed them that he was a comedian, and had often seen Mr. Tweed, with whom they were acquainted, at the the- atre. And Mr. Tweed coming in during one of his subsequent visits, a recognition took place. Mr. Tweed shook him cor- 21*      r-   256     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; dially by the hand, and hoped he would have the pleasure of seeing him there again, and promised to endeavour to prevail on Julia to accompany him to the play, where he had often rubbed his hands with delight on witnessing Pelham's per- sonations.  The morning after Mr. Tweed had received his confidential letter from Harry, he announced to Mrs. Sedge, at the break- fast table, and to all the boarders, that the house they were then in had been purchased by an individual who intended to occupy it himself. Mrs. Sedge had long known that when a certain minor who was one of the heirs to the property became of age, the house would be sold; and hence she had made her arrangements accordingly, and taken the house next door, the owners of which were then residing in France. Mr. Tweed evaded the inquiries as to who was the pur- chaser. That a desire should exist to know who had bought the property, was very natural. The house was large, with an extensive yard in the rear, and must have cost a large sum of money; hence those who were to be their neighbours must be wealthy, and they were desirous to learn their names. The process of moving was not delayed a single day; and when Emily saw the furniture carried out of the house, with- out waiting to see what disposition was to be made of it, she hastened to convey the joyful tidings to her father and the rest of the family. Mr. Tingle was in his library, as was his usual habit at that hour, perusing his letters. "News! news!" cried Emily, running in unceremoniously. "Yes, foreign news," said her father, without lifting his eyes from the paper in his hand. "Moving-they are moving!" said Emily. "But the tendency is decidedly downward,' said Mr. Tingle. ' They are breaking up and going off."   / OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       257 "Breaking! that's a bad business. Where will we go?" We!" exclaimed Emily. "I'm afraid so. But I hope not." "What do you mean, sir?" "I mean that this cotton speculation is about to be a ruin- ous business, if the price don't rally soon. It is down to-four- pence-halfpenny, and every pound I have cost me not less than 6d." "You ought to have sold when I advised it," said Emily. ' Perhaps I ought." "You ought not to have engaged in it at all, as I suggested." "Perhaps not." "Perhaps not?  Then, if there be a doubt about it, you cannot be certainly ruined." "No, I think not. But what is done can't be helped, now. That's past. What can be done in the future? Are you to be married to Dudley?" a No, sir! I would not accept him, and he has ceased to prof- fer himself." "What do you intend doing, then?" "We'll see. Very well, I hope." "Take my advice, and do it inmmediately. I feel the au- thority of a father rising within me, as my fortune sinks. I have been made a fool of by your mother and yourself. Leave me; do not reply." Emily quailed before the stern aspect of her parent, and retired in silence. She did not suppose her father's losses would seriously affect his fortune, and she meditated a terrible revenge for the rebuke she had received at his hands. Utterly ignorant of the difficulties attending the accumulation of riches, she had always regarded the wealth of the family as inexhaust- ible, and could not now realize the horrible idea of being re- duced to poverty. Doubtless, she thought, her father would lose a considerable sum; but it was impossible for him to lose     258     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; all. Convinced that they would still be rich enough for the accomplishment of her purposes, she bounded gayly into the parlour, where she found Dudley sitting near a window, and watching the process of the transference of the furniture from one house to another on the opposite side of the street. "That is a joyful sight, sir!" said she, looking over his shoulder. "But there is no joy in your face." "And why should there be? I have not triumphed, as you have. Fear not; I will not allude to my affair again." Emily was on the eve of speaking a word in reply which might have sealed her fate, and his fate; and how different would have been their condition in the future! Had she spoken it, he would not have recoiled. How much often depends upon a single word! He perceived she was tempted to say something on the subject of his suit, and the idea flashed upon him that it might be the word he was once so anxious for her to utter, but which he now desired should never be spoken; and, immediately pointing over the way, he drew her attention to the fact that Mrs. Sedge was moving into the house adjoining the one she was vacating. In truth, Julia was seen near the window on the second floor; and there likewise were her flowers and the detestable parrot! Emily could not wholly conceal her vexation from one who knew her as well as Dudley did. It was in vain that she affected to treat the matter with indifference; her chagrin was visible in her features, and betrayed in her speech. When Dudley took his leave and descended the steps of the stately mansion, he was met by Mr. Tweed, and conducted, almost with constraint, into the presence of Mr. Spangler and Julia, who asked him many questions relative to the contents of the letter of the secretary. The dark imaginings which Emily had insidiously instilled into the mind of Dudley, in relation to Julia, were dispelled   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       259 in the pure heaven of her eyes, like vapours vanishing from the sky before the presence of the sun. It so chanced that when Dudley departed reluctantly from the presence of the Spanglers, and descended in company with Mr. Tweed into the street, their egress had been observed by Emily! Alternately pale and flushed with amazement and anger, she staggered under the effect of her violent emotions, and threw herself prostrate upon the floor.. She was found in that condition by her father, who in terror lifted her up, and would have placed her gently on a sofa; but she recovered speedily, on beholding him, and sat upright by his side. Father," said she, "you are still rich, are you not?" Why, yes; if I lose a half-million, there ought still to be enough left." "Oh, never till now did I so much desire to be rich!" "   Why, Em?" ' Dudley has just visited Julia Spangler. He went directly from me to her. I saw Mr. Tweed take him by the arm and lead him in." "But, Em, you know you might have married Dudley!" "And would not! "True, and would not. But now, your mind is changed, since the bird is flown?" "No, sir; my mind is not changed. I would not consent to marry him now. I would not, I think, even if he had not seen Julia." "Then where's the harm of his seeing her?" "Although I would not have him, she must not!" "Pooh, pooh, child, this is nonsense!" said Mr. Tingle, escaping from the house, and striding, as briskly as propriety would allow, towards the office of his attorney. Dudley had carefully avoided making any allusion to the subject of the letter he had received from the secretary, when     260     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; in the presence of the Tingles, and had still hoped that Emily would abate her hatred of the rival beauty, of whom all who knew her spoke in terms of praise and admiration. But he hoped in vain. The more the fame of the lovely and gifted girl spread abroad, the more bitter became the disparaging words of her rival, and the more malignant and cruel her hints and innuendoes; and hence the determination of the high-toned son of the south to seek the acquaintance of the injured one. Simultaneously with the desertion of the fine old house by Mrs. Sedge and her family of boarders, it was occupied by a score of masons, carpenters, painters, and paper-hangers, who caused it to assume an appearance of splendour, almost equal- ling that of the Tingle mansion, in a surprisingly brief space of time. The Tingles now wondered who were to be their neighbours. It was not to be doubted that the new occupants would be rich and fashionable, if one might judge from the profusion of expenditure, and the correct taste displayed in the improvements going forward. "Whoever they are," said Aunt Silvy, one day to Mrs. Greatpin, it will be au fait in us to call on them." Aunt Silvy had improved wonderfully. Emily had insisted on her going often to the theatre, to correct her pronunciation, and it had some effect, as the standard there is the best; but she was not content to learn simply the pronunciation of words; -i  she must go further, and dabble in phrases about which she could know nothing, and quote sentiments wholly inapplicable and out of place, as often as any other way. "Let me know the time, and I will go with you," said Mrs. Greatpin; "and perhaps we can get the Rev. Dr.-- to ac- company us." -   "But wouldn't it be the ton to know who they are before we call? They may be some upstarts, you know?" /   "They might be, but I don't think so. Suppose you send over to the workmen, and ask who is to occupy the house." i   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       261 This was done at the moment, but the workmen said they had not asked the " boss," who was away. 'How vexatious!" cried Aunt Silvy, clasping her hands despairingly. Just then a procession of furniture cars halted in front of the door, laden with articles of very rich patterns and costly materials, and embracing everything gorgeous in the upholsterer's and cabinetmaker's lines. To the praises of Aunt Silvy and Mrs. Greatpin, were added those of Mrs. and Miss Tingle. The house was to be beauti- fully furnished, and they were doubtless to have very agreea- ble neighbours. Mrs. Greatpin declared she would have a Royal Wilton of the same pattern of the one before them, which became unrolled as it was taken in, when she knew, or ought to have known, that it required all the efforts of her honest and unobtrusive husband to support his family in the most unpretending style. A few days subsequently, when Dudley called on the Tin- gles, Emily ventured (and what would she not venture?) to refer to the fact of his visit to the Spanglers. "I visited them on business." And found it a pleasure, no doubt?" "I did. They seem to be superior people." "Oh, yes, they seem so; and, indeed, I hope so. I am sure I should be glad if the reports in relation to them proved to be without foundation." "I am sure of it!" "What, already? Do you judge from one brief visit?" "I have seen them twice; and the last visit was not so brief." "Indeed! I'm glad to hear it. You must not suppose I am Julia's enemy, because things have been said and done which prevented an intimacy between us. I have no claim upon you giving me the right to question whom you shall see, or whom address. It might be even venturing too far for me     262     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; to manifest a curiosity to know the nature of the business which led you there." ia "Ha, ha, ha! Not at all-I mean as to the venturing," said Dudley, amused at the half-serious and half-mocking manner of the belle. "It was business of great importance to them, as it announced the fact that young Mr. Spangler, in California, is rapidly making a fortune, if it be not already made; some $90,000 of which being now on deposit in the United States Treasury. The communication was made by me at the request of the Secretary of the Treasury." !  Emily grew very, very pale; and the serious expression of her face plainly indicated that she was really suffering from a pang which had never hitherto assailed her. Dudley could -   have pitied her, had he not known the true source whence her misery sprang. And lo! just then a fine coach drew up on the opposite side of the street, and the mysterious occupants of the now fine house over there alighted. Mr. Tweed was present, alter- nately rubbing his hands and assisting them to descend. They were the Spanglers-the father and daughter! They ascended the marble steps, and were in possession of a home at last! Soon the flowers and the parrot followed, the latter singing parts of the culinary song of "Tommy O'Tingle." Emily neither screamed nor fainted. 9 She arose with a chill- ing dignity of manner, and with a slight gesture of her hand, and a formal bow, bid Dudley good morning, and retired to her chamber. As Dudley departed, he felt that he had paid her his last visit; and he could not, as he had purposed doing, proceed that day directly from the Tingles to the Spanglers. Emily was by no means humbled. In the evening she had as gay and brilliant a party as had ever assembled in her father's house. Dudley had not been sent for. In'the midst of the revels, Emily drew aside the Hon. Mr. Doubter, who had asked the cause of the absence of Dudley. -'   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       263 "I will tell you," said she; "he is no longer a welcome guest here." Surely you jest!" "No, sir, I am serious. Do you remember the warning you once gave me?" "Perfectly well. But I then thought you as arrant a nulli- fier and secessionist as he was. Are you for Union, now?" "Not with him. My eyes have been opened, and I am conscious of having uttered very silly words on that occasion. Would not disunion-a dissolution-of the states-be a crime?" "Treason, treason of the worst sort i' "And punishable?" "With death!" "Then Dudley is a traitor! Summon me as a witness, and I will prove it! Let him die!" "But he must commit an overt act, before he can be tried." "He cannot, then, be arrested for any declarations he has made, or operations he has in contemplation?" "It would not be good policy to do so. But, pray, what do you know of his purposes?" "I know that he, and more than fifty others, all members of Congress, contemplate a dissolution of the Union before five years.; they are in readiness to strike the blow when the time fixed upon shall arrive." "Is it possible!" exclaimed the member. "Disunion not only spoken about, but really designed!" thought he, with a grave visage, when Emily departed to whirl in the waltz. "We must be careful, and not provoke them too much, or they may sever the link which binds them to us. This city and state would suffer if dissolution took place, and my constituents would not agree to it. We must not say too much about repealing or modifying the compromise-at this time-nor till this southern fire goes out." And it was during this scene of revelry that Mr. and Mrs. 22     264     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; Tingle were gesticulating vis-a-vis in the library. Nor did they gesticulate, only. They had high words, which reached even to the ears of Aunt Silvy and Emily, who abandoned the dance at an earlier hour than usual, to take part in the discus- sion. Another steamer had come in since morning, bringing intelligence five days later than the last, although they arrived the same day, and Mr. Tingle had just received a telegraphic communication informing him of still another decline in the price of cotton! "I tell you," he exclaimed, looking from one to the other of his auditors, and silencing them for the moment by his furi- ous bearing, "I am ruined! My purchases amounted to three millions, and they have sold the whole for one-third less than cost. Figure it up by the rule of three. I was worth a mil- lion-now I am--a bankrupt!" "And who has been to blame?" asked Emily, in low, dis- tinct tones. "Yes! who's been to blame?" screamed both Mrs. Tingle and Miss Prince, whose educations had been sadly neglected in their youth, and they seemed ever after incapable of speak- ing in tones of moderation when under any considerable degree of mental excitement. "Silence! I say!" said Mr. Tingle, in a tone of command, and with a sternness in his looks which he had never before assumed in his own house, and before his own family. "I will tell you who is to blame, besides myself. It was you, you, and all of ye! Like you, I supposed because I willed a thing, it would be done. I would not sell the cotton, because I determined it should first rise a fraction higher. I followed your pernicious examples! I have been to blame in being controlled by, instead of controlling my family! And we have the result. The fruit is bitter, is it not?" he added, sarcastically. "You don't mean to say that all must go? that we will I   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       265 have nothing left?" cried Mrs. Tingle, still in a loud, harsh voice. I do! Look at that paper, where the calculation is made in detail. To-morrow morning, nay, to-night, my fortune is reduced to less than $5000--" "And will our house be sold?" screamed Mrs. Tingle. "It will. It cost me $40,00O!" "Here! Take pen and ink and convey it to us, or to my sister as trustee for us," said Mrs. Tingle, getting paper, ink, and pen. "And I'll save the silver I Emily, hide your jewels!" cried Aunt Silvy. "No! I have said all must go," replied Mr. Tingle; "and it shall be so! Every debt shall be paid. Anne is provided for, and Emily might have been. I can support my family by my industry. It will go hard with the Princes, I suppose, to see me at business; but the lowering of their pride will be only what fate has decreed, and what they deserve." "What they deserve, Mr. Tingle?" cried Mrs. Tingle. Yes, madam. Do not, I beg of you, provoke me to say what I know in relation to your family. You have long kept me in awe, by hints at my origin, when it was better than yours." "Better than ours!" said Aunt Silvy, clasping her hands. "Yes, better. Your first ancestor in- this country was a transported felon!" It was well that all the company had deserted the parlours and gone home, or there would have been a scene to have scandalized the Tingles for ever. Mrs. Tingle and Aunt Silvy uttered scream after scream, so shrill and piercing that their next-door neighbours sent to learn if anything very serious was the matter. Emily unlocked the door, and bid a servant say they had merely received some distressing news. And, turning the key again, she deliberately unclasped the glitter-     '  266'    THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; ing jewels from her forehead, neck, and wrists, and laid them on the table before her father. OFp  "I am descended," said she, in fearful calmness, "on one side from a convicted felon, and on the other from a menial! I am not fit to wear these things. Sell them, father, and go with my mother and aunt into the humble life and obscure position from whence we should never have emanated. I will support myself." "What will you do, Em?'" said her father, completely overcome, and folding her in his arms. "La, she can marry the rich Mr. Dudley yet, and support us all," said Aunt Silvy. "No, aunt. I might do it, perhaps; but I will not. While I believed I was rich, I acted as I had been taught the rich should act-and as I was inclined to act. I regret nothing I have done or left undone-and I have not been defeated in the pursuit of my objects, by any error of calculation, or unsteadi- ness of purpose. It was my intention never to marry."    "But what do you intend doing now, Em?" asked her father. "I will marry, now, but not Dudley. I will marry, and go---- "Who will you marry? Where will you go? asked her mother, frightened at the deathly paleness and contracted brow of her daughter. "I will marry Pelham! Nay, do not be shocked, mother and aunt-he is my equal, now!" "And where will you go?" they asked, in painful anxiety. "On the stage!" Remonstrances and persuasions were alike in vain. Emily, in subdued tones, and in words of affection, discussed the policy of the step she had resolved to take, point by point, with her parents and aunt, and remained immoveable. As a last resource, Aunt Silvy begged her to postpone the execution   OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       267 of her purpose until she could consult Dr. Gullem, the astro- loger. But the doctor was in the Auburn prison, in New York, for ten years. And the last words she uttered that night was, "what on earth will Mrs. Greatpin say when she hears of all this?" A short time after the fall and humiliation of the Tingles, two well-dressed young men might have been seen coming down the steps of the Mint, the tallest a little in advance of the other. -They were in familiar conversation, and the tallest frequently paused for the other to advance and walk at his side. But this he would not do, out of respect, and adhered to his resolution of not putting himself on an equality with his companion. "Now, Tim," said Harry, "all is safe, and your fortune is made. There are no more dangers to encounter; and hence- forth I suppose you will be above selling newspapers." "No, sir-reel I'll sell a thousand to where I used to sell one." "How? Do you intend to become publisher and proprietor of a paper?" "Well, I don't intend to be anything else! I can hire plenty of editors, as well as other folks." "And perhaps you can write a little yourself?" ' Why, can't I learn as well as the rest?" "No doubt you can. But what sort of a paper shall it be, a political or neutral?" "A neutral, that is, on both sides; and it shall be a penny paper to advertise everything in. That's the kind that pays. It's all fixed in my mind. rll make my editors attack every- thing that appears in the  , which has the largest circu- lation. They must go against everything that appears in the ---  , and criticise all its articles." "And what good will that do?" 22*     268     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES; "What good? It'll give me a large circulation in a month! Nearly everybody hates the   , because it is the stiffest and richest concern in the city; and they will buy my paper, just to see what is said against the one they don't like. I go for opposition and democracy, and for getting all the houses and lands I can, while my writers are abusing the rich aristo- cracy of Europe, and denouncing all the landed monopolists of our own country!"  By this time the young men had reached Broad street, where they parted for the day. Harry pursued his course southward, and soon turned into the street where his father and sister resided. He paused often, in doubt how to approach those dearer to him than all his wealth. If he could not avoid trembling and even weeping with his excess of joy, at the idea I   of soon meeting them face to face, what, thought he, would be the violence of their emotions? Mr. Tweed was no longer to be found at Messrs. Domet & Co.'s store; this he well knew, for he had advised him to relinquish his employment there. And who else could he get to prepare them for his approach? He knew of no one. So he concluded that he would not enter the house precipitately, but linger in front of the premises and wait till Mr. Tweed should either enter or come out of the door, a thing which he supposed his delighted and restless friend would do once every half-hour. But for more than double that length of time did he look in vain for Mr. Tweed, and he was at a great loss what to do, when the parrot, which had been turning his eye in the direction of the watcher, set up, in a most vociferous strain, the cry of "Harry! Harry! Harry!" which he continued to repeat without ceasing, until the win- dows were thrown up, and then it was too late for him to retreat! Harry rushed in, and up, and the next moment was in the arms of his father and sister! "My poor boy! My good boy! God bless you! I thank heaven for restoring you to us again!" i.-.  I"    OR, THE RIVAL BELLES.       269 "Our! say our, and, we, father, or else let me speak, too! My dear, dear brother!" was, however, all Julia could say before she fainted. She was seized up, and partially restored by Harry, who did not perceive the entrance of Mr. Tweed, nor that his friend stood behind him and had both arms round his neck. Nor did he hear the huzzas of the parrot. No, Harry only had eyes and ears for Julia, at the moment. But his sister, who had still been smiling, even in her insensibility, now fully reviving, gave him an opportunity to turn and behold his old and faithful friend. Such rubbing of hands, and confusion of tongues, never were witnessed before! CONCLUSION. THE Spanglers became the owners and occupants of the splendid mansion built by the Tingles; and Julia became the possessor of the jewels which had originally belonged to her family. The house of Tweed and Spangler is one of the largest estab- lishments in Front street. The only difficulty the firm ever experienced occurred at the commencement of the partnership. Mr. Tweed insisted upon the title of the firm being Spangler & Tweed, and Harry opposed him with equal pertinacity. The one said the other had the most capital, and should there- fore be the principal of the firm; while the other said that the one was the oldest, and was therefore entitled to seniority in the style of the house. It was left to Julia, who decided against Mr. Tweed, and then Harry had the notice of partner. ship published, and the sign placed over the door. They had no sooner commenced operations than Mr. Ange presented himself and became their first customer. They desired him     I I   270     THE SPANGLERS AND TINGLES. to become a partner in the establishment, and fix his abode in the city; but he declined, preferring to be roving over the world, as had been his habit from boyhood. Emily married Pelham the day before they were to give up the fine mansion, and within a month from the day of the nuptials, she made a most successful debut in the "Lady of Lyons." She is now a "star" in London. Mr. Tingle, with the $5000 he had left, paid off the mort- gage on the old house formerly-occupied by the Spanglers, where he is now keeping a family grocery. His canvassed hams are the best in market, and his wines altogether superior to any usually found at such places; but one has to pay a high price to obtain his best brands. Mrs. Greatpin has never yet returned the visit Aunt Silvy made her the week after going to her new home. This mortified her to such an extent, that she has not ceased to repeat it yet, and she still dwells upon the events of the inti- macy whichonce subsisted between them. Nor did Dr. -- , the fashionable parson, follow the Tin- gles into their obscurity. Mr. Timothy Trott has not yet issued the first number of his new penny paper, but promises to do so at his earliest con- venience. The title is to be "The Balance Sheet."   THE END    
         
      
   
