
    ----CITATION----
        Clark, S. W.. From the Sublime to the Ridiculous .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6061 wright2-0534
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               
               FROM THE SUBLIME TO THE RIDICULOUS
            
            
         
         
         
            
            
               FROM THE SUBLIME TO THE RIDICULOUS.
            
            BY S. W. CLARK, MINNEAPOLIS, MINN., Author of Happy Home, Woman's Rights and Divorce.
            
               
                  
                     Laugh, for it elevates the spirits and quickens the circulation.
                     Fun is much better than pills.
                  
               
            
            
               CHICAGO, ILL.:
            
            1875.
            
            
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, BY S. W. CLARK, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
            
         
            
         
         
            NOTE.
            This life is full of changing scenes and sad events, but few of mankind are even known outside of a few personal friends; we die and another fellow takes our place, as though nothing had happened.
            Would that they would bury me in a fireplace, that my troubled ashes might sleep quietly amidst the sparkling embers of the grate (great.)
         
         
         
            
            INTRODUCTION.
            I introduce this little volume to the reading public, hoping it will please, instruct, entertain and enlighten its patrons. It is miscellaneous in character, being composed of all sorts, from the sublime to the ridiculous, but nothing of the vulgar. It has plainness, pith and pitchforks. Buy a copy, it will do you good.—Laugh and grow fat, for fun is better than physic.
         
         
            PREFACE.
            This little work is the gem of thought, or the cream of extracts from great men, such as (myself,) Beecher, Tilton, Miss Woodhull, Dr. Hall, Josephus, Josh Billings, Confucius, Demosthenes, Antonetti Brown, Capt. Jack, Mark Twain, Blind Tom, Dr. Trail, Ike Partington, Barnum, Dan Rice, King Kalakaua, Bill King, Santa Anna, Jeff Davis, Brick Pomeroy, Kit Carson, Ann Eliza Young and her oldest boy Brigham, Buckskin Ned, H. B. Stowe, Napoleon Bonaparte, Petroleum V. Nasby, Elizabeth Tilton, and others. Extracts mean the juice of something; therefore these little sermons are the concentrated juice of the brain, collected in the cranium. If the brain is large there is a large quantity of juice, if small there is but little juice, so it is with these little gems of thought; you can measure them by the quantity of juice without knowing whose head the juice was lodged in.
            
               AUTHOR.
            
         
      
      
         
         
            From the sublime to the ridiculous
            
               
               OUR BOOK.
               SUBLIME.—Persons filled with love, reverence and sublimity, generally feast their minds upon heavenly things. They can soar away to unknown worlds, and feast their souls upon the works of God in those far off orbs, and amidst the myriads of constellations, locate Heaven the everlasting home of the soul. The paradise of those who love and serve their Creator.
               GOD pardons like a mother, who kisses the offence into everlasting forgetfulness.
               "THUS far and no farther" has no reference to the Brooklyn scandal, but merely means orphan children who have no parents except a mother.
               I AND my father are one, father is 1, I am 0-equal one. We are rich. We own houses, lots and lands, bank stock, shares in railroads, steamboats, canals, telegraph lines, clothes lines, traveling menageries, and Pacific mail. We have horses and cattle upon a thousand hills. We own forty of the best cows in the world; father owns thirty-nine and I own one—mine is a mule.
               
               THE BROOKLYN SCANDAL, BEECHER, TILTON & CO.—If all that had been said and written on the Beecher-Tilton Scandal, was put in book form it would make a volume an acre square and forty feet deep. If all of the filth and nastiness which had been presented to the public was in one cesspool, it would exceed Lake Erie in size. But happily we have not got it all. A part has washed out upon a fathomless ocean, only to be drifted ashore in foreign lands, and wafted on the breeze to every hamlet on the globe. Beecher, the acknowledged pulpit star of the world. The greatest bible orator of the day. His original thoughts are grand, sublime, heavenly. What Spurgeon is to all Europe, Beecher is to the new world. But with all of his ancient and modern Lore, a dense, dark cloud has hovered over his ministerial horizon. If the charges preferred against him are true, he is a wolf in sheep's clothing. If he proves himself innocent, we should think the more of the injured man. But the popular mind is against him. Evidence seems to be against him. Could all of this scandal originate out of nothing—out of empty nothingness? Could Elizabeth sit upon his knee in a room all alone, and that be the whole programme? No, that is not according to Gunter, there must have been another act in the scene. If I should be found in that fix, my wife would choke me with a red hot potato. Yes, she would. If I was guilty I would put in a plea of insanity, it works well in the great metropolis, it works well where there is a consideration of greenbacks. If Elizabeth blinded his senses with amorous caresses and looks of love, of course he became insane on that pint, and should not be killed for a little indescretion. The trial moves on, fuming, foaming and stinking, until the nation is ready to puke. Day after day the witnesses are brought upon the stand and pumped till they are dry. Yes, mere skeletons. The jurymen are all dried up and ready to blow away. On the other hand the lawyers are all getting fat, and if the trial holds out for a year they will weigh five hundred pounds a piece, and their fees as much more. Reporters are on hand to note every move, and the press shoots it at the people till they are sick. What an ignoble tale to bring down to posterity. If a dog had a tail half as long it would reach around the globe, and have tail enough left for all the bob-tailed dogs in America. What will be the result of this scandal? It will be fush, fume, gas, smoke, thunder and lightning, vice, a little virtue, lawyers' fees, chagrin, grief, lying, a little truth, orphan children with no parents, Freeloveism, Woodhullism, Oathullism, and finally a flash in the pan. Will Theodore be any wiser or better off if he kills his antagonist, and thus deprive him of ten thousand a year and cause his family to suffer. Or will Beecher come out victorious, show himself clear, and thus rise higher in the estimation of the world. Or will they both be weighed in the balance and found wanting, (of scrip to pay their attorneys,) time can only tell. 
                     
                        In the lap of ages,
                        Not many years ago,
                        Elizabeth sat among the Sages
                        Saying, Dear Father, I feel So, So.
                     
                     
                        Theodore was off that day,
                        Pr'haps to Woodhull's did go;
                        And may be Victoria did say,
                        Theodore Dear, I too feel So, So.
                     
                  
               
               THE great scandalous law-suit of Beecher & Tilton has nearly come to a close, and the frontispiece sums up the case. It looks to me as though Beecher had won the race, but the course was so long and the attendants so expensive that he will get but a small part of the ox.
               FLOWERS are the sweetest things God ever made, and forgot to put a soul into.
               IF a man is odious in society he might as well be in prison. The worst prisons are not of stone, they are throbbing hearts, outraged by an infamous life.
               OUR LAWSUIT AND US.—Lawing is poor business if it is ever so well followed. If you gain the case it may be a satisfaction, but financially each side loses. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred what the lawyers get would pay the sum demanded, or debt. I once became acquainted (not to my credit) with an old man who had a young wife, they were poor in this world's goods, and the old scamp, (by his misdeeds,) lost all claim in the world to come, as the sequel will show: at different times I helped them to the necessities of life, finally, he became sick and help became a stern, staring necessity. I lived between twenty and thirty miles away, but made several long trips to his lowly cabin, taking medicine and provisions to keep soul and body together.
               His only son, living near by, refused even to cut him a few sticks of wood. He finally got better, but a cold winter was upon them so I helped him till spring. Seed time came and I bought fifty bushels of seed wheat, and with some help got in his crops. I was casting ing bread upon the waters to be found after many days, but the scripture fulfillment worked bad in this case, may be I shall find a loaf of bread some day, but it looks dubious now. After he got in his spring's crop I let him a job of work amounting to five hundred dollars. I made out a contract and he signed it. It required him to finish it at a certain time and to have his pay in partial payments as the work progressed. When his time was out he had only finished one-fourth of the work, and as I had overpaid him, according to the proportionate amount of work done, I refused to pay him more until he had fulfilled his part, he abandoned the contract and sued me for the whole; adding what he thought best for extras.
               However, before coming to trial, I remonstrated with him, saying it would be better to give our money to the workmen instead of feeing lawyers, so I offered to make him a present of one-half of the amount, but no, nothing would do but the whole demand. His men got together and threw off one-fourth of their wages and put enough with it so it reduced the old brute's bill to a little over fifty dollars, and even then he would not do it. So he slung it to a lawyer, the lawyer slung it into court, and the court slung at the defendant.
               The plaintiff was called up and sworn, took the witness stand, and for four long hours he was kept there, and with a brazen face he told one lie after another until he choked his own council, for they were over heard to say "if the old fool would only do as we wanted him to do"—(that is lie faster.) It finally was summed up, and the jury, after being out four hours, came in, giving him less than one-half of his demand. He had sold his only hogs and cattle to pay his lawyers. His farm, which was foreclosed on a mortgage, was taken away from him. and he left on the streets to beg.
               His wife, who by the way, was a good woman, had to live in dirt, rags and poverty. I was curious to know something about the origin of such a piece of inhumanity, so I penned a few lines to his old home, and one of the old citizens replied:
               "We knew him well, he was employed for a time in the academy of the place and figured in its finances, to his own benefit, finally became intimate with a young lady of the institution, got into her favor, ruined her character, and she died from the effects, and he, at the same time, a married man. He run away to the West to avoid the gallows."
               
               TO cover his daring deeds of meanness he assumed christianity, wearing the wolf skin in disguise. The devil will claim his own in the end. There is nothing like being kind to the helpless, the sick and needy, but when an animal assuming human shape gets so debased and mean that he cannot appreciate a kindness or favor, then he is unfit for the society of a civilized community.
               AN old lady, down in the state of Bangor, who was a very zealous christian, got up and spoke in meeting, saying, "dear brethren and sistering I feel so good I almost bust. I am so happy, glory, glory, glory, to the Lord, but there is my wayward boy John going the downward road to hell. It makes me feel so badly at times that I am almost crazy, and sometimes I think I'll go into the barn and commit adultery with the butcher knife, (meaning suicide.)
               THE OLDEST CITY IN THE WORLD.—Damascus is the oldest city in the world. Tyre and Sidon have crumbled on the shore; Baalbec is a ruin; Palmyra is buried in a desert; Nineveh and Babylon have disappeared from the Tigris and the Euphrates. Damascus remains what it was before the days of Abraham-a center of trade and travel—an island of verdure on the desert; "a presidential capital," with martial and sacred associations extending through thirty centuries. It was near Damascus that Saul of Tarsus saw the light above the brightness of the sun; the street which is called Strait, in which it was said "he prayed," still runs through the city. The caravan come and goes as it did a thousand years ago; there is still the sheik, the ass, and the water-wheel; the merchants of the Euphrates and the Mediterranean still "occupy" these "with the multitude of their wares." The city which Mahomet surveyed from a neighboring height and was afraid to enter "because it was given to man to have but one paradise, and for his part he was resolved not to have it in this world," is to-day what Julien called the "eye of the East," as it was, in the time of Isaiah," the head of Syria."
               From Damascus came the damson, our blue plums, and the delicious apricot of Portugal, called damasco; damask, our beautiful fabric of cotton and silk, with vines and flowers raised on a smooth bright ground; the damask rose, introduced into England in the time of Henry VIII; the Damascus blade, so famous the world over for its keen edge and wonderful elasticity, the secret of whose manufacture was lost when Tamerlane carried the artist into Persia; and that beautiful art of inlaying wood and steel with gold and silver, a kind of mosaic engraving and sculpture united—called damaskeening—with which boxes, bureaus, swords, are ornamented. It is still a city of flowers and bright waters; the streams of Lebanon and the "silk of gold" still murmur and sparkle in the wilderness of the Syrian gardens.
               PY SHIMINY! ISH DOT SO?—There is doubtless such a thing as excessive promptness in emergencies. Presence of mind and determination are admirable qualities in themselves, but it sometimes happens that a decision made upon the spur of the moment is regretted upon a more deliberate survey of the field. This remorse seems to have overtaken, lately, a worthy Dutchman of Anaka county, Minnesota. The Dutchman was seeking to reach a town at some distance from Sauk Centre, and to accomplish this must drive over the prairie from the latter town. He was unaccustomed to the road, and night overtook him with his vehicle fast in a slough, and no town in sight.
               He sought the solitary farm-house visible, and asked permission to stay till morning, the farmer telling the traveller, however, that it would be necessary for him to sleep with the children or with the farmer himself, as their accommodations were limited. Quick as lightning the Dutchman expressed his resolution not to sleep with the "bodderation shiltren," so he slept with the farmer. The rest of the story may be given in his own language:
               "Vell, in der mornin', ven we comes mit der sthairs down, I see two girls apout seventeen and nineteen years old, und I asked der old man: 'Pees dem girls der shiltren you told me apout? Und he say, 'Yaw, dem ish mine only shiltren!' und I say to myself, py shiminy! ish dot so?"
               A YOUNG lady in Milwaukee undertook to climb a ladder that had been left standing against the side of a house, but before she had gone a quarter of the way up quite a crowd assembled, perceiving which she began at once to descend, observing with much feeling, "Well, now, there ain't going to be any free circus here this afternoon, you bet."
               LOVED AND LOST.—I fell in love with a fat girl once. I loved madly, because I was loving two hundred and seven pounds of girl. She was amiable, tender-hearted, good-natured and true, and I think she loved me. We were to be married in the fall, and I should probably have been one of the happiest of husbands, when an accident dashed my prospects. She fell overboard just as we were about to leave the wharf on a steamboat excursion. Three or four sailors plunged after, and they got a gang-plank under her, a cable around her waist, and towed her to the wharf. Then they rigged a derrick and lifted her out by sections, but they were so long about it that she took a severe cold, and the result was death. There were months and months after that I could never pass a load of hay without thinking of my lost Amanda and shedding tears, even to this day. I never see an elephant or rhinoceros without her dear visage rising up before me.
               THE KING AND THE JACKASS.—A certain King wanting some recreation in hunting and fishing, took his body guard, chief officer, and started for the forest, but before starting he asked his chief officer if it would rain? "No rain to-day sir," said he. So on they went towards their sporting grounds. They had not gone far when they met a country peasant ridding a jackass, he told the party that it would rain, but they went on and were drenched to the skin. The King now discharged his chief officer and hired the peasant. After he had been installed into office the King asked him how he foretold that rain storm? Says he, Sir, "my jackass told me." The Peasant was now turned off and the jackass put into his place. Here, the King made a sad mistake, for ever since that time every jackass in the land wants office.
               WOMEN are the dew drops of the morning, glistening like jewels of gold in a swine's snout.
               CLEOPATRA'S needle was over two hundred feet long. She must have done some heavy sewing.
               FATHER and I are great travelers, especially father. He first discovered the jackass rabbit, says he runs as if one leg was broken and tother sorto lame. He also tells of buffaloes climbing trees. If it was not father I would not believe a word of it; I don't believe it anyway.
               DEBATE thy cause with thy neighbor himself, and discover not a secret to another.—Prov. 26, 9.
               THE whole lot (Elizabeth) is cast into the p, (Beecher,) but the whole disposing there-off is by the lawyers.—Prov. 26, 33.
               I LOVE them that love me, and those that seek me early shall find me. (in the parlor.)
               
               I HAVE perfumed my bed with myrrh, alloes, and cinnamon; come let us take our fill of love until the morning. Let us solace ourselves with love; for the good man of the house has gone off lecturing.—Prov. 7:17, 18, 19, vs.
               
               THE LORD'S POOR, THE DEVIL'S POOR, AND POOR DEVILS.—The Lord's poor are that class of christians which poverty hangs around their door, they are honest, honorable citizens, they observe the golden rule, and walk in all of the commandments. (This does not include all poor church members by any means.) It simply includes the Lord's poor. The Devil's poor belong to that class who have no particular claims to christianity. They may be honest, moral men and women, in one sense of the word, but they consider it no harm to dance, drink, and carouse, and have a good time as they call it; this class is much larger than the Lord's poor. Poor devils are the off-scouring of the earth, and comprise the largest part of mankind, they include church members in sheep's clothing, drunkards, gamblers, pimps, dealers in hell fire, liars, thieves, whoremongers, sabbath-breakers, murderers, money-grabbers, monopolists, and others.
               GIRLS of the period are made up of dry-goods, milliner-shops, raw-cotton, sawdust (calves), frills, flounces, chignons, waterfalls, and a puny, sickly miss, fastened inside.
               IF you should see a hen and a horse harnessed together, and dragging a plow through the soil, would it not be a fowl piece of business?
               MY friend Mark was a very kind hearted man; he was always doing some kind acts for humanity. While in the Sandwich Islands, he was one day walking down the beach, when he discovered a party of native girls in bathing, and through the kindness of his big heart, he watched the clothes of these poor heathens (to keep them from being stolen) until they came out and dressed.
               HOW THE OLD GENTLEMAN CAVED IN.—My father and mother were once traveling in Europe. The time was near at hand when they expected the birth of a child. They were somewhat puzzled, for they expected it would be a son; and if a son, born in a foreign land, could never be President of the United States. So they hastened back to their native land, but to their chagrin the new born proved to be a girl. The old gentleman caved, and has concluded to make a president of me.
               THE pool of Siloam lies just outside of the great well of Jerusalem. It is to-day fifty feet long, twenty feet wide, and twenty feet deep. The walls were built of solid masonry, but are somewhat dilapidated now. The water came from a spring in an underground tunnel. It is noted for being the place where Christ performed the miracle upon the blind man.
               WHAT I KNOW ABOUT FARMING.—The best place to farm is in the country. Farming in the city is up-hill business. First, you should not plant potatoes in January, especially in Minnesota, for they are liable to get chilled when the ice gets to be over four feet thick. About the 20th of May is the time to plant corn. If the worms eat it up, take a cow-bell and scare them off. Plant peas in the moon; if you don't they will all go to tops. Make hay while the sun shines, and haul it into the barn after a thundering shower. If cowcumbers get to be over a foot long, it is a sure sign that your wife will have dinner at twelve o'clock, plump. If two hoes come in contact you will have a pudding for dinner. Trim your apple trees in August, and be sure to make apple butter out of pumpkins and vinegar. If your grass crop fails, feed your horses on hay. If your corn crop fails, turn your cows out to browse. Never cry over a poor onion crop. Sow your wheat two days before harrowing, so as to give the birds a chance in the world. Pull turnips with the hands or teeth. Keep your farming utensils out in the air, so they will be handy for the next season. If you get poor by this management scratch gravel or go to the poor house; that's the way I did. If your wife interferes give her your trowsers and tell her to manage the farm herself.
               THE book of Job is the oldest book in the world, and Damascus, the oldest city.
               WHEN is a gun barrel a chicken? Answer: When it is a little foul.
               HEALTH is the greatest of earthly blessings. A healthy cobbler is better than a sickly king.
               WHEN there is love in the heart, there are rainbows in the eye, which cover every black could with gorgeous hues.
               IT is not well for a man to pray cream, and live skim milk.
               
               THE most dangerous infidelity of the day is the infidelity of rich and orthodox churches.
               LOVE that has nothing but beauty of keep it in good health, is short-lived, and apt to have ague fits or cataplasms.
               
               FATHER laid me out to be a poet, and mother really thought I would be the Watts of America, and I thought so too. Here is my first strain, and oh! how I did strain to make it rhyme: 
                     
                        The cat is in the corner a combing her head,
                        The pig is in the parlor a making his bed,
                        The hog is in the barn a threshing peas,
                        The sow is in the cellar a weighing cheese,
                        Father went out to mow some hay,
                        I stole his plug hat, and ran away.
                     
                  
               
               MY grandfather thonght his son (my father) would excel as a poet, so he sent for the great American poet, Longfellow, to look over some of his rare productions, and here I will give you one of his best selections. It was written on his twenty-first birth day, so he hopped up and did his biggest best: 
                     
                        Twenty-one years have passed and gone,
                        Since the day that I was born;
                        Through seen, and unseen, have I passed,
                        O'er lakes and hills, and sandy blasts,
                        And, oh! how quick have moments fled
                        Since I by mother's hand was fed.
                     
                     
                        But now I am quite large and strong;
                        Since, twenty-one years have passed and gone,
                        I have traveled here and there, far o'er the main.
                        Since I and Lettie were made twain.
                        But now I am out of my teens,
                        Able to devour cold pork and beans.
                     
                     
                        And if I live to double my years,
                        Forty-two bespeaks with fears;
                        Eight more to that will fifty make,
                        One-half of a century it will take;
                        But so few that period reach,
                        Let the present moments teach.
                     
                  
               
               THE planet Herschel was discovered by Dr. Herschel, March 13, 1781.
               THE first time I ever had a bill thrust into my face and collected in full was by an impudent, mean, pusillanimous mosquito.
               THE excesses of youth are drafts upon old age, payable with interest, forty years from date.
               DEVILS, with devils damned, firm concord hold.
               THE Mosque of Omer is a Mohammedan temple in Jerusalem. It is an octagon of one hundred and seventy feet in diameter, having eight sides, and each side sixty-seven feet. There are four doors, situated at the four cardinal points of the compass. Until lately, no christian was allowed within its sacred walls. It has an immense dome forty feet in diameter and one hundred feet high.
               JERUSALEM was destroyed by the Roman army under Titus. Vespasian had subdued all Palestine except Jerusalem when he was proclaimed Roman Emperor, thus leaving his son to conquer the holy city, and to destroy the temple with its sacred treasure.
               AN old planter took one of his negroes and went out hunting. While passing over a hollow log they heard a noise within. Cuffee was sent in to scare out the game, while his master went to the other end of the log to dispatch whatever might show itself. Hearing a scrambling noise he called out, "What's in there, Sambo?" "You'll find out if tail holt slips." Thinking that there might be some danger he makes off in a hurry, while the darkey is pulled out by a huge black bear, who turned around to eat him up; but seeing his black face, supposed he was a bear of another species, dropped his tail and made off into the forest.
               IF a pig and a bumble bee were hitched to a stage coach, and could haul twenty-one passengers nine miles an hour, how long would it take an animalcule to eat up an elephant?
               "WHEN shall we three meet again?" as the man, the mule, and the jackass said, while taking tea at a livery stable on Pike's Peak.
               HOW I GOT MARRIED.—It was during the late war, when our brave boys were fighting for the freedom of four million slaves, that I enlisted under Uncle Sam's banner. I was a brave boy from my youth up. Lions, tigers, and even grizzly bears could not scare me. I was sent with the rest of the boys to Bull's Run. The battle raged for three days, and blood flowed freely on both sides. Oh! how the boys did fight. (I was behind a tree.) The order came to retreat, to run, and oh! how I did run for dear life. There was no orders for us to stop, so I kept on running night and day until I had run a thousand miles. This brought me up in the State of Maine. I fell in with cousin Sam, and we had a good time. Yes, we did; oh! yes. Sam took me out sleighing one day, and as we were passing a schoolhouse I proposed that we should go in and see the school marm. "Agreed," says Sam. So we posted in and were cordially welcomed and seated on the stove. The school marm was a pert little miss of about one hundred and twenty pounds avoirdupois, black eyes, curly hair, and a set of white ivory. "Well, to make a long story short, I fell in love at the fust glance. I didn't tell Sam, for fear he had fallen in love too. Business called me immediately to my far off Western home, and in five days I was at my own home west of the Mississippi. But that little black-eyed midge down East haunted my dreams day and night, so I sat down and penned her a sweet missive. She responded; I wrote again; that was answered. In the third I popped the question, and fearing delays might be dangerous, she sent a telegram saying, "Yes." We kept up a regular correspondence, and all plans were fully made. But there was one serious impediment in the way. I had not scrip enough for the wedding trip. So the brave school marm proposed to split the difference and meet me half way, which I heartily agreed to. But there was another difficulty in the way. Having seen her but once, I was afraid I should not recognize her when we met; so I told her to have a book in her hand so I would know her. She did so, and we became acquainted without a mistake. (I have often thought what a joke it would have been if I had not found the right one, and married some one else in search of a husband.) We were driven to the parsonage, and a chap with a standing collar said we were a good looking couple. He tied the knot in good shape. I gave him a bushel of potatoes, a peck of beans, and the balance was charged. We left, and in two days were at my Western home by the side of a bubbling brook. And, oh! what a time we have to keep the young'ons from being drowned.
               TAPE and pin worms expelled by using Dr. Hall's wormifuge; free of cost, by paying one dollar for the bottle.
               A HOG is not usually good in multiplication, but he is at home in square root.
               BONAPARTE CROSSING THE RHINE.—He did it in this way: It was mid-winter, and the river was frozen over. Josephine was on the other side, and as he had not seen her for some time he wished to go over; but as his horse was used up, he had to make it on foot. Coming to the river he hopped on to the back of a hog, took hold of his ears, raised his feet, and was safely carried over the Rhine—(on a hog's rine.)
               LET every man watch over his habits, cultivate those which are good, break off from those which in the end destroy both soul and body.
               IF your hair is black, young man, marry a red-haired woman, but don't keep brooms.
               
               RED pepper, mixed with meal in hot water, will make your hens lay all winter. If you eat too much pepper, salt, mustard and condiments of all kinds, it will lay you in your grave.
               PAT and Bridget were walking through the woods with a pig and a pot kettle. Says Bridget to Pat, "Ye'se must not be afther kissing me out here in the woods." "Och, and sure, how could I, with this pig under my arm?" "Arrah, Pat, and if you wanted to rest a little could you not put the little brute under the kettle?" Pat soon got tired and wanted to rest. Spring passed in all its youthful loveliness; summer with its golden harvest of grain and early fruit were gladdening the hearts of the husbandman; fall came with its sear forests of golden leaves; boys were gathering apples from heavy laden orchards, and mother was making soap and apple sass; Bridget was at the Sister's of Charity with a bright-eyed little Emerald Islander from the Isle of Man. Thus far, but no father.
               WHO inhabits the north pole? Pole Landers, of course.
               SOME lawyers resemble folks who can sleep in any position. It is immaterial on which side they lie.
               WHO SHOT THE OLD GANDER?—Grandma was a good old soul, but a little deaf. I came in one day and said, "This is the first day of August." "What! what?" says grandma in surprise, "who shot the old gander?"
               WHEN flowers are full of heaven's descended dews, they always hang their heads; but men hold theirs the higher the more they receive, getting proud as they get full.
               BROWN, while looking at a skeleton of the jackass, remarked, that "we are fearfully and wonderfully made."
               "SEE 'ere, waiter; 'ere is a caterpillar in my plate of soup." "Yes, sir, about the time of year for 'em now, sir."
               A GERMAN settlement down in the State of Bangor, had a name for every part of an ox except the tail. But the programme was soon filled by finding a man by the name of All-behind.
               VENICE, at the head of the Gulf of Venice, is built on seventy-two small islands and connected by five hundred bridges.
               HOW long is Longfellow? There is a man out West by the name of Long, and he is a fellow too.
               
               THE TWO SCHOOL CHUMS.—In a rural district in New York, two boys went to the same school and sat in the same seat together. They were firm friends, and each enjoyed the other's sports and pleasures. But on a certain time one of them was enticed into a saloon and took a drink of liquor; the second, third, fourth, and many more were taken. He left school, learned the blacksmith trade, married, and had a large family, which went down to ruin. He went to California in an early day, got drunk, and was found dead in a ditch, and thus filled a drunkard's grave. The other boy kept on in school, and gradually climbed up the hill of science. After he had graduated with honors, he learnt the printing business. He kept on and rose from one step to another till he stood upon the pinnacle of fame. He was a candidate for the Presidency in the last Presidential campaign, was defeated and died shortly after. His remains lie in Greenwood cemetery. He had been a life-long, noble citizen, an honor to himself and his country. One lies upon the Atlantic and the other npon the Pacific, three thousand miles apart. Their names, while boys, were Horace Greeley and John Lathrop. Boys, remember the first dram.
               WHEN is a fire like a bad husband? When it goes out at night.
               A NEGRO sleeping by a camp fire awoke in the morning to find both feet burnt off. "Gollies, boys! why did not you wake me up and not be wasting feet in dis yere way?"
               A PILL FOR HYDROPATHIC DOCTORS.—Man being made of dust, and a little dust being washed off at every bath, how many baths would he have to take to wash himself away? Answer by Dr. Trail: It would depend upon how soft the dust was.
               ABOUT PAR.—Fast boys. The coming man—a boy.
               IF you want to get an idea of how the Brooklyn court-room looks during the trial, look at a box of sardines.
               A SWITCH in time saved nine; but nine switches at a time won't make some boys mind.
               SKOWHEGAN.—Origin of the name. Some Indians loosened a white man's skow and let it go over the falls. When asked where the boat was, they answered: "Skow-he-gone."
               TO be growing old, and have no children or grandchildren, presents a bleaker prospect than to be perched on a pyramid in a desert, or upon an iceberg in the Arctic ocean.
               
               THE BIRTH OF A GREAT MAN.—I was born in mid winter; the fierce wind and storm howled through the old pines and hemlocks; snow lay four feet deep on the level, and still snowing. It was a very cold morning. The cattle's tails were frozen off, and old Pont was making a supper of them. Mother was lonesome that day, so to please her, father posted off to the neighbors and brought in two old women on his back. They all had a good time eating doughnuts and spare-ribs, and spinning old yarns. I did not say much, only cried a little. I felt real indignant, for they slighted me, and if mother had not been at home I would have made a row; wish now I had. After they had all enjoyed themselves and had their fill of good things, father tugged them home again. The boy grew, but under many disadvantages, for before he was five years old he had had the measles, mumps, canker rash, chicken pox, small-pox, seven year itch, worms, dyspepsia, liver complaint and consumption. But he lived through them all and grew up to manhood.
               SHEBOYGAN got its name in this way. A man had thirty-eight boys, and after the birth of the thirty-ninth, the Indians came in. The father says, "Another boy." "Ho! ho!" says one of the Indians, "squaw, she boy again."
               WHY are the Catholic church seats so soft? Because they are so well Paddied.
               WOMEN are like horses; the gayer the harness the better they prance.
               THE rich and the poor meet together; the Lord is the maker of them all.—Prov. 22: 2.
               PICKLES should never be kept a moment in any vessel except it be of stone, wood, porcelain, or glass. In most other vessels, earthen or metalic, they soon become poisonous. If you eat pickles at all, don't swallow them, for they never were made for human stomachs.
               THE Nile is noted for flowing sixteen hundred miles without receiving the least tributary.
               A SIXPENNY sandwich eaten slowly in the cars is better than a dollar dinner bolted at a railroad station.
               MECCA, in Arabia, was the birth-place of Mahomet.
               LORENZO DOW was born October 16, 1777, and died in 1816, aged 39 years.
               FATHER had a noble dog of the Newfoundland species. He would, when told, go to the woods for the cows. I could ride in a wagon hauled by that noble animal. I was thinking if I should climb a tree, and it should grow so fast that I should reach the planet Mars and jump upon his back, where would it take me; would it be to Dogberg or to Mars' Hill.
               A GENTLEMAN by the name of Sidelinker had the habit of saying: "I say, I say." So meeting a friend he accosted him thus: "They say that you say, that I say 'I say, I say.' What if I do say, 'I say, I say.'"
               ONE bushel of grain, when rotted, yields one-and-a-half gallons of pure alcohol. To this add an equal quantity of water, and we have three gallons of common whiskey. To three gallons of whiskey add one gallon of water and two cents' worth of strychnine, and you have four gallons of such whiskey as is retailed in this country. To this add four gallons of water and the right proportion of belladonna, strychnine, nux vomica, opium and vermillion, and you have brandy for retail. Indeed, alcoholic liquors, according to the sworn statement of the dealers, have been manufactured for as low a cost as two dollars and sixty cents a hogs-head—the sale price of a single bottle. The writer had a work in his possession, entitled, "Lacour on the Manufacture of Liquors; with Recipes for Making Intoxicating Drinks at an Average Cost of About One-twentieth Part of the Cost of the Pure Article;" and such recipes are generally used throughout the land; and in one city, upon actual investigation by visiting two hundred shops, it was found that ninety-five per cent of them availed themselves of this pecuniary advantage.
               GIRLS should never walk through a potatoe field, for potatoes have eyes.
               THE more important an animal is to be, the lower is its start. Man, the noblest of all, is born lowest; the next thing below a babe is nothing, and the next thing above a man is an angel.
               DEATH is the dropping of the flower that the fruit may swell.
               CHARACTER, like porcelain ware, must be painted before it is glazed. There can be no change after it is burned in.
               THESE are a few nicknames of the boys at Fort Clinch, Florida, during the war: Fatty, Lady Killer, Alligator, Doctor, Sawmill, Red-Hot, Gen. Red-Hot, Bones, Meeting House, Chickahominy and Shaggy.
               WHEN is a blow like a hat? When it is felt.
               
               ANCIENT Carthage was founded 829 years before Christ, by Dido; and was destroyed by Scipio Africanus at the close of the third Punic war, 146 years before Christ.
               TURNIPS contain 92½ per cent. of water; milk, 87.02; man, 75.
               WHAT I KNOW ABOUT LIGHTNING.—Lightning is busted thunder. Two thunders get to quarreling and bump their heads together; this causes sparks and streaks of lightning. The earth being a good conductor it sucks up these streaks, and if you get in the way you are sucked in too. I knew a man who was sitting under a tree in one of these thundering commotions of the air, when all at once the lightning commenced climbing down the tree, and before he could scare it off it run down his back and walking pegs, and tore off his boots and stockings. He was so mad at this little piece of business that he went home and went to bed without his supper. At another time I was out strawberrying with Julia. I thought a heap of Julia, oh! yes. Pretty soon we heard the thunder bumping, and we well knew that lightning was lurking about somewhere. So to keep from getting rained on we crawled under a gooseberry bush. We had a good time talking about getting married and all such. She kissed me, I kissed her, then we both kissed till that bush seemed an earthly paradise—a land flowing with skim milk and honey. When we came out from under that bush the thunder and lightning was more than one thousand miles away, and the sky was as clear as a dew drop. I looked around to see if there was not some more lightning coming, so we could go to that bush again; but it was all gone, so we went home with our baskets empty. I love lightning, Julia, and all such.
               THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION.—What a glorious institution, a church for all—rich, poor, high and low, are cordially invited to spend their leisure hours in reading christian works. Then there are the union meetings, not Methodist or Baptist, but for all christians, saints and sinners. It is a heavenly sight to see all commingling together in worship, singing the songs of Jesus and the lamb. When among strangers and far from home, with them you find a home and christian friends. If you are out of work and money, you are assisted if in their power. If you wish a good boarding house, you are sent to an honorable place. God bless the association.
               HOW I WAS ABUSED WHEN A BOY.—First—Father gave me a sound thrashing for going in swimming on Sunday, when I had not been washed for a month. Second.—I was out hunting with old Fido when he (the miserable pup) shook the whole inside of a snake into my mouth. I gagged, spit and bawled; yes, I did. Third.—We had a horse by the name of Tom. Tom and I were pretty good friends, but one day we fell out. After giving him a good dinner of oats and grass, I hitched him up and took him out into the field to pull up some grubs, and being close to his hind legs, bent down to hitch on the chain, and what do you suppose Tom did? He just took them oats and grass and dropped it all over my back. Well, I got my back up about it, and Julia had to wash an extra shirt that week. But Tom got his pay in full for his meanness, for that very night he attempted to get into the garden on a thieving excursion and was caught on the picket fence and had to stay there till morning. I took him off and mended up the hole, but it was the making of Tom. Fourth.—I was very sick on a certain time and wanted one of the boys to go for the doctor, for I was nigh unto death, but not one inch would they peg; so I got up and went myself. If I had died that time I should never have forgiven them; no, no. Fifth.—When I was twelve years old I wanted to get married, but mother just up and spanked me, gave me a piece of bread and butter and said, "You march to bed." I crawled into the trundle-bed and sobbed all night. I never forgave mother for that, for the girl soured on me and married another pup. Sixth.—I was badly pecked by a setting hen. Seventh.—I was choked on a piece of tripe. Eighth.—I was licked home from a dance. Ninth.—I ran away. Tenth.—I came home again. Lastly.—I was foundered on doughnuts, but outlived them all.
               A TRUE STORY ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY BOYS.—A drunken fellow left a sick horse to die on the University grounds, and would not remove the carcass. So one evening the boys got him dead drunk and took him to the dead horse, carefully removed the inside of the horse and placed the insensible man within the carcass except his head, then, with a harness-needle and some twine, sewed him in and left him in that ridiculous situation. You can imagine his chagrin when he came to himself the next morning. His friends took him out, but it entirely cured him of drunkenness; only he had a great appetite for grass afterwards.
               THE above makes me think of an incident which is said to have happened away down in Maine. I cannot vouch for the truth of this story, for I have often had doubts of its truthfulness. Two men were out hunting, and while crossing a field espied a bear among the sheep. One of the men fired and wounded the bear, which took after him, and before his comrades could come to his relief, bruin had torn his intestines entirely out, and had made a rapid exit into the woods. Jones saw the man's critical condition, and as quick as thought killed a sheep, took out its intestines and placed them within the man, sewed him up, and placed him on his feet again, well. His friends could see no difference in him, only he looked a little sheepish now and then, and had a terrible hankering for hay.
               TO CURE A FELON.—Take quick or unslacked lime, dissolve it in soap, bind on a plaster the size of a bean; change it every half hour. This will draw it out and leave the bone and joint perfectly sound.
               THE largest pyramid of Egypt is five hundred feet high; the base covers eleven acres of ground. It took one hundred thousand men twenty years to build it. An interior sepulchre was used for a burial place of the kings.
               MUMMIES are hardened lumps of dust.
               WHEN a church is faultless to its duties the real church is outside its walls—in the community.
               THERE never was a ray of light in the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky. Only the red glare of torches ever light its walls. So there are many men whose minds are mammoth caves, all under ground, and unlighted save by the torches of selfishness and passion.
               WHEN Allston died he left many pictures which were mostly sketches, yet with here and there a part finished up with wonderful beauty. So, I think, christians go to heaven with their virtues mostly in outline, only here and there a part completed. But that which is in part shall be done away, and God shall finish the pictures in his own forms and colors.
               SPEAK as you mean; do as you profess, and perform what you promise.
               THE universe at large would suffer as little in its splendor and variety by the destruction of our planet as the verdure and sublime magnitude of a forest would suffer by the fall of a leaf.
               MOSCOW was destroyed by fire in 1812, by the French army under Napoleon Bonaparte.
               
               I HAD a terrible dream the other night. It woke me up, and to my surprise I kept on dreaming. I fancied a man was standing by a fence post, when all at once his head came off and alighted on the post. The eyes began to blink and wink, the mouth began to pucker and talk, ears and hair were standing up, arms sprung out, legs grew, and finally it took courage and walked off. The headless man looked on with perfect amazement. While thus contemplating affairs, a pony head lit upon his cut-off stump and grew fast. He down on all fours and went to grazing. Says I, "This is a queer transformation of matter and things; what shall we do with them?" Says a friend near by, "Send them to Barnum and he will make a post-man of one and a riohogonosorus of the other." I kum out of the spell and found it nothing but a foolish, inhuman dream. I wept.
               A WOMAN lecturer says that man's inhumanity to man cannot be compared with woman's inhuwomanity to woman.
               THE State of Bangor is somewhere down in Maine, near Shadameduncook Lake. The State of Matrimony is liable to attack us all, old bachelors and old maids exempt, peciallyse if they are over ninety years old
               A HICKMAN, (Ky., ) poet writes of the lovely girl of his choice in this way: 
                     
                        The glance of her eye is blue ruin,
                        Her blush is the blood of the vine,
                        Her pout is a punch in whose brewing
                        Tart, sugar and spirits combine.
                     
                  
               
               EPITAPH on the tombstone of an Ohio woman: 
                     
                        Neuralgia worked on Mrs. Jones
                        Till 'neath the sod it laid her;
                        She was a worthy Methodist,
                        And served as a crusader.
                     
                     
                        Her obsequies were held at two,
                        With plenty of good carriages.
                        Death is the common lot of all,
                        And comes as often as marriages.
                     
                  
               
               COFFEE MADE FROM SHIRTS.—Some time ago Dr. Vander Weyde, of New York city regaled some friends not merely with boot-jelly, but with shirt coffee, and the repast was pronounced by all partakers as excellent. The shirt coffee was sweetened with cuff and collar sugar; both coffee and sugar being produced in the same way. The linen, after being washed, was treated with nitric acid, which, acting on the lignite contained in the fibre, produced glucose, or grape sugar. This roasted made an excellent imitation coffee, which, in unroasted glucose, readily sweetened. The toad takes off his dotted coat and pantaloons after they get old and dirty, and eats them with a relish. This "old boot and shirt business" looks very much as though the chemist intends that men shall not be outdone in economy even by toads.
               AN old woman with an apron full of onions, to console herself on the death of her favorite cat, looks very much like a blinking toad under a harrow in a thunder storm.
               ABOUT the most laughable thing I ever saw, was a man riding a jackass in the Rocky Mountains. When the ass became weary the man took him upon his own back, and so they changed around, thus bearing each other's burdens, as Christ bore ours. You would have laughed to have seen it. I would; oh! yes, I would. Finally, I never saw it.
               LOVING is like music. Some instruments can go up two octaves, some four, and some all the way from black thunder to sharp lightning. As some of them only are susceptible of melody, so some hearts can sing but one song of love, while others will run in a full choral harmony.
               IN Thibet near Lassa, there is a mammoth palace of the Grand Lama, which contains ten thousand rooms.
               WHAT I KNOW ABOUT COMETS.—Comets are heavenly bodies trying to get away, or rather they are sick of the country to which they belong, and are going to scratch acquaintance with some other system. The tail is caused by the comet having no arms, legs, ears, or eyes, therefore these appendages all go to tail; and being of a soft superluminous nature, it spreads itself when the comet gets on a bender. Nary one has ever come to make our earth a visit, and smash up things. If one should come here some dark night, the boys would catch it and tie its tail up to a tree and send for Barnum.
               "I SEE the villain in your face," said a western judge to a prisoner. "May it please your worship," replied the prisoner, "that is a personal reflection."
               AN officer in battle happening to bow, a cannon ball took off the head of a soldier who stood behind him. "You see," said he, "a man loses nothing by politeness."
               WIT is the flower of the imagination. Judgment is its fruit.
               
               A LAWYER asked a German in court what ear marks a pig had that was in dispute. "Vell, he has no ear marks except a very short tail."
               A MAN by the name of Kain, staggering drunk through the streets, was asked if he was the man who slew his brother. "No," said he, "I am the one who got slewed."
               RAIN is vapor or mist, sucked up from the earth and held by thunder and lightning in the clouds.
               CASTS.—In India there are four casts or rather four grades of society, and each are a community by themselves. In this country there are two casts or two grades of society, and they are distinguished by the amount of cash on deposit or in their pockets. A man who has money, fine clothes, a gold-headed cane, has plenty of brass, and can put on airs, can go into any society. He belongs to the upper tens. He may gamble, drink poor whiskey, be licentious, cheat, lie, steal, or do most anything so long as he has money. He can hold his head up and say, "Do you know who I am?" I knew a man once who suddenly became wealthy, not by his wits, for he hadn't any, but by a will. It made a swell of him; so one day he busted and died. How often we see it in our churches. Sit near the door and watch the ushers. No. 1 comes in dressed in costly apparel, with gold watch and chain, kid gloves, with a most gracious smile; he or she is taken up to a front seat. Next comes in No. 2, poorly clad but neat and clean. He is coolly seated in a back corner with the colored folks. The service commences, and the pastor prays for the poor and needy, the downtrodden and oppressed. Hell fire and damnation is in waiting for such societies; they need converting, so their good deeds may be known if they have any. I go in for equal rights to all mankind. Measure men according to their true worth, not by their cloth and gold. But there are so many leaky craniums the world will always be in a muddle. 
                     
                        THE potatoe bugs have come,
                        The earliest of the year;
                        Saying, "plant your potatoes, dear;
                        "Hum de dum, dum."
                     
                  
               
               I have run ashore upon an island and am shipwrecked and starving, or I would demolish all of the potatoe bugs in the land.
               GATHER up the fragments that nothing be lost; pick up your pins, your crumbs, your clothes, but don't pick up your hair too high.
               
               DON'T put too fine a point to your wit for fear it should get blunted.
               PARTNERSHIP is pisen business. It is much better to paddle your own canoe alone, even if you have to go a-foot and across lots. True success is in single-handedness. Take an honest course, roll up your sleeves and wade in. In partnership there is always a weak side, and if you are so unfortunate as to get a partner who does not know the value of a dollar and much less how to use it so it will count one hundred cents, you will soon go under. Sometimes your partner is mulish, foolhardy, and dishonest; in such a case the quicker you dissolve the better. For my part, I would quicker climb a pine tree and live on acorns than hitch up with any one in business.
               CHAOS is a great pile of empty nothingness.
               A SEVERE CASE OF COOLNESS AND UNDAUNTED BRAVERY.—A gentleman having been away from home some time, returned late one night and found a negro in bed with his wife. He looked over the dark scene for a few minutes, said nothing, left the house and went to a near neighbor and told what he had seen. The neighbor, in surprise, says, "What did you say to him?" "Say to him! Thunder! what could I say to him? My wife did not give me an introduction. I had a good notion to throw his pants out of the window." For this piece of bravery he has been promoted to a brigadier private of a scavenger wagon.
               CHAMPLIN, Minnesota is a noted town. It was laid out some twenty years ago. It lies on the banks of the beautiful Mississippi, sixteen miles above the Falls of St. Anthony. It has two parks and numerous boulevards. The streets are laid out at right-angle with each other, and run as far as the eye can see. Its hotels are numerous—the Thorndike House being the best. It has one of the finest flour mills in the State, the flour being sold in Europe. The churches are fine architectural structures, beautiful in design and superb in workmanship. I cannot say too much in praise of its public schools. The buildings are large, airy and commodious and can accommodate all. Its professionals are numerous; A. P. Lane, D. F. Smith and H. Goodrich are its principal lawyers. The former has a large practice, and has worked up some very peculiar and difficult cases. The main peculiarity of this town lies in the fact that it has never had a saloon in it. When one is commenced it is sure to take a night trip down the river. This is principally due to the indefatigable persistency of A. P. Lane. He is a graduate of Wilbraham Academy, Mass., has been to Congress, was Secretary of State, Probate Judge, and filled several small offices with honor and courage. He now tends to his profession and has a stock-farm just outside of the city limits. Anoka, a small town on the opposite bank, draws its principal resources from this place. May this town continue to grow and flourish like a green bay tree, and its inhabitants live as usual in peace and plenty.
               THE three great powers of the land are money, fine clothes and brass. Either will, if you have a full supply, carry you along through this world as slick as soft water, soap and grease.
               IT is not work that kills men, it is worry. Work is healthy; you can hardly put more upon man than he can bear. Worry is rust upon the blade. It is not the revolution that destroys, but the friction. A scolding woman is gone up when the jaw and scold wears her down as thin as a knife blade.
               THINKING.—If we could not think, of what use would we be in this world; and thinking too much sometimes is the ruin of us. It sends thousands to insane asylums and suicide graves. Too much thinking is the sole cause of the blues and high pole on the other hand. If the mass of the people would think more, that is sound, sensible thought, they would be better and wiser. The decision of deliberate thought has decided the fate of nations. It saved the Colonists from perpetual bondage, from the galling yoke of Old England. It decided the fate of four millions of slaves. It saved lives, and caused bloodshed in the late war. There is nothing so requisite as sound judgment and solid thought. We see it in the signers of the declaration. What a sight of thinking Mark Twain must have done in composing his book "Innocence Abroad." How sublime! how innocent! Josh Billings is a thinking man, or how could he study out the nature and habits of flies, toads, roosters, bed bugs, itch, etc. I could make a fortune if I could have the exact thought of Beecher's congregation for one hour; it would make a large volume, and oh! what a variety of items I would get, especially about the scandal. What can a hen be thinking about while sitting upon her eggs for three weeks. Horses think, mules think with their heels, cats think, bumble bees think, and think hard when they sting; boys think and dream of the girls, of oranges and all such. If I don't stop thinking I shall write forever, so I will cork up the thinking and stop.
               
               THEtongue is an unruly member. It is not what goes into the body that defileth, but that which cometh out.
               A BALDHEADED papa was asked by his little urchin brat of a child if he had any more hair in him. The little darling thought there must be some more hair inside of his head to come out; smart child.
               
               IMAGINATION.—Our imagination often runs to a high pitch of ridiculousness. Some persons are always seeing some hobgoblin, spook, ghost, phantom or jack-a-lantern. I was once passing along a lonely road after dark when all at once my vision beheld the dark form of a man near the road ahead of me. My heart leaped into my throat and I imagined he was a highwayman ready to rob and murder me. But I had no money, so I moved cautiously along, when, to my chagrin, it was nothing but a black stump. How often our hair stands up in passing a cemetery after dark. An old lady once remarked that it made her feel kinder penurious to go by the grave yard after dark. The dyspeptic imagines that he has all forms of diseases when it all lies in his stomach. A lady out in Oregon imagined that something was the matter with her, but could not tell what, so she went to see a noted physician sician who looked over her case and could see nothing the matter. Says the doctor, "What do you think that ails you?" "I don't know, dear doctor, but I guess it is religion or worms." He concluded it was not an attack of religion, so he gave her something for worms. I once imagined that I should be a millionaire, but the million slid off and left nothing but air and imagination. Again, I imagined I should marry Molly Scroggins, but one night she kicked me out of doors, so I took to air again, leaving Molly behind in imagination. Air is a good thing if we don't get too much of it, and get puffed up. Some phoks seem to be nothing but air, gas and imagination. It makes a very light man, but the world is full of such.
               A CONTINUAL dropping in a very rainy day, and a contentious woman are alike.—Prov, 25: 11.
               WOMAN'S MISSIONARY AID SOCIETY.—This Society has sent out a great many missionaries to foreign fields. It has raised large sums of money to educate, enlighten and christianize the heathen Chinee, the Hottentot and the Islanders of the great ocean; but it is a question with me whether that fund could not be better laid out among our own heathens, who are in some respects far below the Pagans of India. Ladies, look at the tens of thousands going down to drunkards' graves; look at the myriads of drinking hells in our beloved country, and our boys and old men falling into the ranks of hell-fire, death and damnation. Ladies, your work is a noble one, but would it not be better to save our own land. Don't walk over our wounded and bleeding soldiers and reach a helping hand to heathen sepoys.
               A SOFT answer turneth away wrath; but grievous words stirreth up anger.—Prov. 15:1.
               THE lack of soft water, soap, towels and a will to rub, has sent many to their long home.
               MOTHER.—What is home without a mother? Both are a necessity as much so as soft soap, water and air. Topsy never was born, never had any mother. She grew a nigger brat just like any other. There are many little outcasts wandering up and down the byways and alleys of our large cities who have never seen their mothers or ever had a friendly home. Much worse is their fate than Topsy's. But I had a home and a good mother, a christian woman if there ever was one. She reared a family of eight children who have grown up to man and womanhood, and the most of them follow in her christian steps. Mother was a very consciencious sciencious woman; no one was ever wronged out of a cent by her hand, and I am proud to say that her children have engrafted within themselves the pure Puritan principle of honesty. Mother was a hard-working woman, and toiled late and early for those whom she loved. She was perfectly conversant with the holy Bible, having read it through twelve times in rotation. She prayed twice daily (morning and evening) for the conversion of souls, especially those of her children, but still some of them hold aloof. You cannot materially change the nature of mankind. We are born with certain principles which guide us through life. Some are christians at heart, but if they don't proclaim it on the house top they are not reckoned among the flock. By your fruits or deeds ye shall know them. Our final account will be settled by the cleanliness of our daybook. Keep your daily record good, and the final summing up will be all right. But I am straying from the subject. Mother, how dear to me, how tender to me in childhood; how kind in after years. I used to sit by her side while she recalled to me the sunny days of her childhood, how she used to sport on the hill side and by the bubbling brook. She told me of the revolution and how her father had lost one eye fighting for his country; but her childhood hood has ripened into old age, and my youth into boyhood, and soon we shall sleep with our fathers. What would home ever have been if I had been so unfortunate as to have been born without a mother. I am so thankful that I was not like little Topsy. I shall always remember my mother with filial affection.
               A MERRY heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth the bones.—Prov. 17: 21.
               OUR ANCESTRY.—It is a pleasure to know something about our forefathers. I have traced the blood on my mother's side back to the Mayflower—seven generations. Elder William Wentworth, my seventh grandfather, was a Baptist clergyman who came over in the Mayflower; so one-half of me must be Baptist. This may be the reason why I take to water so readily. I am a distant relative of Adam and Eve, but I can't tell what per cent of their blood runs in my veins. It may be the millionth part of the pint of a cambric needle. So much for knowing something about our ancestry.
               A WORD fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver.—Prov. 17: 21.
               HAIR YOUR BUTTER.—I once heard a farmer's girl say, "Mother always hairs her butter." It was such an odd expression that I had her explain the method of hairing the useful article. The process was merely to take a fork and run through the soft mass after churning, and in so doing it caught all the hairs, threads, grass, dolls, cats and small children. Farmers wives do you hair your butter?
               EAT um, GOOD.—In 1848 the last remnant of the Pottawottamie nation were removed from near the Maumee river in Ohio beyond the Mississippi. Just before leaving, some white men were invited to dine with them, the principal dish being beans. After getting to the bottom of the dish it was found to be covered with large, white, fat grub worms. The white men looked thunder and lightning at each other. Some soon began to heave up Jonah, while the red-skins spooned up the rich dessert and eat them with a relish, saying, "Eat um, good."
               GONENESS.—A celebrated quack was attending a patient with consumption. She grew worse, so the friends called a council of M. Ds., who decided the case to be incurable. But the quack declared it was not consumption, it was nothing but a goneness in the stomach, which he located immediately under the right clavicle or collar bone. The counsel caved. He was advised to quit the pill business and go to driving mules, which he soon after did. He took his sign and put it over his stable door, saying, "M. D. also stood for mule driver."
               SPELLS.—There are several kinds of spells. About thirty years ago the hardy frontiersman living along the banks of the Maumee in Ohio used to have spells of fever and ague. It attacked nearly all at some seasons of the year. These spells came on every other day, and were genuine shaking spells. Sometimes, men and boys were taken in the field with these spells, and before they could reach the house they would shake off their boots, shake out their teeth, and then shake the bed to pieces. After the shake, came the fever spell, which used up the day. Our dog and hens used to have these same kind of spells. I used to have spells of going to see Martha Jane, but one day she got her nose up and that broke the spell, so I had a spell of crying. My uncle's aunt used to have spells of the face ache caused by her face being so homely. My wife has spells of headache, cross spells and all such. Sometimes we get spell bound. I was spell bound once up to a tree, and father had a birch-withe spell of whipping me. In this world of trials, troubles, cares and perplexities, we all have our spells of joys and sorrows, our sunshine and clouds; we have but a short spell to live, but a long spell hereafter, and may that spell be a happy one. But the principle spell which I have reference to, is the present epidemic spell of the whole country. From Bangor, Me., to Los Angelos, Cal., from Van Couvers to St. Augustine, these spells are raging. When a boy I used to like to go to these spelling matches. I was a good speller, and prided myself in the business. I was the first one chosen and the last one upon the floor. This made me very popular among the girls, so much so that it became a nuisance, for I had to go home with them all; but I finally came to grief, for I was determined to quit spelling, if I ever got spelled down; so a committee was appointed to digest Webster's Unabridged for hard words. The spell came, and as usual I was the last one upon the floor. I stood the ground for one long hour, when I was stuck upon the word cow. I scratched my head, looked down sorter sheepish, scratched my head again, but could not commence it only with a k, which the enunciator said was wrong. I looked for myself and found it to commence with a c. I never could be persuaded to spell after this, neither could I get but one girl to go home with. What a terrible spell Beecher and Tilton are now having. The short spells are passed, and the long spell will be lawyer's fees, which probably is well learned by this time. Women have crusade spells, woman's rights spells, fashionable spells, hollering spells, but few of them can spell cooking or kitchen. The hardest word for men to spell is honesty and pay your bills. You may spell Oberampsingspecktorrigator and quit.
               VOLTAIRE was a noted infidel. He was born in France; this made him a Frenchman. He tore around considerable, lived long, wrote much, laughed heartily, and just up and died one day, leaving a famous name (Voltaire the Infidel.)
               TOM PAYNE was the great American infidel, and it is said he had a painful existence. He wrote much to overthrow the holy Bible, and his writings have greatly tainted the American people. He too, died one day, but the spirit of his pen still lives to taint the world.
               LOST.—Some children are forever getting lost. You have all read of the babes in the woods. I was one of those darling little babes, and it is a wonder that we ever got out alive again; but I did, only to get lost again. It was born in me, for when I came into the world I was lost, and after a long search I was found in mother's night cap. When two years old I was lost, and they found me fast asleep in the garrett. At thirteen I was sent to bring in the cows from the adjacent woods. After wandering for some time I became bewildered and lost. I kept on traveling, but would come back to the same point again. Finally I lined myself out by coursing the trees, and came to an open field with a barn in the centre. It was raining a perfect torrent, and in running for the barn I fell into a ditch and was immersed from head to foot. (I was a Baptist after that). Finally I reached shelter, and soon made for a house, where I put up for the night. The neighbors all turned out to hunt the lost boy, with tin pans, horns, jack-a-lanterns and guns, but to no purpose. When I returned the next morning they were just coming from their unsuccessful tramp, thinking that I was eaten up by wolves or bears. But the prodigal had returned. The dead was alive, the lost was found. I fared sumptuously every day for a week on fatted calves. My brother was mad, so he posted off and got lost also. We had a terrible time to find him; but the old gentleman couldn't see the prodigality of his losing himself, so he was tied up to the bed post and fed on husks for several days. At another time I was lost in a corn field, so I hallowed at the top of my voice, "Father, where air (are) I?" He soon came to my rescue. Father used to say, "You will be eternally lost if you don't mend your ways." So I mended. I have been lost in imagination several times, but I managed to crawl out again. When I sit on the pint end of the church steeple of a moonlight night and look into empty space, and contemplate the Creator of those starry worlds, so many millions of miles away, I get lost in solid thought from which I have never found my way out, and I always expect to roam in the wild wilderness, and be lost far from civilization, until I have a mind superior to the one I now have.
               TELL me ye winged winds that round my pathway roar. Do you not know some quiet spot where women jaw and scold no more? Some lone and silent dell, some island or some cave, Where our wives cannot rip, tare and rave. A little dirty urchin peeped out from his hiding place, and with distorted phiz, says, "Nary place."
               AVOID debt as you would lightning, fire and brimstone; for out of debt, out of danger.
               NEVER go anybody's security, unless you have money in bank to pay it when due. The Bible says, "He that hateth suretyship is sure."
               NEVER meddle with other folks' women and gunpowder after dark, for sometimes they go off, then you go up, not to stop but to return in fragments. Young men, beware.
               NEVER speak harshly to the little ones at bed time. Let the last act of the day be a loving kiss, for the terrible croup may make it an angel before the morning light.
               BEFORE going to bed turn off the gas fully, say your prayers, cut your toe-nails, put on your night cap, then take a pistol and blow out your brains if you have any, you'll sleep better.
               TUCK ROOT.—A woman out in Hoop-pole township, Posey county, Ind., who had to sit a great part of the time in caring for the baby, remarked, "I have sot and sot with this young one till I do believe I have tuck root."
               EVEN worms use tobacco in Kentucky; so much so that the crop is short.
               SOME men and women have more dirt, and solid meanness to the square inch, than common sense and soft water.
               
               A HEALTHY phool is better than a sick Solomon.
               IF you wish to rize early in the morning stir yourself up with a box of yeast powder, and put the nasty mass under the stove, and you will rize at five o'clock in the morning without fail.
               MY CABIN HOME.—Abraham Lincoln was born in a lowly cabin. You all remember President Harrison's log cabin at North Bend on the Ohio. Burns, the great Scotch poet, lived in a log cabin. I too, have the honor of being born in a log cabin. The old antiquated pilgrim stood in a beautiful grove of stumps, and undergrowth of dry limbs and raspberry bushes. It had two large rooms below, used exclusively as drawing rooms, so called because it drew all the cats up the chimney. It had no room up ladder except a garret, where fourteen of us children slept. And oh! how we did sleep, in those days of yore. Father and mother lived with us, and slept in one of the parlors below; the other was used for a kitchen. We had a stone fire place nine feet wide and eight feet high with a cat and clay chimney. Once a school marm came and kept school in the kitchen. The seats were round cedar bolts two feet long. A board was nailed up to the wall for the large scholars to write at. I was a little brat at this time, and up to all sorts of tricks; so one day I put my big toe in my mouth and the school marm caught me in that plight, and the inhuman miss kept me sucking, and sucking that toe, till I had nearly sucked it out; but this was not the end of the punishment; father took me and laid the front side of my back upon a pillow across his knee, and with heavy mittens on I received a flogging in full up to date. I took a receipt, but it was riot good upon presentation. I must now return to the fireplace. To commence a fire we would end in an immense back log, a back-stick, a fore-stick, then fill in with small trees and chips. And such a fire, a king might admire. It snapped, sparked, and shone so bright, and us fourteen children had such a good time, playing hide and go seek. Then we had such a good time having the seven year itch; we could all stand in a line before that fire place, stark naked and rub on intment, and scratch, scratch. Oh! what fun; what real solid comfort. Then there was Deacon Jones, who used to come in so often. He was so sochnerable, so jolly, and full of fun. He would put his feet upon the table and slap his sides, and laugh. Oh! how sochnerable. There is no place like home, be it ever so humble; where'er you go or roam, where'er you fall or tumble.
               TARES grow in the same furrow as the wheat. What God hates we must hate.
               TROUBLES always come in flocks. A quiet conscience is a good bed-fellow. They slumber sweetly whom faith rocks to sleep. Mercy, honors God.
               LET the day have a blessed baptism by giving your first waking thoughts into the bosom of God. The first hour of the morning is the rudder of the day.
               DOCTRINE is nothing but the skin of truth set up and stuffed.
               EVERY christian should begin to doubt himself, if he finds, after ten years, that self-denial is as hard in the same things as it was at first.
               LIARS have short wings; their flight shall soon be over.
               ONE hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
               EVEN a child is known by his doings; honesty shines in the face; villainy peeps out at the eyes.
               CURSES, like young chickens, come home to roost. In the light of the past the future is not doubtful. God's arrows never miss; faith finds weapons everywhere.
               THE three great essentials to human health are: Keep the feet always dry and warm; have one regular action of the bowels every day; and cool off very slowly after all forms of exercise.
               LET him who stammers, stamp his foot on the ground at the same time he utters a syllable, and the stammering is impossible.
               "EVER fresh and green," the song of all mothers with infants in their arms.
               IF you feel all gone at the pit of the stomach, and it caves in, call it dyspepsia.
               FUN is better than physic; laugh and grow fat, if it kills you.
               IF all the dogs in the United States were killed and made into sausage, and the sausage sold at ten cents a yard, it would pay the national debt and have dogs enough left to keep Lo, the poor Indian, for six months. Wouldn't it be a dogged good investment.
               SAYS a hotel waiter at a tavern on the top of Fremont's peak, "Which will you have, ram, lamb, sheep or mutton?" Says an old old salt, "I will take some of the ram, to ram down the lamb, then I'll cast sheep's eyes at the mutton."
               A YANKEE has tamed a flea, and makes it pull a miniature wagon. Another Yankee trick.
               BED BUGS are native born citizens, and occupy the whole earth. They need no passport in any clime, for they will pass at you whether you are under a burning tropical sun, or sitting on the north pole, biling water, nor de clemency of de north at 900 below zero won't turn their stomachs.
               ALL our great (lady) stage singers are large, broad-chested women. A large drum has more music and volume of sound than a small one. Therefore it would be as impossible to make a successful stage nightingale out of a wee bit of a woman, as it would be to make shingles out of sawdust, or to find a lawyer that would not lie, or a Dutchman who did not love sour krout and beer.
               THERE is an old woman's whim, that if March comes in like a lion it will go out like a lamb, but that old whim gets awfully mixed up sometimes.
               IF parlors could talk, they would divulge many things very imputty. Here is one scene, however, which one mortal eye beheld. Elizabeth Tilton in Beecher's lap; conversation No. 1, "How do you feel, Elizabeth?" "Dear father, I feel so so." This is the testimony of Kate Carey, at the Brooklyn Courthouse, February 16, 1875. Oh! frail man, come forth, if you are living, and stand before the Brooklyn judge, hold up both hands, and swear (but don't lie) that you never, in thought, act, or deed, at some time in your life, looked upon somebody's Elizabeth, with a lustful eye. If you have, you know the Bible verdict; if you have not, don't let Barnum know it.
               A ZEALOUS vegetarian, expounding his theory, said: "A man who eats pork becomes a little swinish; does he not? and if he eats mutton, he inclines to be sheepish." "Yes," says Dr. Walker, "and those who live on vegetables altogether are apt to be small potatoes and few in a hill."
               GROCERYMEN are reminded that honest-tea is the best poli-C; also honest coffee.
               IN bed we laugh, in bed we cry, and born in bed, in bed we die; The near approach a bed may show, of human bliss or human woe.
               
               NATURE'S REPOSE.— 
                     
                        The cool, low babbling stream
                        'Mid quince groves deep,
                        And gentle rustling leaves
                        Brings on soft sleep.
                     
                  
               
               AT eighteen, marry your daughter to her superior; at twenty, to her equal; at thirty, to any one that will have her. If no one will have her, prefix "Old maid." 
                     
                        There never was a goose so grey,
                        But what sooner or later,
                        An honest gander came that way,
                        And chose her as his mate.
                     
                  
               
               Take courage, ladies.
               THE Sandwich Islander's plain dog is "only our American sausage with the mystery removed."
               A MILLION dollars in gold, weighs two tons.
               M. D. CONWAY is writing a biography of the devil. If each of his children should buy a copy, the book will have the largest sale of any volume on record.
               M. D. GENERALLY stands for doctor of medicine, but it would be better applied, in nine cases out of ten, for mule driver, or mullet head.
               RULES and regulations of our hotel, situated near the Beecher-Tilton soap and candle works, Brooklyn, N. Y. First—Boarders who do not wish to pay in advance, please advance and pay. Meals at all hours (with colored cooks), except on Sundays, then you can eat all the time. No one is allowed to go to bed with his boots on, except millionaires. Beds, with or without bugs; if with bugs, there will be an extra charge. Single men are requested to leave their families at home, especially, single daughters. Dreams will be charged by the dozen. Nightmares hired out at reasonable rates. Steamboat captains will be charged with extra meals, whether they take them with the cook in the kitchen, or on board their own boats. All growling to be charged for by the yard. No one is allowed to kiss the proprietor's wife except he is a Brooklyn shepherd, and then it must be so, so, or some one will make a fuss about it.
               THERE was a man so extremely dirty out in Minneapolis, Minnesota, that the assessor put him down as real estate.
               NOW there was nigh unto the mountains a great herd of hogs feeding, and the devils asked Christ if they should not go in unto the hogs, and forthwith Jesus gave them leave. So they crawled in, but this frightened the hogs, and they (two thousand) ran down a steep place and were choked in the sea. Moral: Don't eat measly, sickly, nasty, dirty, scrofulous, consumptive hogs.
               "LET us gather at the river," was the song of some Chicago milk men.
               QUEEN VICTORIA is opposed to woman suffrage. God save the Queen.
               THE stream of life forks; and religion is apt to run in one channel, and business in another.
               DOING too much, and doing nothing, are equal suicides, recreation is as much a necessity as application, and they are wisest who enjoy, as well as work.
               POETRY all about an old bachelor: 
                     
                        A cautious look around he stole,
                        His bags of chink, he chunk;
                        And many a wicked smile he smole,
                        And many a wink he wunk.
                        An old maid who stood near by,
                        Began to bawl, to sneeze and cry,
                        Thinking of his chink and chunk,
                        The miserly batch, the miserable skunk.
                        They both began to wink, and wunk,
                        And in a thrice she was Mrs. Skunk.
                     
                  
               
               THE first poetry of Isaac Watts— 
                     
                        A little mouse for want of stairs,
                        Came down a rope to say his prayers.
                     
                  
               
               A WOODEN nutmeg Yankee adds— 
                     
                        He went into the pantry to get some cheese,
                        It was so strong, it made him sneeze;
                        The cat, hearing a noise in the house,
                        Came in, and devoured the mouse.
                     
                  
               
               TRUE grace brings heart joy. No midnight is too dark to pray in.
               AN animal lately discovered is described thus: One side of him is a perfect man, while the other takes to the animal. He has the leg of an ox, an arm of a baboon, ear of a mule, eye of a toad; one side is covered with hair, he lives on hay, grass, bread, fruit, frogs, worms, snails, &c. His home is in caves and lonely dells. It was discovered by Joshua and Mark, in the 19th century.
               THE tongue is not steel, but it cuts. Experience is a blessed teacher.
               SUN moon, and stars, are God's traveling preachers.
               THE darkest hours of night preceed the break of day.
               
               GOD put the excess of hope in one man in order that it may be a medicine to the man who is despondent.
               SOME talk of truth; it is better to walk in it.
               DECEITFUL men are more to be dreaded than wild beasts.
               GOD'S apparent delays are always wise.
               OURS was a peculiar family, and in some respects cannot be matched. First, the family consists of ten members, and at this date are an unbroken band. My parents are seventy years old, both being born in the same year, 1804. The children consist of four boys and four girls, aged respectfully: 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44 and 46=312÷140. My parents' age, and you have 482 years—our combined age. One of the peculiarities of the family is in their names, and if you are not easy to choke you can spell them. Remember, however, that these names were picked up in hard times, and the old folks could not afford better. Here they are: Lucinda Wentworth, Cyrenius Governor, (now comes the jaw-breaker, my name) Shubael Wentworth, Lavina Tosier, Christopher Columbus, Nathan Norton, Sylvia Ann, and Philena Jedo. How many times I have awoke during the dark and silent hours of night, thinking, how and where my name originated, and since I have become a man I have traveled thirty thousand miles in the United States, and I have not duplicated it yet, and whoever will, shall be rewarded with a leather belt and brass buckle, and shall have a free pass to California by paying his own fare. Another peculiarity of our family is in the fact that we all have been school teachers (the whole ten), teaching a combined length of twenty-five years. Among the boys, one is a doctor, one a Methodist preacher, one a land dealer, and one (myself) in the ham and sassage business. We are all married, and as far as I know, are replenishing the earth according to scripture. We all have been generally healthy, except one summer, ten of us had the ague; the dog, cat, and cattle catched it also; and the way we all shook was a caution. I shook off my boots, shook out my teeth, lost my hair, and toe nails; finally I lent it to one of the neighbors and went West, and as good luck would have it, I left it behind. We never had the seven year itch, but the short term kind came around every winter. No more about our family, only, my father's grandfather's brother had a dog which was brought over in the Mayflower.
               
               
                  LAND ho! from the masthead swelling,
                  On the breeze its magic throes,
                  Like the tones of angels telling,
                  Where the soul may find repose.
               
               
                  Where Valparaiso's cliffs and flowers,
                  In mirrored wildness, sweep
                  Their shadows round the mermaid's bowers,
                  Our steadfast anchors sleep.
               
               
                  ON Linden when the sun was low,
                  A boy fell down and broke his toe.
               
               
                  I LIVE for those who love me,
                  For those that love me true;
                  For the heaven that smiles above me,
                  And waits my coming too.
               
               ANN ELIZA says that thirteen of Brigham's daughters, sat in the front seats and made faces at her the first time she lectured in Utah.
               IF Chinamen eat rats, why can't they be trained to eat grasshoppers. It would be such a benefit to the country.
               DARWIN still secretly believes in it, but he hates to have a man come up and say, "Good morning, Mr. Darwin; how's your father the ape? or your grandmother, the monkey, or frog?"
               DAVID LIVINGSTONE, the great African explorer, died May 1, 1873.
               SUNDAY is the golden clasp that binds together the volume of the week.
               "SALLY, at what time do your folks dine?" "Soon as you go away; that's misses orders."
               A MAN in Kansas went to the barn in the dark, got into the wrong pen, and undertook to milk a mule. He don't remember which side of the barn he went out at, but expects the pail down in a few days.
               WHO'S BOSS OF THIS PUKEING.—A drunken fellow was leaning his head on the fence and heaving up Jonah at a terrible rate. Says a passing neighbor, "What are you doing there, Jones?" "Who, who's whose boss of this pukeing;" and so kept on till he had thrown up nearly the contents of a four-gallon jug. Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, and whiskey will kill any man.
               PITTY the sorrow of a drunken man, Who's trembling limbs a puke demands.
               CLEANLINESS is akin to godliness. Use soft water, soap, a curry comb and a towel.
               WHISKEY kills a great many ailments, by killing the patient.
               
               
                  THE girls are all a fleeting show
                  For man's delusion given,
                  It takes ten of them to make a beau,
                  And fifty more to make a pudding.
               
               A MAN who is to be helped out of the mire, and then is unwilling to help others, is no man at all; he is a thing.
               ONE half of the consumptives of New England, would get cured by leaving their native hills and going west of the Mississippi. The eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains would be preferable.
               HOW TO MAKE COLORED PEOPLE WHITE.—Put them in a washing machine for two or three hours, then hang them on a tree to dry. If this does not whiten, peel off the cuticle and whitewash.
               MAN without religion is a creature of circumstances. Religion is above all circumstances, and will lift him above them.
               To fight is brutish; to love is Christ.
               MR. MINISTER AND MOLASSES.—A preacher put up with a friend of his way down in Park-man, Maine. In this backwoods town molasses was only twenty-five cents a gallon, but sugar was unknown. Supper being announced, grace performed, the good woman of the house began to pour molasses into the Reverend's tea, "Enough, madam, enough! enough!!" "Never mind," says she, "all molasses is none too good for you, Mr. Minister;" so she filled up the cup.
               MAN is about three-fourths water, and the other fourth gas; women, the reverse.
               IN ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, man will be carried away with the lewd smiles of a bad woman; that is, under favorable circumstances. This is his nature. On the other hand, the same number of women would be virtuous under favorable circumstances. Three-fourths of our street walkers come to disgrace through poverty, and nearly, all of the other fourth through the influence of men. Very few volunteer a life of shame, except men, vile man, his eyes are continually committing adultery. He stands upon street corners watching, squinting, and making remarks on every calf and cotton hose that passes. If a lady passes him he will turn around and look, squint, gawk, then look again. These are no particular class of men, but from all classes and ranks of men. We find them in the halls of Congress, among the clergy, and our statesmen. Oh! man, vile man.
               
               WHAT a sublime thought, to be carried on angel's wings to fairer climes on high.
               WHAT a ridiculous idea it would be to be upset on a dungheap, after riding a jack-a-lantern for two hours. Many a man has fell into a wus pile than this.
               A GUILTY conscience needs no accuser, look him in the eye, and read him in the face.
               CULTIVATE an even temper; cultivate your gardens and your craniums.
               MORE people die of air-tight rooms than of unchinked cabins.
               IF you are well, let yourself alone.
               MORE persons are destroyed by eating too much than by drinking too much. Gluttony kills more than drunkenness in civilized society.
               AN old traveler once remarked that the best side of a bed was on the outside.
               THE elect are those who will, and the non-elect are those who won't.
               SOME men are like pyramids, which are very broad where they touch the ground, but very narrow six feet in the sky.
               OF all earthly goods, the best is a plum pudding, a yard of sausage, and a good wife.
               A POUND of promises will not pay for a pound of debt.
               VIRTUE is her own reward; so is a late supper.
               A GOOD perfume is made of onions and skunk. Cut them up together, and squeeze out the juice; bottle for use. Some prefer musk, but give me the skunk and onion.
               THE only way to get thru this world and eskape censure and abuse iz to take some back road. You kan't travel the main road and do it.
               WATER'S epitaph; he couldn't wait any longer, so he went.
               THE mule has no pride of ancestry, and no hope of posterity; he is the only animal which came by chance, and his chance is small; and so is your head if you get behind his heels.
               THIRTY-FIVE thousand dogs are registered in Berlin; how is this for dog? Why is bologna sausage so high?
               THE Indian name for Redwing is Til-ho-pah, hoo-do-ta. How is this for Lo?
               A DAKOTA miss of thirteen, recently eloped with a wild Indian boy of nineteen. When last seen they were fleeing across the prairie on a pony towards the setting sun. She will soon get sick of dog feasts.
               THE greatest herdsman in the world is Samuel W. Allen. He has a ranche eighty miles long by forty wide, lying between the Nevada and Colorado rivers, in Texas, and has two hundred and twenty-five thousand cattle.
               CHEERING words for us all—dinner's ready.
               MINISTERS of the interior: The cook and the doctor.
               A MICHIGAN woman has just made her ninth husband the happiest man in the world. He is to be pitied.
               So opposed to fresh air are some persons that if they lived in a jug they would have it corked up. "I would," says an old toper.
               BAD living furnishes many a soul with a dark cottage.
               CONUNDRUM.—What physic does a wife take when her husband whips her? Elixur. (He licks her.)
               A STUDENT at law the other evening, being behind the bar of a hotel, said to an acquaintance who came in: "I'm admitted to the bar, you see." "Yes," replied the other, "and if I mistake not, you are doing considerable practice, too."
               THE sight of a drunkard is the best sermon against that vice; much better than a lecture from Gough.
               GOOD LOGIC.—Sambo, how do you tink; de married people most happiest?" "Well, I'll tell you," said Sambo, "dat are pends altogether how they enjoy themselves."
               "SAM, where you get dat gold watch you wore to meeting last Sunday?" "What makes you tink I had watch?" "Case, I see de chain hang out in front." "Suppose you see halter round my neck, you tink horse in me."
               MORE flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a gallon of vinegar. A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stirreth up anger. Boys, remember this.
               GOOD wine and handsome women are two agreeable poisons. Young man, don't indulge.
               AN egg is better to-day than a hen to-morrow. If you are agoing to get up and dust, do it at once. That's the way I did.
               HUMBUG.—The Cardiff giant was a humbug. Barnum's woolly horse and baby show was a humbug. The Yankee who made wooden nutmegs, and sold them as genuine, is a humbug. June bugs and bumble bees are humbugs; but the wust humbug that I ever saw and felt was to sleep in a swamp in July with five millions mosquitoes presenting their supper bills all at one time, and collecting them in full. I thought dam; yes I did, but only said, "Take your suppers and be off."
               THE humbugs make me think when a boy I was out boiling down sap in the sugar bush. Night came on, and with it those long-billed buggers called mosquitoes. They ran their noses into me till I cried; but a happy thought struck me. I got under a big boiler kettle, but they bored through, so I clinched a few of their bills, and they flew off with the biler. I made instantaneous flight, thus saved a promising boy.
               VINEGAR BITTERS.—Humbug, more humbug, a most terrible humbug.
               PETROLEUM V. NASBY has been obliged to give up the postoffice at the Cross Roads. The Deacon and Bascom have gone into the hash and sassage business.
               A POSTAL card picked up in the street, read thus: "Deer mary for luv of god send me a pare of pants."
               HONEY MOON.—What I understand by this term is this: When folks get tied together they go out by moon-light, and honey drops from the moon on to the bride, and the fellow with pants on laps it off. There is no honey after three months; it turns to vinegar and broomsticks. Look out.
               
               THERE is a vast difference between fierce imagination, and stern reality.
               WHY is a cobbler like a preacher? Answer: Because he is a repairer of soles (souls.)
               THE BLUES.—Did you ever have the blues? I have. Tha are not ketchin, but tha come on all at once. The fust symptom is known by your turning blue, then your face becomes as long as the moral law; you go moping around; your lip hangs, and when it begins to move, then look out, for he is mad. He will give his wife fits, lick the baby, smash up the chairs and dishes. Here is a recipe that cured me: Take one peck of bran, four drops of sheep's lard, two ounces of assefœdita, one yard of bologna sausage, three onions, a little of the oil of Josh Billings and Mark Twain, one bottle of soothing syrup. Mix, make into pills; take one hundred and forty, three times a day for a month. For high-pole double the dose.
               
               
                  MIRTH is the medicine of life,
                  It cures its ills, it calms its strife,
                  It softly smooths the brow of care,
                  And writes a thousand graces there.
               
               A YOUNG lady from the city, while visiting in the country, asked her cousin if pickles grew in slices.
               A MAN driving his geese to market was asked how many he had. Says he, "If I had as many more, and half as many more, and two geese and a half, I should have a hundred." How many geese was he driving to market?
               A FELLOW in Minnesota says he would like the country much better, if it was a little better sleighing in July and August.
               A LITTLE girl asked her mother if a turkey and a goose was the same hen.
               MILTON'S blindness was the result of overwork and dyspepsia.
               FLIES have a perfect antipathy against clean houses. They revel in filth the world over.
               LIVE within your income, even if you have to dwell in a shanty, and live on a crust of bread.
               THE most terrible enemies that a man encounters is liquor and red haired women.
               YOU might as well go to the catacombs of Egypt, and scrape up the dust of the mummies, and knead them into forms, and bake them in your ovens, and call such things men and women, and present them as citizens, as to pack off to church in your fine clothes, and sleep during the whole sermon, and call yourselves living beings.
               THE man who carries a lantern in a dark night, can have friends all around him, walking safely by its rays, and he not defrauded. So he who has the God-given life of hope in his breast can help on many others in this world's darkness, not to his own loss, but to their precious gain.
               THE rose has its thorns, the diamond its specks, and every human being his or her failings. Myself, Beecher and Tilton not excepted.
               SCUMGULLION is the name used for coffee out upon the plains. It is made of equal parts of toads, hair, jackass rabbits, and hard tack biled in alkali water.
               IT is said that Brigham Young has a family bedstead seven feet long and a thousand feet wide. He sleeps in the middle, and his wives and orphan children sleep on either side. When they all get to snoring and drawing in their wind, it sucks in the walls of the house, and when they expel, it swells the house up like a balloon, and it heaves and groans like a ship in a storm. In this terrible delimna Brigham has to plug up his ears with hoopskirts, stockings and dresses. But then it is not so bad with only seventy wives. Solomon had a thousand, and did not get deaf or blind; but the wise old man fell from grace, and so did his father when he got Uriah's wife.
               THERE is a woman out in Minneapolis, Minnesota, so homely that it made her face ache, and she won the heart of the best-looking darkey in the place. How very touching, how conglomerating, how amalgamating; how about the posterity, that's the question.
               BUSTED, BY THUNDER.—A fellow, on starting to Pikes Peak with an ox team, wrote on his wagon canvass, "Pikes Peak, or bust;" but before he arrived at the new eldorado his oxen gave out and died; so he wrote under his first inscription with a coal, "Busted, by thunder;" and when found he was sitting on his wagon, smoking his pipe, and looking upon the carcass of his dead animals. Not a drum was heard, nor a funeral note, As his cart to the bulwarks we hustled, Not a wolf discharged his watchful eye, O'er the grave where the oxen were buried.
               MUSIC.—There is nothing which charms us like music. Our very souls are buoyed away to fairer climes on high. It thrills our inmost, hearts with love divine. It creates a love and union of families and friends, which death only can sever. Oh! how I love music. Yes I do, for it hath power to soothe the savage, to tame a lion, and bust a cabbage.
               YOU GET; YOU BET; I RUN.—A thief went up a ladder and was about crawling through a window, when he was met by the occupant of the room, with two pistols in hand, saying, "You get." The only reply was, "You bet;" and going down much faster than he went up. You bet he did run, for dear life.
               IF a June bug should fly away with an ox, what then? Beef would take a rize.
               
               IF an ox should swallow a June bug, what then? June bugs would take a fall.
               THE earth moves in its orbits at the great speed of nineteen miles per second. That beats Goldsmith Maid, for her quickest time being 2:14.
               
               A BUNCH of shingles fell from a four story building upon the head of a darkey, and bounded off upon the ground. He was indignant to think that white folks up dar, wanted to muss his har.
               THERE is a house near Lassa, in Thibet, which contains ten thousand rooms. It is the palace of the Grand Lama. And yet this enormous edifice, could not contain two full grown married women. Thus the old adage: No house was ever built large enough for two families, with women in it. Friends, did you ever try it? I have.
               FEMALE SUFFRAGE.—A No. 16 corset and a No. 20 woman. Put out the lights, boys, for crocodiles weep, and whales blubber.
               "WHO dat, hit me? Whar ar dat lantern?" exclaimed a darkey struck by the engine and thrown a rod or two into the ditch.
               HOW MONEY PUFFS SOME MEN UP.—I once knew a man who only had fifty cents to his name. He was ragged, poor, but was a sociable sort of a fellow, and could speak to any one; but fortune smiled upon him, and all at once he became wealthy, and with it a changed man. He would now pass his old friends upon the streets and would not recognize them. He built a fine mansion, and this gave his wife the big head too. They didn't know their own parents on the streets. Why should dollars and cents make such bigoted fools? I don't believe it would make any difference with me. Wish some one would try the experiment.
               HUMAN existence hangs on trifles. What is beauty without soap? or a woman without a looking glass?
               A STOVEPIPE hat is always becoming, without it is too much stove.
               LANDLADY (fiercely)—"You musn't occupy that bed with your boots on." Boarder—"Never mind, they're an old pair. I guess the bugs won't hurt 'em; let them rip, anyhow."
               THE whole system of female fashionable education is an abortion and a curse. Our daughters are not trained for wives, in the true sense of the word, but for ladies, for puppets, for dolls, for play things.
               A FLIRT is a fool who delights in fooling fools, and the fool who is fooled by such a fool is the wust kind of a phool.
               
               QUESTION for a debating society: Which is the butt end of a goat?
               
               AS jewels of gold in a hog's nose, so is a fine lady in a thousand dollar dress, and a five cent bosom pin.
               A MAN out West is so bow-legged that his tailor has to cut his pants with a circular saw.
               AND Joseph wept aloud, and said unto his brethren: "I am Joseph; doth my father yet live?" and his brethren answered him, saying: "You bet; the old man is doing bully; he is using gargling oil for rheumatism."
               HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.—How many, can say, "That I have wronged no one out of a cent;" that "I have clean hands and a clear conscience?" But few can say this. The mass of the people are trying so hard, to become miraculously rich that pure honesty is set aside. I find that nearly all mankind need watching; but few are safe with your pocket-book. Deacon Jones may make an affecting prayer, and put on a Sunday face, and on Monday sell you a lame horse for a sound one. I find we must watch as well as pray, for a majority of mankind need watching. When I find a golden rule man, I mark him down in my book (and by the way, I haven't filled up one page yet), and at my leisure I look at him, study him, analyze him, then dissect him, for he is too good to keep. Honesty shines in the face; it is a golden dew-drop sparkling in the morning sun. It is a diamond of the first water. It follows its possessor to his grave, and angels hover around him as thick as crows upon the carcass of a jackass.
               A CIGAR, is smoke at one end, and a fool at the other. I quit smoking on that account, for extremes often meet.
               THERE are in New York city seven thousand drinking hells, averaging twenty dollars a day net cash each, making in all one hundred and forty thousand dollars ($140,000). This amounts to fifty-one millions and one hundred thousand dollars a year, expended in red-hot poison. This would build 1,700 miles of rail-road, 51,000 churches, 100,000 school houses. It would support 25,000 missionaries; it would feed half a million paupers. It makes seven thousand drunkards and sends five hundred to an untimely grave, causing direct suffering to more than seven thousand families.
               THE BOY'S COMPOSITION.—How to make yourself dream. I will now tell you how I go to work to make myself dream. At 6 o'clock in the evening, eat a hearty supper, then at seven eat a large plate of pork and beans, and mince pie, one pound of cheese, (said cheese to be of the living, moving kind), then go to bed immediately and you will soon be in the land of nod. I had no sooner got to sleep, when the animals in the cheese began to kick and squirm, and of course my mind rambled, I thought I had golden wings, and I was making an aerial trip to the moon, I soon found myself upon its arid, sterile soil. It was cold, cloudy, barren and desolate, no vegetation, no animal life except one old frozen up man sitting upon a huge cheese, it was labled "life within", (maggots), at the next moment it seemed that I was trying to dig up the north pole, but broke my spade in the attempt, so I started at a full run to get it mended, not thinking that the nearest blacksmith shop was eight hundred miles away in Greenland. Then again it seemed to me that I was on the mast head of a ship in a storm, and while the yard arms were dipping themselves into the foaming sea, I was nabbed up by a whale, and like a Jonah I was spewed upon the shore. From there I was taken up and put astride of the Rocky Mountains with one foot in the Atlantic and the other in the Pacific; I was making tin whistles and singing Yankee Doodle; was then transported to the top of the Himalayan put on a hand sled, and shoved off, and did not stop till I came up standing against the equator tor; the next moment I was in the bowels of a volcano, and sunk to the infernal regions, supped with old cloven foot, who set me to making sulphur and splitting fine wood, didn't like his imps, so left, and it seemed that I was in a paradise of blooming flowers and shining suns, white robed angels were sitting and singing beautiful songs; at that time those naughty bugs in my stomach were beginning to stir about and make me restless, I then thought the Great Eastern had run through me, this awoke me. I was thankful it was nothing but a dream. I never tried the experiment after.
               ONE of my pupils is gone! yes, she is gone, that beautiful flower of early dawn has passed away, and never again shall we behold that once lively form. The cold hand of death has taken our Lizzie away, and her lifeless form lies at rest beneath the cold of the valley. She came on the first day of school, lively, active and buoyant, but ere the going down of the sun on the second day, disease (that fell destroyer) had formed itself upon her tender frame. She grew worse, and her pulse becomes feebler every hour. A physician is called but to no purpose. Friends gather around the bed side, to see the last ray of life fade away, to feel the last beating pulse. At nine o'clock the spirit leaves the tenement of clay and goes to God who gave it. She is now free from all care and pain. I look around the school room, I see a vacant seat, my register shows a blank space, I look at her playmates and see her not in their sports. I well remember on the first morning of school when she brought me the broom and pail, she wore a beautiful smile of youthful lovelines, which will ever be vivid to my memory. In her illness she would say, "oh! that pain," which gave rise to the following verses: 
                     
                        Oh! that pain, that pain,
                        She never again will feel;
                        She is free from sin or stain,
                        It is a just God that deals.
                     
                     
                        Oh! sister will you sing that song
                        Which is called, "come thou fount,"
                        It makes, me think of that happy throng
                        Upon the holy christian's mount.
                     
                     
                        Her sister sang those lines to her,
                        And then she took a gentle sleep,
                        Oh! it is painful to recur,
                        Of one so good, kind and meek.
                     
                     
                        At eight o'clock, there still was life,
                        But shorter, shorter grew her breath,
                        At last she gave up the strife
                        And sank away in death.
                     
                     
                        And now she dwells in fairer climes,
                        In regions of the blest,
                        And who would call her back to earth
                        From her sweet home of rest,
                     
                  
               
               AN EXTREME CASE OF FORGETFULNESS.—A farmer down in Maine, was walking along the road in a careless forgetful way when he overtook his boy, "Good morning, sir, how is your father?" He did not discover the mistake till the boy began to roar with laughter. Soon after he took his wife and went to market, after trading for some time he forgot her, took his team and went home; she hired a hack and was soon by her own fireside. This forgetful man was out in the yard trying to milk a kicking cow, saying "so boss, so boss", when his wife came up on the opposite side in a hurry, and a little vexed to have matters explained, the old cow kicked him entirely over, she ran to him and helped him up, shook him a little, saying there, do you know me? Is that you Mary, where is the team?
               WOMAN'S RIGHTS.—A certain class of women who are prating woman's rights through the country are mad, because God Almighty did not make men of them. Such woman should put on a pair of breeches, sail forth, and curse God for the variation.
               
               MY FRIEND JOHN T. SMITH.—John T. was a man seventy-four years old, and a jolly old soul he was too. He was a shoemaker by trade and many sole had he made and repaired for his neighbors, but the village parson could not make any repairs in his soul. He was quite a songster, and would entertain a party the whole evening in singing his quaint old songs of days gone by, such as "Giles Scroggin's Married Molly Brown," "Drown me in a jug of rum," "Death of Bird at Perry's victory," etc. His wife Mary Ann was a dear good women. They had fourteen children, all the boys (seven in number) were in the late war, and three of them fell for their country. John T. yet lives, can jump a five feet rail fence, sing songs, tell old yarns and spin them into fun, suitable for any one, even a king. He had a pair twin girls who looked just alike, and there was two young men, twin brothers, who looked just alike also, and they courted these girls and were finally engaged to be married, the wedding day came and they were joined in matrimony, but it resulted in a sad fix for both parties, for after the congratulations, they got mixed up and for the life of them, they could not tell their own wives or husbands, so they were all branded and the marks recorded, and they were married over again. This was a feast for John T. He sang, danced, fiddled, beat the drum, turned sommersaults, smoked his pipe and was so jolly and socernable. May he live long, may the smoke of his wigwam ascend to the sky, and curl around like a pig's tail till he is as gray as a wharf rat, and as old as Methusaleh.
               VALEDICTORY,—We have now come to an end, the end of anything is the extreme pint. Man has three ends, the sole of his boots, the top of his hair, and his latter end; that is, when he dies. The end of a dog is the pint of his nose and the further end of his tail, when a flea is on the end of his tail he bites it, then the two ends meet. Indians take varmints from each other's heads and crush them between their teeth, and this is the end of the varmint. The butt end of a goat lies between his eyes, that of a mule in his heels. The end of the world has been traced to the poles. The chief end of our girls is to have a beau. But the end to which I have reference to is the end of this little book which contains three hundred and fifty sermons, and each one has an end, and a good many odds and ends too, for such a small volume, read, study peruse, and digest them, and you will be better and wiser in the end, should you live to the end of the world.
            
         
      
      
         
         
            
            HEALTH! HEALTH!! HEALTH!!!
            The HYGEIO-THEROPHY TREATMENT Offers Health to all Invalids.
            Diseases treated on purely Hygenic Principles.
            Dr. D. KELLEY, NOW ESTABLISHED AT 114 & 116 West Madison Street, Corner Desplaines Street, CHICAGO, ILL.
            CONSULTATIONS FREE.
            OFFICE HOURS:—FROM 9 A. M. TO 4 P. M.
            D. KELLEY, M. D.
         
      
   
