
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Sadia .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6981
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Sadia 
            
               - N- .-

-,r.          ..-

.;yA%'K.

. --"-
-          ^
--   ..
-        -_
M1 J'I
,1.
.,^        y
.'
'                                             "
'/  '                            a
N
J
\
"                    I
N

K

I

1,' - '
f'1  _1 3

N1

:I;L

)ARTI

*

A

2

O

I

'

.\\

t
i
k
9
l

r
.%a %


SADIA

0
0

e1R11ian

BY NED BUNTLINE.t -

FREDERIC A. BRADY PUBLISHER
22 ANN STREET,
NEW YORK.

I

j
.R~u  3- i

'V

. ,i',:.
:  ;
- ;:
l }r'Y..
.
F~
j a,

C   ~  y

-    '

k


SA DJA

47

ENTEED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1804,
Br CAULDWELL &amp; WITNEY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.

k
r'
3'
f
i#

t
s~'

Kp

1 

PREFATOTtY AND DEDICATORY.
The duties of a soldier in the field give him little
time to write r(m'tnces, though he may Jive them, take
parts in them, or learn histories from which a hundred
noble st :-i:s could be penned. ,Oue of these true his-
tories, Vitlh few fanciful additions, is contained in this
work, written under circumstances which caused haste,
lack of care, and a crudene's which causes me to do
what I i hiuum do, apologize for its want of literary
merit, wlini I feci a pride in its truth to character and
natui e.
And I dedicate it to the brave end loyal who still
struggle, as I will, in the Army of the United States, un-
til the u hole Union is gloriously restored, or we in its
defence shall have perished.
EDWARD Z. C. .JUDSON.
Alias Ned Buntline,
U. S. Armiy.

CIIAPTER I.
Sadia'! A lower iii the desert of life ! A
seusitive flower! Alas! that such should be
'   born in beauty to fill the earth with the frag-
rance of their lives, and then to perish beneath
our gaze-to die-only with the hope of their
hereafter resurrection to keep their worshipers
from despair. Why is there no transplanting
of material beauty from  the evanescing pres.
ent to the eternal future, without earthly decay?
The winter winds had swept coldly over one
of the love:iest spots in that State which, loy-
al to the core, yet mourns the disloyalty of a
few of the bravest of her sons and the fairest
of her daught ers-noble, staunch old Maryland
Ard though the warm breezes (f spring, and
F   the sunshine, and gentle,rains had begun to coax
out bud and flower from branches and earth,
they came slowly, like light breaking half un-
willingly through the clefts of a shattered thun-
der-cloud. For all Nature seemed to feel that
a winter of humanity was at hand, whcn froz-
en hearts and souls, steeled into hatred, would
refuse to be melted, and clash, with angry bit-
-   terness, one against the other.
The Potomac, which swept past that old
i plantation homestead known as "Springland",
and the home of the Montforts, in its steady
t
7

It-

march to its ocean destiny, moaned sullenly;
the music of its ripples grew harsh as they an-
swered to the call of the winds which pressed
rude lips upon them.
And well might it be so. For that river ran
as a bopndary-mark between portions of the
Union that were now avowedly hostile to each
other. The first alarms of a cruel, unnatural,
and fratricidal war had been thrown athwart its
silvery sheen--its beauty was clouded forever!
.said the spot was lovely. So, with its points
and surroundings, it was. Upon an eminence,
overlooking the river, stood one of those large
and roomy mansions peculiar to those portions
of Virginia and Maryland which were settled
in the early days of our country by the better
and more aristocratic class of colonists--man-
sions somewhat in the style of the home of
Washington, mingling a dash of European state-
liness with republican ideas of comfort in their
architecture. It had broad piazzas and colon-
nades, supported by pillars of Corinthian style ;
its windows were wide and lofty ; its dimen-
sions sufficient to afford shelter for the retinue
of a king.
Around it, a grove of forest trees which, in
the leafy summer-time, would hide it from view
until the visitor was almost at the threshold.
Back a little way in its rear, and toward the
broad acres of cultivated land which stretched
eastward from the river, could be seen the neat
village of whitewashed huts, known as the negro-
quarters.
And away to the right, in a spot where a few
lofty pines and other evergreen trees cast a
shadow on a neat green sward, stood a small
church, built in Gothic style. Newt and tasty,
with a gilded cross reared upon the tower, it
spoke the faith of those who built it and wor-
shiped there.
And but a fewyards away was yet another
beauty-one of the most graceful aids that Na-
ture gives to the mourner to symbolize grief.

7

TW1
I'  . r

4,
49

*1

:
I

\ i  t
r

"'1         s     ,1
'             i
;I
,t
'T          ' '       ,
.L              _        ,
r                 -,

t
'1
A
3

r  .  f L. .
K
c

f

i&amp;,48

the kUiun',


SADIA.

4

SADIA.

A group of weeping willows, the-carliest-leaved
of spring, stood with drooping arms, as senti-
nels over the family-graves of the Montforts,
the Cliffords, and other gentle families of that
section of the State.
There were marble slabs anti monuments, on
which were graven the names of those who hal
been, but were not now -stones on which were
writ their merits and their faith ; but grander
than the marble handiwork of man stood those
drooping monumental trees, which had per-
p chance been planted by some one whose duat
now enriched the soil that nourished them in
their growth.
Beneath one of the tallest of these trees, al-
most touched by the drooling branches which
overhung the tomb against which she leaned,
stood Sadia, the heroine of this story.
And w8 h that church close by, those bravess
of the good and noble at her feet, framed im by
those drooping wreaths of sorrow, let her pic-
ture be drawn for the reader's eye.
Of full medium height, her figure is so fault
less that she seems to tower above that stature,
even as Mary, Queen of Scots, always looked
taller to one at a glance than she really was.
Her hair, of a sunny brown, falls in rich care-
less curls over a white neck, and shoulders
which a sculptor would sigh to copy. IHer
eyes, of that dark, changeable blue n+bich inI
joyous moments will brighten like ocean's azure
in the sunlight, or in sadder hours darken like
that sea in the shadow of the night. IIcr fea-
tures, rather of the Grecian cast, expressive of
great firmness, miirgled with tenderness and
love. Yet while we look upon her, there seems
to be a shade of everlasting sadness in that face.
A smile may come upon, a laugh burst from
those full, rosy lips, yet there are marks of the
heart-storm within, already showing without.
She may be twenty-surely not more. That
delicate hand, with but a mourning-ring for its
jewel-that slender but perfect form, draped in
mourning-robes, as well as the place where she
stands, and the expressoim of her face, tell the
reader that she grieves for losses that may
never be made up, while earth is hers.
At a little distance, a young boy and giri are
standing, seeming to feel an awe-a fear of ap-
proaching the solemn and holy spot where she
stands communing with the spirits of the loved
who have gone before. Their fe itures show
consanguinity ; they evidently are brother and
sister to her, though yet in their early child-
hood.
Reader, you now know Sadia De Montfort-
she stands by the side of the tomb in which but
a few months previous were laid the mortal re-.
mains of both her parents. Descended from an
ancient and honorable rce, one n hiei hal held
honor and patriotism as caote household jew.-
els, they had been called to the Chrstan's
home before the clouds of civil n+ar had over-

shadowed the land of their birth and love'
Blessed fate!
Carline and Marion, her younger brother and
sister, have cotme with her to the cliuhmeniyari.
They stay out in the suTrshine, w tile she seekes
the willow's shade in the chilliness of her deep
sorrow.
But her face flushes up while we are looking
tt her ; the sigh which tremuhijled on her pjs i
hushed back into the silence ofl her boso.n, and
an almost angry flush darts from her ey es, as
she observes two gentleiien approch the spot.
"They inighit at least have h t wec   lie
alone over my dead !'' she muriureh, ns she
walked away from among the gra es toward the
persons allided to, who paused outside the lit-
tle churchyard on the lawn which fronted the
A glance at these intruders before she meets
the m.
One-the elder of the two-~has a look which,
though differing in most respects from hers, still
exhibits sufficient resemblance to prove blood-
relationship. He is tall, finely formed, with
good features. But his expression is inuicative
of a passionate and vindictive character. Firm-
ness, to obstinacy, can be seen in the down-drawn
corners of his thin lips. his age must be thirty,
perhaps more ; for he has lived well, and it ia
hard to tell the age of a fast liver at a glance.
Nd matter for his age; we introduce to you
Waiburton Do Moutfort, elder brother of Sadia,
and one who assumes to himself the control of
the es-ate of Springland, and all upon it ; for
his father died suddenly and without a will, and
lie at once assumed control as the senior heir.
Though there is much that is cold, haughty,
and unlovable in him, yet there is that also
there which we cannot find in his companion-
manhood-open, out-looking manhood.
That companion is his cousin, Sadia's cousin,
Mr. Randolph Beverly, lately of the United
States Navy, who has resigned from that service
because the "Mother of Presidents" and the
IHailot of Nullification have chosen to com-
mence a quarrel in the Union family, and he
thinks his services may be needed in the lap of
the one or at the apron-strings of the other.
While he was in the Navy, and before treason
was known to be lurking under the flag which
he served, he visited Springland, was received
cordially by his aunt and uncle, then living, and
especially that he was the son of the only sister
(already deceased) of Mrs. De Montfort, received
front her every token of love and esteem. lie,
wiimh the susceptibility of a sailor who is sup-
posed to find a sweetheart in every port, fell
deeply in love with l'us cousin Sada ; and that
love, or passion it might be, he yet clung to,
with more than a sailor's constancy.
But his character was what we commenced to
study. ills ready disloyalty to the flag which
Ihe had sworn to serve ; his ingratitude to tie

country which had educated him, were shown
by his d1. rtintg both before the warcloud of
Rebelhon had iore than risen above the hori-
zon. A look at his small black eyes, which
moved restlessly all the time and never were
for a iulmentf xed, even wben he was speaking,
upon those of tme person whom he addressed,
would tell the sttudenit of human character that
be was treneberous and cowardly ; his foppish-
ness of dress and mnae4ier spoke of vanity with-
out fouml aion ; in short, he was a l)cprson whose
stock of m:inhood was l:tmentably deficient, not-
wi thsta  ilLn the "good blood" hycame from.
It ial (lettenior  ted in the channel.
And de iOed1der. o have a pretty fair pic-
ture of three of my most important characters
-the angel, the mortal, amid the fiend. Let us
sec how we '; ill get along with them ?
 ot iindmig  on at the house, after our re-
turn from the mirung s ride,we walked in search
of } on, s  r "' e5ud the brother.  '"Cousin
Bev &amp;ly lcav s to morrow for Charleston, and
wishs to be w\vih you as much as possible be.
fure lie goeS!P
Sadia bowel, but did not trust herself with a
reply ; or the sad emotions which had made her
queenl y Thrm g iver, while she stood by those
dear graves, had not passed away.
SYes, f'ur cousin, \Varburton speaks truly !"
said the young ex-officer. "I have been in-
formed that a coiunwssion waits for me from
our new Government, and I expect soon to be
again afloat to defend Southern rights against
Iort hern oppression, and to teach the coward-
ly Yankees what the blood of the nation's chiv-
airy can do !"
A strangely-scornful smile passed over the
face of  'adia, but still she made no reply.
"Beverly will jomn the Navy, and I the
Army !" said W::rburton, rather nervously, for
he did neot like the quiet way in which his sister
received the information given. " For now that
Sumter has surrendered, and the Abolition Pres-
ident called for troops, there must Le war, and,
for a short time, plenty of it, until the Yankees
see we are in earnest, and then they'll be as
anxious to cry for peace as they are now for
war."
Sadia heard this, and still made no reply.
"You do not seem to be much interested
either in us or the struggle upon which we are
about to enter, fair cousin!" said the young
aspirant for naval honors.
" When men arc rising in rebellion against
the Gov rnmeut which they have sworn to sus-
tain ; when they turn ungratefully upon the
mother who has nurtured them ; they need not
expect those who love their whole country and
its dear old flag, to feel any great personal in-
terest for thenm and none of that favorable to
them or their treasonable cause !"
And now those dark flashing eyes spoke as
well as Sadia's lips, telling him how unmeasur-

G

able scorn could be, when felt by a brave and
patt'iotic woman, looking upon treachery and
cowardice,
And he, turning pale with emotion, and a
petty anger which'a spirit so mean as his could
not suppress, exclaimed
Treason to the Confederacy can be punished
in a woman as well as a man!
I am aware, Sir," she replied scornfully,
"that martyrs are ahvays found in a good cause,
no matter what their sex may be ! And I would
prefer the honor of martyrdom for the Union,
than a queenly position upon the black throne
of treason "
"Sister Sadia-I would thank you to forbear
these gratuitous insults to our cousin-the day
may come when you will bitterly rue them 1"
and the flush of anger darkened the cheeks of
the brother as he spoke.
"If my sentiments are distateful to Randolph
Beverly, he can easily avoid hearing them. I
never seek his presence. And now you wil1
certainly excuse my fu tlher attendance, for I
wish to see my little brother and sister safely to
our desolate home.  Thank heaven they are
too young to mix with treason !
I think Marion will make a most acceptable
midshipman in the vessel to which I shall be
attached. I had intended to make the propo-
sition to Warburton earlier than this, for the
South in this struggle will need every available
person !" said young Beverly, in a sarcastic tone.
"Never, never !" cried Sadia, indignantly.
"That boy and poor little Canine are all that
is left for me to love, protect, and cherish. And
if Warburton carries out his mad intention of
joining the Southern Army, I shall make them
my sole charge, and in some yet loyal part of
the Union try to preserve them from the ills of
a cruel and too heartless world !"
"I think, most-interesting sister, that my
consent will be found necessary for such a step,
not only as the head of the family, but one who
will not permit their young hearts to be turned
away from 'their own sunny South.  I will not
attempt to control your political tastes, how-
ever mad they may be, but I will take charge
of the children !'
"It will be very easy for you to care for them,
Sir, when you are fighting against the flag which
our dear father almost worshiped !"
"If I cannot pay the attention to them which
their youth make necessary, gold can hire re-
quisite attendants-gold can purchase truth
against treason !"
"Yes, the truth of an Arnold or an Iscariot!
I will not parley longer with a brother so un-
natural. Come, Marion and Canine, come to
the house with your poor sister !','
The two children, who had been listening-hal
terrified to the angry conversation about? theme
selves, closed up to their sister like young birds
seeking a mother's protection, aud hurried away

"I.

,z
6j
l r
tti
:: '+  . J .a.x  . u

1


SADIA.

from their dark-browed brother, whose tones
bad never been kind to them.
And be and his scheming cousin stood abash-
ed by her indignant words and loo!:s, until
she had passed beyond the hearing of their
Voices.
Then young Beverly said in a bitter tone
"The hopes which you have encouraged in
my heart of an alliance with your sister, do not
seem to stand upon a very firm foundation
now 1"
"She acts and talks like a fool. But if you
care as much for her as your words hitherto
have indicated, you will not let a woman's whims
er weakness thwart you in your wishes. The
very hint which you gave of getting Marion in-
to the naval service with you, struck terror into
her heart. I will give my consent to his going,
and only withdraw it on one condition."
"And that'"
"is the Fulfillment on her part of the engage-
ment which I have made for her. If she be-
9omes your wife, I will have her here in full
possession of the old homestead, whie I go to
Flo my share in clearing out the invaders of our
homes, and the destroyers of our ancient rights
and privileges. If not, she shall leave that
home as a wanderer, for I will not be trifled
with. And I will force her to a determination
this night !"
"If I was not bound off so soon, Warburton,
I would deprecate your haste. As it is, I feel
too much interested in the matter to ask for de-
lay. If she refuses the proffer which I author-
ize you to make of my haud and name, then
give me Marion for a companion, and see what
a sailor I'll make of him1"
"lRent satisfied, Beverly.  The matter shall
be brought to a crisis this night. And now let
us go up to the old mansion and try some of
the peach and honey which my father left for
the especial benefit of myself and friends. The
angry words I have uttered and have listened
to, have made me as dry as an Eastern shore
herring."
"Of course I'll join you, cousin. When a
sailor refuses grog you may consider the end
of the world at hand."
And the cousins followed the same path taken
by Sadia, leading to the old mansion.
CHAPTER II.
It was but a couple of hours later when Sadia
De Moutfort, seated in her own quiet chamber
in the mansion wherein she had seen her hap-
piest as well as her saddest days, was intruded
upon by her brother, who had come to perform
the promise made to his heartless cousin.
"I have come, Sadia," said he, upon entering
the room, "to know your final decision in re-
gard to the proposal made for your hand by
1andolph Beverly. lIe 18800n to leave us, but

cannot go without knowing whether you in-
tend to listen to his suit or not."
Then lie need not dt lav his departure au
hour ." replied the lady, scorn flushing her
lovely face. "I despise him and his sit, and
never, under an y circumstances, would I listen
to the thought of linking my fate with that of a
traitor to his flag and couiuy f Tlhaut is my an-
swer-the sooner he departs,~the Letter it will be
for my peace."
"Perhaps not, Miss Obstinacy! If he goes,
our Marion goes with him to serve in the  iavv
of the Confederacy."
"You use that threat to alter my determina-
tion, Warburton. It is useless. Yio dare not
let my little brother go from the roof-tree where
his brave and loyal father lived iin honor, and
died respected."
"I dare anything! You know my nature
well, and that I allow no obstacle to thwart my
will, foolish girl!"
You may dare much of evil, Warburton,
but nothing so unmanly as to carry out your
threat with the vain hope of coercing ue into a
hated marriage"
" You will see, and that before another sun
rises !" he replied, moodily. "If you bear to
lose the company of your last relative s on earth,
you are more stubborn than wise. I intend to
go South to-morrow morning,, and before going,
to close'tlis louse. The children and their serv-
ants wil[ go with me. You can remain iin sol-
itude, or go as the affianced brde of one more
than worthy of you."
"Affianced or wedded, I will not go, Warbur-
toni; nor can you tear my little brother and
sister from me without first destroying my hfe I
Beware of making me despe! ate! As hot blood
runs in my veins as flows in your own, and
despair will lend a double strength to my
arm."
"A woman's threats are always id'e," was
Warburton's contemptuous reply, as he rose and
left the room.
"God help me !" sighed poor Sadia, when she
stood alone in her chamber. For she knew that
a firm will and a strong power were opposed to
her. And though she would not show weakncsa
in the presence of her persecutors, she felt
more than she was willing to admit.
"I must be beforehand with Warburton in
his intended removal of the children, or they
are, indeed, lost to me," she said. "I have but
little money at my command, and, alas! few
friends to trust. I think old Hunter would
serve me for the sake of past kindnesses. Him
I will try, at any rate. lie is faithful and cun-
ning by report, though not as wise as some of
our neighbors."
And the lady made quiet preparations for
leaving the house upon a nocturnal visit to the
o-nly one whom she thought could help her in
her difficulties.

BADIA.

Down by the side of the rushing river, not a
mile from the mansion already described in our
first chapter, stood a small and rude log hut,
ouilt partially into the side of the steep bank
-rhich overlooked the water. Upon a small
-lateau in front, barely above high-water mark,
i couple of small skiffs, of the kind used by fish-
ermen on the river, were drawn up. There was
no sign of a garden, or any of the usual com-
forts appertaining even to the poorest and
humblest houses in that section. A fishiog-net,
and some poles and lines, hung under the out-
jutting eaves of the hut, told the occupation of
its sole inmate.
But we must look in upon him to judge of
his character, and learn that he has a part to
play in the life-drama which you, reader, are
now glancing at.
At the same hour when Sadia De Montfort
was sighing for help in her troubles, the inmate
of this hut, known generally as Old Hunter, the
Fisherman, was eating his supper of fish and
hoe-cake, cooked by his own hands. He was a
man whose white hairs told of at least sixty
years of life, if not more ; whose face, bronzed
by the exposure to the weather, had many a
care-furrow worn into it. His dress was rough,
but neat and tidy, and there was that unmistak-
able look of natural nobility -upon his care-
worn face, which would tell the most careless
observer that he had not always dwelt in a hut
or fished for a living. Though the furniture of
the but was rude and scanty, a shelf containing
quite a little library of books, a few superior en-
gravings hung upon the log walls, told that the
tastes and temporary occupation of Thomas
Hunter were widely different. While sitting by a
rude table, no person would observe any deform-
ity in his tall, erect figure ; but when he rose to
cross the room to his rude fire-place, to replen-
ish he tin cup from which he drank his tea, a
limp in his gait betrayed a lameness which seri-
ously incapacitated him from rapid locomotion.
There was one thing upon his walls, so unusual
in such a place, that it cannot be passed by un-
noticed. It was an oil-painting, evidently the
work of a master-hand, representing the scene of
a duel, in which one of the combatants had fal-
len, and the other stood by the side of the dying
man, with an expression of grief and remorse
upon his face, which only an artist of rare genius
could depict. And, in the face of the survivor,
though looking much younger, there was a
striking resemblance to Thomas Hunter. The
seconds and principals seemed to be men of
fashion in their day, and the scenery which
made up the back-ground of the picture was
picturesque in the extreme. A mountain in the
distance, a smooth, silver-faced lake close at
hand, and the forest trees, tinged with October's
golden and scarlet hues, made up this back
t' ground to so sad a scene. The man who bad
fallen still grasped his pistol in hand, but the

7

one who stood erect had cast his down upon
the grass, as if he detested the weapon which
had been the instrument of death in his hand.
The strangest thing of all about the hut was, that
not a thing living but Thomas Hunter could be
seen about the premises, neither dcg nor cat,
nor even a bird to keep the solitary company.
There are few in the world who have not some
living thing to pet-those who have not are in-
deed desolate ; and though the world were full
of thornless flowers, it would be a desert to
them.
Having finished his evening meal by the light
of his wood fire, he removed the single plate,
knife, fork, and cup which made up his table.
furniture, and lightning' an ordinary oil-lamp,
took one of the books from the shelf, and sat
down to read. His eyes had, however, scarcely
rested upon the first opened page when a
sound outside, almost as light as the rustling'of
leaves, attracted his attention. Hastily rising to
his feet, he placed his hand to his breast, as if
upon some concealed weapon, and advanced
noiselessly to the only door in the hut-for it
contained but that one room. Before he got to
the door, a light and timid knock reached his
ears.
"Who is there ?" he asked in a gruff and
husky voice. "Who wants to see poor old
Tom Hunter at this time of night ?"
"A friend-and that friend a woman in dis-
tress 1" was the reply, in tones which trembled,
either from weakness or excitement.
"Perhaps a decoy of that brave Vigilance
Committee, which came and took from the poor
old man the rusty musket that he had to shoot
a duck with once in a while 1" he responded, in a
tone of sarcastic bitterness.
"No, Mr. Hunter, no; but one who was al-
ways welcome winter before last, when you
could not move for the rheumatism that made
you helpless."
" Your voice sounds like that of Sadia De
Montfort, and though her father was my best
friend while he lived, I have been warned to
leave this, my home, for years by his son, War-
burton!"
"I fly from the persecutions of that brother
now! and I come to ask you to help me in my
dark hour of need !# was the response, in bolder
and more earnest tones.
"It is she; I will risk opening the door at
any rate !" said the old man.
And he withdrew a massive oaken bar which
f would have withheld the strength of many men,
and lifted the wooden latch, which still closed
it.
Sadia, pale and tremulous from excitement, at
t once entered the apartment. Hunter immedi-
ately recognized her, and his manner of caution
changed to that of-deep and deferential respect,
"Forgive my doubts, kind lady ; but dark
and perilous times have come upon the coun-

I

q      i

6


1

a

SAA.

try, and harmless as my life has been here, it is
now threatened by more than one bad man."   l
"I know it, Mr. Hunter; and the reason, you1
are true to the flag which my father never
would have deserted had he lived. The flag of
Washington, of Jackson, of Jefferson, and all
good patriots."
"True, Miss" Sadia! I fought, when a mere
child, under that flag against British wrongs. I'
am too old to desert it because home-traitors
threaten it. But I have no time to speak of
myself or .my own .perils now. You said that
you were in distress. Tell me how I can serve
you, and the old man, who would long since
have died but for the unasked Tindness of your
parents and yourself, will try to prove that his
world-chilled heart has yet the fire of gratitude
unquenched in it !"
"My brother has been trying to force me in-
to a revolting marriage with my cousin Ran-
dolph Beverly, who has just received a commis-
sion in the Rebel Navy. To persecute me into
a compliance with his wishes he threatens to
remove my brother and sister from my care-
to place poor Marion in the Rebel Navy. I
wish to save them and myself. To do so, I
must start witi them for Baltimore this night.
Once there, I- have friends who will protect
them and myself. Can you help me? Do not
pause to consider, but think that God will aid
all of us; say yes, and prepare to take me
away."               ,r
Thomas Hunter did pause a moment; in that
moment he looked at the painting which I have
partially described; glanced around the room,
where he had spent many a sadly and there-
fore happily quiet hour, then, with a sigh, he
answered :
"I knew I would have to go, but did not ex-
pect to go so soon, or to have to protect others
than myself. I will go ; your lives are precious;
mine is not. Yours I will save, or-lose my own
in the attempt; and then the God of the inno-
cent must help you. My boat is light, but it
can carry you three; for by the river only can
we escape. Once at Washington and past the
pickets and guerrillas which already line the
rver, you can easily reach Baltimore; and I
will be near one who may remember the boy
who was wounded by his side at Lundy's Lane,
and after the war shot his best friend for speak-
ing idly of his fame. I believe Winfiehd Scott
will not forget me when, in my old age, I ten-
der what is left of me in a cause which he, a
loyal Virginian, defends !"
"No; he will reward your loyalty, and all
that poor Sadia can do to reward your services
shall be done. 3ut I must hurry back, for I may
be missed from the house, my steps watched,
and we should fail."
"Yes ; go quickly, lady-bring no baggage.
But bring some arms and ammunition, if you
can, for I have only a knife to defend our party

with, and it is a poor weapon in an old man's
hand against odds. Do not be gone over two
hours; for then the moon goes down, and we
can embark in darkness, and be far away before
day dawns. While you are gone, I shall con-
ceal all that I value here, and be ready the
moment you come. Bring warm clothing upon
yourself and the children, but no provisions.
My hooks and line will find us food till we are
beyond danger, if we pass it at all !"
Sadia made no reply ; time was too precious
for words; she merely pressed the brave old
man's hand, and hurried out into the stilncss of
the night to return to the mansion where she
had once reigned the Queen of Beauty, Love,
and Light.
"God bless her! it may be the last act of a
sad life ; but my sun will go down into the val-
ley of death bright to the last, if I am serving
her !" murmured the old man. And he then
reclosed his door, and began to conceal in a,,
secret cavity under his broad hearthstone vari-
ous articles. Among them, carefully wrapping
it in an old canvas sail, was the oil paintng we
have before alluded to. Leaving him thus en-
gaged, we will travel elsewhere, for we have
many scenes to witness, and but brief space to
do it in.
CHAPTER III.
In a room furnished gorgeously, but in far
different style from that of Sadiz, her brother
found Randolph  Beverly, when he returned ,
from his last threatening interview with his
sister. In it a side-board, covered with spark-
ling decanters and glasses, occupiei.a prominent "
position.  Boxes of cigars, arms, and imple-
ments of sport, hung or were scattered careless-
ly around. The appearance of thp room indi-
cated the taste of him who there m t his friends.
Beverly was sitting by the marble centre table,
discussing practically the respective merits of
some rich old wine, and a principle cigar, and
seemed so pleased with the occupation, that he
hardly turned his head to greet the messenger
whose mission had been so import:a':t so far as
regarded the hopes and desires of the young
onieer.
Warburton looked rather piqued at the utter;
coolness of his cousin, not thinkig that his own,
blood ran so hot from the obstinaey  iicli had.
just defied him.
"You seem to be enjoying yourself. Beverly !",,
said he, rather tartly. "If I were to tell vout
that Sadia is as haughtily defiant to m y wishes
and your own, in spite of a I threats, it miglrt
lessen your pleasure !"
"Not at all, dear Cousin Warburton. In love:
as well as war, the most heroic meet reverses,
and their best claim to heroism in both cases is'
to meet them with the stoicism  of an Indian.
-I do not feel that a battle is lost because I an
repulsed. Let but our original plan he carried

0

_I


V

SADIA.

e

sU
'-3.
y                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %m

out, that leaving Tn the early morning for the
South, with all the servants and both the chil-
dren, and you will see that she will follow. To
buy them she will take me, and when success
has crowned the Southern arms, aside from all
prize-money to be won, two of the handsomest
estates in the country will be united! hope,
my dear boy, is strong in my heart yet; and this
delicious old wine is not calculated to depress
my spiriIs, I am sure !"
"I should think not. I will try a glass or
two to male me feel a little cooler. For my
temper nas nev r very good ; age does not im-
prove it, 1 an sure !"
" Eut it does this wine ; it is as mellow as a
Creole's l:iss, and cs potent as her love !" ,
I suppose from your language you know
something of both !"
"Saiiors Know a great deal which they never
confess, my boy ! I refill my glass to you ; and
after a few Imore of the same sort are gone, I
propose to inquire if there will be anything to
prevent an early start !"
You need-not rear for that. I have already,
been prleuaing for a removal too long not to be
ready at an i-o r's notice to start ! You can
have all hands ready fur a start by sunrise,
can't you, N ap1,"
The last question was addressed to an intel-
ligent-louking old negro who at that moment
entered the i oo'u, hat in hand.
Ile raised his hand to the locks of grizzly
grey which bordered his high but narrow fore
bead, and with that obsequious grin which is
as niatuial to a Southern negro as it is to a
baboon. replied
If Mars'r Warburton tink it can be did, in
course it can ! lie does de tinkin', an' we boys
de wort a'.  Dev tole me at de quarters dat
Mars'r wanted old Napoleon, an' here I is,
Sai !"
"Yes; I wanted to see you to get ready for
this ver y move. I don't want any fuss made
about it, but get the wagons and mules ready,
and the old familv-carriage, and my horses,
and all the hands for an early start. Let the
wcmen make corn bread and cook bacon all
night. We shall be at least ten days on our
jurney. We have got to get clear of the old
place for a while, or we'll all be prisoners to
the Yankees. They'll hang all the niggers, and
put us white folks in jail if they catch us 1"
" De Lor, iars'r ; but'I tought you was all
agwine to fight 'em here, an' drive 'em back!
bats what the speechers said to d Court House
tie odder day !"
"Yes; but we are going further south, to
draw them away from home. We'll whip them
there se bad, they'll never get back."
"Yes, Mars'r, dat's what's de matter, am it?
Well, you knows all about dem tings-we nig-
gers doesn't. Anyting more' for orders, Mars'r ?"
No, Napoleon, I leave everything for you to
I

11

arrange. Here, take a glass of brandy, and do
your work well, and you shall have a bottle full
to travel with to-morrow."
"Tank you, Mara'r-tank you. Die am do
real stuff dat lifts de nigger's soul to glory. I'll
yearn dat bottle, see if I doesn't."
And the old darkey went off smacking his
thick lips over the beverage which he so highly
praised.
"That nigger has been worth more than any
dozen we ever had on the place," said Warbur-
ton. "After father died, when I paw things were
darkening up between us and the North, I dis-
charged our Yankee overseer, and put Nap in
his place. The old rip has got more work out
of the boys by half than the Yankee did, and
licked them less. But he has used a little more
applejack, and meal, and bacon. Ie thinks if
a nigger can get all he wants to eat and drink
by working for it, he'll work; and I believe in
his policy."
aI shall not dispute it, only I believe a little
flogging enlivens men up once in a while. When
we had flogging and grog in the old Navy, we
had better seamen than when both were abol-
ished."
"You are talking of white men-I of nig-
gers."
"Of course; but I don't make much difference
in my ideas of a poor white man and a nigger.
I always treat them about the same, only the
nigger the best, when there is a choice."
"If our niggers could be trusted with arms,
we would soon end this war. But if we give
them arms, and make them believe they are as
good as white men, that will be the last use they'll
ever be to us."
"Of course ; and he'll never be so foolish as to
do it."
"But what if the Yankees arm them?"
"We must keep them out of Yankee hands.
That is what I shall do, and every true friend to
the South and Southern rights will do the
same."
"I hope so. Pass a fresh decanter from the
side-board, Warburton. If we're to keep a night-
watch, we must keep our lips wet, or our eyes
will close."
"There's no need of keeping any night-watch
on our part. Old Nap is faithful, and I will
have orders for us to be called an hour before
daylight. We can then breakfast, and be on the
road by sunrise."
" As you like. .I'll take another glass, and
turn in, for one watch below is better than three
on deck."
And the already half-tipsy son of Neptune
took another smile, bade his cousin good-night,
and went to his room humming a part of an old
naval drinking-song.
CHAPTER IV.
When Sadia reached the back-door of the


12

mansion, on her return from her visit to the old
fishernai's but, she suddenly and une xpecteC'ly
encounter d old Napoleon- as he was returning
from his visit to his master'3 room. II recog-
nized lien by the light of the tin lantern which
he carried in his lia nd, and taking off his hat,
said:
Is von gittin' ready, too, Missy Sidv ?"
Geuing ready for what, Nalpoleon ?" she
asked, seeing by his marnner that somnethiog im
portant was on his mind.                 .
Why, do moving' in le mornn--de moving'
ob ebberyting and ebberybody.    Dat's what
Mars'r Warburtoi tole me to git ready for."
Did ho tell you why this moving was to take
place
"Yes, Missy Sady. He said de Yankees was
a coin' to hang all us niggers, and put de white
folks in jail."
Well, you may believe him, Napoleon. lie
is your master ; but lie will not include me in
his moving. I shall not go with him"
"Why, Missy, you wouldn't let the Yankees
put you in jail ?"
"No, Napoleon, they will never do it.  In-
stead of hanging the negroes, they would set
them free. But I do not wish to interfere with
my brother's arrangements ; you do as lie bade
you. I can look out for myself."
"What, Missy, wid all do hands done gone
'away?  Datll nebber do! Doesn't you 'mem-
ber dat my Silla is your old nurse, dat has al-
ways been wid you since you was a baby. And
didn't your good ole fader tell her an' inc dat we
must nebber lobe you till we died."
"Yes, Napoleon. I remember all that. And
you and Priscilla have ever been f.ithfil to me.
I shall be sorry to part with you; but if you go
South with my bro' her, we liiust part."
"By golly! I des n't want to go no furder
Souf dan I is now. I Lues dis ole place-I likes
ebberyting about it, and I don'r half belebe all
I've heard, no way. I wish you'd tellie what
to do, Miss Sady ?  I feel as if I belonged to
you more dan anybody else, and mg Siia does
all belong to you. An'all de people on,de )lace
tub you, Miss Sady, 'cause, since you was a lilly
gal, you had a smile an' a kind word for 'em
ebbery day, and nebber forgot 'em while de
Chrismas log was burning .  You jess tell us
what to do, and see if we don't do it now!"
Where did you leave my broth her ?" was
Sadia's question, after a moms it's reflection.
"Up in his room wid slat drinkin' ossifer,
Mars'r Beverly-bofe of 'em 'carryin' 'bout as
much as dey could hold."
"Do you think they twill be out again to-
ighit "
" No, Missy Sady. Cause dey lebe all for
dis chile to do 'bout gitt in'ready fe a start."
"Then, Napoleon, if I can trust you I will
tell you a scret-"
"You ist can trust me, Missy Sady. You

I nebber spoke a cross word to me in all your
life, you tink I not be true to ole Mars'r's favo-
rite chile? I cut out my tongfue before I tell
anything she tell me not to tell
S"I will tell you then, Napoleon. Mv li'broth-
er wishes me to marry that drunken cousin of
his. I will not."
"  o wonder, Missy Sady.   You is goo(1
enough for Ginral Ja:ckson, or any o.l lcr great
man; and I tink Mars'r Boverly am poor trash
any way !"'
Do not interrupt me ngain, Napoleon, but
, hear all I have got to say."
"Yes, Missy Sady. I is all 'tention.'
Your master, my     brother W)arburton,
wants to force me to ih's marriage, Ib ciarry-
ing you all ofi, and takihI my litle brother
and sister with him, too. rThem I will save by
carrying them away to a safe place this very
iiight. I have already made arranr enients for
it. TI'hat is the secret I was going to tell you.
You will not btrav me, I know.''
t " NoMissy Sad, not nebber. But it seems
to me like a new light was breaking out afore
me. I didn't half liketde hm ry Mari' War-
burton seemed to be in. And den he gib me
a glass of brandy, an' prowe'cd miie a whole bot--
tie on de road to-morrow. 'Inebber knew him
do so much as dat afore for me, and 've worked
harder dan any mule on de place for hint since
your good ole fodder died. Dere's samlin' in
de Bible dat I've heard 'ei talk about de deh-
b1l tempting' folk:.  I reckon dat bottle of
brandy was meant to teimpt dis idgger to do
wrong. Derefore, and because I doesn't t'iuk
I shadl hab dat bout, to-moirow, 'cause I mean
to fly from de temptation. Jest w:.rc  oui go,
Miss Sady, dis chile and his ole vife SUa will
go. Dat am a spoken fact! DIs chile sees de
light, and it is where you goes, an' he'll fuller
dat light sure. And (lere's more dan me will
go too wid you, Missy Sady."
Sadia, who expected no aid but that of old
Hunter in her intended fight, was at a loss
what to say or do now. She well knew how
faithful all of her father's oli servants were to
her ; sihe kucw, too, that if the plans of her
brother were carried out, they would be taken
into a worse servitude-probably sold to help
the treasury of a disloyal Confederacy, or used
in some way to aid in carrying on a cruel and
unholy war, which her nobie and loyal heai t
could only look upon with horror. And she
thought that it might be in. her power to arrest
their destiny ; but in attempting 'to do so, she
might fail ; and if she did, she might lose the
little brother and sister whose safety was now
her main care.
All of these things Miassed rapidly through her
mind, and she hesitated what to do.
"Missy Sady, what am   de trouble, for dis
chile sees that some n trouble your mind right
smart 9" asked the old negro.

SADIA..

"I was thinking how it would be possible for
me to take you and a few more of the faithful
servants with me,,without danger of our being
-pursued and you being taken from me. For.
me they will never dare to take !"
"IHow was you ngwine at first, Missy Sady ?"
"In a boat down the river, to-night, with a
trusty friend. But the boat will only carry
four."
"Dere's more'rwone boat on de ribber, Missy
Sady, I s'pect. We got four belongin' to dis
plantation, an' any one oh demt will carry a
dozen ob us niggers. You just say 'you luff us
go wid you, and I reckon when Mars'r Warburton
wake up in de mornin' he'll find de horses an'
de mules, but he mist dribe um heself! Ya,
ya l Jes' say we may go, Missy Sady, and see
if we isn't all ready, wid plenty to eat on de
way t"
w And will you fight if we are pursued ?"
" Yes, if Missy Sady tell us to. She our
captain, and we'll 'bey orders! But I reckon
Mars'r might as well get along widout his tree
or four double-barrell guns and de two rifles and
dem pair of rewolvers dat be practice wid ebbery
- day ! We may need 'em more dan he does !"
" Yes-all the available arms must be taken.
And now that I say you may go, hurry, Napo-
leon, and get all the people that you can trust
ready, and meet me with your boats in front of
old Hunter's hut, on the river, in two hours
No words or actions to betray o-1r intentions to
the only two who will oppose them. I will try
to see them set, and get them so lulled into se-
curity that they will sleep late. Send Priscilla
to my room right away. She must help me
take care of Marion and Carline. Come your-
self for the arms and ammunition in an hour.
You will find them in the dark cupboard at the
end of the front hall. I will have the door un-
locked."
"All right, Missy Cap'n Sady ; I 'stand de
orders, an ' I 'boys 'em, see if I doesn't."
And the old negro, following his new light,
hurried away ; while Sadia, more hopeful from
having additional strength with her, entered the
house with a lighter heart than she had when
she left it.
Passing the room where she expected to hear
sounds of convivild enjoyment from her brother
and cousin, she paused to listen. But she heard
nothing. Both had retired, to sleep away the
effects of their potations. This she learned by
meeting the servant, who had been directed to
call them at four o'clock in the morning. She
i      told him that he might go to sleep, she would
herself awaken them. And the drowsy boy very
k      willingly hurried away to his blanket in tht
kitchen; for one of his race seldom refuses
chance to sleep.
Sadia no* hurried to her own room, and lay
ing aside the hood and shawl which had beer
t&amp;hr protection against the heavy dews of th

night, she entered the next apartment which
opened from within hers, where on two beds
rested those who only were dear to heron earth
-her little sister and younger brother. She
woke them both with kisses, and asked them if
they would rather go away and live with her
than be carried off by her brother.
That brother they both feared, but did not .
love ; for fear and love in a huuian-heart are in-
compatible.  Therefore, their answer can be
easily supposed. With tearful eyes and cling-
ing arms, they begged to go wherever she went,
and that they might never be separated from
her. She told them to dress noiselessly, and
began herself to gather such light and easily-
carried articles as would make the journey
comfortable as possible. All her money and
jewelry she carefully secured upon her person ;
and then, when her old nurse Priscilla came,
she placed the children in'her charge, and went
herself upon the most responsible and danger-
ous duty of the night, that of securing arms
and ammunition. For, to get these, she had to
go into the room adjoining her brother's bed-
room, and she knew not whether his slumbers
would be heavy or Fght. But, at all risks, the
arms must be had-to render her departure
more safe, pursuit less rapid ; for no one would
pursue an armed party, themselves unarned.
With a hand nerved by the courage of her
true womanly heart, she cautiously opened tho
door of the room in which the cousins had
spent the evening, and where the arms were
kept. The light still burned upon the centre-
table, and by it she saw, to her surprise, not
unmixed with terror, her naval cousin, stretched
at full length on the floor. A broken tumbler,
an empty decanter, the stains on the carpet
showing where most of its contents were gone,
told what had brought him back after having
bade his cousin good-night, and the reason of
his downfall.
At first she hesitated to enter, but the low
snoring of the inebriate proclaimed his insensi-
bility to hearing, for thunder was but little more
than an echo to it.
Glancing across the room, and observing that
the door of her brother's bedroom was closed,
she stealthirly entered, and going to that door,
listened. here, too, she heard heavy breathing;
and now, satisfied of safety, she hurriedly gath-
ered the weapons and ammunition from differ-
emt parts of the room and took them outside.
Then the ludicrous and contemptible position
of her cousin raised the spirit of mischief in
. her bosom, and tearing a leaf from a note-book,
she wrote upon it:
e   "Sleep on. brave cavalier, with your chosen ride by
a your side. Though weak in the spirit at present, she
may be resuscitated by due attention, and aid -you in
- rising once more to your feet. Hockhand soda-water
are excellent for a morning headache; both can be
n found in the cellar. But a cure for tlhe heartache may
e not be found any easier than will be the one who pens

t

SADIA.

y:
1

f
f
i
f
i
f
1
tt
S
i
t
k
t
k
t
}
6
s"

R
A


I'

SADIA.

14

SADIA.

these lines, and prefers to leave you'and her brother
with your bottles than to go where only Rebels for a
time can proper. Farewell forever.
" SADIA DE MONTFOUtT."
These lines she pinned upon Beverly's breast
with a fearless hand ; then extinguishing the
light, she noiselessly left the room.
To take the arms below to the place designat-
ed, occt1laied her but a few minutes, and she
found Napoleon there already waiting for them.
" Golly, Misv Cap'n Sady ! we is in luck ."
he cried., "You'se got 'em all."
Yes,' she replied. "The i-evolvers I shall
carry niysclf, for I know how to use them.
Thomas Hunter . must lave one of the best
guns, for he is a brave old man, and will be our
guide."
Yes, Missy; he brave. He live dere all
alone by heself, and not afraidd of de debbil.
lie sw'ar at de Vigilawns mens, I hear 'em say,
awful, cause dey take his ole gun from him.
Some of 'em say dey hang him one dese days.
If he go 'way rid us, dey'11 have to catch him
afore dey h.tng him."
"Well, never mind talking any more, Napo-
leon ; it is time we were all moving. In half
an hour, I shall be at the river side with the
children and Priscilla. Every one not ready to
embark when I get there will be left ; for we
must be many miles from     here before day
dawns !'
Napoleon said no more, but carefully putting
the ammunition-belts about his person, he gath-
ered up the arms and left.
CHAPTER V.
The time Lad elapsed when Sadia was to re-
turn to the but of the old fisherman. This he
knew by reference to an old silver watch which
he frequently looked at; and he began to show
considerable nervousness, going frequently to
his door to look out and listen. All at once he
saw and heard something which more than ever
startled him. IHe'closed his door as he stepped
outside, that the fire-light might not glare out,
and then bent low down that he might be sure,
his eye-sight had not deceived him. For he
thought he had seen dark figures moving be-
tween him and the water which rolled in a
smooth, unbroken tide beyond. He was not
mistaken. Noiselessly they were moving down
to the river-bank-who or what, he did not
know, but he counted until he saw twenty per-
sons standing between him and the shining wa-
ter.
What could it mean. They had passed with-
in a few yards of his but without noticing it, ap-
parently--they had passed within ten feet of his
up-turned boats without paying the least atten-
tion tQ them.
Something foul is going on, I'm afraid !" he
murmured. "I fear the poor girl's plan has
been discovered, and they want to catch her in

the act of leaving. It must be so. I will at
least meet her on the road, and warn ler of
what I've seen."
And the old man, acting upon the impulse of
the thought, hurried off in the narrow path
which led up to the mansion, making his steps
as light as possible, while near his supposed en-
em ies. After leaving the bank of the river, he
increased his pace to a run, which was very
suddenly interrupted as he turned a narrow
corner around a brush-fence, by a collision.
And that collision so sharp and sudden that
both parties reeled back and fell to the earth-
the clattering of weapons showing that one of
the party was well armed.
",e -devil-who's that ?" was Hunter's first
exclamation as he picked himself up, and peer.
ing forward in the darkness, tried to make out
what it was that lay grunting and groaning be-
fore him.
"Oh, good Mars'r Debbil, if you is de-deb-
bil, don't butt again dis chile no more!'' groaned
the man in the path, whom the reader may rec-
ognize easily as Napoleon, with his load of
arms.
"Only a nigger. What a fuss you make,
darkey !" said the old fisherman, contemptuous.
ly. "Who are you? Speak, or l'il let you
feel the weight of my boot."
The negro had ceased howling when hunter,
spoke; and now recognizing his voice, in a
much altered tone, he asked :
" Isn't dat you, Mars'r Hunter. Cause if it
is, I belongs to Missy Sady, an' she'll be along
here right direckly, to tell you so!"
The old man muttered something about a
woman's folly in trusting a nigger-he evident-
ly having a very poor opinion of the race.
Then he replied to the question.
"Yes-I am Tom hunter. What are you
doing out this time of night ?"
"Didn't you hear dese guns a rattlin' when
you butt me ober like a sheep ? I was a fotch-
in' ob de best gun on do plantation for you,
sah-but dere's somefin' coming down de path
behind dis chile. He'd better be up, so as to
be ready for anodder butting' match. But I
knows who dey is. My Silla's eves shine in de
dark allIsame as a cat's!"   -
'I knows dat are wuffless nigger's voice-
dat's my old 'Nap' in tie road - Miss Sady !
What you layin' dere for when we'se s'pcctin
you down to de ribber!" said a sharp voice;
and a negro woman, bearing a child w her arms,
gave Napoleon a lift in the rear with her foot
that started him to his feet in an instant.
"What is the matter here ?'' now asked a
voice clear as the note cf a silver bugle.
"Nuffin, Miss Sad', on'y Mars'r Ilunter butt
agin me in front, and now Silla butt agin me
from behind. I is up, an' I got de arms an'
ammernition all safe ! I neber drap not one ob
dem, dough I drap myself uncommon hard !"

said Napoleon, who ~gathered himself up in
marching order.
"And what brought you here, good friend
Thomas ?" asked Sadia, who recognized Hunter
in spite of the gloom.
"Because, Miss Sadia, at the time when I ex-
pected you, a lot of persons, whom I do not
know, filed silently past my hut, and I left them
standing on the bank of the river. I thought
it was some trap to catch you, and I ran up
here quickly to meet and warn you. In so do-
ing, I run afoul of old Napoleonhere, whom I
now know. The collision knocked most of the
sense out of me, and about all out of him, to.
judge from his talk. Now, have you any idea
who those people are that evidently are on the
watch for some one ?"
"Yes, Thomas. They are my father's faithful
slaves, who prefer to follow me, and share my
fortunes, to going South with my cruel and un-
natural brother.!"
"All going?" asked f'unter, quietly.
"All but one, and him I knew to be devoted
to his master's interest. He sleeps like a log in
the old kitchen 1"
"Well, Miss, it is by your orders, and I'll
not grumble against it. I only say, that so large
a party cannot easily evade discovery. With one
boat I could have got through undiscovered.
But we have no time for parley. If your peo-
ple have boats, let them follow the one in
which I take you and your brother and sister.
Of the arms, I want one gun-if we are pur-
sued, and discovered, we must all fight. No
cords now, but hurry to the river. We can be
%ut four hours afloat before we must haul in and
aide for the day ! If we are lively, we can reach
I lagoon by that time, where we can, with care,
Blind one day's safety from the keenest search !"
"Lead the way-we will follow !" said Sadia,
who led her little brother Marion by the hand,
while Carline slept in the old nurse's strong
arms.
In' a short time, the river-bank was reached ;
and Thomas 11unter,;assuming direction of mat-
ters, soon saw that all hands were in the boats.
When he saw the quality of the plantation-
boats for capacity and speed, and the stalwart
arms which were ready to tug at the oars, he
altered his mind about taking one of his own
boats; but taking the oars from both, and
knocking a hole in the bottoms to render them
useless, left them, and then took a seat in the
fastest of the plantation-boats, in which he had
already placed Miss Sadia and her charges.
It was an hour later than the time he had
named, when the boats, three in number, push-
ed off, but they darted down the rapid river
with a sped which satisfied him ; for he said,
in a low tone, to Sadia, as they glided away
from the shores of the dear old place:
" I feel as if God was with us, lady, and that
our plans and wishes will be carried out. Bc-

15

fore daylight, we will reaeli the safest hiding-
place on the Potomac. There we can spend the
whole day in counting our numbers, examining
our resources, and laying plans to guide our
future movements, which must be made to morO
at night only, until we reach Washington."
"Very well, good friend. I resign the whole
management to you," said Sadia.
And, wearied out with excitement and exer-
tion, she dropped her head upon the lap- of her
old nurse, and slept.
CUAPTEIR VI.
While our voyagers are progressing with all
the speed which hope and fear, and the current
of a river too often crimsoned with human gore,
can give them, we will mentally walk back to
the almost deserted plantation, and see how
affairs open there with the dawn of day-at
the dawn of day, I said.
When day dawned, so far as human kind was
considered, all was as still as if none were liv-
ing within the mansion. The roosters- had
been crowing for hours, and the unmilked cows
lowing in their lot, and the horses whinnying
for grain in their stalls for a long time, when
Warburton De Moutfort was aroused by the
heat of the sun, over an hour high, shining in
through the window upon his'feverish face.
"This is four o'clock with a vengeance!" he
cried, as he sprung from his bed, and dashed
his head.into a basin of cold water. "I'll lick
the life out of that stupid boy of mine! I sup-
pose he went to the barn to look after the
horses, and dropped asleep on the hay. We
should have been across the ferrj, and moving
over into the valley by this time."
Hurriedly putting on his clothes, he entered
the next room ; and there he saw the cousin
whom he wished to force upon his brave, loyal,
and lovely sister,:lying precisely as she had left
him the night before.
Glancing at the paper pinned upon the breast
of Beverly, he stooped, read it, and at once
recognized the handwriting.
"Rather a severe eut upon a young gentle-
man of decidedly convivial qualities," he said,
sarcastically.
Then shaking the sleeper roughly by his
arm, he cried out loudly:
"Wake up, Lieutenant! wake up! This is
rather a harder bed than the one in your own
room."
'Is it four o'clock?-tirue to go?" muttered
Beverly, partially aroused.
"Not four yet, but it will be soon-after din-
ner, man. What on earth are you doing here ?"
"God only knows. I have' been walking in
my sleep, I expect ; for I went to my room
after leaving you last night. And here I am
with a d'euced bad headache."
"But a recipe for its cure is pinned to your

/.n

'f  . 1    ..


it,

SADIA.

breast, I see. You have had an earlier visitor
than 1, it seems."
" Thunder and Mars! I know I was tight
last night, but I did not expect to be exposed
to this,' iiiuttered Beverly, as he tore the paper
from his coat, and looked at it. "But what
does she mean about leaving, cousin?  Is there
not some serious meanug in that ?"
I reckon not " repled Warburton, quietly.
" She has threatenedl leaving home more than
once, and has never done it yet."
"A woman's threats are not alwaysto be de-
spised. I wonder what brought h,:r here to
discover me in my condition ?"
"She may have come for some cordial or
liquor for a sick nigger. They always go to
her for everything they  :nt. By-the-way, I
should think a little peach and honey would do
you good, cousin. I know a few spoonfuls wiM
not hurt me. And then we'll meet the haughty
lady at breakfast, and see if she is ready to be
left alone or go with us, where glory waits us."
"Ishall not object to the peach and honey,
believing it more palatable if less poetic than
hock and soda-water," said Beverly, approach-
ing the sideboard. "But, Washburton, I'm
afraid something has gone wrong, or we should
not have been allowed to oversleep ourselves.
Your directions to Napoleon to be ready for an
early start were very explicit. And the lust
words I heard you say were,' we are to be called
at four o'clock '."
"Yes, and my body-servant, Bob, was told,
the last thing, to do so. I'll soon see where the
ecrse is ! Brush yourself up and get ready for
breakfast. By Jove, I wonder where my guns
and revolvers have gone? I gave no orders to
have them packed. Sadia must have been play-
ing us some trick."
And Warburton, who at this late moment
discovered the loss of his arms, began to be a
great deal more anxious than his cousin had
seemed to be. He hurried out of the room,
and'instantly repaired to the room usually oc-
cupied by his sister. She was not there. He
darted into the inner apartment, where little
Canine and Marion always slept. They, too,
were gone.
"By heavens, she has carried them off!" he
cried, in angry bitterness. "She has not slept
in her bed ; but theirs have been occupied. I
must see to this, for she cannot get them out of
my reach !"
And he rushed out to find some servant, of
whom to make further inquiries. In hunting
over the house, he at last stumbled on Bob, still
snoring in his blanket, before the embers of the
kitchen-fire.
"Get up, you cursed scoundrel!t" he shout-
ed, kicking him with his heavy boot. "Is this
calling me at four o'clock? Get up before I
kick the black heart out of you!"
" Wha--wha's do matter, 1Mars'r Burton ?"

exclaimed the terrified boy. rising to a sitting
posture, and rubbing his great red eyes as if to
open them wider.
".Matter enough I  Where is Miss Sadia?
Speak, you black imp, or I'll send one more
nigger to the devil, and that in a hurry! Out
with what you've got tssay !"
" Miss Sady, I hasn't done seen her since last
night. arter I carry up your wash-water, and
you told me to sit up and call you at four
o'clock. Dat I was agwine to do, but she said
I needn't mind dat-she'd call you herself, and
I might come down an' go to sleep ; and so I
did, for I was berry tired. Dat's all I know,
Mars'r Burton, 'fore God it is-au' I didn't mean
nuflin wrong-you knows I didn't I"
No; curse you! you don't know enough to
mean to do wrong, but yet do a d-d sight of
it. Go blow the horn for old Napoleon, and
tell him to have every nigger on the place up
in the room right away !"
" Yes, Mars'r Burton ; I do 'em right off!"
And the terrified boy, who had never seen his
master so angry before, hurried off;  a d in a
minute more the notes of the far-sounding
plantation-horn rung out in the still morning
air.
Meanwhile, Warburton rejoinel his cousin,
who, having finished a hurried morning-toilet,
had returned to the room of the former.
"It is as bad as you expected. Tne girl, and
both of the children, are gone !" said Warbur-
ton, as soon as he entered the room.
"Gone? Where ?"
"I have no idqa. I have sent for all the serv-
ants to try and find out: I can find no house-
servant about but Bob, and he says my sister met
him, after he received my last orders, and told
him to go to sleep-that she would call us."
"By Jove, we'll have a chase to catch her, I
fear. For she is as smart as women ever are
made! If she has a start, and we don't get her
track quickly, we'll find her words in that note
coming true ! We should have kept watch and
watch ourselves!"
"I wish we had. But there is no use in cry-
ing for that which is done. To undo it is our
first work. Well, Bob, what news-are the hands
coming in?"
"De hands, Mars'r Burton?  I tinic de debbil
done bin about last night. I blowed de horn,
and blowed it, and I didn't sec nobody a stir-
riu'! So I jess run down to de quarters fast as
ebber I could, an' look in all de cabbins, and
dere wasn't a single nigger dar. Dey'r all
clean gone, M'ars'r Burton !"
"The horses, mules, wagons, too, I s'ippose!''
cried Warburton, as he ground his teeth in
anger.
"No, M:rs'r ; demv's all hers; I see derm
about. But de smoke-house door stan' open.
I guess somebody been in dar1"
-' Are you sure my saddle-horses are here ?"

F

c;
0
tz
02

I


-V

SADIA.

"Yes, Mars'r; I hear 'em    whinny in de
stable, when I run by."
"Then saddle two of them in a hurry. Bev-
; erly, we'l try and find a cold bite to breakfast
on, fill our flasks, and by that time the horses
will be ready. Then we'll see what has become
of this fast woman; for I believe she has enticed
off every hand but Bob on the place. They
may have gone to some near point, to claim
protection; they would not have started men,
women, children, and all, for a long journey
;without wagons and animals to draw them!"
"Have you no boats?     Can't niggers find
transportation by water as well as by land ?"
asked Beverly, quietly.
"l3 Jove! I'll bet a hundred you've hit it.
We have boats for taking wood and produce to
market, and for the hands to fish in. I'll bet
that mad girl has made a start for Washington,
to put herself and the niggers under the pro-
tection of the cursed Federals! -But she can
never get there. The river is too well picketed
by our folks ; and if I find she has taken that
track, she can have but a short start, and we'll
soon overtake her !"
"I may be of tsome help to you in the trip ;
but I cannot be long absent, for I have to re-
port fir duty very shortly 1"
"Oh! well have her back in a day or two-
never fear ; and now that she has taken such a
bold hand, I'll exercise my full scope of power
over her! She shall go where I list, and do
what I wish, or she shall envy the fate of the
poorest wench that ever worked in a rice-field.
But Ill go look for a cold-cut, which we'll
wash down with something as good as coffee,
and"then we'll see if we can strike the trace of
these early skedaddlers !"
CH APTER YI.
Wlen   Sadia  De Montfort awoke on the
morning of her departure, she was astonished to
find ble boats no longer moving down the
broad and clear river, which she knew and
loved so well, but brought to, motionless, in a
brook just wide enough to admit their passage.
The water was clear and sparkling where the
boats had been drawn in under some overhang-
ing branches, but a little ways below they
seemed to deaden into a darker, deeper pool, as
if they had already found their vent in the
back-water of some large stream; and such was
the case. The jar of the boats striking the
shore caused Sadia to awake, and she instantly
asked the old fisherman where they were.
"Full forty miles below your own sweet
" Spriugland", lady and in a spot so far back
t from the river, and so surrounded by swamps
in front, aLd mountains in our rear, that I think
we can pass a day, or even more, here, if it be
Necessary, wiLhout any one suspecting our
Y" location. I came here and built a hut three
years ago, and though I fished and hunted all
i

about for nearly two months, I did not Bee Ca
human soul. If I had gone out upon the river,
I could have seen plenty of them-but I did not
choose to. Now, if you please, as we must paseo
the day here, we will all go up and see if my old
home is safe. It is but five minutes' walk from
here."
"I am ready ; com    Marion and Carline ;
we will see what hind of a home we can find in
the wtlwood."
"And you, boys, bring along something for
breakfast. You can build a fire in here with-
out danger," added Hunter, as he, with a cour-
teous bow, extended his hand to assist Sadia to
the shore.
The old path from the landing was still plain,
though somewhat obstructed by brambles; but
these were brushed aside by the yet vigorous
old man, as he limped along ahead of Sadia,
carrying the double-barreled shot-gun in his
hand, which Sadia had given him. It seemed to
Sadia scarce two minutes from the time when
she left the boat, before they emerged from the
thick underbrush  and   overhanging forest-
branches into a small circular prairie of per-
haps two acres. On the left of this rose a per-
pendicular wall of rock, the base evidently of
some great mountain ; and under this cliff,
close by ,where a spring rushed out in a minia-
ture torrent from the dark rocks, was the but
of which Hunter had spoken.
It was larger and better built than the one
which he had left at Springland ; and he told
Sadia, that when he built it he had entertained
thoughts of making it his final home, because
of the utter seclusion of the spot and the plenti-
tude of fish and game in the vicinity.
While he was yet speaking, a herd of a dozen
or more of red deer emerged from the under-
brush within a few rods of them, and walking
out to feed on the little prairie, saw the party,
but did not fly, as those timid animals always do
in places where they are hunted.
"I want no better proof that no'one has yet
discovered my secret," said old Hunter quietly,
as he drew up his gun, and with the unerring aim
of an old marksman, discharged both barrels, one
so quickly after the other that both reports
mingled as one.
Two of the deer lay struggling in the death-
throes in an instant, the rest slowly trotted back
into the woods, turning their heads now and
then, more in wonder than in terror.
"Now, boys, there is fresh meat for two days
at least, eat as hearty as ye may, Go and dress
it, and we'll soou have some of it doing for
breakfast," said the old man, as he. quietly re-
loaded his gun with buckshot as it had been be-
fore. "I have a nice fire-place over there in
the house ; and if the roof hasn't leaked, there is
plenty of dry wood inside. Let us go and see,
Miss Sadia!r"
The lady, whose eyes had so suddenly been

) H


20

Yi ylx
i
k :i1
1 y;
:4ii
ib
} '.
r
r
F(
6'
S
1

SADIA.

drawn from the wild beauty ofthe scenery to the
act of the hunter, had, ever since he fired, been
looking tearfully on the struggles, now over, of
the animals who had gazed so innocently at the
very hand raised for their death.
OIL, they were too beautiful to be killed
She said, with a sigh. "I could have watched
them for hours, with never a thought of harm in
my bosom."
' "Unless you grew hungry, Miss Salia, and
remembered the savory    haunches of veni-
seen, that so often smoked on your father's
board. I have sold him more than one inn my
time, and he was a noble hunter himself!"
Sadia smiled, in spite of her pity for the poor
deer.
"You were right in shooting them, good
Thomas !" said she. " But it was, nevertheless,
hard to see them die. We, doubtless, shall need
all the provision we can get on the wa y; for our
colored people are not used to starvation, or
anything even approaching to famine."
By this time the but was reached. Thomas
opened the door, which was latched inside, by
inserting his knife between the doorpost and
door, then lifting the latch, for the " lateh-string
did not hang out", to make entrance easy on
that occasion.                         -
The large room was dry and clean. A huge
pile of dry fire-wood near the fire-place made
good the promise of Thomas, that cooking op-
crations could soon be got under way.
"Please notice one thing, Miss Sadia," said
the old man, who had hurriedly kindled a blaze.
"Step out and see how yo. like t';e draft of my
chimney. Of course, you can judge by the
smoke."
Sadia stepped out, an I though a dense smoke,
had been ascending;in the fire-piace, she could
see no sign of it rising from the roof of the
hut.
She returned and reported as much.
Look once more, lady-far up the mountain-
side where the bushes are very thick, and, pos-
sibly, you .may see a bluish mist, looking far
more like the light fog of a mountain-spring
than anything else," said the old man.
Sadia went out, and soon saw the mist alluded
to, which she or few others would have ever
supposed to-be smoJke.
"My chimney is a cave, that winds its flues up
through t ,e rocks a long way-but it has a good-
draught, and that is all that is required fr a
nice tire."
And the bright blaze, leaping from fagot toJ
fagot of the freshly-heaped wood, verified his
words.-
And tihe negro women, gathering in with their
cooking-apparatus and provisions, soon had1
cort.cake baking, bacon .and , venison frying,I
coffee and water boling, and sweet potatoes
roasting in the embers.
" Yoa will have but a sorry meal, compared

with the iluxries left at Spi inland, lady ; but {
it is 1 he bcstZ we can do," said old Thomas, as hei
s:iw l'uesiilla laying out before her lady onhiss.
slab table, Some of the choicest pieces of
1.i~e  venison ,
n:.c^ hloa-cake, with butter brought from thea
ni Imtation, roasted potatoes, and fragrant cof-l
The breakfast is better, and will be eaten
with a better appetite than any that I could
have taken at Springland in the coiriny o4 ;
my persecutors," she replied. " Come, goode.
Thoias, you who are our f ilher,"-guide, and pro.N ,
vider, must take the heal of the table, or I and
the children sill surely have no appetite.''
The old fisherman tried to excuse himselff"
but without avail. Sadia would only eat if hed.
joined in the repast.
The meal was heartily pafrtaken of. The wild.H
ness of the scene, the perl of tie adventure, the
rudeness of the preparations, seemed to height-H
en rather than to mar the appetites of the whole
party. For the negroes, as soo as the table'
had been served, gathered in grotesque groups
about the hut, and, with their breakfasts in their
hands, ate and chatted as merrily as if they had
not lost sight of their old plantation-home, per-
maps forever.
After the morning meal was over, Thomas .
hunter told Sadia that it would be necessary for
him to go in a boat with a couple of men, to a
point where he could see what passed upon the
river, Lo discover if they were pursued, or ir
picket-boats were on the move.Y
Ie advised her to rest, for no danger could
approach, except fronrthe point where he would
be on the watch. That he would return by
night, or earlier if advisable, and then their
journey would be resumed, if it could be done
with safety. To some of the men he gave fish.
ing lines, and showed them where fine fish could.
be caught, to add to their dinner bill of fare,;
and then he hurried off with N'apoleon and
another picked band, to see how matters looked,
river-ward.
CHAPTER VIII.
The cold breakfast which Warburton DeH
Montfort had to provide for himself and cousin,
could not have been very inviting, or else anx-
iety overbalanced appemie; for Bob was not ten)H
minutes in having the saddled horses at the door=
-his master's rude awakening had started him0
on a lively gait, and he kept it up. But they
gentlemen were ready and at the door before the
horses were.
"Stay here and look out for things till I getm
back," cried his master, as lie sprung into the
saddle. "Now, Beverly," he added, "we will
first gallop down to our boat-landing, and see ii
the boats are dra u up in the boat-house, as they}.
should be, if all is right in that direction."
Beverly bowed his assent, and followed the #
lead of the others, who, taking a lane well-:.
4 t
it

SADIA.

marked by cattle and cart tracks, dashed off to
a point on the river, nearly a quarter of a mile
above the but of the old fisherman. Here a dock
jutted out into the river, and at its lower tide
was quite a capacious boat-house, with a floating
platform capable of holding a dozen or more
ordinary skiffs. But there was no boat to be
seen there now.
"You were right, Beverly, you were right--
the boats are gone, and of course we know who
took them! The next thing is, to gather three
or four trusty men, and pursue them!"
"Where are the boats to do it in?" asked
Beverly' dryly.
"There are plenty besides ours on the river.
An old curse called~Tonm hunter, who lives by
hunting and fishing, a quarter of a mile down,
always has two or three in order, good boats of
his own build. I heard that the rascal has
Union proclivities, and I ordered him off the
place a few days ago, for he has been one of
father's 'charity tenants', as I call them, for
years. If he hasn't left, we will take his boats.
And we may hear something from him about
the fugitives-for ie's always about."
"Then let's ride down there. Every minute
we lose is a gain to them !" cried Beverly.
Warburton remounted and rode rapidly down
the river, followed by his cousin. Before they
had ridden half way, a long and melancholy
howl, like that of some lost dog, reached their
cars. And it seemed to be echoed or answered
by a good many more. A gallop of three min-
utes more exhibited the source of this "mad
music", for if a dog's howling is not enough to
drive one mad, I'd like to know what would.
All the dogs on the plantation, hounds, coon.
dogs, and curs, scenfed to have gathered there
to lament the departure of those who had fed
them and hunted with them. For every negro
who has a Sunday, and loves coons and pos-
sums, has his dog, and would share his last hoe-
cake with him, if meat was scarce.
"Here, right in front of the old curse's cabin
is where the party embarked. They woulctnot
take the dogs in the boats for fear of discovery,
and here the beasts have remained" exclaimed
Warburton.
And then he rode up Qnd saw the well-defined
tracks of the main party who had come down
in the narrow by-path, while only three or four
went to bring the boats down.
"Old Hunter's boats lie up there yet-we'll
see what he says about this exodus!" he added,
as he rode furiously up to the door of the old
hut, which stood invitingly open.
"Not a soul here! The fire yet smoking,
but everything else gone. The old curse is
their adviser and guide, I'll bet a thousand !"
"Yes, and he has left you a nice pair of boats
to follow him in !" said Beverly, who had ex-
amined the boats as he rode up.  "Their bot-
toms are stove in, and they Are useless."

21

"The infernal villain ! I wish I had shot him
when he told me, had my father lived, he would
have been true to the old flag."
"Blast the flags ! Let us talk work, for now
we have something to work upon. Here is a
white man aiding and abetting, yes, leading the
escape of your slaves-your property.  He
must be followed, captured and punished. You
have a Vigilance Committee of fifty men right
in your neighborhood-get enough of them to
accompany us, and ve'1l have the party yet in
twenty-four hours, if they are not already in
the hands'of some of the river-pickets."
"Good. I will act upon that. But they hayo
at least eight or ten good guns, plenty of ammu,
nition, for all mine is gone, and two revolvers,
every weapon I had in the house !"
"I had nothing but my sword, and that was
hanging in my room when I left there. I.hung
it when I first went there. Let us ride back to
the house, refresh, then organize at least three
boats' crews, well armed, and follow them !"
"Follow? The devil will be to know where
they have gone !" -said Warburton, moodily, as
he turned his horse's head toward the house.
"They have no refuge but in Washington, I
tell you: no route but the river they can follow.
All we need is, force and speed to overtake
them before they get there. If not, farewell
your hopes for your niggers-my hopes for
your sister's hand. She has shown so much
wit and spirit in this adventure, that I love her
more madly than before, and would 'nut lose
her for an admiral's commission in our new
Navy. Ride up, man-ride up ! I am in a
hurry to be afloat and after them!1"
Warburton spurred on rapidly, and rode up
to the door, where Bob, once more asleep,
nodded on the horse-block.
"You cursed nigger, if you are the last I've
got,I'll kill you !" he shouted, and raised the
butt of a loaded riding-whip to strike the poor
fellow.
"Hold on, Coz-our horses haven't been fed
yet this morning-don't kill Bob till henbas
done that. Use the other end of your whip
this time 1" cried Beverly, catching his arm.
Warburton almost cursed his cousin for his
interference ; but the end of the whip was
changed, and a cut across the check, which
first left a white streak, then deeply reddening
with the gushing blood, woke the poor devil to
a sense of the fact that his master had "one
nigger left".
"Wake up, you cursed Caliban, and .rub
down and feed these horses when they are cool.
Now, go and saddle my fox-hunter and the race-
mare. Have them here in ten minutes, or you're
as dead as the lead in tie butt of this whip !"
he cried, as poor Bob sprung to his feet with a
howl rather than a yell of agony.
"Better yet," said Beverly. "I didn't think
about they're having left you all your stock.

i
",


t

4 j'
Yr.
Cr

We will be reaay for the road in ten minutes.
I'll buckle on my sword, now; it may be of use
before we're through."
And Beverly hurried up to the room which
he hal occupied as a guest, and in a moment
rejoined Warburton, who was on his way to the
refreshment-room with it in his hand.
"I used to wear it in the Old Service, but it
will do as well in the new," he said, as he saw
Warburton's eye glance upon the scabbard
decorations. "It is a Solinegn blade, mount-
ed to the U. S. pattern by old Ames, of Spring-
field, the father of good war cutlery in this
country. The blade will double. I will show
you."
And as he advanced into the well-remember-
ed room where Sadia had pinned her last com-
pliment upon his breast, he drew; a curse came
with it, for only half the blade was attached to
the hilt of the sword.
"Who in the name of the foul fiend has
broken my sword ?" he cried, as he turned the
sheath upside down.
The other part of the blade dropped upon the
floor as he did so, and with it, a paper, which he
picked up and read.
"May God curse me if I ever forgive her for
this !" he cried, as, with a face utterly white
with rage, he cast the paper upon the floor and
stamped upon it.
Warburton stooped and picked it up;.for he
saw the handwriting of his sister. And he
smiled bitterly as he read her woras;
"The sword once worn in an honorable service is un-
fit for the hand of a Rebel in a false cause. A loyal
woman has taken her only means of preventing such use
being made of it. When Randolph Beverly will send
me the bill of cost for the weapon, the writer will repay
ii with pleasure.        SADIA D MOYTFGBT."
"Rather hard upon you-rather hard, Ber-
erly. If you had slept in your own room last
night, she would hardly have ventured upon
this last trick. But name the price of the wea-
ron, cousin ; for the honor of the family, I'll
pay it."                                    i
"I'il tell her the price when I see her once
more. Until then, let the debt ,stand," said
Beverly, bitterly, casting -the sword, scabbard
and all, from him-.
"Don't take it too hard, my boy. Take a n
drink or two, and we'll be off; for I am not fond t
'of ,river-navigation, and the shorter our trip is,
the better it will please me."
"Well, as you say, so. be it, Warburton. I s
eare nothing for the loss of the sword ; it is:
only the cool and contemptuous way she did it. r
I hardly know how a woman's weak arm could e
have snapped so good a blade. But Jet the s
matter pass for the present. I'll put the frag- e
ment back in the scabbard, and stow it away a
among your old closet-lumber. I'll soon wear
as good a one."o
"Certainly, for I'll purchase it myself-the t
best there is in Richmond, when wo get there.. w

I hear the horses at the door. Here is a well.K
filled hunting4lask for each pf us. Pocket and,
off!"
In a few moments, poor Bob was master pre
tem. of the mansion of Springland.
CHAPTER IX.
To say that Sadia was not anxious during the
absence of her faithful friend and guide, Thom
as Hunter, would be to utter an untruth. Butt
all credit to the woman's heart within her,
which had yet known no love but that felt fors
her kindred, her anxiety was for the safety of the r
brave man who was perling his life in her cause.
She wandered all about the'fairy spot chosen for
their retreat, and she could find no sign of liv-
ing men ever having been there, except such as.
Ihunter had told her were made by himself.
'When the sun as well as her watch, proclaim..
ed the high hour of noon, she sat down with
Marion and Carline to a delicious dinner pre-
pared by the hands of her faithful old nurse.
There was soup made from terrapins caught
,near the stream ; delicious fish from its waters ;
venison cooked in various ways ; and, of course,
the inevitable cornbread and bacon, without.
which no Southern meal in the olden time was
complete. More to please her faithful servants
than to gratify her own appetite, Sadia tasted
of every dish, and saw her little charges enjoy
themselves hugely, as well as'the servants, in the
bountiful repast given them by Nature.
After dinner was over, expecting to travel all
night, she lay down upon a bed of fragrant
herbs, gathered by her women, and sought a
little rest, dii'ecting that she should be called
the moment the good old guide reti.rned.
She awoke before she was called, and the sun
was then low in the western sky, but hunter
had not come or sent her any message. As the
sun sunk lower and lower, so her heart went
down toward the dark horizon of sadness' What
f Thomas, whose faith she did not doubt, had
been captured or slain ! Who, then, would be
equal to the task of guiding her past the dangersH
which she knew were before hcr? Ier ne rocsH
would obey her orders, but they neither could k
nor would think for her. They knew nothing of
he river.s
The sun at last went down, and yet no arrival '
-no signal-no message. Fearing for ihe worst, ;.
he placed her armed men at a point which corn.
handed the channel through which they had H
reachedd the spot, and stationing herself, revolve '
r in hand, in advance, determined that no one
hould reach their position, except it was Hunt- 
r amd his men, without -finding a sharp resist-
.nce.                                       -
The twilight deepened into darkness. The
wls hooted through the forest, and now and
hen some sharp, shrill cry vonld tach her ear,
which would send a chill to her heart. Whether

it came from bird or beast she knew not ; forh
she was not versed in woodcraft. h
Her people, seeing her so anxious, forgot the sh
natural apathy of their race, and huddled around lo
her, as if she alone could protect them. For a
ittle time it was thus ; the darkness deepening, al
end the silent, terror-stricken people huddling se
lose up to her. Then itbegan to grow lighter; e
the power of the moon, already up, but hidden
in a bank of clouds which had partially over- ti
spread the sky, exhibited itself, and threw out, f
in bold relief, the great forest-trees, with their b
wide-spread arms, the glittering water, and the ri
grouping around the poor orphan-girl.      ti
" Hark ! I hear the dash of oars, sister," said t
Marion, who held and had insisted upon keeping t
the other revolver in his hand. For his brother
had let him fire it a few times, and he thought y
he could fight, if he was little. Or so,at least t
he said.
Sadia, listened, and sadly said: 
"It is only the dash of the stream among the e
rocks above, Marion."                      n
"No, sissy, no ,'listen now-it comes nearer o
and nearer ; and there-what's that?"4
A sharp and prolonged whistle sounding from I
but a short distance below, reached the ears of
every one there. 1
"Hush ! no answer !" said Sadia, in a loud t
whisper. "It may come from enemies."
All was silent a moment, then she distinctly
heard the dash of oars again. And a moment
later she could see the head of a boat just emerg- t
ing froi the dark eddy which I have spoken
of once before.
"Who comes there? Stop and answer, or
twenty loaded guns will open on you!" cried]
Sadia, in..a voice which did not tremble.
"Hardly twenty, Miss Sadia, but enough in
good hands to give a big crowd a heap of trou-
ble," said a voice which she recognized instantly
as that of old Thomas. "I'm sorry I haven't anyI
countersign to give you, but if you'll agree not.to
fire those twenty guns,I'll come in and report."+
"0 good Thomas, come quickly ! You stay-+
ed so long that I thought you was lost, and I
began to expect my persecutors rather than you,"
cried Sadia.
"So I see by my reception. If I had known
I would be kept so long, I should have arranged
a signal by which you might have known me.
As it was, I whistled, for fear you might have
them twenty guns pointed at me."
"Oh, do not, good Thomas, laugh at me any
more.   Was it not wise to represent myself
stronger than I was ?"
"Customary in war, if not wise ; but many a
battle is lost by it, kind lady. But now that I
am with you, if you'll start these darkeys off to
cooking something to eat,-I'll be obliged. For.
I have something to tell you."
"People, you've forgotten all about supper,"
said Sadia. " Now let us have it at once."

And as the negroea started off joyfully to obey
er orders, thinking the crisis of danger all over,
ie walked slowly on with Thomas Hunter, fol-
wed by Marion and Canine.
"Now, good Thomas," she said, "I will hear
1l, that you have to say. Tell me without re-
erve our hopes and our dangers. The one may
heer, the other shall not appall me."
"Well, Miss, we are followed. I was in hopes
hey would either come quicker, or else not be.
ore night. It was almost sundown when three
oats, with five men in each, came down the
river. One boat followed close along each bank ;
he other took the centre of the stream,' and
hey had signals' by which any one could inform
he other of news.
"The man who steered one of these boats waar
your brother; the one who steered the second
hat Navy cousin of yours, and the third old Carl
Michel, as he called himself; that old French
pirate that has been such a terror to weak-head-
ed negroes, and so useful to the Vigilance Com-
mittee of late in carrying out their devilish plots
of vengeance.
"I recognized all three and most of the crew
before they were within half a mile of mc. =So
did old Napoleon, and his hair-wool, I s'pose I'd
better call it,is full white now ; it was only gray
this morning."
"0 Mr. Hunter, do not joke, but tell me
all!"
"I'm not joking, kind lady. Napoleon and
the other boy were almost scared out of their
wits; for one boat was not four hund red yards
back from where we were hidden, and we were
within twenty feet of the shore, in a clump of
laurels right over the beach.
"I just told the cowardly curses to crawl back
fifty feet! and lay with their faces to the ground,
and if they raised their heads till I went and
bade them do it, I told them I'd blow them from.
their bodies.of
"They were glad enough to get out of sight
of what was coming down the river, and they
crawled back as I told themA to. And it was
well for us all they did-for they'd have never
kept still under what next happened.
"Right under where I lay, at the foot of the
bluff, not forty feet from me, a beautiful spring
gushed out from the rocks, and dashed into the
river with considerable velocity. It appears
old.Michel, who k.ows a good deal about the
river, had been to this spring before; for h
hauled in toward it from the centre of the rive
when about a quarter of a mile above, and sig-
naled to the boat on the other side to come
over.     o
The first boat which reached the spot was his
own, and it was lucky for us; for Warburton,
your brother, passed without seeing the entranc9'
by which we found the swamp and bayou that
is our only path to this place.
" "Aveyo seen no sign?' asked Michel, who

I

t

I

SADIA.

22

SADIA.


,'-

1'

24

SADIA.

was filling a cup a' the spring when your brother
'Warburton landed.
'Nothing ; not a track, or a place where a
boat has touched the shore~so far and no streams
large enough for them to go up !' replied your
brother' ' Why do you stop here ?'
'One time because it is one bon spring-
wataire all same like ice. Two time because it
shail soon be night, and we must deliberat what
we sail do when we cannot see ze shore, nor
see one anozzare! Tree 'time, because you
make me your pilate, your guide, and for ze t4ue
1 am all samc as ze capitaine ! You under-
stand ?'
Yes.I understand; but you were so late in
getting off that 3 expect they are half-way to
Washwgton, ahead of us!'
- I doubt zat ver' mooch, Messieur de Mont-
fort. And I shall explain ! Zey 'ave 'm only
tree boats, no more big zan ours, 'bout tirty
peoples, more or little. Z'y 'ave plenty proe i-
sin1 you say from your store-house. Zeim boat
must be ver' low in ze watare. Ze oar not have
good sweep-ze men not'ave room for pull fast
an' strong! Eli bien-you understand zat ?"
"'Yes-yes-go on!'
"' Well zey leave; some time not more zan
four, five, or six hour before ze day zis morn-
nig. Zey could not go in zat time more zan
tirty or lorty mile, wiz current an' all. In zis
leetle time we come more zan forty mile!"
'"Well, what of that?'
"Zis, sare-zis, it you please to understan'1!
Zey iusL stop when ze daylight come, for we
piket all ze river, and flossing can pass in ze
day wizout hail. You see how many time we
'ave been hail z.s afternoon, cli?'
"' Well, what does all this amount to?' asked
Warbui ton, as Beverly landed to join in the
conference.
"'Z;it is whatI will say now zat Messieurflev-
erlce 'ave come! Zey cannot be on far ahead
of us. Zey are hide somewhere all zis day, and
will voyage zis sight. Now, I propose one of
us boat go right on an' warn all ze picket's for
loolout. Ze ozzare two stay one mile below
where ze rivare is ver narrow, and watch at
anchor-one man watch, ze rest sleep. Ze one
boat go fifty mile to-night. to-morrow night we
join hird   pose we no catch 'em inefore-ch,
you understand ?'
"'Yes; which boat should go before'?' said
Warburton.
"'Not mine ; for I do not know the river !'
said Beverly.
" ' Ze rivare know itsel f,Messieur Beverlee, and
ze boat- know ze rivare. You put him in ze
middle, an' go to sleep wiz all your men. You
cake un wiz ze sun sixty, Eeventy, miles from
from zis! But I do not want you to go. I will
go. Only I wish zat you both will look to ze
shore ze same as I do all zis day, till we meet
again to-morrow before ze set o. ze sun, for I

will not go so far as not to meet wiz you if you
como ?'
"'Then it is understood-l4et us be off to our
stations!' said Warburton.
"And, lady, in three minutes more they
shoved off and were soon out of hearing, but
not out of sight; for the two boats are anchored
where the river is not three hundred yards
wide."
"Heavens, Thomas! what made you such a
mimic! I have been thinking-1 heard all this
myself!'
"0Old Michel has been a great deal in my
hut, lady. Because I used to speak French
when I was young, he came to talk French to
me, and has tried more than once to get me
into work with him which would have been
creditable to no man. I am used to his words
and wads, and in describing what'he sai1, spoke
just as .he did. But to go on, Miss Sadia, as
soon as- I saw that their boats were anchored,
and no alterations made in the plans I so provi-
dentially discoveed, I roused up 'Nap' and the
other boy, and hurried back to report, as X
have done."
"And now that they are ahead of us, what
can we do? Can we not go back and take the
wagons and teams, and boldly drive off cast to
Baltimore ?"
"Ah, lady, I f. ar caution has not yet suf-
ficiently been developed in you to make a safe
commander. There were thirteen of the Vigi-
lance Committee only in the boats -from the
neighborhood of Springland ! Where do you
think .the rest are ? With full knowledge of
what we have done, we never could return there
and live-not to speak of escape!'
"True-true! W hat can we do? 'Is there
no hope ?" poor Sadiaexcl:imed, almost wildly.
"Yes, there is hope. But we can only reach
success now i brough patience! !Fortunately,
after the closest examination, they have biassed
the channel to his retreat without discovering
it. They will not examine the points they
have passed so closely again.. What we have
now to do, is, to wait here until, tired of search,
they believe that you have escaped, and return!
We have provisions, and can command more.
I will keep a daily and nightly watch on the
river, and after they have returned, we ivill try
to evade the pickets; for they, at least, will not
be so strongly on the look out for us then as
now."
"Well, it must be so, I suppose. Our people
can soon build rude shelters for themselves, for
thak will be needful if storms should come on."
"Of course-but no fire must be made ex-
cept in my large fire-place. A sminoke might
draw attention here, if made out in the open
air. There is plenty of room for cooking at
that fire, and we shall have no colder weather
than this," said the old fisherman, pausing for
Sadia to precede him into the cabin, at whiel

j
,r-"s
4w
i
!r
t r
s'
Y
1 kr
fLf .
k+'
t'
f" ]
a
i
f
t^
1 't
T       '
Ilt
i
k
' R
{ '12
Ali
.rt
Tn }
rp"r
z'
4
a
t
r t
1.  rt
S
S i
S
1 1 9
rr+
5^
r   t
'     xrw
Jyy
P
p ? d

.-yi
'-I
'1
t-'


)

w''                  ---a-.
F s'
11
1;
i
{
!
a

1
=4

27

after their slow walk and long conversation,
they had just arrived.
"Supper done ready, honey! De old gal
was jest agwine for call you!" said the privi-
leged old nurse as Sadia entered.
-     CHAPTER X.
The advice of honest old Tom Hunter wag the
only thing which Sadia, with her party, could
follow under the circumstances. And as soon
as the negroes knew that they were to remain
some days in the beautiful spot to which they
had been conducted, they at once set themselves
to rearing comfortable huts near the first cabin.
In a short time this was done, and when, on the
afternoon of the third day, Thomas came up for
a short visit from his post of observation, leav-
ing Napoleon on the lookout, he said:
"I believe the niggers would soon make them-
selves as comfortable here as anywhere, Miss
Sadia. They can laugh at a storm now, and I
see that fish, terrapin, rabbits, possums, and
coons are a drug with them. If it wasn't for
the war, you might start a splendid plantation
on a siall scale here! This prairie would grow
about everything that ever was raised on the
soil of Maryland !"
Sadia smiled, faintly.
"I thank you, TnQmas," said she, "for doing
all you can, in words and deeds, to render this
delay supportable. But I shall never feel at
ease until my journey is over, and I am under
the protection of the strong arm of the Federal
Government !"
"I hope that will be in a few days, lady; the
party will'not remain long below. Failing in
overtaking us, they will think, perhaps, we
have landed somewhere on the river, found
'friends, and gone on an overland route. At
any rate, they will not hit the right track !"
"I pray Heaven they may not !" said Sadia.
"But is it not darkening up very suddenly,
Thomas ? I feel as if a storm was coming up !"
"There is; I have noticed signs of it all
day ! I hope the hands have gathered you
plenty of'dry wood ; for a good fire, in a dreary
night, is a great comfort. Many a night, in my
old cabin, when the Potomac ran at its height,
and the storm was loud and wild, with a huge
.fire roaring under my dry roof, I have listened
to the turmoil without; thought of old times
when storms were nothing to me, and been as
happy as-as I ever have been for the last
forty years ! But we are going to have an awful
storm. There will be nothing more on the
river this night. The hands may as weR come
In from fishing and work at once, and our boats
be got out of the stream and turned bottom
side up! I will see. to this now, and you look
out and make them bring you in plenty of wood
'and fresh bedding, good lady. The storim may
last a night, or even longer."-
And the old man hurried away, for one of

SADIA.

"1k

"A
.4

those sudden entire overvailing of the skies,
common in southern latitudes, but seldom seen
so far north-as even-the Potomac, had occurred;
and though it was yet far from the hour of sun-
down, the atmosphere became almost as dark as
night.
The negroes did not require to' be called in
from fishing or labor ; with their instinctive
terror of a thunderstorm, they were already
seen hurrying in, some bringing dry wood,
others fish and game, but all making for head-
quarters as fast as possible. Thomas stopped
a few of the strongest of the men, to assist him
in securing 'the boats. This had barely been
done, and the party under shelter, when it seem-
ed as if all the artillery of heaven had opened
at once. Flash after flash of lightning ran zig-
zag tijro igh the air, almost blindingly' Bright,;
the thunder pealed incessantly; the terrified
negroes huddled together in the large cabin, and
crouched down in silent terror.
Sadia stood by the door, which she kept open,
and looked out with an admiration of the grand
and fearful in Nature intuitive to such souls as
hers. Old Thomas seemed pleased with her
bravery, showing, as it did, the difference be-
tween mental strength and weakness, for there,
at her feet, cowered stalwart blacks, able to rend
her limb from limb, now struck with mortal
terror at that which they had seen many a
time.
For a short time, though it seemed long to
them, this terrible electrical battle of the clouds
went on; then, rent asunder, the black masses
poured down their torrents of sun-"drawn moist-
ure. Never had Sadia seen rain come down so
pitilessly, she thought, and she was thankful
that her people were so well sheltered ; for, dry
and cheerful, now that the terrifying thunder
and lightning had passed away, they sat and
chatted before the huge fire, seeming as happy
as if fear never had found a place in their
breasts, or care either.
"You did not seem to fear the storm at all,
Miss Sadia I" said Thomas, as, with her permis-
sion, he lighted his pipe, and took a seat where
its smoke found a draught up the, chimney.
"Oh, noI" she replied, with enthusiasm. "I
never was. From a child, I have watched the
rushing clouds, the forest trees writhing in the
gale, and listened to the 'deep-toned thunder,
not with fear, but with a sort of wild pleasure I
When the bright lightning ,played among the
dark clefts of the cloud-mountains, gildiing their
rough edges, and racing hither and thither like
a serpent of fire, I have clapped my hands
gleefu3y-it seemed so wildly grand !"
"I, too,lady,have looked upon storms as you
do--but before the thought of their grandeur
passes away, another thought -that of the evil
they may have done to the helpless-comes
upon my mind.
," I think of the strong and the beautiful who

',' ,
, 
;  ,
,,,
. ,,


S.:..
IVY i
R     ?
f
; ,
t
i
i
t;
it
,
i
.
i
t,
t'
f
i
i
i
i
i
; ,
;
a

Four days

QIAPTER XI.
were, pent by Warburton de Mont-

may have been stricken down by th'e flash
which darted down from the dark cloud; of the
build inn fired ; of the woe worked by the fiery
bolt ofdestruction. And when the gale lasbes
our beautiful river into snowy foam, and I see
great forest trees wribbe, and groan, and bow
before the strength of the wind, I think of some
giant ship, filled with a precious freight of hu-
man lives, battling against the might of the'ter-
rible storm I see her breasting the mountain
surges, and steering for some port of safety-
eyery one of her crew awake to danger, but
sternly striving to meet and overcome it ! I see
her sails riven from the yards-her spaTs swept
away frn th'*ir strong fastenings-the power
to steer her lost. I see brave men turn pale,
and feeble ones' grow strong, not for hope of
life, but because there is no hope below, and
they look above. I see the great waves dash
the helpless ship upon the hidden rock-:-in an
agony of thought I see her shattered, her crew
all battling with the mad waters ! They strug-
gle-a moment, and they are gone ! The storm
sweeps on in its wild beauty, and laughs a
maniac laugh over its work !"
So wrapped in his thoughts had Thomas be-
come that his looks as well as his words betray-
ed the intensity of his feeling, and the very
negroes looked up at him with awe, as if he was
some superior being, speaking of things above
all human ken.
"I little thought there was so-- much true
poetry in your heart, Mr. Hunter," said Sadia,
her own eyes moistened with the picture he
drew. "S&amp;-much real feeling-so much deep
thought!"
" Al, lady I" he sighed, "Thomas Hunter is
not now what he once was. Once he had high
hopes, bright aspirations, cherished friends.
One evil hour-one mad act, regretted ere it
was done, and those hopes fell, those aspirations
were clouded forever, and he fled away from the
love of woman and of man, and tried to ha e
even himself! But I will not speak of the past
-I will only look forward to my duty now, and
hope for wu end upon some glorious field, where
the flag of my country floats victorious and de-
fiant above the trophies won from its enemies!
The storm is breaking away, and I must go
down to the river to see if poor Napoleon and
his mate haven't been washed away or scared
out of existence!'
The old man, without waiting to hear Sadia's
intended remonstrance about his going out,
strode forth in the darkness, and was gone in a
moment.
"Strange man1" she murmured. "I wish
that I knew his history, yet I dare not ask more
than he has chosen to reveal, for fear of wound-
ing his feelings."

SADIA.

fort and his party on the Potomac before they
reached that point, but a short distance then
above Washington, where the power cf the
Federal arms was felt on both sides of the river.
And the search after Sadia and the children and
his slaves, though conducted with every energy
upon his part, aided by the cousumate cunning
of the old French corsair, Michel, had been ut-
terly unavailing. lie had neither seen a sign of
or heard the slightest tidings from the fugitives.
What had become of them, what, track they had
taken, he could not divine IIe had seen that
the river was so 'closely picketed that boats
could not pass unquestioned ; he had even met
inconvenience, Rebel though he nas, from the
closeness of the scrutiny which he had to un-
dergo.
On the morning of the fourth day, the party
landed at the house of a well-known guerrilla
chief, who has since risen to a high rank in the
Rebel service ; for, not daring to go further fpr
fear of arrest, they wished to hold a general
council, to decide upon future action.
And as we are to be present at the interview,
reader, and our friend, Thomas Hunter, has given
us a mimic representation of one of the party,
we will take a thorough look at him before the
"meeting comes to order".
Carl Michel, as you choose to call yourself,
stand for your picture.  That face, as near
copper-color as the sun and wind of many sea-
sons can make it, is se:irred in a dozen places
with scars received in many a deadly affray. If
report speaks true, your limbs and body bear
marks from bullets, pikes, sabres, and bayonets,
suflieient to have won you a marshalship under
Napoleon le Grand I Your short gray hair and
carefully-triinmred but huge mustache are of the
cut of the ancient grenadiers of the line-the
men of the Old Guard. 'Erect yet as a lance,
powerful in shouldter and broad in loin, though
full sixty years have passed over your sinful
head, you are more than a match for most active
young men. Used, as you say, to war on sea
and on land, accustomed to smuggling, familiar
with all weapons, you are a rough customer.
Yes, Sir ; and that half-sailot' dress and military
cap set off your trim old figure very well for a
picture.
Villain though you are by your own acknowl-
edgement, you are worth ten such paltry rene-
gades as Randolph Beverly. And yet for good
pay you are Teady to serve hint or any other
man, so long as your employers do.uot draw
you away from the service of him who claims
your first allegiance-old Satan himself.
To the house of the guerrilla alluded to, who
was temporarily absent from home, the three
leaders of the pursuit after Sxdia repaired wheh
it was decided that, they could go no further
down the river. The house, though not origin-
ally a house of entertainment, had become so
public as the head-quarters of guerrillas, Rebel

28

1
(Y
k,
x(
L.#
Iii
Ati a:
t
1
yq ji3
*Y
,t
fi1
'                  tea
{
far
r
a
ff,
ft1
3
t n15
k C
Na yy
WF$
f f
i-x jry
w
t'
rCTM
cxi
.,aS
p
F 14
i' JMY
ty1Yk
F
i
,x
tpS3 f
1                 + y

-     ----                 .w

29

scouts, and others, that its' proprietor, out of know the lady and children, an: most of the
necessity, had become willing to accept corn- hands."
pensation for his hospitalities. His wife and  "Aft, Monsieur Beverlee, I should feel ver
two fair daughters, in hi.s absence, aided by proud to visit ze citee of Washington. But,
several "inttelligeit contrabands", waited upon. Sare, I am afraid iC I shall go zere zat ze Gov-
the guests, supplying edibles and bibibles ac- ernmient will make ze offare of Generale, or
cording to the best of their ability, at regular somesing like zat, and zen 'I should 'ave_ to be
Dixie prices.                               untrue to ze friends zat me 'ave leave behind,
Calling for a room and refreshments for their. and to ze beautiful South.  Sare, I dare ex*
companions, Montfort,' Beverly, and Michel pose my personae to ze sword or ze pistole,
asked for a separate one for themselves.    but I dare not expose my heart to ze tempta-
'   To this they were lighted by a dark-eyed tion. For I am ver well known in Washington.
daughter r of, tLhe guerrilla, who, supplying them Ze Count De Brownski introduced me zero to
with liquor and cigars, and receiving their orders everybodee, ani ze make of me un grand lion
f r supper, left them to their discussions. for several weeks. 'I was ver appee, until one
"Well, Michel, this is a cursed poor return day a gentillhomme at ze Hotel de Willard
for your assurances that my sister, and her make observation zat he have loss his watch in
party could not get away from us," growled my companee. I was ver indignant at zat, and
Warburton, as he seated himself,and drank off a more zat he called me one danrFrench tief. I
huge tumbler of undiluted apple-jack;       lend him four or five inch of my poniard right
"Yes. I must say, Michel, for an old sailor, in his breast, where his heart beat. le never
though a good guide, you've been poor 'on the call me French tief no more ; but I leave ze
scent. The parties are not withtiu our reach Hotel de Willard in about one minute, and I
-yet.",                                     have nevare been zare since. Nor do I care
"Poor on ze scent, Messieur Beverlee ? Poor ver much for to go ! No, mon dieu, no !' I sink
on ze scent! By dam, do you take me for one zat I 'ave leetle bill at zat hotel to settle. I will
dog wiz my nose to ze ground. For more settle him when Messeiur Davis occupy ae
little zan zat sare I have made one gentilhomme Maison Blanche- what zey call ze White
seek ze grace of God from his confesseur, after House!"
he have feel some few inches of my-rapierl By  "I don't blame you for declining to go there,
dam, Sare-if me no find people where zey is then," said Warburton, laughing. ,"But it
not, you need not blame me, who are both hardly seems possible to me that they could
yourselfes as much in ze dark."             have got down the river ; and also impossible
And Michel twirled the ends of his vien mus- that we could have passed them anywhere upon
-tache with such fierce energy, and looked so it. Both shores have been searched, hundreds
-angry, that Beverly hastened to say that he had of persons questioned, and no traces found."
no idea of comparing him with a dog, and that  "Might they not have gone up the river, 'in-
he attributed their want of sucess to bad luck stead of down ?' asked Beverly.
rather than bad management.'                  "Up? No. The current above Springland is
" Ek bien / I accept your apologie, Messieur so rapid in many places that no boat could stem
Beverlee, and in zis cau de vie I drink your ver it. And the people up that way are Sccesh to
good belt !" And Michel drank off a glass of the backbone!"
the apple-brandy, to prove that he was already The girl now came in with three or four serv-
mollified.                                  ants bearing the supper which our party had
"Well, Michel," said Warburton, "what have ordered, and the conversation slackened while
you to advice for a next move? Theyhave the table was laid, and preparations made for
either not come down the river at all, or 'else, them to breal a long fast. After she had sec
having done 'so, they have evaded us, and got them fairly at work at the bountiful supply
into the city."                          ~ laid before them, she put a small bell on the
"Why for not you go zare and see, Messieur table, and said:
De Montfort ?"                          .     "If anything more is wanted, ring the bell,
"With -my name published far and wide as gentlemen, and I will attend you."
one of the nost bitter Secessionists of my State.  " And a fairer attendant all Virginia, famed
No, my dear Michel. notoriety is very good, but for its beauty, could not give us," said Beverly,
n'arrest and trial for treason might make me in his usual foppish way.
ven more uncomfortable than I am."          "A soldier's -daughter requires 'no flattery,
" Eh lzcn!/ Zat is one ton excuse. Why for Sir," said thy girl, with a look which did not
you not go for to try to find ze ladee of your flatter him.
love in ze citee, eh, Messieur Beverlee ?"    IIe made no reply. He saw that he was
"I have even stronger reasons than my treading upon dangerous 'ground.      How few
cousin for avoiding my chances for accomoda- men know 'how- to properly express their ad-
tions inside of a Federal prison !" said Beverly; miration of a lady's qualiues of mind or per..
laughing. "Will you not go, Michel? You son in her presence without offending her natu.

SADIA.

1


80

SADIA.

a
1'
1  .
f
1'
i
.
t
,
i'


ral modesty. Of course,'a rude soldIer wouldn't
attempt it. He might charge a battery at the
head of a few as reckless devils as himself, and
succeed ; but to charge over the barrierswhich
every man with a chivalrous heart in his bosom
respects-he wouldit do it.
Little was said by the, trio while the substan-
tial supper was under discussion in a practical
way. Ham    and eggs, fish and oysters, corn-
bread and chicken fixings, all went the way of
doomed flesh and fish very rapidly.    The
drink was still apple-jack, now mellowed with
a little sugar and weakened with a little water,
for tea would be an insult to an eleven-o'clock
supper for a Southern gentleman.
While it was in progress, however, thought
was busy in the brains of at least one of the
party. And when they sat back and lighted
fresh cigars, he said
"If Stuart would only come, he would find
some way to aid us in learning whether the
party have reached Washington or not.
It was Warburton who spoke. Almost at the
same instant, the rapid galloping of a horse was
heard for a few moments, and then it ceased, as
the rider drew up before the house.       s
"Suppose zat what zey say in ze old time,
come to ze veritie, eh ?-zat when you speak of
le diable, he come; zen zat gentilhomme zat 'ave
just come must be le Capitaine Stuart, eh ?"
said Michel, with as much of a smile as his
scarred old visage ever could wear upon it.
"You may be right. I will see, at any rate,"
said Warburton, rising and leaving the room.
He returned in a few moments afterward, ac-
companied by a man of about middle height,
thin-formed, and thin-faced, but whose eye, as
bright as that of.the eagle, seemed to pierce
the person he looked upon. His frame, though
light, was lithe and sinewy; and a glance would
tell any observant man that he was active and
powerful. He wore a plain suit of gray, well
covered with mud, showing that he had been
riding haid and recklessly, heavy top-boots,
with spurs at the heels. The butt of a revolver
could be seen where his coat lacked a button at
the waist ; but no other weapon was in sight.
"Gentlemen, here is our host, Captain Stuart,
of the Independent Confederate Rangers," said
- Warburton, as the two entered the room.
One of the party-Michel--needed no intro-
duction, for Stuart at once grasped and hearti-
ly shook his hand.
"I'm  glad to see you, old friend," said he.
"Have you made any more Yankees dance for
you lately ?"
"Ali, ha! Capitaine, you have bon memoire,"
said Michel, with a grin, as he thought of an
act of his to which the Captain alluded. " Zat
was one ver fine dance, only ze music was too
slow, eh? Ha, ha! It was ver fine."
"I must tell you about that scrape before
you go, Montfort ; it was rare fun," said the

guerrilla chief. "But now tell me about this
business of yours, and let me see what I can do
for you."
"Will you not take a dose of something
strong to take the chill of the night air from
your veins ?" asked Beverly, with a studied air
of politeness, as he pushed the decaneer over
toward Stuart.
"Thank you ; no," said the latter. "A man
who has ridden forty miles in less than five
hours cannot have felt much chill in his veins,
you may well suppose. Go on, Moutfort. I
am waiting for you."
Warburton now stated all about the exodus
of Sadia and the slaves, not, however, saying
anything about its real cause, leaving Stuart to
suppose that her Union feelinge alone had actu-
ated her. When he mentioned her supposed
guide, old Thomas Hunter, Stuart shook his
head.
"She has one of the best men for the busi-
ness in the country. I know him. lie has
hunted and fished on tlle river foi' twenty-five
or thirty years at least. lie is an educated
man, and was born a gentleman, and, I have
been told, was once an officer in the Army."
"He don't look much like one in his latter
days," said Warburton, contemptuously.
"Nevare mind zat. I 'ave tell you before
zat hLone soldier, said Michel. "'Ave not
I talk wiz him upon ze science de guerre in ze
language of France? Ccrtainemert , I 'ave so
done. He smart like ze di2ble, nevare would he
escape old Carl Michel. Nevare !"
"Our river pickets are too much on the
alert, it seems to me, for any boat to pass them.
For upon them do we depend to keep much in-
formation away from the Federals. Yet you
think your sister and her party must have
reached the city ?" said Stuart.
"Yes; for I cannot imagine where else she can
be, and there would be her only near place to
find protection in her cursed plans."
"Well, it can be ascertained if she is there.
My girls manage, one or the other of them, to
get down there every day or two. They are ac-
quainted with several of the leading clerks of
the different departments, and with most of the
reporters. It will be ascertained to a certainty
by this time to-morrow evening whether they
are in the city or not. So rest easy upon that
score."
"A  thousand thanks, my good friend -a
thousand thanks !" said Waarburton, joyously.
"I have renewed hope now."
"When you return, you do not propose going
back in your boats, I hope," said Stuart, sudden-
ly changing the subject.
"I razzare ziuk it would be one big fool idea
to do zat! It take us 'ten day zat way-we go
in two wiz ze horse," said Michel.
"But where will we find horses ?" suggested
Beverly.

I            /
SAT
"Do not trouble yourself about that. There
are yet a few fools in Virginia who dare to call
' themselves Union men. Whenever I need
horses, I make them pay for their folly by bor-
rowing the horses of such men for the use of
myself and the Confederacy," said Stuart. "If
[ you recover your whole party, Union men shall
4 find transportation for them. They give what
I ask, and never grumble-before me, at least,
for I always carry a lariat at the ring of my
s saddle, and a few of them have seen the lariat-
dance, haven't they, Michel ?"
"Ha! ha! yes, Captain; zat dance to slow
musique. It is admirable performance--admir-
able ! I shall 'ave to come wiz you ver soon,
for ze people up ze Potomac are too slow.
Zey ely whip two school teachare to death
r last week, and burn one abolition man-bah;
zey are too slow.zZey should see Paris in
~one emeute; zen zey could see somesing of
action. A barrier here and a barrier zere, wiz
k dead soldiers on one side, dead citizens ze oz-
zare, and women sing like ze diable on ze top !
i Every lamp-post 'ave a jewel,'zat jewel an arise
tocrat zat pave dance ze dance of death ! Ah,
. Paris'is one grand place in revolution!"
4 And the old corsair's eyes sparkled, as he re-
membered, probably, the ferocities of the follow-
ers of Marat, Danton, and Robespierre.
" Can you get to Washington to-night, Kate ?"
asked Captain Stuart of the same daughter who
had waited upon the party before, and who
now came in .answer to the bell which he had
Krung.
"I can ride down to the Long Bridge to-
Snight, father, and get passed over early in the
Morningg" was the reply.-
9  "That will do, dear ; get ready. I have
d work for you. Take the black horse; he is
r swift, sure footed, and used t" that road, and
~it is dark to-night!"
wr," Yes, father." And the beautiful girl hurried
away.
"You surely will not send her. out alone on
N such a night as this toward the Federal lines?"
said Warburton, in astonishment. "She cannot
Have numbered eighteen summers !"
" Only sixteen," said Stuart, with a smile.
" But she can ride wherever a horse can carry
Mme ; and the man upon whom she raises her
;evolver may, as well breathe his last prayer to
God. I have no fears for her safety ; little.
t ate Stuart can take care of herself; and before
ewe sleep to-morrow night you will learn through
er all that can be learned of your party in
ashington. Have you any likeness of your;
ester with you-if so, let me have it, for I must
low go to give my girl her final instructions."
" Beverly has one which he can lend for the
oceas ion, I presumed; for he borrowed it of nec
an year rogo, and has never returned it, though
have seen it often in his possession," said
Varburton. '

81

The young Lieutenart affected to be slightly
confused-confusion in a sailor, ye gods! But
he took out his pocket-book, and from within it
produced a photograph of Sadia.
"A queenly-looking girl, by Jove !" muttered
Stuart, as he looked at the picture. "I would
know her among a thousand. Kate will take
this with her, and return it safely. Now, gen-
tlemen, enjoy yourselves over your bottles and
cigars, and when you feel weary, rooms will be
ready for you. You can do nothing before
to-morrow night, so take things easy. In the
morning, I may have a word to say about your
boats ; we shall need a good many in a short
time, and probably can make it advantageous to
you to part with yours. Good-night."
And the guerilla left them to their enjoy-
ment.
ChAPTER XII.
Kate Stuart was the favorite child of her
bold and dashing father, because in many points
her character was so like his own. Apparent-
lv insensible to fear, she was daring and grace-
ful in horsemanship; and, as he had remark-
ed, if she fired her revolver at a living thing-
bird, beast, or man--death would surely follow
the certainty of her aim. She was, strange to
say, as lady-like in her demeanor, and as calm
and self-possessed within doors, as the best bred
belle that ever, turned hearts wild at Saratoga,
or drove men into dissipation despairingly at
Newport. Her father's means had enabled
him to have her educated in every accomplish-
ment; and young as she was, in music, lan-
guages, general knowledge she was well versed..
And throwing himself right into the front of
the dark army of, Secessionism, he was already
using her in many ways to aid his ambitious
plans - for the plan of every leader in that
mad scheme was founded not upon even the
supposed good of his country,' but upon his
own personals ambition! This may be said to
be an opinion; but their every act proves it to
be based upon the foundation of truth.
When Captain Stuart left the room where his
guests were, he repaired to another on the first
door, wb-ich he called his armory. It might also
have been termed a museum, for in the variety
and style of arms there was everything to
choose from. It seemed as if the old heroes of
the Revolution, the Hessians and the Yagers,-
and even the Red Men of the forest, had helped
to swell his stock.  Flint lock and percussion,
single and double-barreled, guns, pistols, rifles,
and revolvers were packed in the corners, or hung
upon the walls. Old Scottish broadsword, ship-
cutlasses, old rapiers,.regular sabres, all were
scattered about looking grim and rusty, but dan-
gerous for all that.
So large and various was the collection, that
I have no doubt the old woman's gun could have
been found in it-the one which she remember-

t.       ,

DIA.


82                                      SADIA.
ed, "without stock, lock, or barrel", that went if they wish to avoid an expl.sion. Is ths
off through carelessness.                    all?"
r The Captain upon entering the room, opened   "Not quite. The guile to M; ss d  Montfort
a small cupboard, which contained arms, which is supposed to be) .l( Thomas ulnyiter. Do you
were kept with more than common care. In it rcemeiber a fisherrmnn-a very inteligent old
there were three or four sabres, several short man-whom I brought in froi the river bank,
carbines, and at least a dozen revolvers, all where he had camped in a stortmi. and insisted
without rust, and evidentlyieady for use.    upon his staying-with us until it was all over?"
He took down a red morocco belt.from a book  " Yes, father, [e was lame, anui said ble bad
to which was appended a pair of holsters. been wounded at Lundy's Lane-a brave .old
From each of these he took a silver-mounted  man !"
Colt's revolver ; and having removed the caps,  " A brave old traitor to the South, I fear, for
and examined the tubes, to see that the powder he is Southern born.  But be is the same man.
was dry, he carefully re-eapped them. A neat If you see him there, or hear of him, you will
little bowie-knife finished the appendages of 'knov that the party have most likely all got to
this belt, which a moment later he buckled Washington. Do not be lon~r r gone than mid.
around the waist of his daughter when she en- night to-morrow, if it can possoly be helped.
tered the room.                             And now, God speed and bless von, child ; be
Go,\my good girl, on this errand, with care careful of yourself, and shoot down the first man
for yourself," he said, a- lie pressed his thin who breaithes or looks an insult !"
pale lips upon her white forehead.  .          "Never fear for me, father dear-be-bye!"
"You have iot yet told me what the errand   And wrapped in a dark ino 'telette, the grace-
is, father dear," she said, with a saucy smile. ful girl hurried out of thc.roomu.
"Do you wish me to win some new secret from    A few moments later, the sound of galloping
those poor fools who think that, because I lis- hoofs told that she was off like a winged spir i
ten to their flatteries, I may respect or believe of the night upon her errand.
them?"                                        Her father looked down the flinty avenue'
"No,.child. Miss Sadia de Montfort, the eld- which ldd from the house, and, for a minute or
est sister of the Montfort who is up stairs, has more, lie could trace her course by the fire.,
esen fit to abscond from her brother's plantation struck from the horse-shoes on the stones-- "
with her younger brother and sister, and all the after that, all was still on the road, and with a
slaves, near thirty in number. He thinks-asshe sigh, he left the window and the room.
was a strong Union girl in sentiment-that she--.
has managed to get down the river, enter Wash-            CHAPTER XIII.
,ington, and claim the protection of the Federal  Within about a couple of miles of the Long
Government, on the plea that he is a Rebel. Bridge, which spans the Potomac at Wash:ng.
Here is her photcgraph. Look well at it; for ton, and not far from the classic shades of Ar- b
I want you to discover if she has reached lington, which the Rebel General Lee has so
Washington, and, iftso, what steps she has taken long sought to look upon, if not to repossess,
with the Government about her affairs, and stood at the commencement of this war a neat
where she lives."                            and quite unpretending   little wayside inn.
"She is pretty ; I like her proud, pure look," Thoegh the vicinity of a city where travelers
said Kate, abstractedly, as she took the picture generally were either bound,,or from whence
in her hands.                               they were coming, made its custom purely tran-.
After looking at it a moment, she put it in a sient, yet that custom was considerable.'It
morocco card-case which she drew from her was a pleasant drive to it from tihe city-tl'here
pocket; and then turning to her father, asked was good stable-room, and attentive hosts,
which of the gentlemen up-stairs was the Mont- and a bar where excellent lionors and nines
fort.                                        could be had at prime prices. ~A neat dinnere,
"The taller and more manly of the two. or a tasty game and fish-snp'er,eould be hat
For you know Michel ?" replied Stuart.      there at most times, for tarney Sullivan was a
"I am glad it is not the other; for I should good liver himself, and knew well the wants (if
hate to serve him; he is a puppy !" said Kate, those who required good catering. It was his'
quietly.                                     boast that he had spent two fortunes in the
" Ah! how has he roused the tiger in you, "ould countryy, left him by rich relatives, le-
Kate?"                                       ceased, and that with the remnants of the last
"He told me what my glass told me long ago he had opened his house, the -'Shamroek", not
- that I was good-looking ; and was weak for the profit of the thing,~ but just to keep)
enough to think his words would please, instead " plenty of gentale company" around him.
of making me despise hiirai !"                 And this he had, for, amused with his wit and
"Poh, child I you are like powder; you go off I oddity, and pleased with the quality of hisi lig-
too quick, sometimes."                      . uors and vianda, many of the first and faisteet
" Then, father, sparks must not light on me, of the Washington bloods paid him frequent

afternoon and evening visits, and his income
was quite as much as that of many a city hotel-
keeper with thrice his pretensions.
Before the Rebeiiion broke out, and after,
Barney had been besieged -by both Secesh and
Federal, to know which side he was on.
"Nayther side, monies !" hiewould invariably
reply. "Sure it's meself that is not yet natur-
ahzed, not to say civilized, out of the ould coun-
thry into the new, and would I be such a baste
as to mix myself up in the little family quar-
'rels ye choose to have amongst ache other!
Divilfthe bit. IL's more sense the mother left
me that went on her way rejoiciu' afther lavin'
me as snug a fortune as any man in County
Limerick might sigh after !"
And both Rebels and Federals would laugh
at his jokes, or he preserved his neutrality in
acts as well as words, and did not seen to care
an iota which whipped, as the woman said when
the bear tackled her husband. -
But after the war opened, the custom of Bart
ney sadly fl1 off--it was neither so regular nor
so sure as before. And now-but we will not
anticipate the history of Barney Sullivan, but
simply bring in so much of him and his as is
connected with our story.
Him and his, I said. For there was a lady,
the only queen lie said that he'd ever sworn
"allaygeance to", and that was Mrs. Kathleen
Sullivan, whom he regarded as the " naytest
;it" of womanity that ever danced a jig, and
who regarded him ns a long ways ahead of all
uclher men, kings and Presidents included.
At this house Kate Stuart arrived about an
hour before daylight on the night when we saw
er leave her father's house. The house was
within the Federal lines, and she had passed
them safely-how, was best known to herself.
Riding directly through the carriage-yard
around to the back of the house, she dashed her
horse over a little picket thatencl'osed a flower-
plot, and riding up one of the paths until she
was beside the house, she reached out the butt
of her riding whil', and lightly tapped upon
one of the window-sashes.
At first, there was no answer-everything
was still about the house, but a watch-dog in
the stables set up an infernal racket.
She struck several harder blows, and in a
moment they had the desired effect.
"Faith an' who is that thumpin' there when
we're all as sound asleep as ever Jonah was in
the belly of the say-sarpint ! Who are you-
spake, or I'll be after hati' the taykittle, and
sealdin' ye off!"
"Don't put yourself to such trouble, Mr.
Sullivan ! But rouse up your hostler, and have
my horse taken care of, and tell that rosy-cheek-
ed wife of yours that Kate Stuart wants to shake
hands with her !"
"Howls saints-it is her! Wake up, Kath-
leen-wake up,, darling! It's your favorite, the.

Captain's daughter, out there in the could! Up
wid you, dear, and on wid a shawl, and bring
her in, whileI start up the hostler, and make
her a bit o' somethin' warm to kape death from
the young heart of her !"
While Barney was talking, he was not idle,
but soon a light appeared in one room, and
then in another, and by the time pate had dis-
mounted, her horse was taken charge of by
Barney himself, while at the door she was met
by the rosy-cheecked wife in question, who, in
not very full dress, embraced her warmly1 and
hurried her into a snug little parlor, where she
left her until she (Mrs. S.) could make herself
"a bit dacent", to use her own words.
She was only gone a few moments, when she
came in as tidy as if she had just come from a
May-day ball, bringing a glass of wine-negus
right fromu the hands of Barney, who sent her
word it must be taken to kill the chill of the
morning.
"I'll take it more to please you and Barney
than for the real need I have of it !" said Kate,
laughing.
And she drank the carefully-prepared bever-
age, which her rapid night journey did not rev-
der unnecessary. For she had ridden many
miles at a gallop, and could not but have felt;
some, fatigue.
"And now, my good Kathleen," she said,
take me to a room-where I can wash up, and-
make myself as good-looking as I can, for I am
going over to Washington after an early break-
fast, to see if I can find some man that looks
anything like your Barney for a husband, for
I'm getting afraid of living single. Look how I
have to travel now I"
And she exhibited her belt of arms.
rTake these playthings, and lock them up for
me, too, my dear Mrs. Sullivan, where no one will
sec them till I come back from the eity; for I
might scare away an offer, you know, if I wore
them."
And the laughing girl unclasped the belt, and
handed it to her hostess.
"The Lord love us! she calls these play-
things !" said Mrs. Sullivan, as she looked as-
kant at the deadly weapons which she hurried to
put out of her hands into a bureau-drawer, which
she locked, and banding the key over to Kate,
said:
"Sure, it's myself, Miss Kate, that nayther
likes the handling or care of them sort of play-
things, as you call 'em! And I'd rather have
a good man, like my Barney, to take care of
me, than a dozen pair of 'em, so ' would. Come,
now, to a room, ,and I'll be dressin'-maid for ye,
as I was once to Lady Clanorgin, at the Castle,
and sure you're thousan' times handsomer than
ever she was, for she had hair as red as ould
copper, and a face as speckled as a guinea-hen's
egg. And her shape ! it was no shape at all, as
Barney says of a naygur's foot."

L/t

SA]DIA.

83


-   I  -lii  ----   --- w - - - ~ .   -

SADIA.

84

.;
i
'

"0 Mrs. Sullivan, you'll kill me with laugh-
ing. What makes you Irish people always so
funny ?"
"Faith, I don't know, without it is like other
matters wid our nation. Ould Ingland has made
many a bloody war, but Irishmen have to fight
them out for her. So people have to laugh, and
if we didn't make the fun for 'em to laugh, who
would? But there ! I hear my Barney calling
my name. It's a cane shirt, bayhap, the dar-
n' is wantin' ; for he always puts his best fut
foremost when you come to the "Shamrock", Miss
Kate.  Sure an' if I hadn't a lane title to his
hand and heart, it's jealous I'd be of the man !
Hurry and wash up! There's combs, brushes,
and plenty of soap, water, and tooaels in the
room. Breakfast will be ready as soon as your
swate little mouth is ready for it."
And the cheery little woman, having shown
Kate to her room, disappeared in the direction
from which she last heard the musical voice of
her husband.
Kateremoved herdark riding-mantalet and gray
riding-skirt, and developed a very neat figure
in a dress of dark blue merino. Taking off, also,
a pair of riding-boots, made men-fashion, which
might have been numbers four or five, she ex-
hibited still a neat two-and-a-half gaiter-boot
over her little foot, which had thus been pre-
served from mud and other injury. And let-
ting down the long curling hair which had
been-netted up for the ride, she shook it out,
and then dipping her sweet face and dimpled
hands into the bowl filled with sparkling water,
' she soon removed all traces of travel and fa-
tigue.
When, half an hour later, she went back into
Kathleen's parlor, the little woman could not,
for the life of her, help catching her in her arms,
and kissing her,'vowing all the time that she
looked more like a fairy than a woman.
And Barney, tod, soon came in, and his tongue
was as profuse in its delivery of flattering com-
pliments as that of his wife, and his droll ex-
pressions kept Kate laughing till the tears ran
down her cheeks.
"I have a favor to ask of you to-day, Mr. Sul-
livan," she said, as soon as she could get quiet
enough to speak.
"Faith, anything but my allaygance to Kath-
leen yonder you may ask, lady, widout danger
of a refusal from Barney."
"This favor is not so serious as to endanger
your allegiance anywhere. You have a pass fo
yourself and family over into the city, have yo
"Troth I have, and small danger of my losing
it."
"Well, all I ask is to be one of your family
and to ride over there early this morning.J
want to do some shopping before this groin
war makes it impossible for us poor country
girls to get to town to buy anything."

E

SADIA.

"Oh, what a whopper you tould me an hour
ago, Miss Kate 1" said Kathleen. "Sure it was
a husband as good-lookin' as Barney you said
you was afther !" cried Kathleen, laughing.
"Why couldn't you keep my secret, you
talkative woman, you!" exclaimed Kati, in
feigned anger. "Now he'll be running down
every good-looking man he meets, and I'll have
no chance at all !"
"The Lord preserve the hearts you'll break
before the day is out !" said Barney, laughing.
"But will you take me over !'
"To be sure I will, my darling.  And if an -
ugly man squints at you, I'll spake of Bladens-
burg and ten paces to him ! And your own
beautiful horse will be resting ricely in his
stable the while! But if it wasn't for ~the Yan-
kee habit of askin' questions that I don't like,
intirely, I'd ask you, Miss Kate, in the name of
all nature, what made you come out in a dark
night like the last, instead of a hrght day, as
this is going to be. Ifyour horse had stumbled,
you might have broke your neck, and there'd
been an angel too many in the next world, and
one too little in this!"
"0 Mr. Sullivan, when will you leave ofLyour
blarney ?"
"When I forget the taste o' whisky-punch,
my darling-never before. But there goes the
breakfast-bell.  If a hot row!, ani a bit of
Potomac shad, broiled to a nicety, and some
baked pertaties, don't go good with coffee this
morning, Saint Boniface may be left out of the
calendar! Come, my young night-hawk, see if
your appetite isn't freshened by your exercise.
Ate hearty, and then Kathleen shall rig up to
-keep you from runnin' away wid my heart al.
together, and go along wid us. And we'll stay
in the city as long as yo-i like, and come away
when you want, for I've got Phil Fogarty so
broke in to the house, that he can see to tings
as well as I, if there's no large crowd about?
- Come to breakfast now !"
CHAPTER XIV.
As it had been their first comfortable "night
. in" for some time, Warburton de Montfort and
t his companions, with one exception, slept late
on the morning after their arrival at the house
- of Captain Stuart. That exception was the ever'
- .restless old corsair, Michel, who never slept but
in snatches, dreaming apparently then of some
r of his wild acts, and often muttering wild things
r even in his transient slumbers. lie was up with
u the dawn, and with Captain Stuart was off to
his stables, examining the points of some half-
i' dozen or more thorough-bred horses, which lie
descanted upon with the knowledge of an old
. horseman.
I A horn or two of old peach-brandy welcomed
g the dlips of both of the cavaliers, and many a
- wild tale of forays, even in this young Rebellion.
passed between them.

"You had better join me permanently, Mich-
"l!" said Stuart, when they came back from the
tables, and seated themselves in comfortable
chairs on the piazza fronting the river. "I
iave been promised a regular cavalry command
-to raise it to a brigade, if I can. You shall have
good berth in it if you wilbeome ?"
"I zank you, Capi aine--i zank you! You do
ne much honare ! 3ut I 'ave been promised a
hief part in one grand enterprise ; one mag.
ificent speculacione, zat 'ave witz its dangare
meh profit? I 'ave promise I would try it--I
ill try. If zat enterprize fail, and yet I sur-
ivc, I will come to you, mon cher Capitaine, in
ny capacity zat you may permit!"
"Well, you will not find me insensible to your
erits, my dear fellow. Is your enterprise by
nd or water ?"
"Both, Capitaine-both. It would be to be-
ay confidence to say anysing more before I
ye permissione from zem zat engage me, or I
ould tell you all !"
"Oh, never mind that. I am generally as
ttle curious about the secrets of others as I am
trongly careful, on the opposite, of my own.
o you suppose your party would like to go on
horse-hunt, to-day?"
"I will not speak for them. For myself, I
could be delighted to go upon any kind of a
unt. I like not to be still !"
"I thought, as they will probably need horses
go back on, they might not dislike to pass the
y in making a trip with me of about twenty
miles from here. We can cross the river in our
oats, and take a couple of wagons that one of
r friends has on the other fide, and reach thel
ace I want to go to by noon. There are
out thirty fine horses corralled there, that
ill go to fill a contract with the Federal Gov-
uncut next week, if I do not get them."   ]
"Ah, zat would be von ver' gran' pitee! It
uld be ver' wrong zat such good honestE
'entilhomme as you and myself should need
r horses, and ze Yankee 'ave zem so near
ile we ave zem not. I shall propose to my
iends zat we go look at zem horses, and buy
1n ze way I once buy a watch and diamond
g from a priest down in Granada! I told
m I would take zem from him according to ze
w of ze Scripture-wizout money and wizout1
'ice. lie look ver' black, and he make muchI
rnplaint ; but ze watch did not stop, and I
Id ze ring afterward for one thousand dollare.1
ought I quote to him Scripture wiz bon ef-
"Ah, Michel, I'm afraid you've been a hard
"Certainment ! I do not deny zat, Messieur
Capitaine-I do not deny zat ; but when I
t ver' old-say twenty-thirty year from now
I shall reform, take a young wife, and-die a1
r' good man, if ['ave plenty of monee to be
od viz; because it is ver' hard to be good if

L ik

. .

.

you are poor. When ze money gets low wiz
me, zen the devil always rise. When I 'ave
plenty of money, I only sink of when I 'ave
been bad, not how I shall be bad."
Stuart could not help thinking that there was
some philosophy in Michel's idea; and so he
said.
"By the way, Michel," he continued, "how
have you got over your love affair over in
Winchester, that you were sighing about when
I saw you last ?"
"Ah, Mon Dieul You mean ze widow! I
got over wiz zat wiz one gran' facilitie. Ze la-
dee 'ave represent to me zat she loof me ver'
much ; zat she 'ave two hundred niggare, and
two gran' plantation, and one house in ze citee.
When 1 hear zat, I loof her ver' much ! Oh,
nevare love I a woman so much! And so I de-
clare to her zat I, a count of ze grand empire
of France, wish much for to marry wiz her. To
zat she was ver' willing. I feel gran', superbe,
apply ! I sink how I make zem-fniggare take
voyage for New Orleans, where zey were wort
t'ree time so much as here. We were ver' soon
to be marry, when one day a shentilhomme tell
me zat if I will not get mad wiz him he will
tell me somesing of ver' grave importance to me.
"I tell him 1 will listen, and I will not get
mad.
"He tell me zen zat ze widow was one grand
humbug, and was make fool of me. Zat she
'ave no monee, no niggare, no house in ze citee,
no plantation, no nosing.
"By dam! I tell him if he prove what he say
I will he his friend forevare ; if not, I will fight
him till he die!
"He did prove it ; and zen I was his friend
forevare."
"But the widow. How did you break with
her ?"
" Ah, Capitaine! you would ~'ave laugh to
see me resign the honare of her hand. I tell
her I did not tink I was capable of manage so
smart a ladee and so much propertie all at one
and ze same time ; that some more fortunate
man must reign upon ze golden throne of her
loof! Oh, by dam! how mad 'she look. She
understand me! Zat night she went away.
Ze next day, foui milinare send to me zeir
bill for bonnett, dress-everysing she 'ave
bought, wiz ordare zat I shall pay. I tell zem
zat I will pay when she shall become Madame
Carl Michel, not before. Zat was all of'zat af.
faire, Capitaine."
"And well you got out of it," laughed Stuart.
"Excuse me, Michel ; it ia my breakfast hour;
and I'm going to rouse your company, or they'll
sleep all day."
" Zat is right, Capitaine-zat is right. If we.
make zat expedition for get ze horse, we must
be on ze way ver' soon. I will assist you. You
wake ze shentilhommes above, and I will start
ze lazy mens below."

,

Ei


SADIA.                                       37

86

SADIA.

CHAPTER XV.
There were few more stylish equipages than
the doulJc-seated, Gothamn-built light wagon
which Barney Sullivan brought out before the
door of the 'Shamrock", for the purpose of
carrying his Kathleen and Kate Stuart over to
Wasdungton. la team, a pair of black Mor-
gan mares, well matched, suited admirably to
the size of the wagon ; and when the two wom-
en-one of them very beautiful and the other
decidedly good-looking-were in, and he on
lthe iront seat, in his neat driving-coat, spotless
gloves, and wE;-curled hair and whiskers, the
whole turn-out was one that could nowhere pass
unnoticed, even in the most stylish crowds.
On the Virginia side of the river, soldiers,
mostly, were the admirers of Barney's dashing
show-for the most of t1 e civilians and all the
open Secesh had move away, or, in the new
phraseology of Dixie, they had skedaddled.
It was but a short drive to the end of the
Long Bridge, where a strong guard was placed,
and where an officer examined the passes of all
who crossed.
He appeared to know Barney well, for he
smiled good.naturedly as he drew up to exhibit
his pass, and said
"All right, mine host of the 'Shamrock'; you
have shown your pass too often to need it now.
If all on this side of the river were like you, I,
too, could take a drive over to the city, instead
of standing guard on this cursed bridge all
day !".
"Thank you, Lieutenant. When you're off
duty, come out and see us. llammack sends
me over prime oysters every day, and I've some
capital shad on hand-not to speak of the nec-
tar that you jolly sons of Mars love when duty
permits its use,"
And Barney drove on, while the officer, whose
eye had rested admiringly but not with insolent
boldness upon the form and face of Kate, still
east a long, lingering gaze in her direction.
"Who was that officer?" asked Kate, after
they had passed out of hearing.
"One of the Rhode Island boys-I forget his
name. Ii'father is a big cotton manufacturer,
and supplies him plentifully with money. lie
has been over to my place with some of the
Massachusetts Sixth several times."
"His father had better have given him brains
than money !" said Kate, quietly. "A man,
bowe' 'er, in h sposition can be shot as well with-
out brains as with them. He'll be food for our
Southern buzzards one of these days !"
"Like many qt better man. War is a divil-
ish wasteful trade altogether !" said Barney,
with a laugh.   Where do you wish to gxo to on
the other side, Miss Kate- for well soon be
over? My team ineasues miles nearly as fast as
the locomotives on the railways do !"
I am  willing to be left anywhere on the
avenue, only so that I know where to find you

when my business is over," said Kate. "Y
can, if you like, drive me up as far as the Cal
tol, and, if you stop near there, I will wa
down."
"I always put up my horses at Keogan'
and my Kuthleen as a cousin close by, who
she goes to have a chat when we are os
We'll drive there, and then you'il see where
come when you get iady. You needn't hui
yourself, nor fear for any slip o Barne
tongue, if you are over on business for y'
father, as you may be; for he is a man afti
my own heart, and has spent too many a fr
dollar with mc, to let him or his ever be forge
ten."
"I thank you, Barney. Neither he nor Iw
ever forget your kindness. I knew I could
pen.l upon you, or I should not have asked ti
favor I have. I may be delayed in my busing
till night, or it may be settled in an hour or1 
time. I will try and not inconvenience you
your good Kathleen "
"Don't inconvayniance yourself, or youll
convayniance us, darling," was Kathleen's rep:
as she pressed Kate's little hand.
"And tell me, Birdie, didn't you forget y
pocket-book last night, in the hurry of.comni
away? because if you did, Barney Sulivan h
got two or three cool hundred with him, to-da
that he don't know how to get rid of."
"Does this look as if I did, my good friend'
asked Kate, with a laugh, as she took from b
pocket a large silk purse, and showed it to hi
well filled with gold. "Father never lets
go without pocket-money."
"The more glory to him, darling ; but
meant no harm. I would serve you if I coul
"I know it, Barney ; there are no friec
whom I value more than I do t on and Kathle
for in fair report orfoulyou are the same tour
"And long may we live to be so! Ab,
little lady, I saw that! 'lhat officer bowed v
low, and you blushed. I'm sure he is as go
looking as I am. Is he to be the happy man
"No, indeed, you foolish fellow; he is onl
passing acquaintance, who, one of these da
may wish that he had never seen me. lie as'
and got an introduction to me nlot long sin
and-and that's all."
"All that you mane to tell us just now,
mane. Well, never mind ; it's not us will hot
you about him any more. But he's a dcvi
fine-looking fellow!"
"It was him who made the charge at
Cross Roads last week, and cut his way out o
net laid for him by Ball's Cavalry. lie
considerable credit for it-all he deserved
reckon !"
" Faith, I know his name now. 'I liked
cut of his jib. A fighting man suits me,1 d
care where I fiad him."
I had rather find him on the side I am
but if he is a man, I'll respect him anywh

g

Ah! Kathleen, how would you like to be that
lady-the one in the open carriage whom we
are just going to meet?"
." What, the one with the driver and footman
dressed in blue, with silver lace around their
hatss"
"Yes-the same."
"Faith, I know who she is, and that she has
a big man for a husband; but I'd rather be
myself, with Barney here to look at and call
my own, than to be the big woman she'll be for
the four years she lives in the White House,
and the little one she may be after that."
"You don't think mch of the position of a
President, it appears."
"Faith, I wouldn't think much of heaven, if
I was only to have a taste of it and then lose it."
"You see the ould woman has a mind of her
own, Miss Kate."
Yes, and a sound one, too, Barney,'and you
should be proud of it."
"I am, sure ! But here we are,aforeninst her
cousin's. Whenever we're wanted, you find the
one or other of us here."
"Very well; I will alight here also, Barney.
I can walk where I wish to go," said Kate.
And when Barney reined in she left the wagon.
And, reader, for the present, we'll leave the
party, for we are wanted elsewhere.
CHAPTER XVI.
After Warburton de Montfort and his party
had breakfasted, Captain Stuart repeated to
them the same information that he had given
Michel in regard to the horses. And his propo-
sition to make up an expedition to go after
them was received with unanimous satisfaction
by all the party except Randolph Beverly, who,
consider ing it beneath the dignity of a naval
officer to act as a horse marine, thought that he
could spend his day far more pleasantly in get-
ting up what'he considered a harmless flirtation
with Captain Stuart's eldest daughter, Annie-
who, of a different type of beauty from Kate,
her sister, :also differed materially in character.
For she was romantic and dreamy; she lacked
the wild vigor of heart and body, the fiery dar-
ing of soul, the utter independence, so to call it,
of the younger but, in every apparent way,
more matured sister. Beverly had read Annie's
character at a glance, and he determined to study
it further, for one day, at least, rather than to
expose himself to the dangers and hardships of
a guerrilla foray.
Therefore, he made so many excuses of being
fatigued, not very well, etc., that he was left be-
hind to keep the landlady and her daughter
company, while every other man about the place
.joined the bold guerrilla chief on the expedi-
*Lion.
It was full nine o'clock in the day when the
party crossed the river ; and Beverly, in his
slippers, sat upon the piazza, and looked out

upon them, as they crossed, with an indifferent
laziness which quite provoked old Michel; fob
the last words he said when bi left were:
"if you no go wiz us to look for one horse to
ride home upon, Messieur Beverlee, you need
not suppose we bring you anysiog better zan a
cow or a shackass for to ride upon! No, by
dam-no !"
Beverly laughed quietly, and, turning to Miss
Annie, who was looking at the crossing with
her great, dreamy, black eyes, said :
"Do not you think, fair lady, that my choice
of a quiet day with the gentler sex, to brighten
it by their sweet presence, is preferable to a
long ride over a muddy road, with only a horse
to pay for the trouble at the end of it. Having
the price cf more than one horse in my pocket,
I believe it far more agreeable to hire rough
work done than to perform it. What do you
think, lady?'
Annie started at.the last question, and blushed
crimson, for her thoughts had been so dreamily
pre-occupied that she had not heard one word
of all this well-arranged opening for converse
tion, and only knew that he had been saying
something to her. Even its nature she knew
not.
"I was thinking of- of sister who went away
last night, Sir, and did not hear what you were
saying, Sir," she said. "Excuse my want of
attention. When you speak again, I will try to
be a listener rather than a dreamer."
"Your sister must have had an unpleasant
and perilous ride in the :night, it seems to me,"
said Beverly, glad to get Annie into a conversa-
tion any way.
Oh! Kate glories in such things. Nothing
delights her more than to join my father in his
dangerous expeditions ; and had she been here
to-day, she would have been the first across that
river," said Annie, her dark 'eyes kindling with
enthusiasm as she spoke of the daring nature of
her pet sister.
"And do you never go out with your father ?"
"Never, Sir, without he has need of both of
us for some purpose-to carry an order or the
like of that! I am more of the quiet and home
nature of my dear mother, and do not love peril
and excitement."
"There speaks the true woman's soul," said
Beverly, thinking that he had struck the vein.
And he at once dashed off into a hyperbole
upon the nature of home, quiet, and luxury.
Annie was now really listening to him, and if
he had looked very closely, he would have seen
a quiet little smile gathering upon her face,
which had in it more of contempt than admira-
tion. He was overdoing the-thing. For Annie
Stuart had more good strong sense than he gave
her credit for. She was not, it is true, a Di
Vernon, neither was she an Ophelia, likely to
go moon-struck or mad under any feelings
which he could arouse. *

A

F'


SADIA.       ,3

"Are you fond of music, Miss Stuart ?" he
asked, as an opening for another point of attack.
"Some kinds," she said, quietly. "There, I
like that exceedingly ! Do you not think it su-
perb? There is both tone and compass for you."
And Annie burst out laughing while a huge
old wench, who had been out getting some
vegetables for the kitchen use, passed by them,
singing an old negro refrain at the very top of
her voice. The words, like the music, were suit-
able to the singer, and anything but romantic;
and Beverly now saw plainly that Annie, sus-
eeptible as she might be to true romance, was
no mere child for a fop to fool with.
So he affected to be highly taken with her
appreciation of the ludicrous, and laughed
heartily at the music which she praised, though
inwardly he was chagrined at the apparent im-
possibilty of making himself interesting to the
lady.
A new thought struck him. He would try
another vein, oue which he had seldom known
to fail, especially with ladies who dwelt inland
end read poetry.
"Have you ever seen the ocean, Miss An-
nie P" he asked.
"N o, Sir; though I have read much about it,
and thought more."
"I am a child of the ocean, Miss Annie."
"You, Sir?
"Yes-as Byron says:
"My home is on the dark blue sea,
My thoughts as boundless, and my heart as free."
"You are lucky, Sir. Why did you not stay
with your Mother Ocean, instead of coming in
hire among our mountains and swamps."
"because, most fair and witty lady, variety
is the spice of life which gives it all its flavor."
"So I used to read in one of my schoolbooks.
You must have gone to school once, to judge
from the source of your quotation."
"L believe I am at school now," he said,_with
some confusion.  "Are all the young ladies
around here as smart as you and your pretty
sister "
"Smarter in some things. For instance, they
are good at recruiting--persuading strong,
healthy, likely-looking young gentlemen like
yourself to enter into the service of the Confed-
erate States, where they can win more honor and
do more good than they can by praising beauty
which would rather be defended than flattered."
"Lady, you cannot accuse me of being back-
wardin the cause. I already have a commis-
sion in the Cpnfederate Navy."
"Then, why, Sir, are you here? Have I not
beard already that vessels are fitting out tQ skim
th- ocean, and to show the audacious Yankees
of the North that the South has its rights upon
the sea as well as the land ?"
"\ was on the eve of departure for service
when my cousin asked my assistance to regain
his property."

"And will you, Sir, let an affair of a prifa,
nature take you away from a public duty? Alas
Sir! if all the sons of the South thus enter cold.
ly into the contest at the onset, alas for the
hopes of independence which we have formed,
Look at my noble father! Not one night in
twenty does his head press a pillow. His money
his life, even us, his loved children, he has thrown
into the treasury of his country's necessities;
and, Sir, all-all will go without a murmur, be-
fore he will draw back- one inch from the step
he was one of the first to take. And he will rise
and we will triumph, and then-then-"
She paused, seemed to think she was going
too far in her enthusiasm before a stranger, and
did not finish the remark she had commenced.
"Then what? Do not pause in your eloquent
remarks, fair lady?"
"I should only have added, Sir, that those
who neglect their country in her hour of need
will not be forgotten in her hour of triumph.
For upon a scroll of infamy, blacker than the
shades of night, will their names be recorded as
'a proof of shame forever."
"I hope, lady, that my name will not be found
on such a scroll."
"And I also hope so, Sir. I may be too earnest,
almost unwomanly, in my anxiety for the South;
but I know the fearful nature of the contest
which we have initiated. With no treasury, ar-
mies yet to form and discipline, a new govern*
ment has to struggle with an old one.".
"You forget, lady, that our Government is
made up of statesmen who have borne leading
parts in the affair s of the united nation for many
years. They do not lack experience."
"No, but they lack power and the unity which
gives power."
"Miss Stuart, I little expected to find so much
thought in one so young, and of that sex which
is supposed to think more of dress and adorn-
ment, and of seeking means to attract admira-
tion, than anything else."
"Supposed so by men who look for nothing
more than beauty or amusement in women!"
said Annie, almost contemptuously. "If you
read the history of the women of the Revolution,
you will see, Sir, that in those days they were
found of value to the patriot's heart and arm.
But I do not wish to speak in praise of our sex'
I fear you will have a dull day before you."
"Not if I have you to converse with, lady."
"You need not' pay me any more compli-
ments, Sir. They fall upon barren ground.  I
have to assist my mother in her daily duties. If
you wish to hunt or fish, you will find a fowling.
piece or fishing-tackle in'the armory. rlo ride,
you oan saddle yourself a horse in the stable.
Or if to read, there are plenty of books and mag-
azines in the next room on the right of the par.
lor, which father uses both as a business-room
and a library."
"I thank you, Miss Annie. I shall avail my.

self of your kindness in some way, and I pray
you not to take serious notice of my foolish lit-
tle nonsensicalities, in the way of compliments.
They come from my lips, often, cre I think them.
But I know, when I assure you that I deeply re-
spect your exalted sense of duty, that you will
accord inc the justice of believing what I say."
"I will; and I hope, Sir, to hear that you are
moving forward in the path of duty."
"It is well for us of the South that Northern
women are :not so urgent upon their men to
spring to arms, or we would be crushed out by
numbers before we could arm ourselves."
"Our only hope is in their delay, in their
coldness. If I read them aright, they are a cold
and passionless people, who require to be struck
more than once before tl.ey fairly wake up and
get mad. But when they are aroused, their an-
ger will not subside easily. But you must ex-
cuse me, Mr. Beverly. I must go and assist my
mother.   Make yourself at home; it is likely
that father and your friends will return shortly
after nightfall. If you should go out, remember
that we dine at two."
"What a superb girl !" said Beverly to him-
self, as she left his side.  "She is worth ten of
her mad-cap sister. If she had Sadia's- But
no ! Ill think of no one but Sadia ; for Pd have
her now, if I knew that Satan would get my soul
for it."
CHAPTER XVII.
' It was after ten o'clock at night'when Captain
Stuart returned, with de Montfort and his party,
having, as usual, been completely successful in
his foray. Forty good horses, and'the arms and
equipments of seven men, who had intended to
escort them to the Government depot, was the
result of the expedition. It was as old Michel
gleefully remarked
"One ver good speculacione."
One of the drst questions which the Captain
asked upon entering the house, was:
"Has Kate returned yet?"
To which his other daughter replied:
"No, dear father. It is hardly time, without
she left the city very early."
"True, darling. My impatience takes no note
of time lately. Hurry up supper for our guests
We are a hungry lot of beggars, for we've taken
nothing solid since we left here in the morn
"Supper is ready now, father. We only wai
for you."
"Then ring the bell. We are as ready as we
ever shall be, I reckon."
The ball soon gathered all hands into th
main dining-room, where a smoking supper-ta
ble, furnished as only Virginia tables in earlier
days could be furnished, put them in splendid
humor.
Alas for Virginia now! her days of prince
luxury are forever past-crushed out by th

treason of her own children, who, led into folly
by the fire.fien of Carolina, are too proud to
acknowledge t ei error, but persist in their
own surely-coming destruction. N ever were
suicides more cool and desperate in their deter,
mined self-destruction than the sons of Southern
and Eastern Virginia. But I forget I am telling
a story-not writing h  'ies upon rebellion.
"How have you passed your day, Mr. Bever-
ly"?" asked his host.
"Agreeably, Sir. How else could I?  Your
library at my disposal, I made use of it. . After
dinner, seeing that a few brace of wild ducks
were dodging around the river-bank, I borrow-
ed one of your guns, and I believe a half-dozen
of them are now before you. You see, I have
not been altogether idle. How could I, when
your own good lady and daughter were busied
all the time in preparing for your comfort
against your return ?"
Beverly had glanced at the face of Annie, who
was pouring .out tea when her father asked the
question, and the ungenerous thought that he
had of answering that he had been listening to
lectures on patriotism from her, passed from
him in a moment.
"Your services have been less fatiguing
than ours, but by hungry men, will be appre-
ciated," said the Captain, as he set to carving
some of the ducks for his guests.
The latter did not need any especial urging
to make them fall to. They " went into" he
edibles in the most complimentary manner--
that is, complimentary to the getters up of so
good a supper.
After the guests' appetites were satisfied,
they mostly adjourned to the lawn in front of
the house to smoke, or, lighting their pipes, took
seats on the piazza and discussed polities, the
incidents of the R7~ebellion, and such other maid.
ters of interest as came into their minds.
But one there was who seemed in little hu
mor for discussions or any kind of conversation.
He paced to and fro upon his piazza hurriedly,
often pausing when he arrived at its southern
end, and gazing down the road which led toward
Alexandria.
The guerrilla looked for the  iide and the
darling of his heart. It was time that she was
Sbank.
bAt lat, his impatience became such he order-
ed his favorite horse out; and he was just on the
t point of mounting to go to meet her, when the
gallant girl arrived. 
e The white foam flecks that flew from the
mouth of the jet black steed, its smoking sides,
e told how rapidly she had come, and how much
e she had tried to lessen the time which anxiety
r had made miserable to him.
d "I am glad you have come, darling !" said
her father, as he lifted Kate from the saddle
y with his strong arms. "1 was about going out

e - to meet you

y
r

38

SADIA.

.7


,+

"I came as quickly as I could, father. I was
detained in the city until late. But Iwill tell
you all when we are alone. Let me go in and
get, a glass of water ; I feel faint and tired. I
have hal lnu rest since I left here."
Poor girl, I otertask your strength, I know
I do, but I have no one else to help me that ~I
can depend on."
1 know it, father, and do not shrink from
auvtiiir.g that I can do for you."
Biess you girl; go in and take a glass of
wine, and theu come to me in my own room,
and tell fiC the result of your visit."
"Yes, father.  I saw an old friend of yours,
father, n  Washington.  lie little thought
hose daughter he was making love to."
' Who was it child?"
"t he lieut enant of cavalry whom you so near-
ly captured at Fairfax Court-IIoube, and had
another brush With at the Cross Roads."
\ Weli, he is a gallant fellow, if he is a Fed.
Nothing but his very daring saved him, or his
Ien. A sluw-goer w ould have been ridden down
before he could have formed to meet my charge.
But go in, child; I will have your horse put
away-Le needs care."
CIIAPTER XVIII.
When Warburton de Montfort saw sate
Stuart arrive, he instantly called Michel and
Beverly together, and they went to their pri-
vate room to await the report which they cx-
peeted to hear from Washington. They were
hot detained there long in anxiety.
Captain Stuart, after a brief interview with
his daughter, entered the room and said
"Gemtlemeu, your game has not yet arriveA
at head-quarters.  No trace can be found
or word heard of Miss Sadia de Montfort or her
,aity in Washington, though parties of fugi-
tives aie ir1ILg there daily."
"'Then where on earti can she be' said the
brother, pale with disappointment.
"Either 3et hidden Eomewhere on the i'iver,
oi- else she ha.3 from the start taken some other
track, throwing you upon a false scent," said
Stuart.  "My daughter has made the most
careful inquiry, and the sources of her infor-
maation are such that nothing could ti anspire
of an official nature without her learning it.
You may judge of her facilities when I tell you
that at four o'clock she heard of our capture of
horses.  You know it was only two when they
were taken, and it was an .hour's ride to the
nearest telegraph station, where those who
telegraph to Washington for help which they
will riot get, went to."
"When our errand here is over and empty-
banded, we will have to sneak back to Spring-
land. With one nigger left, I could plant on a
large scale if I biadn't other work on hand," said
Warburton, bitterly.
"Despondency is a poor eure for evil. You

will never regain your property by giving tip."
"I have little hopes of it now,'' said War-
burton, gloomily."
Polh, man, before the year is out you may
have the power to demand full reparation from
tle hands of the Federal Governmient, if that
Government then exists, for every loss you
have sustained. WVhen they see the allies which
I look for showing their handl, the Yankees
will not talk quite so confidently of crushing
what they are pleased to term a rebellion.
When Eugland and France, who cannot do
without our cotton, come to our aid with money,
arms, ships, and recognition of our rights as an
independent nationality, thou you can hold
your head up, and if you can't find yonr nig-
gers, claim and get the worth of them."
"Yes, when that when arrives.  But I have
no faith in these allies. They will not aid us
until we are beyond the need of aid, one way or
the other."
"Poh, you are in error. Do you think our
leaders have so little sagacity that they would
have risked the bold step they have taken with-
out the surity of material help from abroad?
No Sir ! Nearly two years ago it was promised
officially, and in no less a place than the City
of Washington. I was l)resent, so was Letcher,
Wise, Pryor, as well as Davis and Mallory. I
can name others.   And not one man of them
would have come out boldly in this latter witl
out a guarnaterof foreign aid. Whiatcould the
old Union have done in the Revolution but for
the aid of France ?"
" Oui ! answer you zat, shentlemens," said
Michel, triumphantly. " When France shake
hands wiz you, all will be well. But dam ze Ros
Bifs, darn ze diable Anglaise ! Iiio like zem--
no nevare ! Zey murdare ze old Napoleon, zey
play wiz Louis like one cat play wiz a mouse,
only to put him undare by-and by. Sacre
blku-damn ze Rlos Bife !"
"I do not feel much like discussing politics.
The game of Secession is open. I shall take a
full hand in it, win or lose," said WYirburton,
If I bear no more of the abactees when I
get back to Springland, I shall sell all my stock,
close up everything, and L t the place care for
itself till the war is over. If I live through
that, I wil be able t- re-stock it then."
"Spoken most sensibly, Montfort. And now,
if you intend making an early homeward start,
I will leave you-to your rest. I will have the
river watched just as closely as before, and if I
fall upon the least trace of the fugitives, you
shall hear of it."
"Both thanks and pecuniary recompense
will be yours."
"I can dispense with both when I serve a
friend," said Stuart, quietly. "I wish you a
good-night. I shall be astir before dawn, and
will have your animals fed, ready for a start,. and
your.own breakfast ready. I want the horses

'1

40

i
i
l
f:
t
.=i
I

()
C'
i

' a
i
'        ',

SADIA.


U

sl

'-n
11
F

ont of the way which we took yesterday, for
Kate heard hints of a cavalry party being sent
out to look after them. So far, the Federals have
not been able to trace me directly in anything ;
though under another name they've got rough
charges against me. I never do my worst work
except in disguise. But again, good-night."
CHAPTER XIX.
It is so long since we have glanced back to
our heroine and her lonesome camp that the
reader may think we have forgotten her. Far
from it; but if we keep not an eye upon all of
the actors in this drama of real life, its claim
may be imperfect, and not hold the minds of all
who read, as we desire.
Over a week had elapsed after the fearful
storm which was described in the tenth chapter,
and yet old Hunter and Napoleon, both keeping
is turn vigilant watch, failed to discover any
sign of the return of the searching party who
had gone down the river.
And of all the party in camp, but one seemed
to regard their delay with painful anxiety. Of
course, that one was Sadia. For she felt that
for her and those with her there was no real
safety except under the bright folds of the
national flag, and where Rebelion had no pow-
er.
But those with her, all negroes except Hun-
ter and her brother and sister, released sudden-
ly from all labor except hunting and fishing,
and the procuring of fuel sufficient to cook
their food by, thought themselves in a perfect
paradise. They had plenty of excellent food,
plenty of time to sing, sleep, or dance away
care, and their natures, almost animal, required
nothing more on earth. Like most of their
class, they had no thought of the morrow, and
being safe and undisturbed for so many days,
they had forgotten all fear of pursuit, all thought
of danger.
Not so Sadia. The longer their stay, the
more anxious her heart, the more sleepless her
eyes. Her old nurse in vain tried to cook deli-
cacies which would tempt her appetite ; and
the next time old Hunter came up from the riv-
er-side, she called him apart, and told him, in
tears :                                   -
" Sumfin' must be done for dat poor chile, or
ehe'1l sure be done gone. She don't eat nuffin',
Sah -nuffin' at all."
"I know she frets ; poor lady, I will try to
comfort her," said the good old man.
And he went to Sadia, ani asked her to walk
with him a little way, apart from the bearing of
the others.
Sadia went more cheerfully than usual, and
her first question, after they were alone, ac-
counte. for it.
"Have you brought me news which will jus-
tify our starting down the river once more ?"
sl asked.

"Alas, dear lady, I have no news. Either I
or Napoleon have been constantly on the watch,
but we have neither seen or heard any ascend-
ing party -seen nothing but an occasional
scouting party over on the other side of the
river. This side is so swampy that, they never
are seen there. But you are fretting yourself
to death, Miss Sadia. Your cook says you
neither eat nor sleep !"
"I cannot help it, Mr. Hunter. I know and
feel our peril, and that delay only increases it."
"And yet, dear Miss Sadia, how can we, with-
out serious danger, yet leave a place where' we
at least find present security? They must be
on the river yet."
"I do not think so."
"Why, Miss Sadia, they could not well have
passed up unobserved."
"I do not think they ever will pass up in
boats, Mr. Hunter. The value of the boats
would not be worth the toil of rowing them up
against the swift current, if they have gone very
far down in search' of us, and they have un-
doubtedly gone as far as they could without
coming in contact with the Federal force near
Washington."
"Strange that I should not have thought of
that," said the old fisherman, musingly. "And
I believe you are more than half right, Miss Sa-
dia," he continued. "Come to think of it, if I
was the captain of a searching party like them,
I think myself, if I failed in finding what I was
after on the river, I'd divide my party below,
and come up by land both sides, to see if I
couldn't strike the trail somewhere. - Like a&amp;
not they have done this, and maybe they are
back at Springland before this time. If we only
knew that they were, the sooner that we get
away from here the better."
"How can we possibly find out ?"
"In no way, without I go there. I shouldn't
dare -to trust any of the black folks. If they
were caught, they would be forced to tell where
they left us."
" Yes ; too true. And you must not go, my
friend. I would sooner risk all in a passage
down the river. If we cannot pass unimpeded,
we can fight our way through, perhaps."
",If all our force was made up of white men,
it wouldn't be so risky," said Hunter, thought-
fully. "And as it is, I don't see as we can bet-
ter ourselves. I am getting tired of delay my-
self. I want to see my old General, and take a
hand in this new war, if it has got to come to
that."
-" Do risk it, Mr.Iunter-do! I would rath-
er meet danger boldly at once than live in con-
tinual terror of it," said Sadia, earnestly.
"Well, lady, your wish shall be gratified
very soon. I will see at once to the state of
our provisions, and be ready. The first dark
night, with the wind blowing down atream,shall
be the night of our trial."

14j

SADIA.

F
t
1

I


SADIA.

"I wli it were the night which follows this
day !''" sil S ldia.
It. ma be, Ia :y. The wind is even now in
the r " :L 'retOin."
Anl Iloo, my friend, at the clouds which
are gatrng over the sky. It cannot but be
dark wiU'such a sky."
"rue, lad h. if it only lasts-if it only lasts.
Do not fet any more ; if it is possible to leave
to: g , 1 Ii make no delay in starting. But
I Ue y.ou, for our own sake, to eat a hearty
meal, and diink a glass or two of wine to
str.egt ben you for the work."
'" wI,~ Mr. IIunter-I will! And I will
pra Y to the good God to guide us and preserve
us 11rom1p  ri."
'Then I shall feel contented, lady, and I will
go to my duty at once," said Hunter, who saw,
ahino t u; ii wonder, how quickly the sad face of
the young lady brightened with the new hope
before her.
And she, with a lighter step and a far brighter
eye than had been seen for days, returned to
the but, to gladden her old nurse with an order
to cook a good nice dinner, for she said she felt
hungry.
CHAPTER XX.
Supplied with horses by their late successful
forav on the Maryland side, Warbrrton de Mont-
fort and his party were all ready for a borne.
ward start, on the morning after Kate Stuart's
return from her visit to Washington ; and tak-
ing an early breakfast, they made preparations
for an early start.
I wish we could prevail upon you to go with
us to our section," said Warburton to Captain
Stuart, as the latter aided'in fitting out the
party with bridles and saddles. "It might be
beneficial to you, and I know it would be to
us." -
"flow so?" asked the Captain.
"For us, because you know all the roads,
and could show us the shortest route. For you,
because I could readily raise you a hundred or
more good men for your inew command."
"The last is a good reason, if I could only be
assured of the meu," said Stuart, quietly. " As
to the route, you cannot easily lose your way if
vou follow the river-road up. But the men.
Do you think I could recruit a hundred or so of
good light cavalry ?"
"Yes; I feel so confident that I will con-
tribute five thousand dollars to aid in fitting out
your regiment, if you fail to recruit the number
in three days after you have arrived in our sec.
tion."
"You strongly tempt me !" said Stuart, pon-
dering for a moment. Then he added: "I
will risk the trial and go with you. I can leave
matters here for a few days, for I have brave
hearts and watchful eyes about my home! You
seed not delay your departure ; it will not take

me five minuces to get ready. You and your
party can move on by the river-road, and I will
soon overtake you."
"A thousand thanks, my noble Captain! It
is even possible, that with your keen, scouting
knowledge, we may vet get on the trail of my
niggers."
"I can scent a Yankee further than I can a
nigger !" said the Captain, with a laugh ; and
he turned and entered the house, to prepare for
his journey.
\Warburton, having now mounted, took the
advance of his party, Beverly riding upon hi's
left, and Carl Michel upon his right.
I have good news!" said Warburton, as
they rode away at a moderate pace.
"Eh? Bon? Suppose you explain, Mea.
sieur ?" said Michel, quickly.
"Captain Stuart is going to Springland with
us !'
"Eh? Zat is grand intelligence  Capitaine
Stuart is so good as twenty men. I shall feel
more glad zan before ; but, sacred, I was nevare
made wiz my short legs for to ride upon ze
horse. I shall make myself very much fatigue
in a very little time. Will de brave Capitai-e
come wiz us very soon 1"
"Yes; he told me to ride on and he would
very soon overtake us
" Eh bien ! Do not let us ride too much
quick. Zis horse, when he go up and down, in
what you call ze trot, shake my stomach intol-
erable! Mon Dicul if zis ride continue for very
long time, I shall be medicine ready for ze devil
-well shaken before taken !"
Michels companions could not but laugh at
his droll idea, and while they were laughing
heartily Captain Stuart rode up.
" Ah, mon cher Capitaine, zey laugh at me !"
said Michel, half inclined to be angry, half in-
clined to laugh himself. " I 'ave merely explain
to zem my grand misery upon zis doable horse,
and zey sink zat it is very lunny! By dam, to
zem it may be very funny, but to rue it is ze
ozzer way ! It is almost 's bad as ze crucify
zat my Iriend, Messicur 4oopcnay, of Phil-
delpli, used to speak about some time. I like
not ze trot, Capitaine, I like not ze trot !"
" Then let us gallop. That pace is as easy
as a cradle !" said Stuart, with a laugh, as he
touched his coal-black steed with the spur.
The horse of Michel, which did not lack
spirit, bounded forward by the side of the Cap-
tain, and the whole cavalcade in a moment was
in a swift but easy gallop.
You like this better, do you not ?" Stuart
asked of Michel, as the pace became smooth and
regular.
" Ouil Zis is much improve upon ze trot.
But better I like ze cradel of ze sea zan ze
cradel of ze horse, Capitane !"
"I fear you will never make a cavalryman,
friend Michel !" sail Stuart, with a laugh.

44

w+
I
.T
if{
i11d
. i5
.3
rFyf
3
r}
,x
r
xr
n
iF
Cu
4y
Jr
r
i  f
!5S1,
ha
Sf
w
I
+yk
t
"tF
v5
u,

SADIA.

45

"No, mon cher Capitaine ; no, nevare ! If I
could ride ze same as you, I would go wiz you
more soon zan wiz any ozzare man upon ze
world !"
"I doubt it not; and, as we have a'hill before
ns, we will come down to a walk," said Stuart,
checking his horse down after a gallop of a mile
or two.
' Ah, bon! Zis is ze pace zat is most agree-
able !" said Mich 1, with a sigh of gratification.
"how long will at take us to reach Spring-
land ?" asked Warburton of Stuart, riding up
beside'h in.
"If we use our spurs judiciously, and our
horses have good bottom, we will easily be
there a little after noon to-morrow," said Stuart.
"We will be two-thirds of the way where I pro-
pose to stop fur the night."
"Our horses may 'ave ze bottom ; but, by
dam, I doubt very much if I 'ave any of ze bot-
tom left when I get zare !" groaned poor Michel,
with a woful face.
But he rode on, nevertheless, side by side
with Stuart, and when the bill was passed, man-
fully joined in the renewed gallop of the party.
CIIAPTER XXI.
Thomas IIuntcr was no laggard when his
mind was made up, and he at once set to work.
Observing that clouds were indeed overspread
ing the sky, as Sadia had already noticed, and
that a rainstorm., was surely coming on, he
hurried his preparations for departure, for he
well knew that there would be little watch kept
on the river in a stormy night.
"We shall have a hard night of it, Miss
Sadia !" he said to our heroine, when she in-
sisted upon his joining her at a late dinner.
"But if you and the children are well wrapped
and covered up, you will not suffer much, and
we will be far more safe on the river in a rainy
night, for it takes more patriotism than Rebels
have to keep a strict picket-watch in a drench-
ing rainstorm.
"I shall not heed any personal inconvenience,
my good friend," said Sadia, with a smile, "if
our journey can be prosecuted safely. My little
brother and sister can be shielded from the
storm, for I did not forget your advice to bring
plenty of warm clothing for them."
"That is all right. We will move down the
bayou before dark, so as to get out on the river
at the earliest possible minoent 1" said hunter.
"We have provisions enough, have we not ?"
"Yes, lady-more than enough. And the
niggers have brought too much luggage. I
shall leave everything except what is actually
needed, so as to lighten the boats, and make
them more speedy !"
"Do what you think best, my friend? I rely
fully upon your judgment and courage F'
"Thank yan, Miss Sadia. I'm an old stick, it

is true ; but yet I am tough, and do not forget
the days when I was something, and knew what
service was and could do it. If I only meet
my old General, and he remembers me, I will
show that there's life left in me yet. I hardly
think he will have forgotten me. how well I
remember the charge he led at Lundy's Lane.
He was young, and I was but a boy ; but it was
gioriou3 work.  The red-coats, veterans  of
many a field abroad, held us in scorn at first;
they said we knew nothing about cold steel, but
that day they found the Anierican bayonet too
much for British valor. They ran in the lane,
and Captain Miller drove them like flying sheep
from the battery on the hill, and the victory
was ours. Scott was down, but God saved him
for other-days and more glory !"
Sahia looked with wondering eyes upon the
change which the enthusiasm of last glorious
memories made in the old man's appearance.
His eyes flashed withi all the fire of } outh-his
very form seemed to dilate-his face flushed,
and his voice was full and powerful.
"I hope you will soon see your old General,
for, once where be is, we will all be in safety !"
said Sadia.
"You may be sure of that. Now, eat hearti-
ly, lady, and do not refuse at. least two good
glasses of wine to strengthen you for the voyage
to-night!" replied Hunter. "And as I took a
hearty bunch a little while ago, you will now
let me go to get the boats ready, I know, for
m.y appetite is fully satisfied !" he added.
Sadia could not refuse her assent, for her
anxiety to leave and be on the way was so great
.that she could scarcely keep her promise of
making a hearty meal.
lunter at once set to work in preparing the
boats for the party, only allowing the colored
people to put in such things as were actually
necessary for the trip, and provisions enough
to last them for the three days, or rather nights,
in which he hoped to make the passage.
This-done, and the people all having partaken
of a hearty meal, he got them into the boats,
and himself taking charge of the leading boat,
in which Sadia and her young charges were seat-
ed, he pushed off, followed by the rest.
Long before they had got out of the bayou,
the threatened rainstorm cane on, not very
heavily, but in a drizzling way, which was any-
thing but comfortable.
It was dark when the boats reached the river,
and took in Napoleon and the man who watched
with him ; and when hunter turned his boat's
head down-stream, the share could not be see n
at ten yards distance. lie had fastened the
painter of each of the boats behind hin to the
stern of the next, to avoid separation. and a
confusion which would create noise. le kept
his course by the sound of the lippies breaking
against the shore, urging all of the crews to
make as much speed as possible, for the further

i
i
{1                            t
r                       1


'SADIA.

they got in such a favorable night, the better
for them,
Sadia did not heed the pelting of the storm;
and as the wind, coming from astern, aided their
progress, she did not regret that it blew abuost
a gale. Sh was regardless of the discomforts
which added to her safety the more. For few
persons would voluntarily choose to be abroad
on such a night, unless kept there by dire neces-
sity, or the stern and despotic rules of military
discipline, which but too often amounts to
tyranny, especially where men raised from the
lower ra m:s cf life, by chicanery or cunning,
reach high ofical positions. Brave men and
genteicen never become tyrants - our best
offers are ever the hkindest to those over whom
they hold over.
W ith this dliressive remark, we will leave our
part) for a while upon the river.
CHAPTER XXII.
The party, under the guidance of Captain
Stuart, did not have a very pleasant evening to
close their first day's ride with, and the storms
which so favored our fugitive friends on the
river, became to them-I mean Stuart and his
party--so serious an impediment in the way of
darkness and sofLe.ing the road, that he did not
reach the poit he intended on the start, but
was forced to stop twenty miles short of it.
But the storm, like most spring "spells of
weather", was only transient, and the sun of the
next morning was not an hour high when the
shame-faced clouds broke away from before it,
and the day came out as smiling as-as-let me
think-well, a pretty women going out shop-
ping with a full purse in her pocket. I can't'
find a more appropriate simile for a lovely
spring day, that I know of.
But though all was bright above, the heavy
rain of the night had given the roads the usual
Virginia mud consistency, which one must get
stuck in a few times to be enabled to tho.rough-
ly appreciate.  It " sticketh closer than a
brother", and is as heavy as-the sins of a cop-
perhead!
Therefore the progress of the land party was
slow, and it was late in the afternoon when
Stuart and War"ur ton's party rode by the spot
on the opposiLe side of the river from which
Sadia ha i moved only the night before.
"Were you particular in looking in, over in
the lagoons yonder, when you came down the
river y ' as:ed Stuart of Warburton, who rode
on his right sade.
" Over there ?" replied the young planter.
" I dnd not hnow there were any lagoons there,
and we made no search beyond the shore, where
we saw no signs!" -
" The rare lagoons in there, somewhere.
Old hunters have described them to iIe. And
when old Tom hunter was at my place, he told
me hehad been camping out and hunting some-

where along here for a considerable time. I'm
afraid your search along the river has been very
superficial. I should not wonder at all if a man
of old Hunter's cunning had piloted the party in
there somewhere, where, fish and ganN plenty,
he could hide until he thought you 1i l given
up all search for them?"
"By Jupiter, you may be right.     If you
know the locality, let us halt and get boats, and
go over there !"
"It is too late to do it to-night-a storm is
threatening besides. We stall have to halt at
a tavern a mile or so ahead, and if we can get
boats there, we can take a look across in the
morning ! That cursed stor~mi last night Eas
made the roads so heavy that our horses are
pretty much fagged out, and a rest will do them
no hurt' '
"'Well, you are guide-we leave everything
to you, Captain !"
Only one mile more, eh, Captaine ?" said
Michel, who rode on the o'her side.
That is all to-night, Michel-are you tired ?"
"Mon Dicul Fatigue is no name for what I
feel-what I have endured ! Where I am upon
ze zaddel, I am like ze beefstik before it is
cook. My back feel as if it was break, and my
stomaque as if it was all shake an ay-! If it was
not zat zis was a ver select cmpanee, I should
acknowledge zat I was seek, and stop somewhere
to get well, so I could walk razzer zan to ride !"
"I'm sorry for you indeed !'' said Stuart, half
inclined to laugh at the droll gestures of the
house-sick Frenchman. " But in ten minutes,
a cushioned chair, or one with a pillow in it,
and a good hot toddy bf apple-jack will make
you forget your present suffering!"
"Forget! forget!" said Michel with a groan.
"mare, a man may forget lis muzzare, lie may
forget bis wife or his babes, lie may borrow
money and forget to pay zat again, but, by dam,
if he forget ze misery of ride a horse zat trot,
trot all ze time, by dam; he no remember noss-
ing-nossing at all !"
Stuart, and all who heard Michel, burst out
in a hearty laugh ; they could not help it, and
at that moment the sign of a tavern close at
hand met their eyes.
And in ten minutes, true to Stuart's predic-
tion, Michel in a big chair, with a pillow for a
cushion, and a glass of apple-jack i his hand,
was humming an old song, the chorus of which
was, "Vive l'amour et cogniae !"
"Better this thnu, riding, elm, old friend ?"
asked Stuart, who, like ail true horsemen, had
been seeing that his horse had proper care.
" Bettare ? Ah, Capataine, zat is no name for
it! I Bettare ! Is ze light bdtare zan ze dark?
Is ze sweet bettare zan ze sour?  Is ze strong
bettare zan ze weak ?" cried Michel, looking at
his half-emptied glass.
"In toddy ? Yes. Landlord, let all hands
have a trial of some both hot and strong, at my

46-

t
Y
E
r
tr
h+'
x
lrti
A
r K
Jr
.i
{4
i N
L
rR*.A
l4 ii
I  1 z
*3
h;.
.1h
i
'r 3
s 'a
M  "t

expense," said the Captain, with a laugh.
"And the sooner you have supper after that,
the better pleased we'll be !"
CHAPTER XXIII.
The sun rose bright and clear the next morn-
ing. There had been a few showers during the
night, but the rain had not been continuous,
nor so heavy as on the night before.
After breakfast, Captain Stuart having se-
eured a boat, started in company with Wash-
burton, Beverly, Michel, and a selected part of
the others for a crew, to investigate the oppo-
site shore, and look into the lagoon or lagoons
which he might find there. And it was not long
after he reached the opposite shore before he
discovered the well-blinded mouth of the little
creek which led into the swamp which so well-
concealed the place where IIunter had so long
and so safely hidden his party.
"Did you enter this creek when you went
down ?" he asked of Warburton. -
"No; we did not even see it !" said the
latter.
"Then we had best keep an eye open, and
look to our arms !" said the wary guerrilla
chief, for this is as likely a spot as any for them
to take refuge in. We will follow the channel
up at any rate, and see what is to be seen.
Look to your arms, all hands!"
" Pshaw! The niggers will never dare to
show  fight !" said Beverly, contemptuously.
"A hickory gad would drive a hundred of
them!"
"It would take more than that to drive old
Tom IHunter !" said Stuart, quietly. " And if
, you have had much experience with runaway
niggers, you ought to know, if they've got arms,
they'll use them. No man ever loses by being
ready for action, brush or no brush !'
"Well, if they do show fight, it will be the
worse for them and Warburton's pocket !" said
the other.
The party now rowed on, somewhat troubled
to keep the channel in the gloom of the swamp,
but still making progress.
And, after getting ashore a dozen times or
more, they at last entered the bright and rapid
little stream which I have before described, and
at once, in newly-cut timber, and in stakes driven
down on the shore to fasten boats to, discover-
ed signs of the missing party,
"By Jupiter, we've got them!" cried War-
burton, excitedly.
"Yes, if they have not gone. Some one has
been here in boats lately, and by the sign of
deerskins on the limbs yonder, they've had
plenty of game !" said Stuart.
4And zere is ze landing-place and ze road to
somewhere," said Michel, pointing to a well-
trodden path leading back from the creek.
To land, secure the boat, and with the whole
party following to cautiously examine the path

SADIA.

and follow it through the bushes, was Stuart's
first work. Upon arriving at the edge of the
little prairie, the huts were at once discerned,
but no signs of any person could be discovered
"I'm afraid we are too late !" said Stuart.
"]But we will soon see !"
And he gave the order to double quick with-
out noise for the huts.
lere the yebt burning embers of the fires,
and plenty of fresh and yet untainted fish and
venison, told that but a few hours had elapsed
since the huts had been deserted.
"Do you recognize any of these things?"
Stuart asked of Warburton, as he pointed to a
lot of the baggage left behind by Hunter's
order.
"Yes, distinctly ! These things all come
from my place !" replied the young planter.
"When do you suppose they left here ?"
"Either last night or the night before-not
sooner ; for the fires are not yet out, and the
meat here is perfectly fresh. They evidently
intended to make speed, or they would not
have left so much behind them!"
"Where do you think they have gone to ?"
"Down the river, of course. No boat can go
any higher than we have come. The creek is
impassable above the landing. I saw that with
a glance, and the last two nights have both
been dark, and so stormy that our river-pickets
would be of no use, for not one in a hundred
would keep watch in such weather."
"Then would not our best plan be to take the
back track?" asked Warburton.
"Certainly, dividing our party: One portion
of us nill return on horseback, the others should
follow the river in the boat. Of one thing I
feel confident. Too good a watch is kept down
at my house for them   to pass there, day or
night!"
Then we will arrange our party and hurry
back. I begin to think we'll succeed yet, thanks
to your sound sense and scouting skill, Captain
Stuart !" said Warburton, joy fully.
"I think myself that we'll get them below !"
said Stuart. "And now, friend Michel, you will
have a chance to exchange your trotting-horse
for a boat-ride!"
"Ab, zat make so much happy zat I cannot
speak how glad I am! Sacrc, if we find ze
niggares I will make zen carry inc in one pal-
anquin like ze Chinese before I again ride ze
horse zat trot !Trot is but one ozzate name
for grand misery. If I was Messicur Jeff Davis,
I would made every sacre Yankee prisounare do
tossing but ride zQ horse z-it trot until lie swear
he nevare again fight wiz ze South ! By dam,
zat would take ze brave out of zen !"
I'm afraid some of them would soon trot out
of custody," said Stuart, with a laugh.  But
back to the boat, gentlemen-every hour now
will count; for, as the sailors say, a stern chase
is apt to be a long one !"

i
i
r
i
B
A

S47


SADIA.

In ten minutes, more the party were again-
afloat, and on their way out toward the river.
CHAPTER XXIV.
And now reader, we will ourselves anticipate
their pursuers, and go a nd look for Sadia and
party.
Steadily, all of the first night after their de-
parture, they kept at the oars, and uninter-
rupted they made good headway. It is true
that they frequently saw lights along the shore,
and often, even above the noise of the storm,
heard the fierce barking of watchdogs which
may have seemed them ; but just before day
dawned they reached a small sluggish creek,
with which IIunter was acquainted, and in this
found concealment.
Here, being close by large plantations on
either side,  they passed a sadly-anxious d y
not daring to leave the boats, or to make the
least noise, for fear of discovery and detection,
for more than once people came so near them that
their voices could be distinctly heard.
It was a painful day to poor Sad ia-her po-
sition in the boat was cramped anduneasy, but
no murmur did she utter, not even a sigh would
she allow to escape her lips ; her heroic soul,
warmed with the true fire of patriotism, scorned
to set the bad exaJple of complaint.
But it cannot be denied that she rejoiced when
the long and weary day came to a close, a day
spent by the thoughtless negroes in slumber;
and her eyes, which had not closed all the day,
brightened joyfully, when old Hunter, taking
advantage of the darkness and the falling drops,
of a light shower, one more gave the order to
push out, and again resumed his course down
the river.
" Will we not by morning be so near the
Federal lines that we can keep on without stop-
ping:?" asked Sadia, in a low tone, of Hunter,
after they had been under way some little time.
"I hope so, lady. I sincerely hope so. If
we only pass one place, I will risk it. The man
I fear most o.n the river was once my friend, but
he is the chitf of a band of guerrillas now, and
is famed for his daring deeds IL the Rebel cause.
I fear him and his band 'the most, and he lives
close by the river-side. if we can but pass
there before day, I will risk going on ; for it is
not far from the Fcde:al lines if they are where
I heard thcy were before we started."
Urge the men to do their best, then," said
Sadia. "My eyes will not close in sleep until
we are safe, I am sure."
"They are doing their best now, lady.  I
gave them their orders before we started, and
they are working as hard as they can, and still
keep, it up."
"1 think we do go even faster than we did
last night. I hope and pray we can keep up
your speed."
"I will see to that, lady. Wrap yourself up

closely, for if you get sick from this exposure,
you will be helpless almost. I am a pretty fait
sort cf pilot, but would make a poor band at
doctori g."
Do not fear my getting ill,' said Sadia,
quietly. "Until we are safe, excitement alone K
will sustain me.''
"If you ceull lie back and sleep, I could
cover you and the children together with this,
sheet of canvas, and no rain coul1 reach you," "
said Iiunter. "I would feel much easier if you l
and I promise at the least sign of danger to
awaken you."
\V ell, to please you I will try," said Sadia,
and she leaned back by the side  f her little
loved ones, and the kind-hearted old man drew
the sheltering canvas over her.
And in spite of her belief that she could not,
sleep, Sadia, worn down  itli long watching and
alniety, and perhaps lulled by the soft drop.i
ping of the rain, and -the gentle ripple of the
waves, the best of soporific, soon showed by .
her regular and heavy bretthing tht she slept.
And this was much to the delight of the old -'
fisherman ; for he had witnessed with pain that 1
fatigue and cat e was fast wearing her strength ;
away.
She slept and dreamed. And at first it was a
happy dream - a dream of chi!.lhood-s sunny
hours.  Once more she lived beside her kind
parents, the light and the j6y of their eyes--
the recipient of blessed words of kindness.[V
Agein, she wandered beneath the shady trees of
Springland ; again, from amid the tail grass she
gathered the anemone and the violet, and re-
joiced in the perfumes which human art can
only imitate, but never equal. Oh, that thou'l
couldst thus dream forever, sweet Sadia!
But even in dreams, change will come. And
her dream changed.. She fancied that she was
fl) ing over a waste and dreary desert, closely
pursued by one whom she hatd so far as hate K
could be felt in her noble heart. And her pur-
suer was Randolph Beverly.    lie seemed to
gain upon her, in spite of her exertions to
escape. In her misery and terror she scream-
ed, and-woke up !
Woke, alas ! to a reality for Lrror; for the
first gray of coming day was in the sky, and :
dimly, right before them in the river, she could
distinguish two boats flled w.th men, and she
heard a stern and angry voice cry out:
"IIold on with them oairs there, or you are
dead geese ! We must see who you are !"    Cr
Quick as thought, hunter cut the towing-line t
between him and the boats astern, and said, in
a low tone
"Down w'th your head, Miss Sadia; quick, I
am going to try to pass them, and if they fire:
you may get hurt!"
Then, in a louder tone, he sung out:
" The river is as much ours as yours! Give
way, boys, give way I"

4

a
.-'
b

41
Lei


SADIA.

"Halt there ; halt, or we'll fire!" shouted the
rst speaker.
"Two can play at that game ! Look out, for
e are armed ." shouted Hunter.
Alas, for him, the ioo sudden reply! It came
n a pistol-shot which pierced his breast, and so
errified the craven negroes in the boat that they
instantly ceased rowing, and cowered down in
the bottom of the boat in abject fear and help-
essness
"There's something, you infernal Rebs, to
ay for my dent h !" cried poor IIunter, as ral-
ying strength, though wounded to death, he
aised his gun and fired a load of buckshot into
he boat which was nearest; the yells arising
herefrom telling that the shot told effectually.
"Miss - Miss Sadia !' gasped the dying man,
'if you ever see the old General, tell him I died
rue to the flag, God bless it, and-"
He said no more--a gurgle, and h  was dead.
The next moment, the boats were side by side,
nd poor Sadia ! with whom to resist, now un-
upported by her people, would be madness,
ound herself a prisoner to men who boldly
vowed themselves Rebels and guerrillas.
" This must be the party those fellows were
after, who stopped at the Captain's!"'said one
ithe party.
"Yes ; curse them ! Is that fellow dead who
i red on us ?'' said atiother.
" "Yes. You gave him his last dose !"
"If it had taken effect earlier, it would have
aved us one dead man, and three that are badly
hurt. You had better take this lady and the
diggers to the Captain's house, and keep them
there till he comes back!"    -
" Yes; that '11 be the best way."
CHAPTER XXV.
JThough a prisoner to rude men, Sadia re.
eeived no direct insults ; for I care not what
brothers say, I have yet to learn by personal ex-
perience, or reliable authority, of a case where
Americans, either North or South, forgot their
manhood and treated the gentler sex with bru-
tality. And iii a short time she and her little
brother and sister were landed, and conducted
to a house, with some of the inmates of which
We are already acquainted.
"Whom    have you here-what were you fir-
ing for, Mr. Mendenhall ?" asked Kate Stuart,
kas the leader of the party entered the house
ahead of the prisoners.                 '
1 "A lady and two white children who were
;trying to run the river with a lot of niggers !"
replied the man. "\Ve shot a white man, and
;lost one of ours killed and three more wounded.
;Will you find a safe place for the lady and chil-
dren. We'll look out for the niggers!"
"Yes, certainly! have your wounded men
y brought in, mnd we will attend to them also !"
"Thank you, Miss Kate ! I wish your father
8t

was here! I think this is the party that the
men he has gone with were after."
"Ah-indeed. I will soon know!"
And when Sadia a moment after entered the
house, her brother and sister clinging to her
side, Kate bowed gently, and said:
"Come with me, Miss De Montfort. I will
try to make you comfortable in an upper
room !"
"Ah-you know my name ?" said Sadia, sur-
prised and startled out of all presence of mind.
"Certainly. Your brother and particular
friend, Mr. Randolph Beverly, who were here
looking for you, described you so particularly,
that, as you see, I recognized you instantly !" re-
plied the sharp-witted girl.
' Randolph Beverly my friend? Ladd, if
you knew how I loathe that man, you would
not have the heart to utter his detested name in
my presence !" said Sadia, hastily.
"A  man! I did not think he deserved the
name !" said Kate, with a laugh. "lHe made
no friends here, I assure you!"
"Then why am I made a prisoner when I
am only flying from his hated adds esses !"
"Your brother charges that you are carry-
ing off his negroes ; I believe, and I suppose if
my father was here, he would say that in car-
rymg negroes over to the Federal lines you
would be giving aid and comfort to the enemies
of the Southern Confederacy !'' replied Kate ;
"but come up stairs, lady, you and the chil-
dren, and get your wet clothes off, and you eaa
talk as much as you like, without so many lis-
tening ears around you!"
Sadia gladly turned to obey, for too many
eyes were gazing upon her.
"Do you want a guard, Miss Kate ?'' asked
the temporary leader of the guerrilla band.
"No-I will be responsible for the lady !"
said Kate, quietly, leading the way to an upper
chamber, where she was soon joined by her sis-
ter, who gently and kindly aide A her in getting
Sadia and the children to exchange their wet
for dry clothes.
"How can you be so kind to me, and yet
have the heart to detain me to await the further
persecution of my unkind brother and such a
wretch as you acknowledge Randolph Beverly
o be ?" asked Sadia, tearfully.
"Who talks of detaining you, my dear girl?"
asked Kate, quietly. "So far am I from doing
it, that I am ready to aid you and these little
ones to get as far from pursuit as possible. As
to the negroes-there 1 dare not intefere, for
they are property, and my father would never
forgive me for giving you a chance to take therm
with you !"
"And you will indeed let me and my brother
and sister go on
"Yes, and help you to do it safely. I do
not believe in the persecution of a sister wom-
an, and I despised Mr. Beverly from the mo-

51


82

SAt A.

ment he opened his lips in my presence. Why,
the puppy actually made love to both my sister
and myself, but he got more than he expected
from both of us!"
"Oh, bless you, dear ladies--bless you'" said
Sadia, tears of joy pouring from her eyes.
"There-there-don't cry, dear, or you'll set
us to doing the same thing. I'll go down and
have some breakfast ready, and send it up ; and
to-night, if you are rested, we will see if ou
cannot get started once more down the river !"
A thousand thanks, dear lady-but stay. I
have one favor which I hope you will forgive
me for asking!"
"IName it-we will do all that we can for
you, without compromising our father's posi-
tion."
"A poor but honest old man was my guide
down the river!" said Sadia, sadly. "He was
killed a little while ago by the men who made
u; prisoners. The faor I ask is, that he may
be decently buried. His name was Thomas
Hunter, and he was once a friend to your fa
other !"
"Poor old Tom hunter, I remember him
well! ' said Kate. "Your request shall surely
be attended to Miss Sad ia-I will see to it per-
sonally. Now sit down and try to feel content-
ed until I can get tune to see you again !"
CHAPTER XXVI.
A day of rest worked wonders for Sadia, even
though it was a day of sadness, with the re-
membrance of poor hunter's sudden death
upon her mind ; and the thought that her
affectionate and faithful people would inevita-
bly be retained, and undoubtedly now be sent
South, into a worse servitude than they had
ever known before.
Often luring the day the two sisters came
and tad.ed kindly to Sadia, and when she spoke
of her old nurse, tearfully, as one who had
ever been with ter. Kate avowed that she would
take the responsibility upon herself of taking
C nthia away frou the rest, and keeping her'
with her mistress.
And when Cynthia found that she was to go
with hir dear 'iss Sa ly,'' the old woman
)leal 5o loig and so   elI for her " ole man'', as
she caild Niapolconi, that he too was included
in the ang:iuemenmt, to his inexpressible joy ;
for the ur Latest terror that can be brought in
view f a Maryland negro is that of being
" sold u7 South'.
f " We aro the more ready to let yeu have
these pople,' said Kate, by way of explana-
tion, " b-c use your best way to reach Wash-
ington with the chidliren nill yet be by the
river, and you will need them to row your
boat !"
"But will be not be again stopped on the
river and -arrested 7" asked Sadia, anxiously.
"No; for before you leave I will give you a

pass that all of our kind of people will respe4
Kate Stuart's pass is as good as that of b
father, where he is known ! Why. I go wi-4
him  on very many of his expeditions! I'
quite a warrior, I assure you !"
And the beautiful girl laughed heartily.
Sadia bad too much policy to s.o  w 'hat s}'
thought, that she wished Karc woud war f
the right instead of the wrong ; so shoesmil
and said she hai no doubt she'd prove a vet
table "Joan d'Arc."
"Sister Annie is of a different mold !" ea;
Kate, with her usual gay laugh.  " I amfpapa
girl- wild, wayward   and untarnale ; twi
more comfortable on the back of a cool her
than I would be in a rockig-chair ; and
more fond of listening to the bugle than t
guitar or piano. But she, like my another,
gentle, tender and loving, and wouldn't hurt
cat without it crate ed her, much less draw
bead on a man, as I have done, and hope to
again !"
Oh, Kate, Kate, what is the use of trying
to make yourself out worse than you are ?" saii
Annie, in a tone of gentle reproof.
"I'm riot, sis -I'm not doing so ! You kno
I'm a regular tiger-eat !"
"I know that to me you are a good-heartel
loving sister," said Annie.  "But," se cod
tinted, "if we are to get Miss Dc Mlontfort o
her road, it will soon be time to make prepay
tions."
"Yes ; they are mostly made, however. Sb
must .eat a hearty supper before she goes, an
after that, or before, if you like, Annie, I wi.
you would fill a basket with something sub
stantial, to last our guest until she gets into tha
city. And Miss Sauia," shc added, turning i
our heroine, ''you must promise that if at atn
time you should chance to see me in the pre
you will never recognize mec ini the presence 
any other person, or ever point me out as ti!
daughter of a Confederate oicer ! '
"Certainly, I wilrpro   cise that. You dA n
think, after all your Luiiness, I could be so ut
grateful as to betmay you?"
''Certainly nut ! I knu  s u would not, it
tentionally. But impnis ye ladies, and I ca
see that you are impulse e, sumeluines forge
themselves, and are not up      u  ir' guard, G
an ice- hearted creature ;hke inil self al r;avs is!
" You an ice-hearted creature l ' Eaid Sadi
smihing in spite of her sadness.  ' I think yon
blood and heart would be fouid on trial as war
as that of those whor iByrom wrote about wh
he said :
"The cold in clime are cal i in blood,
Their love can scarce deserve the name ;
But thine is ]ke the lava-flood
Which burns in iuai's breast of flame !"
"Oh, don't quote poetry to me-I have not
in my soul. 1'm all reality. So Ill send u
your supper, of which yop must eat very heat

SADIA.                                    53

ily, for soon after you are done, I shall start
you on your down-river 'trip, and you will feel
the need of all your strength then."
And Kate, witk a verse of the "Bonny Blue
Flag" on her lips, hurried away. But Annie
remained.
"You must not think my sister half so wild
or heartless as she pretends to be," said Annie,
after Kate was gone. "Under her apparent
levity, she conceals deep and tender feelings,
and strong and true affections. She idolizes
our father, and his wild and not unromantic life
and many perils have charms for her. But it
s her love for him, and fears for bis safety,
which makes her so often his companion in
Geenes of danger."
"I doubt it not," said Sadia. "To me she
acted lik an angel, and I shall never forget her,
on, or your kind mother."
"Do not speak of it. We are women, and do
ut our duty to one of our sex who has been
unmanfully persecuted. But there comes sup-
er. Excuse me while I go to prepare some-
hing for your support on your journey."
CHAPTER XXVII.
So bad were the roads, that Michel in charge
f the boat-party was some hours ahead of
tuart and the other horsemen. And Michel
id' not reach the house of the guerrilla until
he afternoon of the day after Kate accompanied
y the children, and Naipoleon, ;and Cynthia,
ad departed for Washington. And so well had
ate and her sister arranged that departure, and
o carefully concealed it afterward, that not
ne of the guerrillas stationed at that point
new anything about it; and their information
Michel was, that the whole party was there
cept hunter, who had been killed.
And thus he reported to Stuart, Warburton,
nd Beverly, when, pretty we i fagged out, they
rived at a late hour in the evening.
"Just as Ihoped and expected," cried Stuart,
yly, as he entered the house, and returned the
nd salutes of -his daughters.
"Where is my sister? I wish to see the
rdened creature at once 1" said Warburton,
rvously.
"Does not Mr. Beverly share your anxiety?"
id Kate, with a malicious smile. "I really
mire his taste in failing in love with so much
auty and wealth'!"
"Of course, I should like to see my fair cou-
," said Beverly, while a flush darkened his
e-.
"Then you had better continue your journey,
r, as far as Washington, if you do not fear a
serter's fate in that section," said Kate ; " for
,e gentlegirl is there most undoubtedly before
time."
Kate, you young mischief, cease jesting,"
ili her father, tapping her playfully on the

am not jesting, father," said Kate, quietly.
"Not jesting? You do not mean that the
lady has escaped."
"I mean, father, that she wished to go on to
Washington with her brother and sister, and
she went. She was rot property like the ne-
groes. And I have never yet seen y}ou either
harm, persecute, or detain a woman as a prison-
er, my dear and noble father. And could I be
so pitifully base as to keep a sweet and perse-
cuted girl a prisoner here, to be forced to listen
to the unwelcome addresses of a man whom she
loathes and detests, even as I do, myself?"
And Kate's flashing eyes rested upon the
form of Beverly with a look of withering and
unmitigated contempt.
Stuart tried to look angry; but he loved his
child too well to succeed in the attempt.
"It was very wrong, Kate, very wrong," he
said; "but since the negroes are here, Mr. De
Montfort, I think, will be consoled for his loss."
"D-n the negroes1" cried Beverly, in a
towering rage. "I wouldn't have had that girl
escape for thousands!'
"Mr. Beverly's interest in the negroes, of
course, vanishes with the lady who might have
had a share of them had she remained," said
Kate, in a tone of biting sarcasm.
Beverly's face was almost black with passion ;
and a reply, full of anger and insult, trembled
on his lips; but he dared not utter his thoughts
in the presence of Captain Stuart. Well he
knew that the father's hand nvould quickly
avenge any contumely cast upon the daughter.
" I'm glad I've got'the niggers at any rate !"
said Warburton, more qu-etly. "And the
sooner I can get them out of my hands for
cash, the better I shall be pleased, he added.
" Can't you find a market for then, Stuart ?"
" Yes, at reduced Irices ; but tey must be
sent welt into the interior to get anything like a
price for them."
"I care not where they are sent. It will per-
haps, be a long time before I shall need hands
on the plantation !  I will leave their dispo-
sition entirely to you, Captain Stuart, trusting
to your honor that you inul do as well as you
can for me."
"Well, I will accept the trust. But here's
something from head-quarters, by the looks of
the messenger."
A man dressed in the gray uniform of the
Confederate Army, who had just ridden up at
full speed, dismounted, and handed Stuart a
package.
"Give me joy, gentlemen !" cried the latter,
as be unfolded and read an official document
and a letter which accompanied it. "IIere is
my commission as a Colonel in the Confederate
Army, and the promise of that of a Brigadier-
General in the Cavalry as soon as I raise twen-
ty-five hundred men. Warburton, if you will
go up and recruit the men you told me of, yeo

JI


64

SADIA.

i

shall be my first Major, and when I get th
brigade you shall have my regiment."
"A bargain, by Jupiter, Colonel, a bargain!'
cried the young planter. "You attend to m3
niggers, and I'll take the back-track for Spring
land in the morning !"
"You certainly take your sister's escape with
t1e children very coolly !" said Beverly, bit.
terly.
"Why should I not. I have no one to look
out for a support but myself now," said War-
burton, winh a dry laugh.
f   By heavens, I will not give her up so easily,
or be made a laugh ing-stock of!" cried Beverly,
in a rage. ."I am worth a few thousands yet,
and I'll spend every cent to make that proud
girl my wife -"
b." Will you not have me or Sister Annie now
asked Kate, sarcastically. "You were very at-
tentive to each of us in turn, the other day !"
"ate, Kate, this is going too far.!" said Cap-
tain Stuart, gravely. "Remember that Mr.
Beverly is my guest."
"Pardon, father, pardon ! I could not help
it!" said Kate, demurely.  I'll go and read
French for two hours, by way of penance. Au
rcvoir "
"Stop, you little tease ! Go and see that our
supper is got ready. We are half famished !"
"I'm all obedience, dear father. It shall be
on the table in a few minutes."
CHAPTER XXVIII.
"Messieur Beverly, suppose you come out in
ze air wiz me-it is more cool, and we can
mf'ke one cigar of tabac before ze suppare !"
said Michel, who had been a listener during the
scene detailed in the foregoing chapter.
Beverly, who wasbangry with everything, him-
self included, was about to reply angrily to the
Frenchman's invitation ; but a meaning look in
Michels eye restrained him, and he saw that an
interview was wanted by the latter.
"Well, I need cooling off," said he, bluntly.'
eI have no objection to loin you in a prom-
enade and a cig ir."
And the two left the house.
"You wanted to see me for something, where
others were not present, did you not, Michel V'
asked Beverly.
" Certainement / Zat was why I desire you to
take wiz me ze air.".
"Well, what is on the tapis ?"
"Zis ! Youobsrved a little time ago zatyou
would give all ze tousand dollare zat you pos-
sess to catch zat ladee! Now, Messieur Bever-
ly, I have bon correspondents and friends in
Washington, in Baltimore, in Philadelph, and
New York, and wiz money-wiz money, I say-
I can possibly do z t which you ver mooch de-
sire. At ze least, I can learn where she go to,
where she live, and zen zere may be some plan
zat you may get her yet for your wife."

'I

T

SADIA.

e    "Good, Michel! If you can assist me ye
shall be well paid for it, vou and your friends!'
"Eh bien-zat is all zat we shall require!
y replied Michel. "And now, Messieur Beveri
- what shall you do-whe're go you from here?"
"To Riehmond, as soon as I can, to see a
old friend, Mr. Mallory, the Secretary of th
Navy. Ie will soon find a place where am
services will be required."
"Eh, bien ! I shall very soon go to Richmon
myself. From zere I shall conic to ze Shes
peake, for one very gran' spec ulatione is to b
in ze smuggle of sings zat are never made in
Sout-in carry arms and nice sings for ze lad'
zat ze coast-blockade will keep away."
"Ah, that is the secret of your intended spe
ulation. I have no doubt that it will be profi
ble-dangerous, too, I should judge."
"Some danger--some danger !" said Miche
shrugging up his shoulders as only a Frenchma.
can.  "But nevare mind zat, if plenty of
money come. I have run many grand risk fo
ze money-many, many upon ze sea and land.
"But there is one thing money couldn't tern
you to do," said Beverly, smiling for the fir
time since he had heard of Sadia's departure.
e What is zat, I should lik for to know ?" as
-ed Michel.
"To ride a hard-trotting horse a thousan
miles," said Beverly, with a Lagh.
"Sacrc'  You are right, Messieur Beverl
All ze gold zat a horse could carry would n
make me' endure so much misery. No, Sar
no! When I'go to Richmond, I will ride in 4
cart wiz ze ox for draw me, or I will walk wizo
ze shoe to my foot, before I ride ze horse
trot."
"Why do you not go with me in the morning
I intend to buy or hire- a carriage, for my o
use ; for, to tell the truth, I do not care to e
tend my own horseback-exercise."
"When shall you depart ?"
"To-morrow morning, as early as possible
I don't want to stay a minute longer than I ca
help under the same roof with that devilish an
provoking girl. By Jove ! if she had a love
.Id kill him out of spite, and try to break i
heart."
"I cannot go so soon," said Michel. "1 mu.
hear from my friends in Baltimore and in Was
ington before I go.  But nevare mind.  I vi
be zere all in good time. And it is very pose'
ble zat I may hear of ze ladee before you shl
see me. I make arrange zat shall give yo
grand pleasure.""
"Well, do your best, my dear friend.  Yo
know my desire, and you shall not regret an
service that you may render me !"
"Ehi, bien ! I will not forget you."
"Supper, gentlemen, supper," cried Stuar
at the door.
" Zat is one very good word at zis time," sau
Michel, throwing away his cigar.

SOne that will not neea muchrepe'it ou "
said Beverly.   I've an appette thaL would
hardly reject a rat-supper, such as old Commo
dore Kennedy used to delight in."
&amp;'creble, M chhave eath dngs zat were more
bad zan rat.s I" said M.hel, as he and Beverly
entered the house.
CHAPTER XXIX.
Safe7n The eity of Washington, but carried
at once before the Provost-Marshal by the
pic'ket-guard which she first met inside the Fed-
eral lines, the wild anxiety and, terror of Sadia
was ver.
The gallant young De Kay, aid to General
Mnsfield, was the examining officer,; and not
only were Sadia's explanations fully satisfactory
to him, but his gentlemanly courtesy such, that
be escorted her to the house of a genteel and
very respectable lady, who, upon his statement,
readily agreed to board Sadia. and the children,
as well as the two servants, while our heroine
chose to remain in the city.
And upon her stating that she desired to see
General Scott, to convey to him the dying ines-
sage bf her faithful guide, the young officer of-
fered on the following morning to procure her
an interview with the venerable hero, though he
,    was then harrassed with a flood of business,
though confined to his room by illness which
altogether precluded his taking the saddle and
heading the Army in person, as be had done
through two glorious and successful wars, and
desired to do again.
Thus we see that, with manly and chivalric
hearts,our Sadia, beautiful, gentle, and in dis-
tress, could but find friends. And thankful was
she on finding herself safe in that great city ; and
no one need wonder thathwhen she retired to
her pleasant chamber that night, with those
dear children by her side, she breathed a heart
felt prayer of thankfulness to the Father of all,
for her deliverance from peril.
fAnd what can be more beautiful than to see
the young and pure-hearted looking up to the
Source of goodness and purity with thankful
eyes-trusting in that Arm which knows nc
weakness-hopeful and strong even in tha
trust!
In the forenoon of the day after her arriva
in the city, Sadia was visited by the young offi
cer before-mentioned, who kindly came to fulfil
his promise to escort her into the presence o
the hero of Lundy's Lane. For those who lov
himu need not look over his hundred battle-field
for his fame-they most love to dwell upon tha
field where the proud Britons were iwakene
from the dream that they alone were invineibl
with the bayonet.
The General, though unable to rise from hi
invalid chair, received his visitors with urbani
ti, and listened with interest to the story of Sa
nlia; and he, a son hinelf of a seceded and r

S

I

belliut Statea 6Ol well appteeiate the pttot-
ism which had impelled her action.
Arid when she came to speak of Hunter,
whom he did not remember until the duel
fought to vindicate his name from foul asper-
sion was spoken of, the old warrior's eye glist-
ened with the dew of sorrow, and be expressed'
his regret that the gallant and faithful old man
had not lived to see him, and to receive the
pressure of his friendly hand.
"We are all passing away-we of the olden
time !" said the General, with a sigh. "We
must rest content with past deeds, and let
younger men win the laurels of the present un-
happy contest 1"
"We cannot do without you, General !" said
De Kay, while his manly face flushed with a
smile of undisguised admiration. "Take our
old General from us, and what can we do.?"
"Much, young man-much ! You will find
this an age when generals, undreamed of be-
fore, called into life, almost, by the great neces-
sities of war, will spring up and grow to be
famous in a day. This war, which well I know
will not be a trifling matter of months, but a
deadly strife of years, will prove world-wide
that we are a nation of warriors; and where
you count warriors by millions, generals will
not be lacking-generals fit for any age, or na-
tion, or command !"
And in his enthusiasm, the old hero seemed
to forget the pain which racked his limbs and
I made old wounds ache afresh. His eyes flashed
-the color came to hl3 cheeks and brow, and
his tall form seemed to swell with the strength
- of past memories.
Then turning gently and kindly to Sadia, he
1 asked if she had formed any plans for her fu-
ture..
uI have a few friends and acquaintances in
- Baltimore," she replied; "and if there would
,be safety there, and I could live as a loyal
woman there without persecution, I s-hould de-
e sire it !" she replied. "The more especially as
e my altered position will force me to some indus-
I trial method of supporting myself and my lit-
o tie brother and sister ; for at present I can get
t nothing from my late father's estate I"
"You Will be as safe in Baltimore ; yes, even
Li more so than here, for I have strong and abid-
- ing faith in the loyalty of the great majority of
1 its citizens. It was true as steel in 1812-it
f will be now. And the scene of war will be near
e this city, even, perhaps, in it, before this Rebel-
s lion is crushed. The first aim of the insur-
,t gents will be, to take it. Had it not been for
d my preparations, and the readiness of the Pres-
e ident in calling out troops, they would before
this time have been upon us. Yes, my dear
s young lady, I would adviseyuu to go there, es-
- pecially as you there have friends and acquaint-
,- ances; for a young lady without friends in a
e- great city, is as badly off as a lamb lost in a for

I
j


Cs

SADIA.

est fined wth woires. By alli eans go to Bal
timore, and I will have some letters of intro-
duction and protection written for you during
the day, which you will find of great benefit, I
bope."
"I thank you. General, most sincerely, and
pray that your life may yet long be spared to
the country whose glory is identical with your
own.,'
"Thank you, thank you, lady. My years, I
feel, are nearly numbered, but I humbly pray
that I may be spaimed to see my whole co-intry
again united, and powerful in its union !"
The interview was over, and Sadia left the
bouse of the old soldier, with a grateful heart ;
for little had she dreamed to meet with so much
gentleness and kindness from  one whose life
had ever been a stern and warlike reality, es-
pecially at a time when his body was racked
with agony. and his mind could not but be fill-
ed with painful anxiety and worn down with
the business of his military chieftainship. For
vet he was at the head of the Army; if not in
the field. he was stilt its chief-its almost idol-
ized chief.
CHAPTER XXX.
A comparison of the two men, and then I'll
go ahead with this story. Years ago, when un-
der brave old "Rough and Ready", as we loved
to call General Taylor, I served under my'
country's flag in Florida, I met two young men.
.l The first of them was born under the Spanish
flag before the province of Florida was trans-
ferred to us, and the blood of a proud and
chivalric race of ancestors coursed through his
veins. his family lived in the most ancient of
American cities. St. Augustine. And nobleness,
beauty, and grace, seemed a heritazc with them
all. Soon after Florida became a United States
Territory, the young man (then a boy) alluded
to. catered the United States Navy as a Mid-I
shipman. Having served the probationary time,
he passed his examination with honor, and step
by s 'ep advanced in service, until at this time
(1838) he is in command of a gallant corvette
in our service.
When the war broke out arld such recreants
ns Tttnall, Semmes, and Mafft turned their
backs upon the country which has fed, clothed,
and educated them, he, though wealthy, and
able to lve in princely stvie in his own or a
fo-eign land, remained true to his country and
his flag, and forgot not ihe oath which h-e took
when he accepted his commission. His name
should-grace these pages, did I not know that
his modest and chivalric heart shrinks from pub,
licity. But let those who glance at the "Naval
Register" see who has cormmanded the St.
Louis, corvette, since the commencement of the
Rebellion, and they may learn whom I do much
honor, and admire for his fidelity i contrast
with s0 many bad examples in others.

The other yrong ma, I a'so knew in F'orida,
as one whose first start in life came from Gov-
ernment patronage, as one who received much
favor and aid from the United States, who, to
give him credit, rose fron complete obscurity to
the high position of a United St ates senator.
Now, alas'! he was sunk into the dead sea of trea-
son, and is, and hs b. en since tihe advent of thbe
Satanic Confederacy, the Secretary of its so-
called Navy. His name is Stephen R. Mallory.
And now, reader, to do him toll justice-nJo,
we cannot do that, it were a hangman's sub-we
must describe him as he incidentally here steps
into our story.
Imagine, then, reader, a man rather above the
medium size, somewhat portly, with thick
bushy hair just turning to gray, a fine florid
complexion, well bewhiskered, good featured,
and with sharp, intelligent eves. Well dressed,
genteel in manner, and very plausible in speech,
he is one of that class who always, or almost
always, make themselves popular wherever they
are.

And we now introduce
Randolph Beverly, who
orders to some position in1
ice.

him listening to Mr.
has come to ask for
the Conofederate serv-

"Had you come but a day or two earlier, I
could have at once giv-n you orders in a sea-
going vessel. 1 regret that we have none
ready for sea in any port which can'be left. I
am sorry, Lieutenant, for your sake. But I can
give you temporary duty in one of our gun-
bo:its tn the James Rig er, and I will remember
your claims for better position the very first
time an opening offers."
A thousand thanks, Mr. Mallory, a thousand
thanks. I hope it will not be long before we
have the. nucleus of a hauds}one navy afloat,"
said Beveriy.
It will not be long, Lieutenant, it will not be
long," said the Secretary, rubbing his hands
together in his usual ph-asant way. " When
oid England begins to feel the want of our cot-
ton, and her starving operatives cry for work or
revolution, you'll see that she will help us, and
a -navy will spring in-o lice in a hurry. Yes,
Sir, yes ! It will not be long that the cursed
Yankees will be enabled to blockade our ports,
My gifted friend, Maury, who so opportunely
caused the destruction of lights and buoys along
the coast, is also engaged in the invention of a
class of vessels which will open the wondering
eyes of a world-of a world, Sir. lie is a great
man, that Maury, Sid-a great man!"
And again the Secretary rubbed his hands
together, and then brushed back the bushy hair
from over his brow.
Dine with me to-day, Lieutenant," said be,
"and you will see Maury at my house. And if
you call here to-morrow morning at ten, your
orders shall be ready for you. But you must
consider the duty only temporary, to ccupy

I

H
H
H

t'

mm.m.


SADIA.

4

59

I
Li
iy

I

your time until something better offers. You
shall have a command as soon as possible.'
"Whtat will be the nature of our duty on the
James ?" asked Beverly.
"Merely keeping an eye on the Yankees
down about its mouth, making a dash on any-
thing that can be dashed at without risk, and
injuring them whenever any chance offers." I
Well, Sir, I will be ready for any orders to-
morrow morning."
"Your orders will be ready then, but the
boat I think of attaching you to is now fitting
out here, and it will be a week or two before she
will be ready for service. You must remember
that, while you are in Richmond, my house is
ever open to you. The officers of the old Navy
who join us now, will find in me an ardent
friend. In fact we can have no navy without
them.   We have no seafaring men among our
citizens ; and for our crews, must look almost
altogether to a foreign shore.
"It is too true, Sir; but old England on our
side, and, quite as likely, France, we will not
lack for seaman."
"No, indeed, and I hope they will be in a
hurry with their recognition of our indepen.
deuce. Delay wilt be death to our hopes.
Money and agesits, however, will soon be at
work with both of t'e Governments we have
named, and we must hope for success."
I shall look for it, Sir. But I intrude upon
your business-hours. Good morning, Mr. Mal-
lory."
"Good morning, Lieutenant. Do not forget
that I dine at four o'clock, and that Maury will
be there."
CIIAPTER XXXI.
Randolph Beveriv ;id been in Richmond
nearly or quite two weeks. He had become at-
tached to a vessel christened a " gunboat", but
rather a hard-looking craft to be honored with
the name of a man-of-war-merely an old James
Rivdr tow-boat, with a couple of the iron guns
on board that had been stolen from the Gosport
Navy Yard, opposite Norfolk, when naval imbe-
cility on the Federal side allowed the capture
of that most important point, with its immense
armament, which has since armed Port Hudson,
Vicksburg, Forts henry, Donelson, and a hun-
dred other Rebel defences.
He was returning from an early visit to the
"Exterminator", as the gunboat had been des-
perately named, cogitating in his mind the kind
of "smile" in which he should indulge when he
reached the "Exchange", which was close at
band, when a loud and hearty bail brought him
to, nautically speaking, in a hurry.
" Ah, ha. Messieur Beverly ! Ah, ha! How
you shall do-how you shall do, my von frent !"
That hail and that accent could come from no
other than our old acquaintance, Carl Michel.
And not at all displeased to meet him, Lieu-

4

tenant Beverly hastened to join hands with the
Frenchman.
"I am glad to see you, Michel !" he cried.
"Come into the Exchange and liquidate, my
frient ! I was just thinking of doing it, when I
heard your welcome voice !"
"Eh bien-zat is if you mean by liquidate,
zat it is somesing for to drink, for I feel so dry
as one old chip !"
"That is what I mean, my friend. How do
you leave our friend Stuart, and my cousin
Warburton ?"
"Colonel Stuart, I leave very well. He was
much occupy wiz organize and drill his men.
But, Messieur De Montfort, your cousine have
depart ze very same day as you, for to recruit
men for ze Confederate cavalry-men zat can
endure ze trot-ze miserable trot!"
"How did you make your journey here ?
asked Beverly, who could hardly keep from
laughing at the comical grimace and shrug
which accompanied the words spoken by
Michel.
" Ah, I have superb accomodashione ! I com
all ze way in a carriage, wiz a ladee-a very
nice ladee, Sare-one what you call zem-one
weedow! One femme charmante ! Ah, Sare,
tossing is zere like ze weedow ! She have ze
experience, ze knowledge how to make love,
how to be agreeable! Ze ladee wiz whom, I
come, she did live too near ze Yankee line, and
she 'ave come to Richmond to reside. And she
is rise, very rise! I sink zat sometime I
shall persuade zit lady, zat it is more prefer.
able to be marry wiz one son of ze grand empir&amp;
of France, zan to be a weed ow wiz no one to loaf
but herself!"
"I wish you success !" said Beverly, laugh
fng. "By-the-way, have you heard anything
more of my runaway sweetheart, Miss De Mont.
fort ?"
"No, not so soon. But I have instruct my
correspondents and friends in Washington and
Baltimore to keep a lookout and find where she
is. And from them I soon shall hear. Very
soon, in one disguise, I shall go to Baltimore
for my schoonare, wiz which I shall commence
my speculations in ze Shesepeake. Zen I will
find out all zat you wish foor to know, and,
pcssibly, do even more zan zat. What would
you do if, some day, I should, bring zat same
proud lady to you, eh ?"
"I would give you half that I own. Yes, if
that would not satisfy you, all!" said Beverly,
his eyes flashing with excitement.
"Well, sings more strange zan zat have oc-
cur ! Carl Michel have done many sings zat
were more difficult zan even zat-sings zat we
will not explain at zii particular time."
"Well; here is the Exchange, come in,
Michel. We will take a julep, and then, is
you'll go up to my room, we'll talk matters
over! Or, if you like it better, I'll order the

r

r
$'"-  ,


60

drinks up to my room, and we can take things
more leisurely, and drink while we talk."
"Eb bien ! Zat 's better, Sare. But not ze
shulap for me, Sare-I like not ze mint, nor yet
ze square, nor ze ice, or ze watare. WV hen I
drink ze grog. I like him au naturclle-strong
like ze giant, ba, ha ! I have been upon ze
watare so much in my life zat I feel too much
respect for it to make drink of it when I can get
any sing else."
"Vi ry well; I'll have some old cogniac, or
anything else you like, ordered up to my room ;
for I stay here when I'm not on duty, for there
is no decent accommodation on that devilish
tub of a steamboat."
CHAPTER XXXII.
One more glance at our Sadia. For I know
the reader must take an interest in one who has
risked so much to prove her devotion to the
cause for which so many of our bravest and
best have given their lives.
Soon after the kind General-in-Chief had fur-
nished our heroine with her promised letters of
introduction, she left Washington with her
young charges and her two faithful servants,
for Baltimore. And well indeed was it for her
that the generous forethought of the old vet-
eran had furnished those letters. For several
of the friends whom she expected to find in tihe
city had left-some of them   less loyal than
she had hoped ; others, even more doubtful of
the security of the city than the old General
had been, had gone still further North ; and
even the few who were there seemed more cold
to the fugitive loyalist than they had been in
former times to the wealthy planter's favorite
child-and she keenly felt this, for proud hearts
are ever sensitive, and hers, proud as it was
pure, shrunk   from  receiving  any chilling
favors.
TLerefore, after securing a place of residence
in a genteelly respectable private family, at as
low a rate as possible (for her stock of money
was but too small for the use of one who had
been accustomed to every luxury), she looked
over her introductory letters, determining to
make use of them in the endeavor to find some
occupation.
The first which she took from a package of
six or seven, was addressed to a wealthy im-
por ing firm, whose principal member had also
ling held a high political position in the coun-
try. arid who had taken an especiallv loyal
stand in the present crisis, as she had before
learned  through  the public  papers.   She
glanced at his name, and the thought struck
her that she had heard her father speak of him,
while he lived, as an acquaintance arid a friend.
A few moments' thought decided her to go and
see him before all others. And, with her usual
firmness of character, to think was a prelude
only to acting.

Therefore, n an early hour she called at th
place of business of the firm. The gentleman
whom she wished to see was not yet there, but
she was directed to his residence, where she
would be sure to iivd him for some hours to
come.
In one of the most pleasant locations in the
city she found his residence, ndl upon inquiry
found that he wasthere.
She was ushered into a parlor fitted up in
neatly elegant stL le, arl orioinented, not in
the usual " gineerhread st le" of the day, but
w;th a taste r.rely Exeelled. P.witings of true
merit hWg in fav'or.able iilits on ilthe walls--
ever thing' in vieW was v :ri nab le aid durable.
Mr. Winter, we will call himt (for it is not
politic always to use real namuwrs) entered the
parlor-door after Sadia had se nt her card by
the servint ; an i though the frost of tull sixty
winters had w hiteiied the hair upon itis head,
anything but wudcr/ uas the smile nith which
he greeted the ditrident girl, who rose when he
entered the room.
"Miss De Montfoi t ?" he said, as ie glanced
at her and then at the car d which he held in
his hand. "I once had a 'i lued friend of that
name who lived on the banks of the Potomac-
Charles De Montfort !"
"Of Springland, Sir ; he was my father!
IIe was taken from  us by the hand of death
some time since!" said Sadia, as she handed
the gentleman her letter of introduction.
" I had so heard and grieved to hear it, for I
knew him as a good and patriotic mai !" said
Mr. Winter, opening the letter and perusing
the contents.
"The daughter, it appears, is indEed worthy
of such a father, too," he said, when lie had
finished the letter. " A recommendation so
strong, and from such a source, is a thing to
be proud of, my dear young lady; but your
father's daughter would have needed no other
comnendation to me than her own assurance
of loyalty at this dark hour in our country's
history. My house shall be your home, if you
will accept the offer, and I shall feel happy in
having such a guesr. My wife and daughter
will welcome and love you!''
"I am grateful for your offer, Sir; but I can-
not accept any home :is a mere guest. I came
to you, Sir, to ask your aid in procuring me a
situation where I can make use of the good
practical education nhich my father gave me.
My means are limited. I have my little broth-
er and sister to take care of, and 1 wish to earn:
my support. I ean be happy in no other way-
believe me, Sir, I cannot; for I inherit indepen-
dence, if nothing else, from my dear father's
nature."
"A situation, my dear young ady ? Remem-
ber you have been used to live without a supe-
rior-you will find j hard to be under one
now."

i
N
d,

,
;
:

SADIA.

"I can bend myself to circumstances. I have
made my mind firmly up to that," Sadia, re-
plied, quietly.
" Wiat do you wish? The position of a gov-
erness or teacher?"
"Not if I can get writing or copying to do ;
for I fear I have not the long-enduring patience
that a governess or teacher must possess to ful-
fill their office properly. I write a good, plain,
bold hind ; used to keep all my father's accounts,
and am, therefore, correct in figures. I studied
arithmetic, algebra, and bookkeeping before I
learned French.'
Mr. Winter smiled at the confession which
not every young lady would have made.
"If you insist upon hasig something to do,"
le continued. "I have a vacancy which can be
made by promotingg a very worthy and loyal
man to an even better position. It is the keep-
ing of our invoice-book, into which all our in-
voices are entered, with a register of each, their
number, and their arrangement. If you will
accept that, and his salary of one thGusand dol-
lars a year, le shall be promoted."
"0   Sir ; \oi are too kind, and make me
quite happy ! When can I commence ?" cried
Sadia. who almost seemed to see a fortune in
the kind offer.
" Topmor row, if you like, my dear young lady.
But let me renew the offer of a home in my
house."
"Under other circumstances, Mr. Winter, I
would grat-fully accept an offer tendered with
such generous and fatherly kindness. But in
the house where I have secured a most comfort-
able home, and where even the little which I
pay for board is needed, a good and loyal man
is lying sick .and bed-ridd-n, supported by his
industrious wife, who needs boarders to do so.
She was so glad to get me, and she has been so
kind and motherly to me already, that it would
be cruel in me to lea:e her. And she also finds
employment for t e tuo faithful negroe s, my
old nurse anil her husband, who came with me
from Sprimgland. I cannot make them under-
stand that I nisli them to be free, and they will
net leave rime  There they can be kept at work,
and be conrented while they earn enough to
clothe them and provide them with many lux-
uries. Do rot think, my dear Sir, that I am
ungrateful for your offer of a home, but accept
the reasons  hieti I have giv n for my refusal."
"I do,. Miss Dc Mon tirt, recognizing no false
pride in your refusal, but a noble principle in
your vishi to remain where you are. It only
adds to my high estimation of your qualities of
head and heart. You will ever find a friend in
me, and my family will be but too glad to know
you."
"S hall I go to your counting-house to-mor
row, Sir ?"
"Yes, at ten o'clock. Your hours will b4
only from ten to two, in a small office by your

61

self; or if you prefer it, you can have the in-
voices sent to your own rowns. Although that
would not be so handy, for we often have to re-
fer to the book."
"Then I prefer to go to the office, Sir. It is not
a long walk from my rooms, and if the weather
is stormy, the city cars, for a trifle, will take me
nearly all the way."
"Very well, Miss be Montfort. Consider it
a settled matter."
I will, Sir; and let me assure you I am
happy and grateful."
"Speak no more of gratitude, dear young
lady. There is a reciprocal pleasure im dis
matter. F.rst, I have the pleasure of doing
nhat she esteems a favor for tre daughter of an
old and valued friend. Next, I h ive the great
pleasure to advance an old, tried, and very faith-
ful employee of our firm to a position where his
salary will be increased. And you will earn all
of the salary which we give. So, after all, you
see that it is I who am obhliged. Now, say no
more. Let me order you a glass of wine, and
then, though at this early hour my wife and
daughters are in their neglige, let me call and
introduce them to you."
"Many thanks, dear Sir; but please excuse
me from introductions this morning. When I
get settled, 1 will but too gladly meet-Mrs.
Winter and your daughters. But now I feel
too excited to see any one."
"Well, as you please, my good young friend.
I will look for you at the counting-house to-
morrow !"
CHAPTER XXXIII.
In one of those low-roofed, shattered, time-
and-dirt begrimed buildings on the   Point",
which have long been an eye-sore to the better
class of Baltimoreans-a building even scanned
suspiciously by the police when in force they
visited its locality (tor single policemen never
ventured there), a very select party assembled
together, some two or three weeks after Sadia
had commenced her not arduous duties in the
counting-house of Winter &amp; Co.
Select, I say ; for there can be " selections" of
the wretched and vicious, as well as of the ele-
ganit and good-of the lower million as well as of
the upper few.
Perhaps a glance at the room and its furnish-
ing may give the r adcr an idea of the character
of the "select" whom we are about to intro-
duce.
f   In the first place, the room looked as if water
had never been introduced within its smoke-
blackened walls, or had moistened the dirt-cov-
ered floor. Upon those sooty walls were hung
- a variety of coarse and heavily-daubed litho-
graphs of sundry prize-fighting scenes; and the
e likenesses of various pugilists and some great
- fighting-dogs-the last, in face, bearing marked

A

SADI2.


62

SADIA.

resemblance to their two-footed brethren in the
brute line. A long wooden table stood in the
middle of the room, whiich may have once been
painted. But it would be hard to decide, through
the coat of grease and dirt upon it. On either
side of this table was a row of small heavy stools,
about as cleanly as the table.
In the corner of the room was a space parti-
tioned off about waist-high to the dirty-faced
and frowsy-haired woman who stood benind it,
ready to dispense blue-ruin from sundry square
bottles which were arranged behind her.  On
the front of this (by courtesy) bar, were a dozen
or less of these small' thick-bottomed glasses,
always to be found in groggeries where the cus-
tomers generally try to get the worth of their
money, so to sj'eak, by taking a glass full of grog
whenever they drink.
At this time, one of the square bottles was on
the table aforementioned, as were several of the
tumblers described ; and seated on either side
of the same were six men, whose locks as well
as dress would have signified to a detective, or
any person well posted on city-characters, that
they were desperadoes, to say the least. Men
who understood the science of garroting ; could
open a store or a bank with no other capital
than a crowbar, a brace and bits, or a set of skel-
eton-keys; could play a fair or a foul game of
cards as necessi'y or pleasure demanded, and
who would think about as little of taking human
life as they would of killing a rat. Men who
were the Pariahs or Ishmaels of society, whose
bands were against all men, and against whom
all men could not but be.
These men, who were drinking and talking, by
their conversation showed that they expected
somebody. And wrho that "somebody" was, be
came very evident when, with hearty words of
pleasure, they hailed the incoming of one of our
old acquaintances-no less a personage than
Carl Michel.
lIe was so disguised with a wig of long and
busby-black hair, and with his own gray beard
and mustache completely dyed black, that no
one except those rho had been very intimate
with him, and who knew every scar dn his war-
scathed figure-hea 1, would have recognized him
by sight. But his voice, his accent, the pecu-
liarity of his idiom, or broken English, could
not be mistaken by any one who had ever heard
him talk.
"Hurrah for Captain Charlie !" cried the men
at the table, when lie entered. "Hurrah for the
bold King of the Chesapeake ! Hurrah, old boy'!
you look like a peacock !"
" Ah, shentilmen, you do me much honare !"
cried Michel, advancing and bowing with that
grace which seems to be the natural gift of a
Frenchman.    "I am very proud to meet wiz
such a select conpanie! I'ave shust come from
ze gran' Confederacie, and I shall go back, I
hope, very soon, wiz one bon cargo of sings zat

are very necessaire zere, and for which w shall
receive ze gold, l'argcnt1l'
"Good - good !" cried one of the party.
"That's the article we go in for, and must and
will have one way or another !"
" Certainement! A shentilmen wizout money
is like ze goose wizout its fezzares ; or like ze
enshine wizout ze steam, or ze cart wizout ze
horse"
"Good, that's the idea! ' Won't you flood
your gullet, old boy?'
"I sank you; I sail not object to take some-
sing for drink, if it is strong!''
"You'll find it that. You'know we're all sworn
against the use of water in drmnkable shape !"
"Eli bien ! I have been of zat persuasion zis
forty year !" cried Michel, as he took a stool
and filled a glass from the bottle.
" Give us a toast, old boy ; give us a toast !"
cried one of the most hilarious of the )arty.
"Ah, sare-you    do me much houare! I
propose for one sentiment-let ime se", I must
reflect ! I give you. slientilmens, ourselves, one
very select companies "
"Hurrah for Charlie, and   hurrah for his
toast !" cried all hands, and with clashing
glasses the toast was drank.
"And now, shentilmen, what about bizness !
Is ze schooner engage ?"
"Yes; bought and paid for, and a Bay trad-
ing license got out, with capital security on the
straw-bail system !"
"Eh bien-so far, so good! Ze crew ?"
"\We are your crew. You are Captain ; Dane
Terry there is mate, and the rest of us are deck-
hands and cabin passengers. We will use this
crib when we're ashore, and Moll Swipes there
behind the bar has agreed to cook for us
aboard, and tend here when we're ashore !"
" Eh bien ! Zat is one very fine arrangement
-very fine! We have one very select crew.
What name is ze schoonare 7"
"The Coquette !"
" Eb bien-zat is one very good name. She
will coquette wizze Yankees and flirt wiz ze Con-
federats! Haha-one verygood name! Where
now is she ?"
"Down at the basin, with one of our sort on
board as a watch !"
"Good-good everysing! Ze next sing is for
ze cargo. I have friends zat 'ave write zey will
supply me wiz everysing zat I shall ask for !
We will make our cargo, and -zen watch for ze
night when it storm, and ze Revenue-nen keep
watch in ze cabin razzare zan  n ze deck, and
we will go by like ze cloud in ze da, k !''
Hurrah for that.  You tell us what you
want done, and we'll do it, or break our necks
in trying !"
"Eli bien, shentilmen-it is very right. I
shall 'ave plenty of somesing for you to do very
soon. By ze way, one sing, I 'ave now, zat I
wish very much to discovare !"

r

SADIA.

"Talk it out, Captain-talk it out, and con-
sider us on hand for anything but lifting a saw-
mill and carrying the water-power along !"
" Zis mattare is not so difficult as zat !" said
Michel, with a laugh. "I wish much to find
a young lady zat leave Washington for zis citie
a few days some time ago. She 'ave wiz her
one leetel brozzare and one leetel sistare. And
beside one old niggare name-sacre, what sacri-
lege ! name Napoleon! and one woman niggare
named Syntia ! She come here to live, and I
must find out where she live !"
"Ah, ah-got matrimony in your eye-you
intend to get married, eh Captain l" asked one
of the party.
"No, no-not zat !" said Michel, shrugging
up his shoulders. "If ever I get marry, i shall
take one weedow zat I loaf very much at Rich-
mond-one rishe widow, who is very superbe ;
very elegant. I wish to find zis young ladee
because I can make plenty of money, if I can
get her as far as Richmond! Zere is a shentil-'
man zere zat will give 'plenty of l'argent for her,
for from him she 'ave run away. He is one
officare in ze Confederacie!"
"What's her name? We'll find her out if she's
above ground in the city !" said one of the men.
"Mademoiselle Sadia De Montfort was her
name when she 'ave leave her friends. I do not
eink she will use any ozzare name."
" Good-we'll be on the look-out for her.
Take another drink, Captain! You don't shove
the glass as fast as you used to !"
"Ah, shentilmen-you see I 'ave much biz-
ness upon my mind now. I will drink one glass,
and zen go to see my friends to prepare for ze
cargo!"
And the Captain drank a glass, then bowing,
retired amid the applause of the miscreant gang,

CHAPTER XXXIV.
Sadia sat in the neat little parlor of the house
of Mrs. Meredith, where she boarded, gazing
with quiet pleasurqe upon her brother and sis-
ter, who were engaged in looking over a couple
of illustrated books which she had bought at
Taylor's that afternoon, and brought home to
them. There was not now a cloud upon her
bright and joyous face ; her salary, with what
she had brought from home, had enabled her
to live independently, though frugally, and to
purchase many neat little presents for those
whom she so loved.
She had taken her guitar up to play one of'
her favorite fantasias; but the noisy happiness
of the children so pleased her, that she did not
touch its chords, but remained attracted by the
scene at which she was gazing.
So intent was she in this, that she did not see
old Napoleon, when, hat in hand, he Entered the
room; and he, seeing her so much engaged, did
not intrude himself upon her, but waited until
she should herself notice him.

63

At last she raised her eyes and saw him, and
with a smile, said :
"Ah, you here, Napoleon! Is there anything
I can do for you?"
"Nuffin for me, Miss Sady, muffin for me !
But dere's sumfin on my mind dat I can't keep
in. I tole it to my Cynthy, and she tole me to
jess come straight an' tole it to you, Miss
Sady!t"
Well, what is it, Napoleon ?"
"I's afeard, Miss Sady, dat some o' dem Se-
cesh main to play you wicked trick. Dey is
jess mean enough for do anyting ! You knows
dat without my say in' so !"
"Why, do you thirk any one means me harm,
Napoleon ?"
"'Cause dis, Miss Sady, more'n a dozen times
lately I've seen some hard-lookin' white cases
loafin' around here an' a watchin' you when you
was a goin' out and a coming' in. An' dey seem
to look hard at me and Cynthy, too. An' de
odder day one ob 'em stop me and says, he :
'Snowball! whar you come from?'     He was
white folks, an' I didn't like to say what I wanted
to ; so I touch my hat and say dat wasn't my
name, and I come away quick, so as I shouldn't
get mad an' be sassy wid him. An' to-day dat
same chap met me when I was down to de mar-
ket for Missy Mer'dith, an' he say, 'here you
Springlan' darkey, how's Miss Montfort, ehi?'
Golly, I was so scare dat I didn't say nuffin, an'
I run all de way right home here, and tole Cyn-
thy, an' she made me come an' tole you !"
"We may be watched by some of the. emis-
saries of my brother or cousin," said Sadia,
thoughtfully: "But they can do us no harm
here, Napoleon. There is a strong military
guard in and about the city, and far too many
Union people in it, too, for any one to dare to
injure us!"
"Dem Secesh jess like snakes, Miss Sady-
jess like snakes. Dey is a hidin' away, an' you
doesn't know whar dey is till you come righton.
'em! I doesn't like dem fellows a pokin' around
no way, and if dey wasn't white folks Pd show
'em what Springland muscle was -dat's so!
And if dey come a foolin' round in de dark, dey
may find out dat dis c'ile is s'prisin' blind in
de night, 'specially when he wants to be !"
"You must be careful, Napoleon! You
know how it would distress me if you were in-
jured. And you must keep in after dark. You
need not be alarmed for me, I assure you. Re-
member that I always have a revolver near me,
either in my pocket, or where I can reach it.
And I have good and powerful friends here--
friends who will not allow me to be harmed !"
"Yes, I know, Miss Sady ; but I hasn't done
nuffin wrong, 'cause I tole you, has I?"
"Oh, no! I thank you, Napoleon, for your
watchfulness and kindness. Go and caution
Cynthia to be careful and not go out after dark,
Ah! I see Mr. Winter coming! I will tell him

:j

s jf
y  Y        o
c,
r


SADIA.

what you have seCen. Yotu can go, now, Na-
poleon."
The old negro bowed respectfully, and went
out by the side door, just as the princely mer-
chant entered at the front.
"I called in, Miss Sadia," he said in a friendly
tone, "merely to say that which in business-
hours totally escaped my mind. M: wife asked
me this morning to say to you that she would
have a few friends to tea this evening, who would
spend the evening with us, and she wihed me
particularly to press you to be one of her visit-
ors on the occasion. Say that you will come,
and our carriage shall call for you."
"You need not eend the carriage, for you
know the cars pass very near your hose, Mr.
Winter. But 1 will go with sincere pleasure,
for the kindness I mett in 'our house always
make me feel hapyiv and at borne. But please
to sit down for a moment, I have something to
tell you. Napoleon has got quite alarmed
\ about something, and I wish to tell you what he
says."
Mr. Winter sat down ; and Sadia, who had
long before told hini the history of her perse-
cutions and escape, now related what Napoleon
had told her.
"There may be something in this !" said Mr.
Winter, who bad listened attentively to the nar-
ration. "A man who would force his attentions
upon one who did iiot like him, would be guilty
of any meanness, any treachery, any crime!B
But do not be alarmed at my remark. I shall'
take the ierty.of having a keen-eyed detective
placed on the look-out, and I assume you that I
do not exaggerate when I say that I feel as anx-
ious for your saety as I would for that of one
of my own daughters !"
"I thank you, Sir ! But I thought it better
to tell you of my servaiL'n discoveries and
fears !"
. "Yes, surely! And I shall send the carriage
for you this evening. and see you safely home
myself! io words my de.ar child-no words,
for I will have my own way. You have no
father now but me, )}ou know' "
"But, Sir, I give you too much trouble-
trouble that i unnecessary, too, it seems ."
'-Let me he the judge of that, my dear friend
-let me he the jioe'of that!" said Mr. Win-
ter, in a kid tone. 'My wife and daughters
feel quite as much interest m you as if you
were one of our own family !"
"I am very grateful to them and you, Sir;
and I assure you that such kindness makes me
almost forget that I.ain an exile !"
"Do not speak of that. how are your broth-
er and sister "
"Very well, Sir, and very good and studious.
Marion is beginning to be quite a little man !"
"I am glad to hear it. But I must hurry
away. *Good afternoon! "

CHAPTER XXXV.
The reader who considers our gr at riurtherzt
lakes mere mil-ponds, or an almost land-locked
bay, like the Cbesapi eake, not dangerous, both
as compliared with the aluiost boundless ocean,
had better take a tri  on either or both of the
first-named, and txp(rence a good rousing gale
thereon. If the rolling ground-sea or swell,
white-capped and literally nmounn tahLigh, and
the fearful perils of a ce shore don't roll and
scare the idea out of his niind, then my dozen
y ears of sea-experienco s, beside some " tall
weather" seen on the waters first alluded to,
may go for nothing, and you may mark ma
donn as a land-lubber n ho don't know a clew
garnet from a man-to-bowliue, or a buntlino
froi a spanker out-hand.
And this is only prefatory to a scene of act-
ual occurrence inthe early part of the present
Rebelnion, or rather, to a description of that
scene.
The promise of the IIon. (?) Mr. Mallory to
give Lieut  nant Beverly a separate command
as soon as possible, was speediri fulfilled by the
Confederate Naval Secetary ; for only a few
weeks alter the Imeeti:t. of the Lieutenant with
Michel in the streets of liclmlaond, the former
was r believed from his secondary position on
board of the " Exterminator", on the James
River, and ordered to take charge cf another
gunboat on the York River, of a ihke construe-
:tion, armament, and size, known as the " Bea-
gle", with similar orders in regard to watching
and annoying* such daring Yankees as ap-
proached the Conifderate bounds by sea or
land, within reach of his guns.
On the afternoon when the scene occurred to
which this chapter is devoted, Lieutenant-Corn-
mandiing Beverly had run his boat down to the
very mouth of the river to see if any cruisers
were off in the Bay, as lie said. But well ie
might know that he would finid none there ; for
no ves-el would remain upon the Ceesapeake
which could find a harbor in such a gale as
was then blowig, without she was scudding for
an open sea in the broad Atlantic, which she
might do, for the wind was LIon;ing directly
down the Bay. Another gunboat was in com-n
pany, and it seemed as if one captain wished
to out-do the other in stearming, vei in that
liver, in such a wind and sea as existed.
Beverly having run out ais far as he dared
with his little tub df a boat, was about to order
the helmsman to shift her course up the Iiver,
when his eye rested for a moment on the white
but scanty canvas of two vessels which seemed'
to be scudding down the Bay, both well in on
the western shore w here he was.
lie called for his telescope, ordering tho
helmsman to ring for the engineer to run slow ;
and while lie was looking at the vessels, a cloud
of white smoke was seen to spm ing from the
bow of the sternmost one, and soon after, the

SADIA.

dull report of a distant gun came faintly down
upon the wind.
"By Jove, there's some fun afloat' away
there. " be cried, and he directed the engineer
to keep just speed enough on the boat to make
steerage-way, so that he could observe what
was going on outside. And as the other gun-
boat came up near him, he hailed her com-
mander, who was his junior, and called his at-
tention to the vessels advised him to lay by and
see what was up.
Meantime the two vessels eame on almost as
swiftly as the clouds above them, soon showing
themselves to be schooners of clipper-build.
The character of the sternmost one in a
short time was evident, as seen through Bev-
erly's glass. She exhibited at her peak the
Revenue fly, of the  united States. The other,
evidently t[ ing to escape from the first, which
had fired several shots to try to bring her to,
showed no flag. That she was either a smug-
gler or in some way an evader of the custom
laws, was evident from the pertinacity of the
pursuer.
Of course, the officers and crews of the Rebel
gunboats took a deep interest in the fate of the
vessel which was being pursued; and, doubtless,
if there had been no such fearful risk as there
was in running outside then, they would have
put off to throw the weight of their guns
against the United Etatcs cruiser.
On--oncame the two vessels-neither of
diem showing more than close-reefed fore-and-
aft sails ; both seeming almost to bound from
sea to sea o er the short but fearfully-heavy
waves.
As they neared the mouth of the river, Bev-
rly noticed that the leading schooner was evi-
dently head ing in toward the laud ; and by way
of encouragement to her if she should happen
to be favora'le to the Confederate cause, as she
would be moat probably if a smuggler, he had
the stars and triple bars raised upon his flag-
staff, and the long iron thirty-two pounder on
his forward deck was fired.
The Schooner gave almost instant signs of
recogni ion ; for in less than a minute the Rebel
flag fluttered from the gaff, and she headed for
he river as directly as possible.
The revenue-cutter still kept desperately on,
firing every f w moments, as if endeavoring to
carry away tihe spars of the other craft, so as to
disable her Lut the sea was so rough and
heavy that the shots all fell wild, and it seem-
ed as if the craw which carried the Rebel flag
could not but escape.
On--on they came-the schooners seemingly
not a half mile apart, until Beverly thought
t-at the cutter had come within his range.
Ordering his thirty-two pounder loaded care-
fully with a single round shot, he sighted it
himself, and pulled the lanyard of the gun.

Exultingly, he saw that the shot threw p the
spray close aboard the cutter.
His consort, similarly armed, tried her hand
at a shot, and came even closer than Beverly
had.
And the commander of the cutter, seekig the
odds too great, now that he was coming under
the fire of vessels which-tay in smooth water,
took in his foresail, and suddenly hauling u
on a wind, discontinued the chase, venting his
rage,nhowever, in a broadside, which sent a half-
dozen holes through the canvass of the fugi-
tive, and knocked away her main-topma.t.
But the damage to the sails cane too late;
and while the cutter, lying down gunwale un-
der in the gale, clawed off shore, the other
schooner came sweeping into the sooth water
of the river, with the Rebel rag flyingtaunthwg
ly from her gaff.
"What vessel is that ?" shouted Beverly
through his trumpet, as the schooner hanged up
within hail.
"Ze schoonare Coquette, Captain Carl Mi-
chel, Sare, at your bon service, wiz one very se-
lect cargo for ze grand Confederacie !" shouted
a well -known voice.
"Heave to, Michel-heave to, my old friend.
I wish to see you!" eried Beverly, instantly
recognizing the Frenchman.
"Sacre! Is zat you, Messie'ir Beverly?
By darn I am more glad to see you z in I was to
get away from   zat Yankee zat 'ave chase
me so very close. She was more big zani me,
and came more close zan I like-she was more
fast zan I, and if you 'ave not speak w z your
big guns when you do, by ze whale zat Jonah
eat, I sink zat I shall be one prize for hiii!"
cried Michel, as he put his htln dwh and
rounded to close alongside of the steamer. "I
will be wiz you very soon-so quick as my men
put down one boat. I have some grand infor-
macione for you from Baltinore ! continued
Michel, as he gave orders for his men to haul
up the fore-sail, draw the jib-sheet to windward,
and to put the helm alee, trimming the main-
sheet aft at the same time.
In a few moments the schooner lay almost as
still upon the water as if she had been at an-
chor; for she was, in nautical parlance, hove to,
and with but little drift, held her position.
A boat was soon hoisted over the side, and
manned with a crew of oarsmen, and into this
Michel sprung with much more agility than he
would have exhibited in mounting a horse.
A few strokes of the oars and the boat was
alongside of the steamer, where Beverly stood
at the gangway o receive and welcome the sue- J
ces ful smuggler.1
"Come right down into my cabin, Captain !'
said he, as he grasped the Frenchman's hand.
"There I can hear all the news you have to.
tell, and also learn how I can be "of service toY
you. Aid I have some capital cogniac there !"

.1


SADIA.

"Bon. We will go zere, Sare, and zen I will
tell you ze news from Baltimore !"
CHAPTER XXXVI.
The cabin of the Confederate States gunboat
Beagle-was not very roomy-nor was it furnish-
ed in a very enviable style of gorgeousness. It
was a little den in the stern of the boat, not a
foot larger than a wardroom stateroom in one
of our magnificent sea-going frigates. But it
sufficed to contain Lieutenant Beverly and his
baggage, one portion of which was a liquor-
case, full one-tenth as large as the trunk of a
Saratoga belle, and that was of sufficient size to
contain nearly a barrel of various imbibible
beverages.
Pointing Michel to one stool, Beverly took a
seat on another, and took from his case a square
bottle marked "old Cogniac", in gilded letters,
and a couple of gilded glasses belonging to the
ease. Placing them on the table, he filled the
glasses, and then said:
"Help yourself, friend Michel. Stand upon
no ceremony here. There is some brandy, that
I certify came from your own belle France.
Help yourself, and oil the blocks of your talk-
ing-tackle, so that you can give me the news
more easily."
"Ah, Messieur Beverly, you do me much
honare. I drink wiz you and to you, and to ze
bad luck of zat. Yankee euttare zat come so
much too close to me and make ze peep-holes
in my sails!"
"Yes; and he would have made some holes
in your hull, if our vessel hadn't been in the
river, here !"
" Zat is very probable, Messieur Beverly-
very probable. As it is, you 'ave save one bon
cargo of article zat will be very welcome in ze
Confederacic. I have ze bowie-knife, ze revol-
vare, ze powder, ze cap, de percussione, and ze
whisky for ze shernilmens ; and for ze ladies ze
silk, ze lace, ze ribbone, ze glove, ze hoop, se
leetle shoe, and ze perfume, wiz evare so much
more sings zat not now I can con sidare !"
"Just what is needed, my dear fellow, and
worth half a fortune. For, since the blockade,
everything has gone up, asif the people thought
they would never get any goods again."
"So much ze bettare for my speculacione !"
replied Michel, laughing. " Zis war will be like
paradise for ze speculacione. Ze soldier will
fight and get ze loss of leg and arm, and die,
and all zat ; he will go down, but up will rise'
se politician, and rishe, oh, very rishe, will
grow ze sheutilmen who make ze speculacione !
Zey are ze men for ze day. Ha, ha, zey are ze
men for ze day !"
Alas, how much truth in that!
"Not for us, though !" said Beverly, with a
laugh. "But you spoke of news from Balti-
more !"
"Oui, certainement, I did do zat. And it is

news in which you are very much interest ! Ex.
cuse me-I fill again my glass wiz zat bon cog-
niac, and zen I tell you zat news
Michel filled his glass, drank off about half
its contents, and then said
" Ze ladee-ze sistare of Messieur Warburton
De Montfort-is in Baltimore!"
" Ali! have you seen her ?"
"No, Sare ; I did not wish for her to see me,
for she 'ave seen me before, and it might not
be comfortable for her to see me in Baltimore;
at ze b st, it were bettare for me, for ze friend
of ze Coufederacie have no sight zere now I
But tree, four five of my men have see her, and
zey have talk wiz ze two niggares, and ze broz-
zare, and zesistare -"
"What does she do; how does she live, and
where ?"
"You ask so much question at one time zat I
not know which one to ansare at ze first. She
have ze employment for write fur one very
ridhe merchand ! Zat is an sure ze one. She
braved upon ze street zat you call Carroll ; zat
is ansare ze two ; and how she live?   Zat I
have not inquire very particular, but I sup-
-pose, like ozzare folk, by ze eat, and drink, and
sleep, and breathe, so same as you and my-
self"                               .
" Well, do you think that it is possible to get
her away from Baltimore ? I will give five
thousand dollars to get her in my power .1"
" Wiz zat money, Messicur Beverly, zere is
possible many sings. \iz zat money I dink
zat it is very possible ze next time I go to Bal-
timore zat I shall make it necessary for ze lady
to try a shange of air fur her beak-, and zen
it shall be necessary for her to consult you for
ze doetare. Ha-ha-you make one bon do-
tore for ze occasione, elh? '
"Well, succeed my friend, succeed, and the
money shall be yours, in gold!"
"Au, zat is one good consideration. I do
not like ze money of paper. It may get burn,
or eat by ze rat, or ze bank break, and zen it is
no good for nozzing ! But ze gold, zat nevare
is destroy, zat is n, vare good fur nossi ng -"
Wtll, s cure the lady for me. and the gold
shall be yours !"
"Bier, it shall be done. Excuse me zat I
try anozzare glass of zat cogniae. It remind
me so much of la belle France, zat I feel one
grand affeccione for it -"
"help yourself, Captain, help yourself, you
- are as welcome to it as a kiss would be to a
maiden of sweet thirty-five! DriLk, and then
tell me what you propose to do !"
"I can go up ze rivare wiz my schoonare,
can I niot? .
"Yes, there will be no trouble in that. I
will give you a certificate which will pass you
any where !"
" Zen I shall go up ze rivare and sell my
cargo for l'argent, and ze schoonare too I"

"The schooner? Why will you sell her ?"
"Because it will nevare do for me to go to
Baltimore wiz her again. And more, zis rivare
will be blockade now by ze dam revenue! Ab,
my cher ami, I am one old shild and zey nevare
catch Michel asleep-no sare, no. I and my
men can get back to Baltimore by ze land, wiz
ze money for buy more cargo and anozzare
schoonare. And while ze sacre revenue sink
zat I am here in-ze grand Confederacie, I will
be zere, oui-I will be zere to get ready for
anozzare. grand speculacione. I have some
bon friends zere, ze Confederacie have some
bon friends z re, but zey must keep what you
call very dark, very still! I will purchase
anozare schoonare and watch for my time, ze
same as before, and when I am ready for sail
and have put ze revenue on ze blind some-
where, zen I will get for my passengers ze
ladee zat you desire, and again I come to ze
rivare, or some ozzare one, where I can be safe
wiz my speculacione !"
"Your plan is good. That is, if you can
manage to get the lady once on board without
being discovered and foiled !"
"Ah, you nevare mind but what I do zat. I
was not born yesterday, or to-day, or to-mor-
row-sacre no!/ When ze Yankees get before
zis representative of ze old empire, zey are
more smart zan zey evare was before zen !"
"Well I hope you will succeed! It will be
a big feather in your cap when you do !"
"I care not for ze fezzare ; but ze money, zat
is what I like more !" said Michel, and again he
sealed his alliance to la belle France in a glass
of cognac.
"And now, Messieur Beverly !" said he as he
drained his glass, "I zink I will go on board ze
Coquette and proceed up ze rivare ! I will
Write to you when I am away, and tell you
when I shall come back, and where, so zat youc
can be prepare for ime !"
"Can you transmit letters easily and safe-
ly ?"
" Oui-certainenent, I can. Ze mail is notJ
now so regular as once it was before ze war,
but it come and go from Baltimore all ze time!1
And not only from Baltimore, but Philadelphia1
and New York. I have more zan one bushels
of lettare now on ze schoonare for Rich-
nond!"
"Indeed! yours will be a welcome arrivals
there!''
"Certainenment! Good for zat I have letters
~--but more good zat I have such a bon cargo.
If zat miserable cuttare have catch me, I should
'ave die wiz grief and mad! I shall 'ave lose
nore as one hundred tousan' dollare.    Ah i!
what speculacione ze revenue make if I was
catch! But it was not done.   Ze star of myc
destiny is bright. Ze fire of my hope burn
warm. Excuse me, Messieur Beverly, I take
once more a glass of cognac for your very good

healt, and zen I go to my schoonare and pre-
ceed."
"Very well, Michel, go ahead. I'll run up
the river a ways with you, and if the wind dies
away, perhaps I'll give you a tow."
" Ah 0you are very much good, Messie
Beverly. I shall not forget you-no Sare, not
so long as I remembare. Your very good health,
Sare, and au rcvoir-au rcvoir I"
CHAPTER XXXVII.
The author has refrained as long as possible
from taking a close view of the inside world,
where the patriotic man of business found his
chief happiness; in other words, in the "bosom
of his family", to quote an old way of speaking
of a household. For Mr. Winter was not one of
those sordid-hearted men whose whole thought
is bent upon gain, and who looks at worthand
pleasure only for what it is worth in currency.
Now, circumstances make it necessary for a
emporary intrusion into the happy circle.
Mrs. Winter herself was one ofc those fine
hearty-looking ladies whom we 'sometimes, but
not often, meet, who, at fifty, do not look to be
over thirty years of age. No care had furrow-
ed her smooth brow, or brought slver threads
among her dark brown tresses-no cosmetics
were required upon her health-iuted and fault-
less face. Her hazel eyes were alight with the
glow of contentment and peace, and a smile of
love and genial kindness made her ever look
beautiful to those who loved her.
Two daughters-one eighteen and the other
three years older-had been raised entirely under
her own eyes, educated at home, far from board-
i-ug-school influences and city school conven-
tionalities.
With unlimited means placed at her com-
maud, Mis. Winter had chosen the best teach-
ers that money could procure for her daught-
ers, and the consequence was, that young as
they were, they were tuore elegantly as well as
more substantially educated than  any other
ladies in the Monumental City in their circle of
society. They were not strictly handsome girls;
but they were well formed, inore than ordinary-
looking, very graceful and easy in carriage and
deportment, and, more than all, thoroughly
genteel.
Used to the best society, they seemed un-
conscious of any advau-tages whhie  the im-
mense wealth of Mr. Winters might give them.,
and exhibited none of w[ at I choose to call the
ludicritics of parcenu aristocrace .
And froiu the hour whea Mr. Winter first
presented Sadia to these ladies, our heroine had
been with them a decided favorite and an ever-
welcome   isitor. Indeed, they had more thrn
once striven hard to get her to accept the first -
proposition of Mr. Winter, and to become a
daughter and sister in the the house with them.
But Sadia, with gentle and courteous ao-

s

-taC

SADIA.

67

;


8

SADIA.

knowledgments, preferred to remain in her in-
dependent position, though a frequent inter-
change of visits caused a most sisterly feeling to
exist between her and the Winter girls.
And it was to meet them and a few select
friends at tea, and to spend a sociable evening,
that Sadia was in' ited, as we have already inti-
mated in a previous chapter. Sadia had spent
such evenings there before, and they had ever
been very agreeable. The class drawn to the
house of Mr. Winter were not frivolous fashion-
-  ables, who could talk of nothing but, the last
party, or fashion, or indulge in nonsensical
gossip ; they were not blues, or book-worms,
but people of life and realty, who lived to enjoy
life, and make and share pleasure as they moved
along the roadpf destiny.
The hour was early when the carriage of the
merchant called upon Sadia, but she was ready
--her elegant form, neatly, fashionably, but not
extravagantly attired, and her lovely hair hang-
ing in its natural curls down upon her white
shoulders.
At the door of Mr. Winter's house she was
met by Carrie and Emma, the daughters whose
welcome of kisses and kind glad words went
pleasantly into the heart which they would not
allow to feel desolate.
And they hurried her up to their own room,
and assisted her to arrange herself for the par-
lor, affectionately acting all the time as if she
was a sister rather than one but lately a strang-
er, and altogether forgetful of the fact that she
held a dependent position under the firm  of
which her father was a member.
" You must put on our prettiest face to-night,
Belle Sadia-"'said Carrie, the youngest sist-r,
while her laugh~ug blue eyes and sweetly dim-
pled face seemed to beam with gleeful mischief-
" there are t hree beaux below, real lions in their
way-two of them   "shoulder-straps", and the
other a young muan of excellent family and fine
education, though he is only a sergeant!"
"A hero for each of us, you see-" said Em-
ma, laughing gayly-" two of them sailors and
one a soldier. W hicli wil you have, Sadia ? As
you are our guest, yon are entitled to the first
choice, by every piuinciple of courtesy."
Then you as the eldest, Miss Emma-must
take the highest in rank-and Carrie as the pret-
tiest, must take the next, of course. I will put
up with the Sergeant for the evening, and check
my ambition to be beaued by shoulder-straps !"
said Sadia, joining in the merriment of the kind-
hearted girls.
"How magnanimous !" said Carrie, laughing
"And how flattering to.poor me! Really, I
must sit for a portrait in some picture-gallery,
if I am better looking than you, Sadia!"
"Well, youi'l have to wait daylight for that,
at any-rate. Let us go down, girls. Mother
has at least half a dozen to amuse, ladies and

gentlemen included, and it is time we went to
her relief!" said Emma.
And the three girls went down to the parlor,
where Sadia found some former acquaintances
whom she had before met there, and was intro-
duced in due form to the " lions", who had been
discussed so recently up stairs.
The first was a New Hampshire born lieuten-
ant, whose peculiarities smacked both of granite
and codfish, having been born on the hills of
the first and having spent his youth in catching
the second, or that poJrtion cf it at least which
preceded his entrance into the Army. He had
a tolerable form and a most ferocious mous.
tache, of which he seemed very fond, for he
was continually caressing it with his hand and
twisting its wiry ends. lie was very conversa-
tive-very patriotic, and very denunciative of
everything Southern-a not very courteous mat.
ter, when he was aguest to a Southerner, though
a nobly loyal host.
Salia was glad the moment after the intro-
duction, that the up-stairs allotment, even jest
as it was, had not assigned Lieutenant Bacon to
her. For as a base coin can be detected from a
genuine by the ring of the metal-so can a
gentleman by birth, education, and principle, be
quickly discerned, and his opposite in nature be
as easily discovered.
The next introduction, to Lieutenant Fulton,
was far more agreeable to her; for he was not
only very handsome and gentlemanly, well-d-
ucated and graceful, but seemed to be utterly
unconscious of having possessed of these favor.
able qualities. Open-hearted, joy ful, and sailor-
like, he was one calculated to please the fair sex.
The third introduction was to Sergant Ar-
miand,,and Sadia glanced half smilingly at the
Winter girls, whon she received this introduc.
tion, for she remembered that up stairs he was
the one chosen at her "lion" for the occasion.
And as she looked upon his pale face, and
his left arm yet in a sling from a recent wound,
her warni heart rose in a silent throb of syml-
pamby-not that lie was in any way as a stran-
ger more deserving   of sympathy than the
others, but because, perhaps, her womanly feel-
ings caused her to desire to show him the more
attention, that his was the humblest rank of all.
Yet his azure eye flashed as proudly, and his
language was as courtly as that of any other
person there, though his manner was especially
subdued and unobtrusive.
The conversation had scarcely become gen-
eral in the parlor before the ringing of the tea-
bell called the guests to the dining-room, where
a well-set table had the place of the ' baby
fashion" in some circles of. handing tea and
cakes around. After an hour, more or less, had
been rationally -no pun on rations intended, I
assure you, dear reader-expended, the guests
and family once more went back to tie parlors
to enjoy the rest of the evening.

SADIA.

The "old folks", as they who are the oldest
choose to style themselves, sat down to whis
and chess; the younger gathered around the
piano, where music, both vocal and-instrument
al, lent its dulcet charms to add to the enjoy
ment of all. Duets on the piano and guitar
songs from each of the ladies, and some capital
sea-pieces from Lieutenant Fulton followed, one
upon the other, rapidly.
And these were followed by dancing to music
from the piano, in which all the young people
participated except Armand, who made his dis-
abled arm a very sufficient excuse for not join-
ing.
Sadia, as soon as she could do so without at-
tracting peculiar nz,tice, withdrew herself from
the dancing party, and endeavored to amuse
and interest the Sergeant. lie was, however,
rather an enigma to her. lie seemed to en-
deavor to avoid rather than to court conversa-
tion. But she was determined to interest him,
and to try to drive from his brow the shade of
deep melancholy which seemed to be settled
there.
So she talked of war and glory, asked him
many questions, and learned, after all, but little
of that which she sought-his history, or the
secret ofathe evident sadness which oppressed
him. She only learned that patriotism only
bound him to the service; for he had left luxu-
ry and independence of fortune to join it-that
he had been wounded in one of the first skirm-
nshes of the war, and was about to rejoin his
regiment, the     Cavalry, in Virginia, as his
wound was rapidly healing, and he expected
soon to be able to take the saddle.
She knew that there was some sad secret
gnawing at his very heart, and sympathetically
she yearned to know the cause of his sorrow
that she might strive to alleviate it; but maid-
en delicacy would not permit direct question-
;ngs, and he seemed all too reluctant to share
his thoughts or griefs with another.
Thus the evening passed ; and it was mid-
night before the guests dreamed it was so late.
And then, with many expressions of the plea-
sure tvith which the evening had been passtl,
they began to get ready to depart to their
homes.
Mr. Winter, as he had promised, had his car-
riage ordered for Sadia, and got ready to see
her home himself. The Lieutenants politely
bade her good evening, and left. And Armand
also came to thank her for her kind attention to
him as an invalid, who could not join in the
livelier festivities of the evening.
"It is not likely that we shall ever meet again,
Miss de Montfort, for I leave for the front in the
morning ; but I hope this. Rebellion will soon
be put down, the Union restored, and that you
will recover the rights which you have been de-
prived of." he said.
I earnestly hope and pray that we may soon

t have an honorable peace," she replied, "and
t that you will be restored in health to those who
e love you !"
"Au, lady," said he, in a tone of utter sadness,
- "love is a passion of which I may not ever
dream.   Farewell !  God bless you!   Fare-
l well !"
And bowing his adieu to the others, he hur-
ried away.
: "how strangely lie acts, and how melancholy
lie seems !" said Sadia, as, the moment after, Mr.
- Winter offered his arm to escort her to the car-
riage.
o "Yes; he is quite misanthropical," said Mr.
Winter. "And he has some cause ; matters
known to me in confidence, which I cannot tell
you of, but which do him no discredit. Ie has
already rashly risked his life, and I fear will
do it again. I feel interested in him, for I
have had business with him, and have known
him for some years. I had difficulty in getting
him to spend the evening with us, but from ap-
pearances he seemed to enjoy hiinself."
"I pitied his apparent loneliness of feeling,
and tried my best to amuse and interest him,"
said Sadia. "I cannot bear to see any one sad,
and if I could, I would shed sunshine into every
human heart."
"You are a good-hearted girl, Miss Sadia, and
will yet make some masculine very happy,
said Mr. Winter, with a laugh.
"Or very wretched!" she rejoined, with a
smile.
And then, in a moment, she added more se-
riously.
"I do not think that I shall ever go so far as
to let the joy or misery of any man be depend-
ent upon my whims. I have made up my mind
to become that most horrible of terrors, an old
maid-that is, if I live to age."
"That, my dear young lady, may not be a
discretionary matter with yourself. Love is a
strange creature ; like the winds, he goeth where
he -listeth, and those who most boast of their in-
vulnerability are as apt to be wounded as any
others.  One of these days, when Fortune's
smiles begin again to beam upon your path, we
will see you with the bridal wreath upon your
brow."
'It may be, but much I doubt it," said Sadiae
with a smile, as at that moment the carriage
drew up before the door of her boarding-house.
The merchant saw her safely in, and bidding
her good-night, was driven back to his own resi-
dence.
-
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
The business in which Mr. Winter and his
firm was engaged-not the importing, but the
wholesale part of it--threw him in very fre-
quent contact with United States officers, nuk
ing him acquainted with many of them, i
various branches of service, in consequence of

.t
2 S4
f
3
1   !

t
a      p
5      '
Y
1
t
1      ;.
1 ,.

69

E'


10

SADIA.

ftrm often having contracts to fill with the Gov-
era meant.
One.of these acquaintances of his-rather a
favorite, too, for his sterling honesty and loy-
alty, as welt'as his never-failing humor-was a
Captain in the Revenue service whose name
was O'Dougal, a rather odd combination of the
Gael and the Celt, which he accounted for in
this way. His father was a Dougal, of the
Douglas clan, and he fell in love with a North
of Ireland lassie whose father claimed a descent
from an ancient Milesian king. And though
he, Mr. O'l3allyhack, owned but a poor shanty,
a pig, a cow, and a potato-patch, he would not
let Dougal have the princess, his daughter,
until he consented to put the monarchical "0"
before his name. And thus came the name of
O'Dougal to this country, for the Captain's
father emigrated soon after his marriage and
became a democratic sovereign in his own right
on American soil.
His son, well educated here and aided by
political influence, got a place in the Revenue
service here, and in it became a valuable and
efficient officer. And he combined the shrewd-
ness of his father's nation with the wit of that
of his mother; and though he had none of the
brogue, had all the fun of a regular "wil-d
Irishman."
" Ah, how do you do, Captain, just in from a
cruise ?" asked Mr. Winter, one morning as he
met the worthy 0 Dougal at the door of his
counting-house.
"Under the weather in heart, but above it in
body Mr. Winter, thank you," replied the Cap-
tain.
-Ah, down in the heart; what is the matter
there ?" asked Mr. Winter, pleasantly.
"The loss of something that I almost had-
but didn't get! Don't laugh when I say I lost
what I never had, but lay that to the Irish half
of my extraction!"
"I'll not laugh till the laughing part comes
in !" said Mr. Winter, with a smile. "But -let
me know your trouble, Captain. By the way,
come up stairs to my private office, and over a
glass of old sherry you can tell me more easily,
perhaps!"
"Thank you, Sir, I'll go up with you, not for
the wine but after you are at leisure, to see you
about some business-matters," said the Captain,
following the old merchant to the cozy private
office, or Throm, where he generally saw his
business friends.
After being seated and taking a glass of old
Amontillado, O'Dougal, at the request of Mr.
Winter, told his trouble.
"You see, Sir," said he, "one of the Govern-
ment detectives had been on the watch of a
party for quite a time that had been loading a
schooner, he thought, with the intent to run
our blockade, and supply the Rebels below. He
kept his information very much to himself

though, only telling me enough to keep me on
the alert, and ieady to start out and catch the
fellows in transitu, as the law-peddlers have it.
Well, so matters went, the detective begging
me not to leave port with my cutter, for I was
sure to make a hundred-thousand dollar haul,
out of which, with a detective's usual modesty,
of course, he expected a 'lion's' share. I be-
gan almost to think somebody had been 'sell-
ing' him, or that he was 'selling' me, the fellow
being so very ion-communicative ; when last
Sunday night, just after dark, when we were
lying outside all the shipping at our anchor, he
came aboard in a shore-boat in a thundering
hurry, and told me that the schooner was off, as
sure as fate.
"It was blowing terribly fresh from the north
and westward them. I told him no vessel had
gone down the channel past us, for it was not
so dark but what we could see white canvas in
that naripw channel.
" Ie told me that the schooner had not hoist-
ed sail, but had drifted down inside of us with
the ebb tide. He had seen her do so himself,
and had been bothered to death to find a boat
and crew to bring him off to the cutter to let us
know.
"Taking his word for it, I got the butter un.
der way, and stood down the bay, keeping hee
under as much canvas as I thought any sensi-
ble man would carry, and running down thi
Rebel side of the bay.
"During the night we saw nothin-g; but when
day broke, we made out a schooner ahead of u-,
which the detective at once swore was the one
he had 'spotted'. On this, I put all the can-
vas on the cutter that her spars would bear,
cleared away my 'Long Tom', and got ready to
let the gentleman ahead know that I wanted to
have a chat with him. But when I made sail
he also began to pile on the canvas,.and in a
little while we both had on all and more than
sensible men ought to cirry. That satisfied
me that he was what the detective thought him
to be, and when, after a steady telescopic obser-
vation of thirty minutes or more, I found that
I was slowly but surely gaining on him, i slap-
ped my hand on my pocket, and said to my-
self:
"' O'Dougal, you can indulge yourself in a
demijohn of the old "Mnountain dew" when you
get back, and make Mrs. OD. haopy with a new
dress for herself, and ditto for'the youngster
that's to carry the name high in the next gen-
eration.'
"And I went so far as to bid my first Luff
keep a close eye on the chase, while I and the
detective went below to examine the quality of
some .ld Jamaica that had got into my state-
room by some accident or other. For I felt
contented. The old cutter has the heels of
pretty nearly everything that carries cotton
duck on spars, and I was sure we should have

SADIA.

the hundred-thousand-dollar gentleman along-
side before many hours.
" .Well, we examined the Jamaica once or
twice, and then went on deck. The chase was
losing ground, and I was well satisfied that she
was as good .As ours. We had breakfast, and
kept on the gain until the craft was nearly in
range of my gun. Seeing that she hauled in
on the Southern shore rather too much to
suit me, as I came up within range, and begin-
ning to fear that. she might ship into some of
the rivers or creeks on that side of the bay, I
hgan to talk to her with my pivot-gun.
"The shot. flew close to her, and I was cer-
tain of crippling her, if she didn't heave to.
The detective and myself were even counseling
how the examination of her cargo was to be
conducted, when all at once a round shot from
an infernal heavy gun away in shore came
plunging along, and almost reached us. Then
the schooner ahead, which had shown no colors
so far, ran up the Rebel flag, and on going up
the rigging a few ratlines high, with my glass
I saw that there were two infernal Rebel gun-
boats lying in the mouth of York River. And
as they were peppering away at me now with
metal three times heavier than I had, I had no
choice but to give up the chase, as the schooner
was running right in for them. So I hauled my
wind, gave the schooner a broadside that made
her sails look like well-worn dish-rags, and got
out of the way. And so I had my chase and
my cruise for nothing, and my plans for the
'mountain dew' and the gratification of Mrs.
O'D. have all gone by the board. Now Im
sure that's enough to put one's heart under the
weather-isn't it Mr. Winter ?"
It was a great disappointment, certainly,
Captain, and I deeply sympathize with you.
But you cannot always have fortune on your
side-that is, good fortune. I hope you will
have better luck nexttime. There is, doubtless,
a large trade being carried on from here in that
way, and if the Government does not take very
severe measures it will increase. For love of
money, I am sorry to say, in many hearts is
stronger than patriotism."
But, reader, we have somewhere else to go,
aid as the Captain has told his story, we will
leave him and the merchant to do their busi-
ness in private.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
As the wind was such that his schooner could
hold her course up the Yor'k River, with only
an occasional tack to gain the weather-side of
the channel, Michel, after leaving the gunboat
of his friend Beverly, made sail up the river,
intending to go, at least, as far as West Point,
if possible ; for from that point a railroad com-
munication with Richmond would enable him
to sell his goods at a vast advantage. But he
was obliged to heave to at various points; and

the nature of his cargo being made known, the
needful articles of whisky, arus, ammunition,
boots and shoes, and quinine, found a ready and
advantageous sale ; for, as yet, gold and silver
were used plentifuly in the South, and Confed-
federate currency, had not a very extensive
circulation. The purchasers, of course, were
mainly officers and soldiers of the Confederate
Army. Once in a while, it is true, a planter
along the river, near the military posts, hearing
of the arrival, would come on board, and make
a purchase ; but these visits were few and far
between.
Beverly went no further up the river than
Yorktown; his orders keeping him further down
the river, where it was necessary to watch the
expected advance of Federal forces.
Upon arriving at West Point, full ten days
after he had entered the river, Michel found
quite a body of Confederate cavalry, and was
delighted to meet once more his friend, Colonel
Stuart, and Major Warburton:de Montfort.
"Ah, shentilmen !" said he, when he had,
without much difficulty, persuaded them on
board his vessel to partake of a sardine-and-
cracker-and-cheese lunch, washed down with
choice beverages-"ab, shentilmen! I 'ave seen
one bon adventure. I vas chase by one Yan-
kee-doodale revenue-cuttare so very close, zat
for one time I sink, if ze diable not favore me,
I shall be make one prisonare wizout doubt.. I
feel very mad-very mad! But ze diable did
not desert his favorite shild-no, shentilmen, no!
I escape wiz ze skin of my teeth ! If Messieur
Beverly had not been near wiz his gunboat, I
sink ze Yankee-doodale would 'ave cotch me.
Ab, bon fortune zat he was so near !-bon for-
tune for me! But I shall repay him by and
by. I shall get for him ze ladee zat none of
you shentilmen could capture !"
"Do you mean my sister ?" asked Warbur-
ton. And then, as his face darkened nith an
angry flush, he added: "I mean the one whom
I'called sister, before she went among the in-
fernal Yankees !"
"I did mean Miss Montfort, Messicur War-
burton !" said Michel, swallowing a sardine, and
instantly giving it swimming depth in a half-
tumbler of old Cognac.
"Have you seen her? Do you know where
she is ?" asked Warburton, eagerly.
He found it hard to be so unnatural as to
forget a sister.
"I 'ave not seen her, Messieur de Montfort ;
but any day for the last two weeks, I could 'ave
see her, if I so desire. But I knew if she see
me, zen she would suspect somesing wrong, or,
at any matter, she would inform ze Yankee ofi-
care zat I was zere ; so I did not go where I
could see her or she could see me. But my
mens zat I send for zat purpose, zey 'ave seen
her-zey 'ave talk wiz ze niggaree-zey find out
all zat I desire !"

*

. .
,t
'
.
i    1
t-'  T
+  4 ,


I

(2

SADIA.

"Then she is in Baltimore ?"
Yes, Sare ; she is in Baltimore."
" What is she subsisting on?  She cannot
have much money."
"Ah! she is one very smart ladee !   She
nevare will want for money zere."
"What do you mean, Sir:?  You dare not
for an instant couple dishonor. with my sister's
name !" cried Warburton, springing to his feet.
All of the brother was not yet lost, even ii
his Confederate-ruined heart.
" Mon Dieu-no! No, you mistake me, Mes-
sieur Warburton !" cried Michel, startled by
the wild and threatening look of Warburton.
"I nevare speak, nor dream zat ze lady, your
sistare, should be less honorable, less pure, less
good as one angel! No, gare. When I say she
want not for uoney, I mean zat she 'ave pro-
cure a situation for write and keep ze book in
one house of ze grand merchant, and get one
big salarie! Now, you understand ?"
"Yes-pardon me for wronging you with
such a thought. But I don't know what the
devil has got into me lately. I believe I'm
suspicious of everybody, myself included !"
"Zen take plenty of ze brandy, Messieur
Warburton. Brandy make ze heart warm and
ze brain free!"
Too free for safety sometimes !" said Stuart,
with a laugh. " Do you like your vessel better
than my saddles, friend Michel ?"
" Your saddells ! Ah, Colonel Stuart, were
yon not my friend I should challenge you for
fight wiz me, for even so much as say ze word
zit remind me of ze trot-trot ! Nevare, Sare,
will I again endure zat misery-nevare !"
And with an unaffected shudder, Michel filled
his glass and drank it off to seal his determina-
tion.-
"By ze way, Colonel, where is ze beautifu
ladies. your daughters ?" continued Michel, as
he refilled his glass.
"Kate is on shore with me-would have been
at my quarters to-night, but she went on a
scout this morning. Annie is a home-body,
and stays with her mother,''replied the Colonel.
Kate is as much of a soldier as any man in
my troop ; as good with the pistol as myself,
and if she lacks my strength with the sabre, she
makes up for it in skill. Ier cuts and points
are swift as winged lightning, and about as
deadiv !"     -
"She should 'ave live in ze time of ze gran'
Napoleon !" said Michel, moved with the en-
thusiasm  which the Colonel evinced. "Yes,
she should 'ave live zen. IHe would 'ave
make FiJd Marshlile of her, and, and-ah,
mon Dien-it make me mad every time I
tink of ze gran'INapoleon, to think zat'he should
die 'nie p'risonare to ze miserable John Bull
mens: i3'.are zat he die at Waterloo, bet tare
zat ie le in ze ditch in Fr ance zan in z. bed
ar Saint Ielene ! Mon Dieu, nevare, nevare

can I make mvself content when I sink of za
Empereur wizone half ze world at his feet at ze
one time, reduce to ask after zat ze favor from
ze perfide Anglais for to give him one home,
wiz plenty of guard, plenty of dootare for make
him go-to heaven so soon as possible. Nevare
mind, nevare mind, one of zese days, zat will all
come back, and Saint IIelene will be pay for by
ze son and ze grandson, and ze son of zem all
zat love ze gran' Napoleon ze same as 1, Carl
Michel !"
And carried away on a subject which always
set him well nigh crazy, Michel, with tears roll-
ing down his scarred cheeks, swallowed a brim-
ming glass of brandy, and then again became
calm.
"You spoke of Beverly and my sister in the
same connection !" said W\arhitoil to Michel.
Does he still cxpress a wish to marry her?"
"More zan a wish, Messieur Warburton-
more zan a wish-he express one gran' deter-
mination ! IIe say he will give me four, five
thousand dollare so zat I shall bring her where
she can be made his wife !"
"Can you do so ?''
"Can I do so, Messieur Warburton?    Sare,
wiz money Carl Machel can do almost every
sing ! He cannot make ze lady love Messieur
Beverly, but he can bring her where Mesieur
Beverly can for himself speak and try for to
make her love him! Ze next time I come
from  Baltimore, in anezzare schoonare, wiz
more cargo for ze Coufederacie, zat lady will
be a passengare wiz rue! Zat is, wizout you,
as her brozzare, object !"
No-I shall not object. It was and is my
desire to see her married to Beverly !"
Eh bien ! zen it shall 'be ! I 'ave now, on
zis sclioonare, nossing but goods for ze ladies of
Rishemond. Down ze rivare I sell all my store
zat was desire by soldiarQ and shentilmen-ze
pistole, ze knife, ze whisky, and all za . Ze
schoonare, too, is engage tur ze Confederacie,
to be nitare into one stramboat.  I shall sell
my guods and go back to Baltimore, and in four
or five, and may be seven or eight weeks. I shafl
come back wiz anozzare schoonare, and anez-
zare cargo, antd then Messicur 3everlysha'l 'ave
ze lady, or you may kil Carl Mietel viz one
glass of gmisher beer !''
" Well, success to your undertakings ! Yotr
must excuse uS n0ow. I hear a Lugle ashore
which cails for me !" said Stuart at this moment,
and Michtel bad to forego stat iiig further plans,
and see his guests to the boat.
CIIAPTER XL.
Before making arrangements for transporting
his remaining goods to Richmond, Michel se-
lected some presents for his friends Stuart and
Warburton, not forgetting the dashing daugh-
ter of Colonel, and went on shore to present
their in due form.

cl
z
U

3 ,


SADIA.

He was greeted with the warmest courtesy by
the two officers, and the never-absent jug of
ancient apple-jack was set out, flanked by army
sandwiches-an article some of my readers
may not have had any experience in. They
are not dangerous to digestion-I cannot say so
in regard to teeth-and are composed of hard
crackers and bacon.
After the lunch had been appropriately hon-
ored, Michel made his presents to the Colonel
and Major, consisting mainly of some fine cigars
and good old cognac; which were received with
a profusion of thanks, for such articles are gen-
erally considered more precious than gold in
vamp, for gold cannot always procure them.
And were the writer to judge, he would unhesi-
tatingly say, that the camp would even be better
off without the articles named, than with them.
"Where iow, Colonel, is ze Mademoiselle
charmante, your daughtare, la belle Kate. I 'ave
somesing very elegante for her," asked Michel.
"Satan is always at hand when he is called
for!" cried a cheerful voice at the entrance of
the tent, and Kate entered. She had apparent-
ly just come from a ride; for her cheeks were
flushed, and a slight flouring of dust lay upon
the jaunty gray hat and the long black ostrich
feather which drooped from it, as well as upon
the' gold-embroidered tunic of gray cloth which
fitted her elegant form perfectly. " What can
I do for you, mon cher Cap.taine Francaise ?"
"Ah,'Mademoiselle, I am very glad for to see
you. You can rpake one one very happy man,
if you shall accept some leetel presents, zat I
'ave bring all ze way from Baltimore 1"
And Michel hastned to unfold a large bun-
dle which he had brought with him. It con-
tained materials for an elegant dress, a fine
shawl of Canton crape, a lace vail, several pairs
gaiters and slippers, and a set of approved--
pardon my particularities, and consider that
I'm blushing like a moss-rose, or a full blown
hollyhock, kind ladies - a set of Yankee patent-
ed hoops.
Kate looked at the articles coolly, not a word of
pleasure passed her lips, not a look of curiosity
could be seen on her handsome face.
Michel looked up at her in surprise ; for he
had chosen his choicest goods for the present,
and expected, of course, woman-like, she would
go into ecstasies over the elegant display. Not,
she ! There was better stuff in her conposi-
tien than is found in the generality of her sex.
Looking at the articles, she said :
"You are very kind, Captain, and I will ac-
cept these articles and send them. to my sister;
for you can see by a look at my dress"-and
she glanced complacently at her neat tunic,
full Turkish trowsers, and elegant riding boots,
pith keen roweled spurs affixed-"that Ihave
eschewed the woman, in apparel at least, while
my dear father is iii the field. But I thank you
even more than as if I wore them, for my sister

75

is dearer to me than myself, and these articles
will be appreciated by her. And in return you
shall have a present from me, Captain !"
And Kate went into an inner apartment of
the hut, evidently arranged for her own use.
Soon returning, she handed to Michel an elegant
silver mounted field-glass, or telescope, such as
is used by signal-officers and others on the field.
"Here," she said," is one of my first captures.
It belonged to one of the Yankee General Mo-
Dowell's Aids ; and as I intend to keep so close
to the enemy that I shall never need a glass to
see them, it will be of little service to me. Take
it, Captain, and, when you..use it, think of Kate
Stuart, full "f fun and mischief, with a good
deal that is Satanic in her composition, butt not
utterly heartless, after all."
"Mademoiselle-I shall preserve zis glass so
long as I shall live !" said Michel, bowing to the
very ground. "And since it is for your sistare
zat you intend ze articles which I now present
to you, please accept zis-one poniard which
was make in Venice-from me !"
And the polite Frenchman took from under
his vest a pearl-handled dagger with a golden
scabbard, most exquisitely ornamented with
fillagree work.
"Ah-that will be of some use-that is a
magnificent present, my dear Captain. I ac-
cept it with many, many thanks, and will pre-
serve it, and use it too, when occasion offers !"
cried Kate, enthusiastically, as she took the
weapon, and after examining it, with continued
expressions of gratification, she placed it in her
belt beside her silver-mounted pistols.
"Kate is all soldier, you fee !" said the Colo..
nel, looking proudly upon his child.
Yes, Colonel-if all ze ladie in ze Confed.
eracie were like her, and all ze men so brave as
she is, ze Yankee doodale Government might
considare zemselves in, one grand war which
should last forever, if zey not make peace zem-
selves !" said Michel, much gratified at the man-
ner in which his last present was received.
"I wish all were alike interested !" said Stu--
art, with a sigh. "There are too many who
are cold-blooded, and willing to do anything but
fight ! If there is so little enthusiasm in the
start, God only knows what the feeling will be
by and by, especially if we meet-as we may ex-
pect, till we get our hands in-some heavy re-
verses !'
"Yes; and zem very men zat you so speak of,
will be ze ones zat by and by will ask for peace--
peace, and-it may be zey will get it! But
excuse me-I must go to my schoonare to get
ready for ze train zat start in tree hours for
Rishemond !"
-           CHAPTER XLI.
Not more than a month had gone by since
Captain O'Dougal had related to his friend Mr.
Winter the unfortunate result of his chase after

I  fa: ,
i
(
t              '
;.

V

M 9

HA

y


I'

the blockade-running schooner down the bay,
when the Captain once more entered the sanc-
tum or private office of the merchant.
The Captain's jovial face, ruddy as the faces
of most seafaring men are, did not exhibit any
signs of sadness on this occasion ; and his
hearty shake of the hand assured Mr. Winter
that his "muscle" was in no way out of order.
"I see by the papers that you have been
quite lucky in overhauling blockade-runners
and taking prizes, Captain," said Mr. Winter,
as he motioned the worthy officer to a seat.
"I suppose the demijohn is full now, and Mrs.
O'D. and the youngster out in a full rig of new
toggery."
"'hank you, Sir-yes; thank you kindly-
yes. The old cutter and yours to command,
and in command, have been as lucky as fiddlers
lately. And mny old friend the detective, who
was on the watch for the fellow who got away
from me before, says he is back again, and he is
quite sure he is buying up another cargo. If
he gets clear of me this time, I will eat a fathom
of chain-cable, without mustard ! I wish the
Government would let rue have a steam-cutter,
instead of our old schooner. I could then
dodge into the inlets and little rivers down the
bay, and get a peep at the islands-which I
cannot now-and do much better than I do."
"Yes; steam would be of service to you.
Now, our firm has a fine propeller that w&amp;used
- formerly in the Charleston trade. She is a good
sea-boat, and fast. Perhaps, by proper repre-
sentations, the Government night be induced
to charter or buy her for. you. We have no
present use for hi, and the Government could
make its own terms with us."
"I wish you could work the matter up, then,
Mr. Winter, so that I could get her."
'Well, Captain, if you will write to the Sec-
retary, stating the necessity which von think
there is for such a vessel, I will state in another
letter that we have one which the Government
can have at cost. I do not like to do more, for
I would be one of the last to add one extra dol-
lar to the too heavy tax already felt by the
Treasury."
"I kn~ow that, Sir; and it was to consult you
about this matter that I came. I wish to do
the best I can for the Government, and every
prize I take, as you know, adds to its treasury.
It is not alone for my share of prize-money
that I am so active, though it takes money to
keep Mrs. O'D. and the 'youngster afloat and in
good condition, not to speak of yours to com-
mand."
"And the demijohn, too, which you ever
keep'at the service of your friends," said Mr.

Winter, laughing.                           I formerly was live in .iorucauXbut my sent-
"Oh, you're too hard on me, Sir-too hard !" ments zat were very popular wien Louis Napo.
said the Captain, trying to look serious.   leon was President, and France-poor France a
"Well, I will try to soften my hardship by repubhique, were not popular when lie became
asking your judgment on some of this old rye, ze Empereur. Ze consequence was, zat to save

SADTA.

said to have been bottled at the time of the
great Whisky Insurrection in Pennsylvania."
And the merchant took a black bottle from a
closet, and a couple of tumblers.
"It would be an insult to it to mix water
with such prime mellow liquor as this," sai4
the Captain, as he took a sip, and then raised
his glass to look through the clear amber of the
liquor.
"Splendid-splendid !" he said, admiringly.
"It looks like water with sunset ailoat on it.
And it is as smooth as a lawyer talking to a
jury."
And after looking at it as lovingly as a
mother at her first-born, he sighed, not sadly,
and swallowed it slowly. Then he sighed
again, and said in a quiet way :
"That kind of medicine would make the for-
tune of any doctor."'
"For fear that you should be taken ill, I will
send a dozen bottles of it on board to you,"
said Mr. Winter.
"1 scarcely know how to thank you," said
the Captain. 'If it is to be taken as a preven-
tive, I shall never get sick while it lasts "
"Use it as cure or preventive," said Win-
ter, smiling. "When will you take another
cruise?"
"Not at present if, as my detective friend
says, the fellow who got away from me before is
fitting out for another tip. I owe him  a
grudge, and am bound to have him, if possible.
If I could only get yoursteamer and a good
rifled Parrot thirty, or even an eighty-four
pounder, I'd have a dash at some of their Rebel
gunboats if they came within my range. But
I'll go on board and have my clerk make out a
letter to the Secretary. Good morning, Sir ;
good morning."
And the jovial Captain went away with a
light heart and a smiling face.
Scarcely had he gone, when one of the clerks
announced a stranger, whose card bore the name
"Alphonse Martel, de Bordeaux."
"Show the gentleman in," said the merchant.
"I am disengaged."
A moment Iater, a short, thick-set gentleman,
whose face looked much older than his jet-black
hair and heavy beard, attired in the most gen-
teel fashion, entered, and, bowing very low,
said:
"'Ave Ize honare to address Messi.-ur Win-
tare, ze great mershant of whom I hear in
France often upon ze time ?"
'Yes Sir, that is my name ; and this, I pre-
sume, is yours,' said  fWinter, glancing at
the card in his hand.
"Alphonse Martel-oui, zat, Sare, is my name.

'7

my head uppn my body I have emigrate, and
'ave come to zis grand republique, to live
where I can see Liberty."
"Well, Sir, you will find a warm welcome
here. Our land is really a home for the op-
pressed and down-trodden of all nations. Do
yoi intend to go into business here ?"
"I 'ave such intention, Sare, and I come to
see you, Messieur Wintare, upon biznas. I
'ave been inform zat one very good biznas now
in ze war will be for to transport for ze Govern-
ment of the United States. And as I still pos-
sese some money and 'ave one grande pas-
sion for ze sea, I 'ave considare zat I should
like very much to go in zat biznas, if I can
purchase one good transport. One shentilman
sat I was wake ze acquaint wiz, tell me zat you
have one very fine steamboat zat perhaps you
should like for to sell."
"We have a propeller," said Mr. Winter;
" but an officer in the United States Revenue
service, who left me just before you came in,
has spoken about her, and is about to try to get
her for the United States service. I cannot
sell her until the result of his application is
learned."
"Ah, I am  very much sorry zat I 'ave not
come before him; if he do not take her, zen
can my applicacione be considare as next,
Messieur Wintare ?"
"Certainly, Sir-certainly. If the Govern-
ment does not need her, we should be glad to
sell her, for at present we have no use for
her."
"She is in good ordare, Sare, is she not?"
"Yes, so I understand. Her insurance is at
'A 1.' And she made excellent trips when
we took her off the line; is represented as be-
ing very fast, an excellent sea-boat, well-found
and staunch in every respect."
"When shall I come, Sare, to know if ze
Government shall not want her?"
"In the course of a week, if you please ; we
shall undoubtedly know by that tine. But I
think that it is very likely that the Govern-
ment will want her on such liberal terms as we
are willing to offer."
And the Frenchman, whom our readers may
have recognized, bowed himself from the room.
"I don't like the looks of that man-he has
the devil in his eye !" said the merchant to
himself, as the door closed.
CHAPTER XLII.
The rear, perhaps, has not forgotten the
assemblage of roughs, blacklegs, and regular
desperadoes, which composed the very select
company chosen by Michel to assist him in his
smuggling  or blockade-running   operations,
though they are not of a class with whom we
rike our memories to dwell. Necessity, that
disagreeable tyrant who at times appears in all
circles, forces us to again, meet them, in order

to keep the links of our story from separa-
tion.
Immediately after his interview with Mr.
Winter, Carl Michel, elegantly dressed as be
was, slipped into a close-curtained hackney-
coach, which was waiting near, and was driven
to the low and unpopular, though very popu-
lous, neighborhood which we once before allud-
ed to-the Point.
Tossing the driver a liberal fee, after he had
stopped near the house which 'we once before
described, the Frenchman hurried into it, and
passing through the front room, entered that
where he last had an interview with his " select
company". The same men were there- the
same thick-bottomed tumblers-the ame black
bottles on the long table and behind the bar,
and' the same frowzy-headed woman stood in
the corner.
"Hurrah for the Captain, here lie comes!
Hallo! he's all in his Sunday-go-ttt me ting
rig !" cried one of the liveliest of the crew,
when Michel entered.
"Yes, you should be very much proud, shen-
tlemens, zat you 'ave one captain who can look
so superbe, so elegant, zat he can appear in ze
best society of ze bon ton, and be regard ze same
as one prince in ze disguise. No one zat 'ave
see me wiz my sea-rig upon me would now
recognize Messieur Alphonse Martel of Bor-
deaux. I was treat very polite wlierevare I
go!"
"'What about the steamer, Captain? Can
we get one?" asked the man woo had acted as
chief mate on the previous voyage.
"I am afraid not ze one zat we desire. Zat
dam revenue-euttare man is after her, and if
he persuade. ze Government to buy her, we will
be disappoint. Sacre, she would be just what
we desire ! I wish zat revenue-cuttare  fcare
was down in ze bottom of ze Shesapeake !-
There are ether steamers to be had !" saki
the first speaker.
"None zat are so good-none so fast, sat
draw so little of ze watare, zat carry so much!"
said Michel, taking a seat and helping himself
to a glass of whisky.
"'Well, we must have something. It will never
do for us to stay long around here. The infer-
nal detectives are everywhere, and the most of
us are * well spotted that we have to keep in
doors now !"
"Do not bozzare about tl:at ! We shall very
soon be off in some way, for I've ze c:argo all
ready purchass ! ' said Michel. "And howabout
ze ladie ?  'Ave you discovare what I desire,
Messieur Hoyle ?"
Yes-I've made some discoveries in regard
to her habits. She has made few acquaintances
in bet- neighborhood where shs goes to visit.
But I have learned that she is very charitable,
and goes much amongst the poor and sick near
where she lives !"

*

'V

I

MADIA.

76

r n         i          "       T)    S     __  1. __L      ___L

1


V

78

SADIA.

"Bon-in zis way, when we are ready for to
sail, we can get her wiz us on board. We send
some leetel i agged boy, or some poor little girl
to say zare mozzare is very poor and is near for
to die, and zen zey shall cry a leetel, and she
will go quick for to see and to help. We 'ave
zen one carriage all ready on ze street, and quick,
one, two, tree of us, catch her, put her in, and
drive down ze vessel !"
"She'll scream like a steambQat, I'm afraid,
when we lay hands on her !" said one of the men.
"If you use one handkerchief over her
mouth, 1 sink she not scream much loud," said
Michel. "And zen if you 'ave put upon it plenty
of ze chloroform, she will go into one sleep very
soon, directly !"
"Yes-that's the talk.  The Captain has the
idea !" cried one of the oldest hands in the gang.
"But suppose she should happen to carry
barkers. i've known, women to do such things,
and shoot, too, when it was least expected !"
" Pshaw !  She is not one of that kind, I
don't think !" said the man who had been most
forward in making 'discoveries in regard to
Sadia. "She looks as pleasant and gentle as a
Quaker girl in meeting, and I've neither seen or
heard of any such thing. And the niggers, who
are always" boasting of what their mistress is
and what she does, would be rather apt to hint
such a thing, to show her courage. I'll risk
ge-tting shot by her, when the time comes. I
don't believe that I am to die by a woman's hands
at any rate !"
"Not till they make women hangmen, Hoyle !"
cried one of the party, with a laugh.
"Well, we will, soon make ze arrangements,
shentilmen !" said Michel. "One sing is cer-
tain, when we go, ze ladee must go wiz us; not
only because we shall shall get much money
for her, but more zan zat, I 'ave given my word
and my honare, zat she shall be wiz us; and
when I say zat, it shall be. Ze word of Carl
Michel, when wiz it he extend his honare, is
more sacred zan his life !"
"I reckon we can get her off without much
trouble !" said IIoyle. "And I want to be
about it as soon as 1 can, for Baltimore isn't
what it used to be to me and men of our kid-
ney. Detectives and coppers are too thick here
for comfort. You can't have a decent row
without being took up. You can't dropg in to
take a drink, or look for a pigeon, or a greeny
in some pushing crib, without finding some over-
hauling curse close aboard of you! A man has
to be extra sharp to keep out of limbo now, in1
this place 1"
And then Hoyle heaved a deep sigh, and
drank off a full tumbler of whisky to swim his
grief in.
CHAPTER XLIII.       -
Just as it was in regard to cavalry at the
commencement of the war, so for a time was it

with the introduction of steam intg the naval
and revenue service.'
And thus it was that Captain O'Dougal's en.
deavor to get the propeller in place of tie old
cutter was fruitless, and his proposition to the
Department rejected without question. And in
iris grief at his disappointment he went at onee
to his friend, Mr. Winter.
"Bad luck to their stupidity," said he, as he
took a seat in Mr. Winter's office--" they tell
me that I can do well enough with my cutter
unde r canvas, and the Department can't afford
steam ! 'Tis enough to make me go to steam-
ing it on that old whisky you so kindly sent me,
Sir!"
"Yes, I was aware that an adverse decision
was made !"- said the merchant. " We received
a letter this morning, declining our offer in re-
gard to the vessel; and upon your account more
than our own I regret the disappoinitment. We
already have an offer for our vessel at private
sale, and of course we shall ask and get much
more for her from private persons than we
would ask from the GoverLmcnt at this crisis."
"Just my luck! If it wasn't for Mrs. O'L
and the youngster, I'd resign out of spite,
Here I've been laying out plants for bagging a
lot of fellows that I know are skulking about
them rivers, and I can never run my cutter un-
der sail up into the narrow channels; and if I
tried it, I'd get caught without a breeze, ands
like as not get all cut up without the power to
help myself! It is too bad-too bad !"
'Vell, do not take it too much to heart, Cap-
tain. I've a little of that old whisky left- try a
glass, and see how it mellows disappointment."
"Thank you, Sir. I see that you know the
weak side of me, coming from the Celtic side of
my ancestry ; for whisky is the great antidote of
grief, I believe, in my mother-land. But joking
aside, this puts me out more than I can tell
you!"
Mr. Winter filled a couple. of glasses of old
rye for himself and the Captain, and had just,
placed his own to his lips, when a clerk entered
and said that Mr. Alphonse Armand requested
an interview with Mr. Winter.
"Ah-the very gentleman who wants to pur-
chase the steamer ! Admit him !" said Mr.
Winter, placing another glass on his table.
Dressed full as elegantly as when he first vis-
ited the merchant, Mr. Alphonse Martel, alias
Michel, entered the room.
Not being aware that any person besides Mr.
Winter was there, tlie Frenchman, in spite of
his usual self-assurance, was somewhat taken
aback to fiind a United States officer there, and
hesitated at the door.
"Oh, come in, Sir-no privacy here. Come
in, Mr. Martel," said Mr. Winter, in a friendly
tone. "Let me introduce you to my particu-
lar friend, Captain O'Dougal, of the Revenue
Service !"          .

I

J
I
1 i
I
1
'
,
I       '
I
1        '
'        L{.
I     i
It
I 9
;,
I       t.
p         t   t
9{
at.r
s 'f FF. F ) 1      i
11 , i, f .1+,;  ,

SADIA.

"Very proud, Sare, to make ze acquaintance
of your friend, Captain de Dugal! Very 'appy
Sare !" said the Frenchman, taking off his hat
and bowing very low,
"Take a seat, Sir, and join us in a glass of
old rye. We were about to indulge when your
name was announced !" said the merchant, as
he filled a glass and handed it to the French-
man.
" Ab, Sare, I am very much honare ! I drink
to your healt's, shentilmen 1"
"I suppose you came to renew your inquiries
about our steamer ?" said Mr. Winter, as he re-
placed his glass on the table.
"Yes, Sare-zat was my bizness !" said the
other, looking with a disquieted air at the rev-
enue-officer. "But I am in not one .grand hur-
ry-when you are disengage it will do !"
"Oh, I am disengaged now! The Captain
here has just come to inform me that he has
failed to make the Government see the necessi-
ty of her purchase for his use! Therefore, she
ia still in the market."
"Eh, bien! zen how much shall you ask for
her-- ze money in cash, right away."
"We hold her as she lies, ready for sea, at
sixty-five thousandidollars." 1
"Sixty-five tousands of dollars!  Zat is
much money. But I will see my friends. I
sink zat we will pure bass! I will see you and
let you know, Sare, by one more day."
"Very well, Sir, we will await your decision.
If you wish to examine the vessel, the watch-
man on ,board will afford you every facility."
"Ian "much oblige, Sare. I'ave examine her
one, two, tree time, before. I wish you good
morning, Sare--and ze same to ze Capitain de
I)ugal."
And Michel bowed himself out with less cer-
Ftmony than he had used on his first visit.
"I don't like the cut of that fellow's jib !"
Raid Captain O'Dougal, bluntly, when the door
closed behind the receding visitor. "IIe may
he all right, and square, but I like to see men
look another plum in the eye when they speak.
to him."
"Your business makes you rather suspicious
of all strangers, I expect !" said Mr. Winter,
with a smile. Then looking at his watch, he
said, "It is near my usual lunch-hour, suppose
you go and try a salad, or a soft-crab with me."
"I've no objections !" said the Captain, "es-
pecially as I shall be too late for our twelve-
&amp;clock dinner before I get aboard, and I've
said good-bye to Mrs. O'Do gal and the young-
ster for to-day."
T -       CEIAPTER    XLIV.
The gang under the rule of Michel were all as-
'sembled imtheir rendezvous on the Point, in-
dulging as usual in liquor and cards, for men of
their class know no higher enjoyment than that
which they find in such amusement.

79

"I wish we were afloat again !" said the one
named Hoyle, who, in honor of his name, was
quite an adept in all the mysteries of old sledge,
euchre, forty-fives, etc., etc.
'"Why,    don't see but what we're well
enough of here !" said another. "We've noth-
ing to do, money left over, and as good lush
(drink) as aizy man can want. I'm in no hurry
to leave snug quarters -that's what's the mat-
ter with me !
"The lush is all O. K.-and the quarters are
well enough !" replied Hoyle. "But since
these blasted new police and detectives have
got to work, a fellow never knows what danger
he is in. When old Kane had charge of th4
"cops" a f      could do about as he liked.
If he got nabbed drafew shiners would clear
him, and that was the end of it. The next time
we get sdowi into Dixie I believe I'll stay
there !"
"A fool you for that. Old Jeff will have
you in his bullet-eating army before you can
play three hands of euchre, and then some
Yank will send you to kingdom come before
you're even prayed for! Dixie will do to trade
in, but blast the fighting for me !"
The conversation was here interrupted by
the entrance of Michel, whose eyes flashed like
those of a snake as he cried:
"Good news, shentilmen ! Bon informa-
cione ! Superb news have I for you. I 'ave
purchass ze steamboat-I 'ave -acquire ze
Vapeur ! Ze propel zat is name ze Lone Star,
belong to our association in ze name of Mes-
sieur Alphonse Martel as ownare and Capi-
tan !"
"Hurrah for him !" shouted one of the
gang.
"Hurrah ! Hurrah ! Hurrah !" cried the
rest, amid the clashing of glasses and stamping
of feet.
"And now what's next on the peppergram,
Captain ?" asked  Hoye. " Can we go on
board and get the craft ready for sea ?"
"Yes-you can go on ze board-but she is
all ready for ze sea. She 'ave coal in ze lockares
and watare in ze boilare. All zat now she need
is our cargo, and ze pfovisione, and ze fire ins.
ze furnass, and away we shall go ! Ah, shentle-
men, zis is one grand victory! Now what will
ze miserable cuttare 4o? If she chase us, we
run against ze wind rnd she must tack and tack
witil she is nowhere ! Ab, shentlemen-ze Va-
peur is one grand idea!"
"When can we get off?" asked Hoyle.
"Zis night, .if you all work like ze diable.
Ze more soon, ze more bettare ! For zen no-
body shall 'ave ze suspicione-you unnerstan'
zat ?"

"Yes-the idea is
be got on board and
light, farewell danger
"Well, we can do

good. If the goods can
we get away before day-
for a while I"
it if we try. And now,

Ii


T

80

SADIA.

Messieur Hoyle, you 'ave one difficulty before
you zat must be done! Must, you understand,
for zere must not be ze word tail, or we lose
several tousand of ze dollars !"
" You mean the young'woman, I suppose !"
Oui, certaihement! I mean ze young la-
die! she must be secure-she must be make
one pas.sengare wiz us upon ze Lone Star "
"Well, I think it can be-done !"
"Sare, upon zis occasion you must not tink
-you must be sure! Zere is in your hand
which I give you now, fifty dollare for hire a
carriage and any ozzare help you want! Zere
must be no mistake!"
"There shall not be !-' said IIoyle, as he
pocketed the money. "You can count upon
her being aboard Captain. I'll try the charita-
ble-visit dodge first, and then use chloroform
if I can!"
"Eh bien-and now shentilmens; so soon as
you like you can shange your quartards for ze
steamboat. Iemeinbare if you are ask ze
questione, zat you know nossiig at all, but zat
you are employ for crew by Capitani Alphonse
Marel. I 'ave engage ze engineer, and I save
secure four niggare for make ze fire! I shall
myself go on ze board, and by-and-by you
shall see ze cargo come very fast !"
"Good-three cheers for the Captain, and a
drink all round before we go aboard!1" cried
IIoyle.
The cheers were given, of course; and the
drinks followed as usual.
Then the preparations for removal were made,
and soon the old den on the Point was once
more vacated by its riotous crew.
CHAPTER XLV.
We have not before-glanced at Sadia in her
boarding-house, where, with the good Mrs. Mer-
edith, she found in every respect a home.
It was evening of the night of the same day
when Michel gleefully informed his lawless coni-
panions of the acquisition of the steamer so
useful for their nefarious business.
Mrs. Meredith, one of'those still elderly ladies,
whose faces seem to map out care and a quiet
resignation to the same,'sat by a small table
engaged in sewing, and listening to the children,
who were reciting to their sister Sadia the les-
sons which they had studied through the day.
The bearing of Mrs. M., her extremely neat
and genteel dress, composed as it was of very,
cheap materials, all indicated the lady of taste,
who had seen days when she could afford more
elegance than at this time.
The little parlor in which the four were seat-
ed, lacked the elegant furniture which wealth
would have commanded; but everything was
there which was actually needed, and all arrang-
ed so neatly and with so much taste that few
rooms could have been made more pleasantly
comfortable.

Sadie, who, eaei morning before she went to
the countm-r~iom, gave out the lessons which
her brother and sister were to study during tha
'day, occupied each evening when at home-and
she was seldom out-in hearing those lessons,
and correcting any errors into which the dear
ones had fallen.
Then until -bedtime she read or played hep?
guitar and sang )lasait songs, making home
happy with her music. For gentle music and
home-love go hand in hand, an. the shadows of
care fall lightly where they are.
The children bad studied dilligently, and a
happy smile passed over the lovely face of
Sadia when she closed the books, and calling
them to her side, kissed her brother and sister
fondly, while she praised them-for their gooduses
"I have so much to make me happy,' she
said to Mrs. Meredith, who seemed herself to
enjoy the pleasure felt by her young boarder.
"The parents who were so dear to me have
been lifted up to heaven, and are spared the tem
rible sorrow of seeing their beloved country
disunited, its soil-drenched with blood, their
own son a traitor, and their cherished hom a
desolation. Providence has [eeni most kind to
me, raised up new friends, and enabled rue by
my own endeavors to support mx self and these
loved ones in comfort. Oh, how much haveI to
be thankful fur!,
Few would take their changed lot from afufi-
ence to a necessity for labor as well as you do,
my dear Miss Sadia !" said Mrs. Meredith, with
a smile as gentle as her voice. " It is indeed a
blessing to have a spirit which, proud in all
proper things, can aceornodate itself to the lot
which necessity brings upon it. And I am far
more happy'than I was when you first came to
my house-~for I then feared you would despond
under care, as I too often have done. Your
cheerfulness has encouraged and aided me, for
I was lonely ; and with my poor husband's suf-
ferings to look upon. aidso little to aid him
with, I often felt as if I would yield to despair
-and sink under my burden. You caine like a
blessing to me, my dear girl, and it will be a sad
day when I have to par nxith you. You and
the children see:n to me as near as if you we e
indeed my own !"
''I know that you feel so, Mrs. Meredith;
your kind acts verify your words: and I hope
that it will be long before we p art, for I feel ia-
deed at home with you."
A ring at the door-bell at this moment caus-
ed Mrs. Meredith to rise; for she had permitted
her servant to go out on a visit that evening,
and she had to attend the door in person.
She returned in a moment followed by a rag.
ged and very "hard-looking" boy, whose fae
seemed to be known to Sadia, for she smiled as
she said to Mrs. Meredith:
"I expect this call is for me. IHow is your
mother, my poor boy ?"

SADIA.

"Wuss, a heap wuss. Mum, and he wants to
s0e you right off for sumfin !" saidI the boy, in
that sniveling tope which seems habitual to
begary-. .
t   \eVga ,  I will put on my shawl and go down
there directly.  l urry home and telI your
mother that I'11 come in a few moments."
"Yes'in, yesm."  And the ragged boy hur-
ried away.
"You had better let Napoleon go with you,
my dear Miss Sadia, said Mrs. Meredith. '- I
do not like to see you go out in the night
alone   ..
Oh, it is only a little ways-not more than
three or four squares distant, if so far," said
Sadia, hurriedly pijarng for her walk. " Do
not be alarmed, for I will soon be back."
And the noble hearted girl hurrid 4If upon
her mission of mercy.
Nevertheless, Mrs. Meredith went into the
kitchen and ,told Napoleon to hurry after his
mistress, and not to lose sight of her
CIIAPTER XLVI.
Mr. Winter was at home with his family, lis-
tening to a song froni his favorite daughter, the
pretty and chubby Carrie. The business of the
ay was over and its cares forgotten. For he
was not one of those men who carry the toils
of business home whit them and never give
their mind a moment's rest or the benefit of
change.
It was getting pretty well on toward bedtime
when a servant hurrie fy entered and said:
"The servant of Miss de Mont fort is below,
Sir, and wants to see you very much. -IIe says
something terrible has happened to his mis-
tress."
"To Miss De Montfort? Send the man to
me directly I" cried Mr. Winter, springing to
his feet.
In a moment, Napokon, trembling with ex-
citement, and so agitated that he could scarcely
speak, came into the room.
"0 de Lor' .O de Lor'! Miss Sady done
gone-Miss Sady done gone !' was all that the
poor negro could say at first.
"What is the matter with your mistress, my
man?   Speak out, and let me know," cried Mr.
Winter.
"She's done gone-done gone! Dey's run
'her off!" cried Napoleon, in almost a howl, as
he wrung his black hands in agony.
"Who?    Where is she?  Speak, and tell me
what is the matter, you rascal! "
"I doesn't know where she is now. De
blessed angel am ene gone .'',
"Gone where f Explain yourself before I
get out of patience with you !" cried Mr. Win-
te," angrily.
"Don't be mad wid me, Mars'r Winter ; I is
most done gone dead now. Jess you lissen, an'
I tell you all I know 'bout how it was."

81

"Well, ao on, and be in a hurry, so that I
may know "lint to do."
Wtell, you ste, Mars'r, I was a sit tin' in do
kitchen, round dar- at Miss Meridet's, when Miss
enIcdet come in and says to me: ' Napoleon,
ycar young mfliSSu:s has jest gone out down de
si reet on a v isi to a sick 'oiman us has sent for
her. Kun quick, my man, and keep close to
her, so no harm doesn't. happen to her.' And I
put on my hat a d went, Murs'r, jest a fans~ as
I could. I seen her when I gut on de street,
way on ahead of me, and I went jest as fast as
I could, and i'd got must up to her, when two
men grIbbed her, and shoved her in a carriage
dat was a standin' wid de door -open right by
de sidewalk. She jest give one screech, and den
dcv seemed to Choke her, for I didn't hear nuf-
fin' more. 1 run Jest as fast as I could to help
I her, but de men jump in zvid her, and de driver
whipped his horses iito a run, and dey went off
like hghtnin'. I run and run, and I couldn't
catch 'em, and den dey clean went out of sight,
anl I conic back to Miss Meridet, and she done.
told me to come here to you and tell you. An'
I left her and de poor chillens a ergin', and
come jess as fast as I could."
"Which way id the carriage go 2" asked Mr.
Winter, hurriedly.
Down toward de Basin, Mars'r."
" What colhr were the horses'."
"Dark collud, I believe, Mars'r. I was so
skeered I didn't notice much."
"Poor child ! This is terrible! I will go to
alarm the police, and try to get upon the track
of the villains !" cried Mr. Winter.
" And you, girls," continued he to his daugh-
ters, "go down to Mrs. Meredith's with this
man INapoleon, and bring the two children up
here. This shall be their borne until I find
their sister."
"es, father," cried Carrie and her sister.
And they hurried away to put on garr.nts for
the street ; while Mr. XVnter sent his servant
for his hat and cane.
Have ; on any idea who can have been con,
corned in this outrage ?" Mrs. Winter asked of
her husband.
"Undoubtedly some emissaries of her brother
or the dastardly cousin she has told us about,"
said Mr. Winter. "But I will alarm the police
and the Provost-Marshal, and she may yet be
rescued. It is the boldest thing that I ever
heard of, and I hardly think her captors can
escape-or, at the best, I doubt if they can get
outside the Federal lines without detect ion."
Being ready for his walk, the kind-hearted
merchant hurried away, telling Lis wire io take
the kindest care of the children when they cane.
CIIAPTER XLVII.
Alas for Sadia l  So sudden had been her
seizure, so powerful were those in whose grasp
she found herself, that, with strength to screauk

'4,


SADIA.

a i ail
III      ;i
I .
j.
p1 1
i. .
1
S
i
I
j
t
1i
i
I t
f
I
i
I  "1
R      1
I

only once for assistance, she was thrust helpless f
into the carriage, which was instantly in rapid
motion. And then some moist cloth seemed to
be enveloped around her head, a wild stupefy-
ing sensation came over her, and for a time she
knew no more.
When she again knew herself, she found that
she was in a small room, not more than eight
or ten feet square, with only one chair, a small
table, a looking-glass, a wash-stand, and the
narrow berth or bed upon which she lay, for
frnittre.  These things she observed by the
light of a small swinging lamp. that hung from
the ceiling above, for the room was tightly closed.
She knew, by hearing the dash of water, the
sound of machinery, and feeling a rocking and
trembling sensation, that she must be on a
steamboat. But that was all that she knew of
her situation. So suddenly and so unexpected-
ly had the events occurred on shore, that she
had not even seen the face of one of her captors.
She had heard but two words, and they were,
"Drive on !"-uttered at the moment she was
lifted into the carriage.
Her first action, upon the recovery of con-
sciousness, was to spring from the bed and to
glance in the mirror which fronted her. She
saw a pale and anxious face only-no marks of
violence.
Then she quickly put her hand down into a
side-pocket or her dress, and a flush of return-
ing color came upon her cheek as she drew out
a handsome revolver, of that very handy size
next to the "Navy pattern". She smiled as she
saw that it was yet loaded, and murmured:
"Thank Heaven ! this has not been discov-
ered yet! Life and honor are still in my
bands -"
And .after looking at each cap, to see that it
was right, she replaced the weapon in her pock-
et, and then looked carefully around the room,
to examine its capacities as a prison. She now
saw, for the first time, a Finall red curtain on
the ceiling, directly over her bed. Upon rais-
ing this, a window, about eighteeniinches square,
permitted her to look out upon an angry sea-
the waves dashing and pitching to a greater
height than she had ever seen them. At a
great distance over the foaming waters, she saw
what she supposed to be land, and also, here
and there, white specks, like vessels under can-
vas.
A noise as of some one approaching the door
caused her to suddenly drop he curtain to its
place; and to assume a sitting position on the
ide of the bed.
The door was opened immediately afterward,
and a woman's face--a coarse, repulsive face,
surmounted by a frowsy head of hair-looked
In.
"So! waked up, hey ye 2" said this female,
advancing half of a dirtily-clad figure into the
room. eFeel hungry, eh "

"Where am I ?" asked Sadia, instead of re-
plying to the question.
Aboard of a steamer on the Chesapeake.
Don't you feel her roll and tumble? A nice
breeze and pretty much of a sea on !" replied
the woman.
"Where is the vessel going ?" asked Sadia,
scarcely able to suppress her disgust; for the
reeking fumes of liquor came floating in on the
repulsive woman's breath.
To Dixie, to be sure; there's where she's
bound ! Now will you have some breakfast-
fried ham and 'taters, coffee and sassengers, with
hard-tack dry or soaked ?"
"Who brought me here ?" asked Sadia, still.
unheeding the questions of the other.
"You must ask the Cap'n. He knows all
about it, and that's more than I do."
"Who is the Captain "
"Captain Michel, a Frenchman, and just
about as smart as menare made now-a-days."
"Michel! - Michel !" said Sadia, quickly.
"Then I know why I have been torn away
from my home and friends.He eis in the em-
ploy of my brother, or one even yet worse than
he. Woman, tell that Michel that I want to see
him !"
"Yes, 'm, directly. But what about the
breakfast ?"
"I do not' wish any."
"Very well-so much saved. But I reckon,
you'll come to your appetite by-and-by."
And the frowsy head was withdrawn, the
door closed, and the key turned in the lock."
"Yes, this is the work of either Warburton
or Beverly, or perhaps both !" said Sadia, as
she again turned to the little window, and look-
ed out upon the dark waves and their foaming
crests.
CHAPTER XLVIII.
Mr. Winterupon leaving his house, instantly
went to the office of the Chief of Police, and
gave information which at once put the detec-
tives of the whole force afoot on the search for
our unfortunate heroine.
Fromthence heehurried to the office of the
Provost-Marshal, fortunately finding that offi-
cial in ; and soon mounted patrols were dis-
patched in every direction. A select party of
men, with an officer, were at his request sent
with him ; and he hurried down toward the
wharves in the direction where Napoleon had
last seen the carriage going.
It was quite late before he reached the
wharves ; for it had taken a considerable time to
visit the places to which he had gone. Just as
they reached a wharf which pointed out toward
the lower harbor, a steamer already in motion
was seen receding rapidly from it.
"That is the Lone Star, purchased from our
firm only this morning !" exclaimed Mr. Winter
in surprise. "I do not understand what can

take her out so soon. I understood Captain
Martel.to say that he had no engagements for
her yet, and that it would be some time before
he put her into business?   There must be
something wrong in this! I wish we could
stop her and know what is meant by this sud-
den departure !"
"She'll be stopped down at the mouth of the
harbor, where 1he revenue-cutter is anchored !"
said the officer. "No vessel is allowed to pass
her at night without having proper authority !"
"Then wg will soon learn whether she has
that authority or not !" said the merchant.
"She has a full head of steam on, and will soon
be close to the cutter. She does not seen to
avoid her in any way !"
"No ; she is running close by her side.
What a gale it is, blowing up the bay--nothing
but a steamer could make headway in the teeth
of it!"
"The-e-they see her on board the cutter-
I see lights flashing from her deck !" cried Mr.
Winter.
"Yes; but the steamer does not stop !" said
the officer. "See-she keeps on ; and now she
is beyond, and dead ahead of the cutter!"
"Yes; and something is wrong for all that !
See how those lights flash from place to place
upon the cutter's deck! And there goes a gun!
I would stake a thousand dollars that the poor
girl is on board of that boat," cried the excited
merchant.
Let us ptocure a boat and get on board the
cutter," said the officer; "we may be of some
use there, and at any rate can learn the news."
"Yes," said the -merchant.  "Look around
for a boat, men ; I will give ten dollars to the
first one who secures a boat to take us off to
the cutter."  s
The inducement was scarcelyneeded, for the
men were all willing, and in a short time a
boat was secured, and the party on their way to
the revenue vessel.
But the steamer, apparently unharmed, al-
though three or four guns had been fired from
the cutter, had moved rapidly out of sight down
the bay.
"What is the matter, Captain O'Dougal? "
asked the merchant, when, after a hard row
against the wind, his boat was alongside the
cutter.
"Matter enough, Sir !" growled   Captain
O'Dougal. "By the holy harper that played
for Moses, I'm mad enough to swallow a boot-
jack! -This is the economy of the Govern-
ment-there goes a steamer, bound, without
a doubt, to Dixie, running right away from
me into the wind's eye ; and it would be as
much use for me now to get under way to
look after her as it would be to hunt after
Sir John Frankin in a canal-boat !"
"How did she pass you so easily, Sir?" ask-
ed the officer.

I "Why, she-came down upon as so suddenly
and with so little noise that the watch did not
see her or call me until~she was close aboard !
I ran up from the cabin and hailed her just as
she was passing, asked what steamer she was,
and ordered her to heave to !
"The answer which came from her was, that
it was the United States transport Swan, bound
down the bay with dispatches, and couldn't
stop ! I knew better, for the Swan is a side-
wheel boat instead of a propeller.  So I hailed
her again, and told her I'd fire if she didn't stop.
She then just luffed ahead of me and her skip-
per sung out, 'shoot-shoot you darn fool I'
And I did shoot like a darned fool ; for I
couldn't throw a shot near her, and in three or
four minutes s'he was out of sight to wiilward !
There is one comfort-there's more than one
of our gunboats in the bay below, and the
mouth of York River has been closely watched
since that rascally schooner got away from me
there!"
Another boat came alongside at this moment,
and the detective officer, who had before in-
formed O'Dougal of the actions of the smug-
gling parties on shore, sprung on deck.
"Has the propeller gone by ?" he asked,
hastily.
" By ? Yes, a half-hour or an hour ago !"
said the Captain. "She's hull down before this
time, for she went like a scared cat !"
"Unfortunate. I was on the track of her,
and put on a wrong scent. She had a valuable
cargo on board, and was bound for Dixie 1" said
the detective.
"Just my luck. Bless the Government that
leaves me this old tub to chase fast steamers !"
said Captain O'Dougal, bitterly.
"Did you know who the'leader of this smug-
gling party was ?" asked Mr. Winter, address-
ing the Government detective.
"Yes, the same Frenchman who ran a
schooner out of here six or eight weeks ago-
the schooner which got into York River, and
escaped' from this cutter."
" Was his name Martel-Alphonse Martel?"
"No-the name he goes by among his gang,
is Michel. But such men use whatever suits
them, when they have occasion for it !"
"Michel-that name I have heard before!
Yes, I have heard Miss De Montfort speak of
such a man being the guide for her brother
when he was pursuing her. The poor girl must
be on board of that steamer. Captain O'Dougal,
cannot you give chase to the villain ?"
"It would be mere madness to try to beat
down the bay in this gale, with the thought of
catching a steamer !" said the Captain. "The
best thing which can be done will be, to tele-
graph to Fortress Monroe, and to the Potomac
flotilla, that a vessel of her description is on the
way down the bay, and to put the gunboats
down that way on the lookout for her. She

-- f'

8g

i
,
l '   +
,,_i} ,
;i
;,3
 "

SADIA.


i
y,,
Yy ,.
1
r
,r
- r-
" Rr,
'iY N
SG' v
a
A   .
1 +~
- y r
kk
E^ f
li  y
TtF
t v
Y
f. ,
fyyC ,
J
Fsef
9.
Y
c~
. .f
i-
4  j1
f,
t
a r
!t             ,
F         '
C
2  ;

went fast, but the telegraph-flash can beat
her!" -             -
"True-true! I will go on shore and act
upon your advice immediately, for the Govern-
ment telegraph-offices are open night and day !"
cried the merchant.
And in a few moments he was on his way to
the shore.
CHAPTER XLIX.
In a short time after Sadia had told the frowsy-
haired woman that she wished to see Captain
Michel, steps were heard before the door
of the little state-room in, which the poor'
girl was confined-the key was turned in the
lock, and Michel, dressed with elaborate care,
and bowing very low, presented himself.
" iadamoiselle, 'ave -do me ze honare to say
she wish for to see me !" said the Frenchman,
bowing very gracefully.    r
"I have seen you before, at my father's
house, have I not " asked Sadia, glancing with
a cold and stately look at the mau.
. "I 'ave had ze honare to be present to you,
Madamoiselle, in ze house of your very excellent
fazzare !"
"Then, Sir, I have to ask, why I have been
subjected to this cruel outrage ?"
"Outrage?- Ma'mse!le, I do not understand
you. Outrage? Has anybody dare for to in-j
suit you upon ze board of my steamboat ?"
"1Do you not call it an outrage, Sir, to have
me seized in the streets of Baltimore, when i
was going, as I supposed, upon a mission of
humanity ; and by some means, I know not
what, to stupify and render me helpless, and
thus to carry mee away from my friends, as you
are now doing?"
From your friends, Ma'mselle ?  Excuse me,
but you make one grand mistake ! You are
going to your friends-friends who 'ave feel one
very grand anxiety -while you was absent from
zem !" '
"Friends!   I suppose you use that false
term in allsion to either Randolph Beverly, or
ny brother !"
- Certainement, Ma'mselle !  Zey 'ave feel
one intense anxiety for ze safely of yourself, es-
peciaily Messieur Beverly! He wiil be so de-
light when he shall see you, zat he will gibe me,
at ze very least, four or five toisands of ze dol-
lare !"
"I thought so !" said Sadia, in a scornful tone,
while a look of contempt almost madeMichel
shrink  back  before  her haughty ~glance.
" Money   alone could tempt a being call-
ing Liimseif a mar' to commit such a base
outrage upon a poor helpless girl, and to tet'r
ber away Ii em th little brother and sist r who
are now left helpless among the strangers in the
great city."
" Mawisellc, I entreat zat you will not be un-
happy about z. m ! I will in one short time re-

turn to Baltimore, and zen I will procure zem
for you wizout fail !" said Michel, bowing very
humbly.
When did you see m' brother last ?"
"About five or six weeks, by gone, Ma'me
selle !"
" Whera ?"
"In Virginia, Ma'mselle--as also Messieur
Beverly, and in one very few hours I shall gee-
zem again, and 'ave ze honare to sav zat ze
beautiful Ma'mselle. De Montfort is safe wia
zeno."
Not if I can help it, Sir-rwarn you ! There
is not a man on earth whom I hold in such utter
abhorrence as I do that Randulp1h Beverly. And
you may rest assured that I as utterly despise
the minions who disgrace the name of manhood
by serving him-cowards, miserable cowards
that they are !"
A deep flush of anger suffused .the face of
Michel, in spite of his self-command. And for
an instant he made no reply, waiting until le
was more under control before he spoke. At last
he said
I am   very miserable zat while I try to
please and serve my old friends Messieurs de
Montfort and leverly, zat I 'ave also to incur ze
mortel displeasure of you, Ma'mselle ! I sink
when you 'ave make zis voyage, an i observe
how very particular I shall be to be honorable,
and make all sings comfortable for you, Ma'm-
selle, you will change your opinion of me ! A
chevalier of la belle France, Ma'mselle, cannot
be a coward-he cannot do dishionare."
"A chevalier of France would never make it
his business to abduct a poor helpless girl, who
at the peril of life had fled from persecution-
who had, after suffering many hardships, once
escaped the very persecutions to which you are
dragging me back. Call not youself a cheva-
lier of France, Sir, while you are the acknowl-
edtred hireling of the persecutors of an oroban
girl. You a man! Go, Sir, leave me ! Let me,
at least, be alone in my misery !,,
"Mon Dieu, Ma'msele-you are too severe !
I present myself because yout send for me. and
now you drive me from you niz one contempt,
as if I was one dog ! If you were one m, an-'
sacre-if you were one man, I would feed ze fish
of ze sea upon your body !"
And the Frenchman, too argry to preserve
bis attempted composure, dashed the state-room
door to, locked it, and went away, swearing
bitterly.-
CHAPTER L.
It was afternoon of the same day, and Mi'hel,'
whose long acquaintance with the Chesapeake
and the rivers emptying thereinto made him 3n
excellent pilot on its waters, was heading bis
vessel toward the mouth of the York Eiver,
hoping to make as successful . run this time  a
I.e had done before.

\

SADIA,

But as he glanced inland through his tele-
scope, he saw something which brought a flush
of mingled anger and disappointment over his
scarred countenance.
"Sacre !" he muttered through his grating
teeth. "I believe zere is one of zem Yen-
kee gunboats zere in ze mouth of ze rivare.
I like not zat. Zis boat can run fast ; but
for fight wizout ze gun, she is no good for
nossimg! If zat is a Yankee gunboat, I must
run by and wait for ze night; zen, maybe, in
ze dark, I can give him ze slip. When zey
catch Carl Michel asleep, zen zey are smart-!"
Michel, after these remarks, looked for a
short time anxiously toward the vessel that had
attracted his attention ; and then, fully satisfied
of her character, he ordered the helmsman to
head the boat down the bay, and ring the bell
for the engineer to run her slow.
"She will sink zat I am bound for Fort Mon-
roe or to ze sea," he said to himself; "and I
will keep on zat course slow until ze night, and
zen I come back."
"Is there not another vessel on the larboard
bow, yonder ?" asked the helmsman, pointing
to a vessel well out in the bay.
"Yes ; but zat is flossing. Somebody zat is
bound for Baltimore," said Michel, carelessly.
"And there is another one coming up, further
in shore."
"Yes; very likely, anozzer one bound ze
same way. I care not for zem. We are not
known down here, and can pass for a transport
anywhere, except when we try for run ze block-
ade. Run up ze Yankee-doodale flag zere, one
of you mess !"
The American flag was hoisted, and the
steamer moved on slowly ; Michel pacing to
and fro on the upper deck, every little while
raising his glass to his eye, and looking at the
gunboat in the mouth of the river, which, evi-'
dently, had steam up.
" Sacre! she is coming out to cut us off!"
he muttered, angrily. "Ring ze bell for make
ze boat go more fast, zere !"
:The order was obeyed, and the steamer moved
more rapidly through the water.
Michel now looked anxiously at the gunboat,
which, though evidently yet out of range, was
now coming toward him under a full head of
steam. And his face flushed angrily when she
fired one of her heavy guns, which, though the
ball could not reach him, would serve to call
the attention of other vessels to him.
And as he looked quickly at the vessel before
spoken of as on his larboard bow, he saw, to his
great annoyance, that she was on his weather-
beam now-indeed, rather abaft it-and had
altered her course, and was running directly
toward him!
" Sacre! Mil diables !" he muttered ; "ze
ozzare one is a gunboat, too, and now zey both
chase me ! Zia boat draw no more zan eight

feet of ze wattare. I will run close to ze shore,
where zey cannot come."
And he gave the man at the wheel once more
orders to change her course, and went himself
to the engineer, to tell him to put on every
pound of steam that could be carried.
All hands were now on deck, and anxious
faces told that they well knew the danger they
were in.:      f
" Cap'n, what does this fellow look like that
is coming up the coast ?" asked the helmsman.
Michel turned his glass in that direction, and
stamped upon the deck in anger as he did so.
"Sacre ! it is anozzare of zem Yankee-doo-
dale gunboats !" he yelled. "We shall be
prisonare, and lose our cargo and our boat !
Sacre ! nevare was such miserable fortune !"
"Can't we run ashore, and save ourselves in
the life-boats ?" asked Hoyle.
"Zat is our only chance ; but zen it is toe
bad zat we must lose ze cargo and ze boat be-
fore we make one trip. If I had guns, I would
fight till I diel"
"if we can get the lady on shore, we will, at
least, save what we were to have for her," said
Hoyle.
" Yes ; zat is so. You 'ave ze boats all
ready for to lower quick, soon. Steer right for
ze snore zere, you man at ze wheel! I will get
ze lady ready for ze start. Zem gunboats begia
for fire, as if zey all knew who we are! Like
not zis-I like not zis, at all!"
And the unhappy Frenchman hurried below
to see Sadia.
CHAPTER LI
Sadia had noticed the excitement and the
hurried tramping of men overhead for some
time ; and, looking from her little window f'ora
which she could see the shore, she had seem
that the steamer changed her course several
times in a very short period. From this she
judged that the steamer was pursued, and her
brave, true heart began to beat high with hopes
of a rescue.
And when she saw the gunboat coming out,
from the river, and saw the smoke and heard
the report of her gun, she went down upon her
knees in thankful prayer ; for now she hoped
earnestly to be saved from her persecutors, and
soon to be restored to the dear little ones
whom she had left in Baltimore.
She rose to her feet upon hearing heavy foot-
steps approaching her door.
A moment later, the door was thrown open,
and Michel, pale with excitement, and trem--
bling with rage, stood before her.
"I'ave to request, Ma'mselle, zat you will put
upon you your bonnett and your shawl, and
come upon ze deck wiz me !"
"I am very comfortable here, just now, Sir,"
she said, with a quiet smile.
" Nevare mind zat, I must desire your pres-

SADIA-.

85

E


'k''W

86

SADIA.

enee upon ze deck!''he said, impatiently. "And
zat Wizout delay !"
"Have you anything up there that will in-
terest we, Sir?"
"Yes, you can see one, two, tree, Yankee
dobdale gunboat try to catch me, Capitaine Carl
Michel!"
"Oh, that will be beautiful ! I will go direct-
ly with you !" she cried, as if delighted with the
idea.
"And acre, you shall see your disappoint!
Zey shall neizer take you, nor shall zey take
me !" he cried, angrily. " You shall see your
disappoint, charming Ma'mselle !"
Sadia made no reply, but dressed herself for
the visit on deck, and waving himsto lead the
way, said :
Go on, Sir, I will follow you to the deck, to
see once more the blessed flag of my country."
Michel went on deck, and the moment he
was there he.cried to one of his men:
"Haul down zat miserable Yankee doodale
flag and put up ze flag of ze grand Confeder-
acie-?"
And as this was dog he looked triumphantly
toward Sadia, to see what effect that would have
upon her.
She smiled and said: "It is right that you
hoist the traitorous flag, Sir, to show wham you
serve. It does not pain me, for it will soon be
lowered in disgrace."
"Not while you are on ze board of z:s boat,
Ma'inselle !" said Michel, angrily. "Do you
see how fast we go to ze shore? In some lit-
tle time zis boat will run upon ze ground, and
zen wiz ze small boat we will go upon ze land
where ze beautiful flag of ze Co'unfederacie wave
,all ze time in triumph !"
"1 doubt much whether your boat is allowed
to reach the shore !" said Sadia, exultingly, as a
heavy shot from the nearest pursuing steamer
hured through the air close to them.
"Only ten more of ze minutes and we will
be zere," replied Michel.
Another ring of smoke from the pursuing
steamer, and a round shot passed not ten feet
over their heads, carrying away the flag-staff
and lowering the Rebel colors in a hurry.
Michel and most of the crew bobbed their
heads as the shot screamed through the air so
close to them; but Sadia unmoved, with a proud
smile, pointed to the flag which lay drooping
on the deck, and said :
"Your flag has come down in a hurry, Cap-
tain Michel! Are you not going to hoist it
again?"
t"No time to bozzare wiz zat now! One lit-
tle minute more and we shall be upon ze
ground !" cried Michel.
"And, by thunder, none too soon-there's
another boat in range and opening on us. The
sooner we are out of this, the better I'm
pleased," cried Hoyle.

At that moment the boat touched, with a
heavy jar, then forged ahead a few lengths,
touched again, and then grounded solid.
"Stop the engine and lower the boats I"
shouted Michel.
The crew sprung to obey his orders, and the
firemen and engineers hurried  ti! from  be-
low. Their part of the work was done on that
boat.
"Come, Ma'mselle !" said Michel, hastily, as
the first boat touched the water. b Ze shore is
but a little way-we will soon be zere. Come
to ze boat if you please "
"I do not please, Sir !" said Sad in, haughtily.
"I prefer to remain here until loyal men come
to offer their services to me!"
"Sacre, Ma'mselle, please or not please,
you must go in ze boat !" cried Michel, angrily.
"I must lose my boat and my cargo, but I will
not lose you and ze five tousand dollars for
you! You must come wiz me
And he advanced toward her to seize her.
" Halt, Sir ! halt, if you value life !" she
cried, sternly, drawing the revolver from her
pocket and cocking it.
IHe hesitated, only, however, to measure his
distance, for he intended  to spring suddenly
upon her. But this attempt was prevented,
and perhaps his life saved, by the sudden action
of floyle, who stood behind Sadia, and who,
unexpectedly to her, stepped lightly up to her,
and wrenched the weapon from her band before
she could use it.
In. a moment, now, she was seized by Michel
and another man, and in spite of her struggles
borne to. the boat. And in less time than I
take to describe it, every man from the steamer
was embarked in the two boats, and they were
puliing hurriedly to the shore, now but a short
distance off.
The gunboats. which dared not to approach
too near in consequence of the shoal water,
kept up a heavy fire ; but the boats were no-t
struck, and in a few moments reached the
shore.
"Now, sacre ! ze Yankee-dood ale 'ave not
catch Carl Michel l' shouted the Fr nehman, as
he sprang out on the beach, lifting the half.
senseless girl from  the boat at the same
time.
" Surrender, 'you infernal Rebs !"_ shouted a
commanding voice at that instant, and Sadia
uttered a scream of joy as she saw a party of
eighteen or twenty men, with an American gui-
don floating among them, gallop forward from
the shelter of the woods near the beach.
"Sacre-we must: fight !" shouted Michel,
as he saw that the party of Federal cavalry
was not large. And be drew a pistol from
his belt and fired it at the leader of the
party.
" Pretty well aimed, but not in time to save
yourself !" cried the leader, strikiD  a terri

t
[

ble blow with his sabre, which clove the head
of the bold smuggler entirely asunder.
And at the same time he reeled and fell from
his saddle close by the side of Sadia, for
the bullet from Michel's pistol had entered his
;ide.
"'Heavens-it is Mr. Armand !" cried Sadia,
recognizing the Sergeant whom she had met at
the house of Mr. VV Inter, in Baltimore. ,
"Oh, I pray you are not fatally wounded !"
she cried, as, forgetting he. own danger, she
tried to raise him.
"I care not, if I have saved you from peril!"
said Armand, pressing his hand to his side to
check the bleeding, and giving the order to his
men not to mind his position, but to capture
the Rebels.
And this would have been done g a few mo-
ments more, had not a new and powerful inter-
vention occurred. A bugle sounding the charge
broke upon their ears,.and two or three squad-
rons of rebel cavalry came dashing down upon
the scanty force of lederals.
The latter resisted for a moment, but against
such numbers it was in vain; and soon all who
survived of Sergeant Armand's scouting-party
were prisoners.
wWhom have we here !" cried the command-
ing officer of the Rebels. "Why, there is poor
Michel a3 dead as a nail !" he added, in sur-
j'rise.
"And here, father, is Miss De Montfort-her
brother will be surprised at this event 1" cried
Kate Stuart, for her father was the leader of the
party.
"pte careful, there, men. You need not ride
over that lady in your awkwardness !" she added.
And dismounting, the brave girl hurried to
the side of Sadia and said, in a low tone
"Do not be disheartened, my dear girl-you
have a friend in me, now, as before !"
"Oh, save him, if you can! I fear he is
morally  wounded!1" said Sadia, pointing to
Armand, whose head she had raised, for he had
fainted.
Kate looked at the wound, and binding, a
scarf which she took from her waist over the
wound, she said, quietly :
" He bleeds bauly, but I think it is only a
severe flesh-wound. He will not die
"Come daughter, get Miss De; Montfort in a
saddle some way- we must be out of here, ,fo
those gunboats will be throwing shell here be'
fore we know it!" cried Colonel Stuart.
"She can idile behind  me-here Montrose
you and some other careful man take thi
wounded Sergeant in charge, and be as easy
with him as possible !" cried Kate. "Come
Iiss Sadia, Ile one of the men help you u
behind mc. He shall be carefully cared for, i
you are interested in him !"
And the wild girl smiled as she pointed t
Armand.

87

"Ile is almost a stranger to me. but he
was wounded while tr\ ink to rescue me from.
ruffianly bands !" said Sadia, blushing, as she
was lifted to a seat behind Kate.
A shell from one of the gunboats dropping
almost in their midst, and killing two or three
of Stuart's men as well as more than half of the
men who had escaped from the Lone Star with
Michel, now  significantly  warned  Colonel
Stuart that the sooner lie was out of range
the better.
As the prisoners were already secured, the
order to gallop was given, and soon only the
dead occupied the beach.
When they had ridden out of sight of the
vessels, Sadia, who had not spoken before, said
to Kate :
"When you first recognized me, you spoke of
my brother. Where is beenow ?.'
"In command of one of our battalions, out in
another direction to dv !" said Kate. "We
will find him in camp at head-quarters, before
long."
"I do not wish to see him. I was happy
where I was in Baltimore !" said Sadia, sadly.
" Well, do not fret, my dear girl. You shall
find a true friend in Kate Stuart, no matter
what others may be !" said the Rebel leader's
daughter. "Keep as easy as you can and
hope for the best!"
CHAPTER LI[.
It was a ride of twenty miles, or more, to the
camp of Colons Stuart/s Regiment-a weary
ride, indeed, to poor Sadia, but it was soon
passed over, for the Rebels had advanced very
far toward the Federal line on that day, and did
not'know soon they might be pursued. During
the rapid ride, Kate endeavored to cheer up
her companion; but Sadia, brave-hearted as she
was, could not but feel despondent as she
thought of the distance from her friends in
Baltimore, and the dependent position in which
her little brother and sister must now be
placed.
Upon their arrival at the camp,' Kate con-
ducted Sadia to her own tent, and bade her
make herself feel perfectly easy.
"My wardrobe is not very extensive " .she
said, with a gay laugh. "But such as it is, I
hope you will make use of it "
r   "Many thanks for your kindness. I need it
sadly !" said Sadia, with a sigh.
"Do not sigh so heavily. You'll give me
, the blues! The Sergeant is in a fair way to
s recover. I wish be was a colonel, for your
y sake !" said Kate, in a lively tone.
"The Sergeant is nothing to me, except a
p kind friend, in whom I feel interested, because
f he was wounded in trying-to serve me !" said
Sadia. "Youdo not seem to think of the real
o peril which I dread. You know what I risked
so much to fly from before !"

SADIA.

~ ,y.
,;^
1 ,'.
,
f' ;,
Y,
Ft.
;'i  ,
'
'
,
ti
f : k .
4 t
;   ,
r
a
i'"
j4_ ,
if
G ,"
pe
c.
a
bl
i.
t.:
f,
R
i
A
i
1,
..
Y
ri   .
t'
_i. '
I  ,   ,
'
r
.,    S
}'
t'
xt ,
.  Y
tao
"a
,. ;,
'Y,  a  r
Z   7
i3ti",.
'
3+133::
4_
cg F-_
4 .
$ ';
1 i    


SADIA.

SADIA.

Yes, the persecutions of that puppy-heart-
ed cousin of yours, LieutenantBeverly! I saw
him the other day, but he kept his distance
from me. He looks upon me as a regular
"Is he near here now?"
"Not far away! He commands a tub that
he calls a gunboat, on the York River,a few
miles from here !"
"lIt was he who bribed Michel to abduct me
from the quiet home in Baltimore, where I was
so happy, supporting myself and my orphan
brother and sister by my own industry~!"
"I expected as much. I knew that lie and
MicheLwere together when the latter made his
first successful smuggling-trip. It is likely
that you will soon have a visit from him, for
news of captures flies fast i. this country-it is
so seldom we make any, that we let all the Con-
federacy hear of it when we do make one !"
"Oh, can I not be relieved from his persecu-
tion !" sighed Sadia.
"bYes; leave that to me. If you want to go
baek to Baltimore, you shall, if Kate Stuart pos-
sesses either wit or courage-and her friends
think she has a little of both qualities. If your
brother comes, as he will before I can do any
thing in the way of sending you off, take mat-
ters coolly, as if you had made up your mind to
submit to what apparently cannot be helped.
If Lieutenant Beverly comes, I'll make the camp
too hot to hold him! Though I say it, I am
the idol of my father, and the men will do my
bidding in anything and everything !"
"I shall depend upon you thin, kind Kate!"
said Sadia, smiling, though her eyes were yet
tearful-a kind of sunlight through rain.
"You can do so, my friend. Can you ride
well, alone?"
"Oh yes ; I have been used to riding on
horseback ever since I was quite small !"
"Then you can make up your mind to take a
longand pretty rapid ride one of these nights.
Maybe i11 send a cavalier with you; but that
depends upon circumstances. I'd escort you
myself, but I am almost too well known within
the Federal lines. If the Yankees had wild Kate
Stuart instheir hands, they would nrt be apt to
let her go as easily as I intend you shall
go!I"
"Surely they do not war on women !"
"No, not without a woman plays man, and
acts the devil among them, as I do occasional-
y;riding in upon' their pickets and shooting
down some of them before they forget their gal-
lant notion about our gentle sex and return my
fire. For in spite of my dress they can see thatI
I am a woman-my hair and compnJexion, or,
perhaps, my voicewhen I cry, 'Charge!' makes'
them know me. But, my dear girl, are you not1
hungry-Ihforgot ou~r bacon, which must bet
ready by this time!"
Sadia could not deny that she was actually

feint from hunger, or she had eaten nothing
since the supper taken in Baltimore ; and wom-
an, angelic as we may deem her, must eat or
perish, like we coarse-grained and most un-
angelic men.
And she exhibited a very fair appetite when
in platters of fried bacon and roasted sweet-
potat-es and tin cups of strong coffee graced
the table ofbher fair hostess ; for though Kate
fought side by side with her fher aid his men,
she lived exclusively alone as it was posi-
b le.
CHAPTER LIII.
Sadia had but just finished supper when the
tread of horses and the sound of a bugle were
heard.
"Some more of our men have come in. Very
likely the battalion which your brother took
out!" said Kate, whose ear, accustonei to such
sounds, at once detected the nature of'the ar-
rival.
Her conjecture proved true; for, in a few mo-
ments, Warourton De Montfort, dressed in the
gay uniform of the Rebel service, entered the
tent where they were seated. Doffing his cap
and bowing very low to Kate, as he bWde her
good evening, he said to his sister, in a tone as
cold as his rooks :
"I welcome Miss De Montfort back once more
to the Confederate States !"
Sadia looked at him with a glace in which
it could be plainly seen that sisterly affection
had not entirely fled from her heart, cruelly as
she had been treated, and she replied:
"I am   glad to see that you are yet alive,
brother Warburton; but I assure you that I
had much rather have been left alone in peace,
in the home of my own seeking !"
" Pshaw, girl-it was no place for you among
strangers !" said Major De Montfort, h:.stily.
"Those strangers were more kind to me than
my own kindred !" replied Salia, quietly.
You have given me no chance to be kind to
you 1" replied the brother. " You fled away
from my care when I was at Springland, and
even took off all the negroes, intending to de-
liver them over to the infernal Abolitionists !
But, as good luck turned out, I got them back,
and they are now where the negro-worshipers
may look for then in vain!"
"Sold, I suppose-the very people whom you
have heard our father say he intended to free,
and whom he would have freed had not death
so suddenly came upon him 1"
"Yes, sold ! and their price invested in good
Confederate bonds !" said Warburton, with a
sneering laugh. "So that, after all, you and that
miserable old thief, Tom Hunter, failed in your
great undertaking. I'm glad that he lost his
worthless life !"
"And I regret it. Thank Heaven that your
cruelty has-not extended to poor Napoleon and

eynthia-they, at least, are free and in comfort,
redeiving pay f'o t.eir labor, and living mide-
pendently bessse.''
"You   cedno; .ia    too much of that.
traitress !'' cried Warhur',on, angrily. "Now
that you are secured, M:.hel will have little dif-
ficulty in getting the children and the two ne-
groes to follow you."
"You will have to go into a hotter place than
this to find Michel--he has been called home
by his Satanic master !" said Sadia, in a quiet
manner.
"Yes-his head was like '   Union, when I
saw it last--completely diiided !" said Kate,
with a malicious smile.
"What, Michel killed? I did not hear of
that!" said Warburton.
"Yes, thank Heaven for ridding the earth of
such a villain !" said Sadia. "You and Ran-
dolph Beverly have lost your most useful tool
in him."
"A tool, Miss?  Look out that we do not
find worse tools than he was ! If you had jus-
tice done you, you would rot in jail for nigger-
stealing."
"Major De Montfort, you must not forget
where you are,rSir !" said Kate, sternly, while
her eyes flashed angrily. "If you forget the
common courtesy due from all gentlemen in the
presence of ladies, you must not blame me for
reminding you of it. . And, Sir, whether she be
considered as a prisoner or a guest, Miss Sadia
belongs to me, and not to you! An~d I will not
permit her to be insulted or annoyed while she
is here! Understand that !"
"I beg your pardon, Miss Stuart," said War-
burton, testily. "The language of the girl was
enough to provoke a saint."
"Therefore, it should not have provoked Major
Warburton De Montfort," said Kate, in a sarcas-
tic tone, "for I never heard of his possessing
any very saintly qualities."
"'Good evening, Miss Date," said the Majpr,
now fairly angry. "I will see that you are not
long put to the trouble of entertaining my sis-
ter, either as a prisoner or a guest."
And be turned away from the tent, trembling
with passion.
"0   dear Kate, how can I repay you for so
;tobly taking my part!" cried Sadia, the woman
a her exhibiting itself in the usual way-id est,
issuingg Kate, and shedding a shower of tears."
"There - th re-don't cry.   I sinppose the
retch-I must call him so, if he is your bro-
&amp;er-will try to geyou out of my care. Do
ou think you will be strong enough for a mid-
ight ride ?"
"0Oh yes - I am quite strong now," said
.dia, eagerly.
"Well, I will see if I can find an escort for
.u. It is possible that there may be two pris-
ers less in this camp before morning," said
ate. "Excuse me while I go out and see what

89

preparations I can make, and what state your
Sergeant is in."
CHAPTER LIV.
Kate was not absent a great while. When
she came back, a radiant smile made her hand.
some face look more-than usually beautiful.
"Fortune favor s the brave, my dear, Miss
Sadia," she said, in a low tone. " Your brother
has applied for leave until t.o-morrow,morning,
and has ridden off in the- direction of York
River, intending, doubtless, to take counsel with
the immortal Beverly, upon the ways of taming
tiger-cat me, and bringing your lovely self into
proper subjection. -So be is out of the way fox
the night. The officer of the day is a young
fool that is in love with me, and will wink at any
of my oddities, in passing out foragers for my
own especial table, and the like of that. Now,
can you wear men's clothes, upon 'this occasion
only', as they say in the show-bills ?" .
"With such an example as you set, if my
safety depends upon it, it would be worse than
prudery to decline to do so !" replied Sadia,
while the thought brought a blush of modesty
to her cheek.
"I will rig you up in my own uniform-I
'have a spare one," said Irate, gayly ; "and
then provide you with Federal overcoats, or
you'll be shot by their pickets before you have a
chance to tell them who you are. And now,
dear, dont blush, I have still better news for
you, your Sergeant is so far out of danger
that he will undertake the task of escorting you
to the Federal lines. Once inside of there,your
return to Baltimore will be easy."
"O dear, kind Kate, God will reward you,
for I never can."
"I ask no reward, my dear girl, but the satis-
faction of serving you, and of punishing that
pusillanimous puppy, Randolph Beverly. He
will go raving mad when lie finds that, you have
escaped, after being so nearly in his power; and
I expect your brother will have worse than the
dumb ague when he discovers your absence.
They wi.l be terribly angry with me, but they
4 - e not go any 'further; for my father is too
much ofa man to see a woman persecuted, and
he has few hospital accommodations, and will
not blame me for letting your wounded Ser-
geant go."
"Kate, you do love to tease me in calling that
poor Armand mine, whom I have never seen
but twice in my life 1"
"Well, his heart is yours at any rate, say
what you may ; for when I asked him if he was
strong enough to protect you in a midnight
ride to the Federal lines, he said that he was
strong enough to die for you, angel that you
was! Now, a man doesn't want to die for a
woman without he loves her. And now don't
feel bad-I know -he is only a sergeant, but he
is brave enough to be a general; and better

4.
^  \#
t
i ,' .
a::. ,
i1   1
yhy r
} yM,,   ^
wl++
i eu"
?
f-'"
La
^"-
t 4yFi
iF+,
?'
ii
1j
4 ^- ,
} '.?;.
i
'" k
aY'  .
i  t
,
f .
?e
ka
:
_}
.
SF,
i
C,  ,:
if
jai
't
$n
jf
I.
i.
a'
, r
.s
i
i M  .
_ t,

88

=}
;i
t
i
t: i,
icy
f
F ..,
iK f  . L


"

90

SADIA.

than all, one can see at a glance that he is aI
gentleman born and bred. If he wasn't an
enemy to the Confederacy, I'd take him off your
hands myself, my lady, if you couldn't appreci-
ate him "
"I am sure I appreciate his kind devotion,"
said Sadia, with a smile. "But one can appre-
ciate without loving, can they not 2"
"Not if they're as demonstrative as I am,"
said Kate, with a laugh. "But a truce to this
nonsense. I must think of getting you ready,
for itis already well on in the night. Can you
shoot a pistol ?"
"Yes, I have 'practiced with pistols for
amusement. I had one, but it was taken from
me on the boat," replied Sadia.
"'Well, I will let you have a pair, but don't
use them on any of our people, except it be-
comes actually necessary to effect your es-
cape!"
"You may rest assured that I never would
fire upon any human being except when forc-
ed to do so in self-defence !"
"You are kinder then than I," said Kate,
with a laugh, "But come, I must dress you
up for your trip!''
Of course, reader, modesty will demand our
temporary absence now.
CHAPTER LV.
It was midnight, or thereabout, and all was
still in the Rebel camp, when Kate Stuart led
Sadia out into the open air from the tent in
which she had blown out the light a half-
hour before. There was no moon, but the
star-light was sufficient for them to see how
to avoid the tents, and Sadia moved along in
her strange attire silently behind Kate for
some distance. They were hailed by only one,
sentinel, to whom Kate gave the countersign -
and in a few minutes after she whispered to
Sadia that they were outside of the precincts
of the camp.
A walk of near a quarter of a mile along a
well-defined and apparently a much-traveled
road, brought them to a small grove of leafy
pines; and here Kate, cautioning Sadia not to
be surprised or to speak low, led the way.
A few steps from the road they found two
powerful thorough-bred horses standing, held
by Sergeant Armand, who, seated upon a log,
was resting and waiting for his fair compan-
ions. He was fully armed .with a sabre and
pistols, and when asked by Kate if all was
ready, replied in the affirmative.
"Then mount and away, my dear girl," said
Kate, kissing Sadia, warmly. "I have given
you one of my own horses, and borrowed one
from your brother's stable for Mr. Armand.
You must keep straight on this road until you
reach your pickets, which, if von ride fast,
will be by a little after daylight ; that is, if
you are not interrupted. By the way, do not

forget the countersign if you should meet a
patrol on our side, though I know of none be-
ing out. It is 'Beauregard'."
And giving Sadia one more tong, fervent
kiss, which made poor Armand sigh as if he
considered such "sweetness wasted" a sacrilege,
Kate helped her to mount the spirited horse,
aiid led it out into the road.
"Good-bye, and God bless you bath," she
said, in aloev and tremulous tone  and then she
turned toward her father's camp, while they
rode rapidly down the road which she had
pointed out as their course.
For a time, they rode swiftly on in silence.
Sadia was the first'to break it.
"Does not your wound incommode you very
much, Mr. Armand ?" she asked.
"More through weakness than pain, kind
lady," he replied. "I lost so much blood .be-
fore it was stagrnched, yesterday, that my
strength is much lessened. But I shall be
able to go through, I think; at least, to see you
safe inside of our lines. If I fail after that, it
will be but little matter !"
The utter sadness of his tone touched the
heart of Sadia; but the speed at which they
were going made conversation difficult, and she
did not reply to his words.
They did not break a gallop, nor meet with
any interruption, before the day broke, when
Armand rode at a slower pace, for he said they
were now near the Federal lines. He was on
ground with which he was acquainted. And
the decrease of the rapid pace was agreeable to
Sadia ; for, unused to riding so fast and so far,
she felt more fatigue than she wished to ac-
knowledge to her companion, whose pale cheek
and quivering lip told that he was suffering pain
which he would not speak of.
Arnand now handed Sadia a blue Federal
overcoat which Kate Stuart had provided, saying
that it was necessary to cover the gray uniform
there, or they might get a shot from some am-
bushed picket before their character could be
understood. And be also put on one which had
been provided for him, for Kate hal to make
him put on a gray uniform to get him safely out
of the Rebel camp.
This done, they rode on at an easy gait, look-
ing every moment to catch a view of the Fed-
eral pickets. But they were doomed to meet a
sight not half so welcome. Coming to a turn of
the road, they saw at a very short distance, di-
rectly in front of them, a body of at leant a
dozen horsemen, whose gray uniform at once
told that they were Rebel scouts who had been
trying to get a peep at the Union lines.
"heavens! What shall we do?" said Sadia,
in dismay, as she glanced at the fearful odds,
and saw, too, that the opposite party had seen
and was rearingg to meet them.
"There is but one thing to do, lady. I must
cut a path through them! Follow me, and

SADIA.

Ehioot down the fist man who tries to check
your horse. If I fall, ride on, and remember
that it is not more than a mile at most to our
first picket-sta-tion. Keep a firm seat and be
fearless - I will clear a way for you !"
And, drawing his sabre, the Sergeant shorten-
ed the reins, and then, with one word to his com-
panion, to follow directly after him, he dashed
his spurs into his horse, and at full speed rushed
upo-n the advancing horsemen. The horse upon
which Sadia rode needed neither word nor spur;
it was too used to the charge. All that she
knew was, that she was going' with the speed of
the wind upon and among those armed men-
she heard a wild, fierce yell from Armaud's
lips, she saw his sabre flash from side to side be-
fore her, saw men reel and fall, and heard pistol-
shots sounding-then they had a free road be-
fore them-the Rebels were all behind.
But Armand did not check his speed, but
kept on until he saw some horsemen with the
blue uniform in sight, and then he drew his
rein;
Sadia now rode up by his side.
Were you touched at all, Miss Sadia?" he
asked.
"No-but you?    how pale you are, and you,
are bleeding terribly ! O lieaven ! I fear that
now you will indeed die !" she ereaimed.
"Never in a better cause--never better safis-
fi.ld, for now you are with friends, and safe !
These pickets are from  my own regiment !" he
said, as some of the Union cavalry galloped up
to them.
What is tke matter, Sergeant-we thought
you were lost. Ong of your men who got away
yesterday reported you killed !" said the officer
commanding the party.
"I was taken by the Rebels, yesterday, Lieu-
tenant, but escaped last night with .his laiy,
who belongs to Baltimore. I resign her to x our
kind care, Sir, for my scouting is over!"
Halt, men, and help him from the saddle !"
cried the offrcer. " lie is fainting i"
And the Lieutenant sprung from his saddle
and helped to lift Armand to a grassy bank by
the roadside.         -
Sadia, forgetting everything but the dying
condition of her preserver, also sprung to the
ground and hastened to his side.
" Oh, it is hard-too hard that you should
die for me !' "he said, weeping.
"It is my only happiness-you and my coun-
try were all that I had to-to love !" he
gasped.
fie tried to speak again, but rising blood
choked his utterance. A gasp-one look, un-
utterable, but yet saying so much, and he died !
That last look was upon Sadia, and shehad been
senseless not to know that his soul went up lov-
ing her as only such a man could love !
Sadia grieved as if she had lost a brother,
and it was with broken sobs that she told the

91

officer her story, and received from hia assur-
ance that she should speedily be restored to hey
friends in Baltimore.
CHAPTER LVI.
Mr. Winter was seated in his parlor with hii
famdy a few evenings later than that on which
occurred the events narrated in the last chap-
ter.
Marion and Carine were there, both sad and
sorrowful, for much they missed their dearly.
loved sister.
"have you heard nothing farther from Fort
Monroe, husband, in regard to the lost steamer
and poor Sadia ?" asked Mrs. Winter.
Only a full confirmation of the news which
we first received !" replied the merchant. "The
steamer was run on shore by the smugglers,
who deserted her, and escaped to the land with a
lady, who was undoubtedly poor Sadia. The
gunboats took possession of the steamer and
succeeded in getting her off, and she is now in
the possession of the Government. A party of
Rebel cavalry was seen to carry the lady to
the interior with them !"
"I am afraid I shall never see my dear sister
again !" said Marion, mournfully.
"Yes, we willF' said Canine, with touching
sirrplieity. "I have prayed to God to give her
back to us, every night and morning since she
has been gone. And sister told me once that
pra ;er would always be answered if we were
only good. And I have tried to be very good
since we lost her!"
And as if the holy trust of'that pure young
heart should not to unrewarded, a violent ring
ing of the door-bell announced a visitor. And
in a moment afterward, weeping in the fullness
of her joy, Sadia was clasping her young sister
to her breast.
It is scarcely necessary for me to describe the
joyful scene that occurred then and there, or to
recount the manner in which Sadia told the
tale of her adventures, already known to the
reader.
It must suffice for me to say, that she accept-
ed an offer, made in a manner which would ad-
mit of no refusal, thenceforward to make her
home in the house of the lknd-hearted mer-
chant.
CHAPTER LVII._,
Under the friendly care of Mrs. Winter,
Sadia De Montfort soon recovered from the ex-
haustion of body and depression of spirits con-
sequent on the afflictions she had so bravely
passed through.
With throbbing heart and an exclamation of
joy, she listened one morning while Mr. Winter
cad at the breakfast-table a account f a
naval engagement in which Randolph Beverly,
at once her lover and her persecutor, met with
a fate as just as it was terrible. For the frs

,
r.
f"
,a5
C   ^,
t n
i ,
{
c1c
i
F
S':
F '
i  ,i
?-,
;:
,u
.,
- i
:,
c_
,i
a,

i-
- i
i
a
,
i=
0
1
', ~
r r
3  '
; 4;.
:;,
. ;;
:
,


A"
W4

time for m y months, she felt the assurance of
safety for. erself and her dearly-loved brother
and sister.
In a skirmish, not long after, her brother,
Warburton, received injuries that ultimately
led to the amputation of one of his limbs. A
prisoner, crestfallen and repentant, he willingly
'eceived the attentions of his much-abused sis-
ter, who did-not hesitate to act as his nurse in
the hospital, and to use every means in her
power, on his taking the oath of allegiance, to
ave him removed to Baltimore, where she
could obtain for him proper medical advice.
Colonel Stuart, promoted to a generalcy, has
long paid the forfeit of treason-death. But he
'fell a soldier should fall--with his harness on,
fMti  to the last.

Of his brave-hearted daughter, Kate, Sadie
sometimes hears, but seldom speaks, and then
with a hopeful smile, which shows that some-
thing unknown to us is bright in the brave
though misguided girl's future. Whatever her
fate may be, her goodheartedness toward our
heroine deserves perpetual sunshine.
And now, with all true-hearted friends and
patriots, Sadia and her brother look forward,
with firm faith in the right, to the day in which
shall be restored to the whole Union peace and
prosperity, and to the final triumph which will
reinstate them and all loyal Southerners in the

rights of which they are now deprived
traitors to the Union.

.,
,I

by

(UR N .

IDUMA' ixBOOKS.

Prim.

Royalists and Republtcansa; or, The Com-
maions of Jehu-.-----------.---------------$50
zinc, his famous "Monte Christo," no work of
this great novelist has produced such a wonderful
senaation. It is ar immense book. Every chapter
is instinct with life. Every incident is full of
reality. There is not a single dull pu  in the
whole book

The Guillotine;1
Dumaa takes up one of the moat thi1tfrg in-
enta in the yorld'a history-the war of La Vendee
-and interweaves with it a story of the most in-
tensely interesting kind. It surpasses is absorb-
lng fascinxatioa any pages ever written.

50

Te Palace of Ice.         ------------------- 50
This is the latest, and, in the opinion of the
Parisian critics, the very ablest romance that Du-
mas has ever yet penned. Certain it is, that a bet-
tr romance has not appeared for many years.
Wko Orange Plume ; or, The Bride of the
Bastile------------------           -----5$0
" admirable tale. Told with all the brilliancy
a power that have made Dumas recognised as
thsPrineof Romanciots.
&amp;  ow Book, by the Anthor of "The Romance
of a Poor Young Ian."
kAe Marchioneas; or, A Marriage by Will.
By Octave 'euillet ----------------------------35
In this Book, its gifted author has far surpassed
hi s word renowned "Poor Young Man." It is
a most brilliant picture of the intrigues and crimes
"S that fair mistress of the Adriatic, where
Sser level shrine the nsaed Venus keess,
And Cupid&amp; rA the lion of the deeps."
NOVELS BY LADY CLARA CAVENDISH.
he Woman of the World.----------56
A faithful career of a Lady Gay Spanker style
of woman, who allows nothing to stop her in her
career of fsaeionable folly and dissipation in order
Be gain the necessary means to attain her ends.
Lisa; or, the Mesmerist's VIctim.--..--- i0
One of tho principal characters, Monti, tses, r
sather abuses this woLderful faculty to lead'
uvely bat gentle sjiitod girl into eepowerof
heartless libertines.
Trhe Divoree. A Talc of Fashionable Li a--._583
This tale is founded upo' one of the darkest
ansactions that has ever disgraced the highest
.Moles of English fashiovble life.
Margaret, Marc hioness .f Iniver.----- 50
Pull of Beantier., and w h haardly a fault in this
feodtotion of LadyCle's.
.fihe Panoa Star.--------------------------50
This story appeals strongly to our "heart of
' and we cannot praise it too highly. It 1.
le  r passages of thrilling deserptioas and heart-
meving mthc
M# y  avendis's novels ar also isteot in ele
T 7oSaavolume.

1

Out of the Depths. A Story of a Woman's
Life-----------------------
A woman's story and a woman's book. "Out of
the Depths" will interest mane and terrify somie,
but it can disgust none ; it is a book written with a
tender an&amp; delicate hand ; and even the foul things
of which it treats lose much of their revolting
nature by the method of that treatment.
Almost a Heroine. A Romance..------
This is one of the most original books in every
'particular that has appeared since "Jane Byre."
Florence DeLae.; or, Quicksands and Whirl-
pools. A Tale of Youth's Temptations. By
Percy B. St. John. Illustrated----------------ItS
Never have we read a work so vividly real, so
highly attractive, and yet so free from imagnation.
The above three novels are also pubi hed in
sloth, at 75 cents a volw' .
HarryBerford; or, The Ga mler of the Mis-
sissippi. By Jack Brace----------------
The Pirate's Daughter.-------------.,-. 2
A story of exciting deeds upon the ocean. P11
of startling pictures, of the wildest and most ter-
rific interest, varied by passages of the most tends
pathos.
The Count's Niece ; or, The Veteran of [a..
rengo. This is a $1,000 Prize Story.---------3P
Fanny Campbell ; or, The Female Pirate
Captain-------------------------.
Fanny Campbell, the heroine, is one of the most
interesting characters ever delineated, and her ex-
ploits surpass in boldness and brilliancy the most
gallant exploits.ever performed. This book is ao-
knowledged by all who have rew, it, to be the very
best romantic history of the stirring inoidonts of
our Revolutionary War ever written.
The Naval OfBeer; or, The Pirates' Cave.--. 
A nautical tale, full of wild and stirring ad-
ventre. Incident follows incident, as fast as one
olue wavo follows another. Those who have read
Fanny Campbell," by the same author, won't
need pressing to buy this equally grectromanoe.
,he Queen of the Prairios ; or, The
Bunter's Revenge--------------------------- 
This story, fraught with contests and seeming
impossibilities, has unknown charms which those
alone who have read the work, can comjrehond. .

Romance of War; s, D peloa     asapaign
in Russia in 1812------------......---$
e Horse Doctor.----,..ar..-     13

'2SADIA.

Frederic

A.

Brady

22

ANN

STREET,

New York,

Mailed free of Postage on receipt of Pries.

4

--

NEW    BOOKS
JpUUT ISSUED BY

92


4

i
Y=
-P
his.
AoM
y W !
i', g  .
rt   =  ,
p"..-
'
;;
a
. fr
. ,
Y S
r   .
r{
;
iF y.,
E

FREDE4IC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE. -

Victoria ; or tl: Ieiress of Castle CliWf.
By Cousin May Carleton, (Miss Agnes Earlie.)
"The plot con:ains a great variety of scenes, and
characters and furnishes those rapid contrasts
which are the delight of novel readers. Sunshine.'
and storm alternate rapidly, and the att. ntitn is
kept constantly alert, Many scenes are powerful-
ly drawn and altogethier the work cannot fail to
extend the high poon ttr reputation enjoyed by the
author."-New Yorker.
" The scene of thisstory is laid in England. It
is an exciting tale and enchains the readers attn-
tion to the last page, it has several woodcuts and
withal may be said to be a very cheap and enter-
taining work."-Homae Journal. Price. ..$0 50
Neatly bound in Cloth.............$() 75
Lady Blanche ; or the Castle and the
Cottage. By Pierce Egan. "This is a fascin 
romance worthy of the highest recommendittn.
As great an authority as the Examiner says : " it
is entitled to a very high place among works of
fiction for its talent, and wonde-rful skill," and the
Quarterly Review pronounces it " a tale that
ought to be read by tre whole generation of ro-
mance readers." Suminer Tourists will find many
hours of pleasant entertainment in its pages."
-Daily Argus.
"The author of " Lady Blanche" is one of the
most popular writers in the London Journal, and
his stories have acquired great popularity."-New
York Atlas."  Price....... ...........$0 50
The Horse Doctor.          Showing the best
manner of keeping the Horse in health and c';-ing
The Horse when sick.  Price...........$0 13
The    Cattle Doctor.      Giving a descrip-
tion of all the diseases of cattle, with the best
mode of preventing and curing them.
Price............................$0 13
Letter Writing made Easy. Show-
ing plainly how to write letters upon almost every
imaginable subject, giving numerous examples of
model letters upon love, friendship, business and
legal affairs so that the most illiterate may easily
learn how to compose an effective and correct
epistle. Price........................$0 13
Ada Leigh; or the Love Test. By Pierce
Egan. This is a well written sensation story and
will serve the reader to while a way a tedious hour.
It is a book piquant i' style and when once com-
menced cannot be laid down untill concluded. In
the cheap and substantial form in which this book
is published it will be acceptable to a large class
of readers. Price.....................$0 50
The Snake in the Grass By Pierce
Egan. Those who appreciate an ingenious and
intricate plot, and varied and exciting incident,
will find tis novel all they could desire. This
work is by a talenrod English author, and is quite
up to the standard of interest which Pierce Egan
always manages to throw into his works.  It is
printed in clear plain type and sells for  $0 50

Olympia of Cleves ; or the Loves of a
King. By Alexandre Dunias. This popular an-
thor has proved himself equalled by none. Thisi
undoubte i!v his best n ork. The scene of this
story is maid in Avignon a town in the interior of
France. It .s an admirable romantee, and can n.
lv be appreciated by tht se who have read it.
~ P'rice............................$0  50
Count De Mailly. By Alexandre )umas.
Sequel to l)ivmpia of Cleves.  A thrilling ro
mance. Price.........................$0 59
Henpecked Husband,            By Mrs. Grey
A beautiful nImance of evey day life. This is a
very interesting wmik, anI will find favor with
those who like an "absorbigly' interesting story.
'      Price.........- .................$0   na
Jane Horton : or the Wife's Martyrdom
By Jack Brace. A   story of every day life, and
one which will engage the attention of almost ev-
ery novel reader. Price................$0 23
Alice Wade : or the Seducer's fearful
Doom. A tale of New    York and its vicinity.
This is without exception one of the most thril!-
ing and highly interesting romances ever publislh-
ed and is written with great foice and descriptive
power.  Price ........................$0  25
Harry    Berford ; or the Gambler of the
\iississippi, By Jack Brace. This story abounds
in exciting action, thrilling situation andcharacter
"to suit. It is a story with a very exciting plot, and
will compare favorably with the numerous other
works by the same author. Price........$0 50
The Virgin Wife: or the high and Low.
By Greenhorn. A thrilling tale of life in Paris
It is like every other romance of the day, uni qu.8
in plot, incidents and characters.  It is pre-emir
nently a live book. Price..............$0 25
Grace Willard ; or the High and Low.
By G.reenhorn. A picture   of real life  It is
truthful, unexaggerated and withal a brilliant
story.  Price........................ .$0  25
Jack Harold ; or the Criminal's Career.
By Greenhorn. This is the first of a series of
four novels, showing the effects of crime, the *M-
sequences of vice, and the  results of passion.
* This book will be read with pleasure lcy a ldrge
majority of novel readers cf the present day.
Price......................... .$0 50

The
.ack

Criminal: or the       Adventures of
Harold.  Price..................0 26

Outlaw ; or the Felon's Fortunes.
Price............................$O  2
Road to Ruin: or the        Felon's   Dc
Er-d of the series.  Price..............$0 25

Copies of the above books sent to any address in tie United States, free of postage.
Send Cash orders to Frederio A. T'ady, Publisher, No. 22 Ann treet, New-York.

G-

FREDEBIC A. B,RADY'S CATALOGUE

War Letters of a disbanded Volun-
teer. 312 pages. The most humorous and enter-
taining series of Letters Ever published. Con-
taining a correct account of All the issues from the
White House except the Greenbacks, and all the
Secrets containel in 'Abraham's Bosom.' Illus-
trated, cloth, gilt back, $1 50; or illuminated
paper covers $1 25      Mailed free of postage
on receipt of price.
Lelia, the Star of        ingrelha.     By G.
V. M. Reynolds. This admirable romance far
turpasses any similar work, in the rapidity with
which incident follows incident, in the bold and
strikingly hinted characteristics of each actor in
the graphic portrayal of the varied passions that
sway the humn heart, and, above all in the con-
sumate skill displayed in the weaving and unrav-
elling of the plot. The sequel will be found in
Karaman. Price......................$0 50
Karaman, the Bandit Chief.              By G.
W   M. Reyr.olda. Karaman, is unquestionably
one of the most deeply absorbing works of fic-
tion ever penned. It abounds in marvellous and
vividly depicted details of incidents in the ad-
venturous lif' of a daring moi urtain outlaw, who
electrified the Caucasian re ions by his heroic
valor. This is the sequel to Lelia. Price. .$0 50

13

True Blue: or Sharks upon Shore. By
M. J. Errym. Mr. Errym's productions, whatever
else they lack, never lack interest for those who
read novels fcr the love of reading them. True
Blue is a very spirited representative of its class
Price...... ....................$0 25
Jolly Jack: or Scenes at the old Junk
Shop. A thrilling sketch of the miseries of city
life. Plenty of entertainment'is furnished in this
work for those who enjoy startling incients and
stirring emotions. Price...............$0 25
Boxing, without a Master. By O.wen
Swift. The scientific art and practice of attack
and self-defence explained in an easy manner,
that any person may comprehend this useful art.
Price.............................$0 13
Black Jokes for Blue Devils. Just
the thing to make light of these lark times.
Consisting of Plantation and high life stories, col-
ored philosophy and nigger witticisms, and fully
illustrated with near one hundred pictorial "Black
Jokes."   Price....................... $0  25
The American Housewife and Kitch-
en Directory. Containing the most valuable and
original receipts in all the various branches of

Omar Pacha : or the Vizier's Daugh-              Cookery, together with a collection of
ter. By G. WV. M. Reynolds. The scene of this  laneous receipts and directions relative to
atory is laid in the east. The author's descriptive  wifery.  Price......................
powers is shown in love passages which are sweet-
ly and pathetically written. In the use of lan-!HOW  to Cook     and   how    to   C
guage there is great readiness and felicity. Alto-  Giving plain and easily understood direct
gether it is an attic active romance, in which the  preparing cooking and serving with the
interest of the reader is pretty well kept up to  economy every-kind of dish; also, howt
the end. The sequel to this story will be found  all kinds of meat, poultrj, game and fish.
in Catharine Volm'ar. Price............$0 50        Price....................-- - - -  -.
- tatharine      Volmar :     or   a   Father's Lionel Jocelyn. By Pierce Egai
Vengeance. By G. W. M. Reynolds. A tale of the  quel to "Love me, Leave me not," by ti
Russian Empire, andi the only rival of the famous author. A Tale of' Real Life. It is th
Count Monte Christo. It is full of deep intricacy  and in the opinion of Literary Critics, th
of plot, and will be read by all, and pronounced  Pierce Egan's works. Price..........
a first class work of fiction.  Concluded in the
White Lady.   Price...................$0 50 Count de Mailly.           By Alexand
inns.  Sequel to "Olygma of Cleves.'
The White       Lady.      By    G. W. M.        book is acknowledged by all who have r
Reynolds.. A romance of love and war. A story  be the best Tale of Romantic Fiction e
that engrosses the readers attention from the first  ten. Price.................----.....
to the last page. A tale of the sensational order
and well illustrated. Sequel and conclusion of Barnaby, the Sand-hier ; or th
Catharine Volmar.  Price..............$0 50, ter's Ruse. By Dr. J. H. Robinson. Ti
Iof this author have always been eagerl
Wagner : or the        Wehr Wrolf.     By   G.   after and have met with unprecedented s
W. M. Reynolds. The scene of this story is laid  Price....................--.....
in Germany, and is undoubtedly the author s most
exciting romance. Complete.   Price....$0 501The Orphan       of Gharney-        B
aagaret Blount. A Story of our own tin
ast Life in London and Paris; or the            surpasses in absorbing frciratio, any pa
Adventures of the Marquis f Waterford. Racyvwritten. Certain it is, that a bitter Rom
narrative.  Price..  ..   _...... .$025         not appeared for many years. lbice....
- Copies of the ahove books sent to any address in the United States, free of postage,
Seed Cash ordLrs to Frederric A. Brady Publishwr' No. 22 Ann Street, New- irk.

miscel-
Hou 5
arve.
ions for
greatest
to carve
.$0 25
n. Se-
he same
e latest,
e best of
$0 50
re Dti-
This
ead it, to
ver writ.
$0 50
he Plan-
he books
y soug h
iccess..
$0 25
y Mar.
mes, 8nld
ges ever
ance has
$9 25

12

Ui

,_.,,

Ix   _
,'
.
;y ,
'i 3  ,
qtr
t.
x:
' .
t
F
s.
I
a

i  i
. ,.

I
4::
.x cr


14                  FREIJERIC A. BRAD
1dfMb   in  th   Saddle, or the       Cavalry
Scout. By Ned Buntline, ateof the First Regi-
ment, New-York nimunted Rifles Illustrations by
Darley The author in his preface dedicates this
work to Jij old comrades of the First New-York
Mounted Rifles, and the Eleventh Pennsvlvnama
Cavalry, illustrating, as it does, many of the most
exciting scenes through which both regiments
passed in the campaign on the Black water and in
the vicinity of Norfolk and Petersburg. The sto-
iy is written in Ned Buntline's best style, and is a
most graphic, exciting, and thrilling portraiture of
the scenes and incidents of an eventful campaign.
Mailed free of postage on receipt of price..$ 0 25
Guy    Ravenel, or how        will it end.--A
Tale of New-York, twenty years ago. By Arthur
M. Grainger. Illustrations by Dam lev. Mr. Gr an-
ger the author has a peculiar ly forcible and pictu.
resque pen, and such a one as must be requisite
for the revealment of those startling and romantic
episodes of life in the heart of a grett city, which
are not wanting when sought out as matter for the
subtle web of the romancer. A metropolis like
New-York cannot be other than a vast arena it
which all the fern id passions of human nature, its
loves, and its hates, its pride and humility are con-
tantly contending, and the glittering sparks which
fly off from this friction are canglit by the ready
pen, and combined in the mazy webs of plots and
counterplots. Mailed free of postage on reeipt of
price,............................$ 0 25
Jack Mizzen, or the Mysterious Cruiser.
By An Old halt. This well-known and talented
author needs no encomium; those who have read
his works know that they are compiled from the
author's personal experience, and cannot be sur-
passed in truthful depiction and interesting mci-
dents. Mailed free of postage on receipt of tle
Price..............................$0 25
Iollow    Ash Hal], A Tale of a Hannted
House. By Margaret Blonnt. This book abounds
in thrilling adventures and surpising incidents
which those having a taste for the superinatural
will know hoW to appreciate. This elhgant work
has not been surpassed by any of th.s taliited
and charming authoress' best fff'rts.  A u'lor c f
"A Dangerous Woman." " Orphan of Charnley,"
"Downe Reserve," " Kitty Atherton." Mfa ileg
free of postage on receipt of price.......$0 25
&amp;bylla Joy, Qr the Myseries of the
Brown Stone house. By Dr. J. H. Robinson.-
illustrations by Darky. This new work by the
above popular author will delight those who are
fond of striking incidents and interesting denou-
rments, and is one of the hest of his works yet
published. Mailed free of postage on the receipt
Price..............................$0    25
Sadia, a Heroine of the Rehel!ion.      A tale
of this war, founded on facts with real characters.
By Ned Buntline. Illustrations by Darley. This.
story more accurately and truthfully depicts the
stirring scenes and incidents of the present war
than any other tale of the American Rebellion'
ihat has yet been published. Mailed free of post-
4ge oR receipt of price............$O   25

Y'S CATALOGUE.

Noll Darker, or the Ghost of Blidk Al
ley.   By Dr. J. H. Robinson.   Ilb.strations by
D irley. Those who have read "Good-for-notk.ing
Dick,"  " Scotto the Scout,'' " Cepherine," and
.otier popular Tales from the pen of the satme c'e}i
ebrate'd Author need no word of commen'tation of
this new tale to induce them to hai~its appearance
with extreme delight ; suuice it to say that " Null
Dark-er" is a Romance of the first class, and is a
wot thy predecessor of the series of brilliant Tales
by the best n riters of the age which characterize
the series so favorably known a the " ME CURY
- SroRIES." Mailed free of postage on receipt of
Price...................   ...........0  25
A Marriage of Mystery, or the Lost
Bride.  By Lady Cla      Catvendish', author of
" \oman of the Worl," " Li-a,' ' The Divorce"
" The Finlien Star,"r'' Margm e?,"  etc. 'This is
one of the mast charming and instructive novels
this talented author has puoln:el. Let all who
would enjoy a rare in'IleenrnrI treat read t'lhi9
book. Mailed free of posiage on receipt of fY %
price,..............................:   0  50
Fanny De Lacy, or T'he Clmdestine
Manringe.   By Ellen \Vd alec. The Clandestiina
Martige possesses a very high o:der of merit ta
a novel. Its scenes are Full of thriling interee: ;
its characters are persons who at once engage cir
feelings; and its good sty le and execution ma
chaste and finished. It is the besf novel we havre
read for months.  Mailed free of postage on 7
ceipt of price.....................0 50
'Downe Res 'rve. or The Mystery at
Wish ing Well. By Margaret Bliunt. Illustrated
by Darley.  The nndes of this really charming
and delithtfrl tale enjoy a tih treat.  Of all the
pOpu'ar and attraictive stories by the same sncceis-
ful author there is not one that eqlrs the faciia,-
ting interest which clihmiarteizs Downe Reserre.,
Mfailedfree of hostage on receipt of price, $0 50
Nellie, or The Copn;mactins ci the      Chain.
By Fairfax Dalf cur, Eq.  With 15 full-page il.
lustrattions form lesions by Di rey. One of the
most engrossin 1 covebs we Inye token up for some
time.  It beats t^e iimnress of a master-hand, and
gives evidence c".. deep knol  e of thre human
heart. It contain ,s q great deal of muost interest-
ing reading; beng o')  of the most extensive
books d this cln'-- cx.t;iniuirr two hundred aid
ninety-three pages of c'o.'e v p}!i ntel matter.
N  iled free of p' lage os re,'t;r"?t of price, $0 7
SPECIAL             O TICE
If yon .o no; see th     3ok you want
il this s &amp;talgnie, do not on0 tiet account decline
senring to FREDERIC A. Bay'r, No. 22 Ann-st.,
New- ok  for it. He will send yon any Booki
you want -ar in fact anything eb.eL, from a needle
to a Steam- -nug'ine. *Enclose t'he money for the
Book or article you may require ro the above ad.
dress. and sig  y ur Name, Town n.i I State, anid
you will receive by return of mail et express, the
Bock or Article you desire.
le sure and address
Frederic A              ,
No. 22 Ann-st., N. Y.

I

I.

'.
-
;
s
t
1
i ,;

r
"'


                                                   
             
         
       
   
