
    ----CITATION----
        Johnston, Richard Malcolm, (1822-1898). Georgia Sketches .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6904
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Georgia sketches 
            
               i  t  4  MFF "n  ,  7s~h _  V
_EIIE
0~ '' 1 l\ ;S

iItow i. i~1LJ. 1IJJA [S f1'( ))F1iCTII I: vE8Pt$i~LT
:ii    P hA.       ) tI1, E )VtLi AND 'iTI1.E V K ANR1LLI1

RECOLLECTIONS OF AN OLD 1YiAN'
I feite t iese i  tohe to afl who will pay mte the com}4i le~nt tO 'ea "EI them

r   a fr r
* F )I E
Ii

~CTN  £&amp;~J

e
i                                 ,
..        ,.
,     .
- -- --"------- ---"---- - -..._._ ... a 9Fw  -

1 ,4.

.!
1
t
ti Yt
e
I  ,
Z
I

V

C0

I
I
4
I
l
I
t
t
f .
i,

t
ii ; i'
r"   Y
. i'
r

r  I
.+  I


y  r  ,   r 1  i /  'rI *" F 1  yF(
1'  /  T1  " r M ,trF r
1'  -/ . }6$'     '

j.
r

'
74' 4

/'#6~6) 7"
2
'
I
~V1~2~ 62

A GEORGIA SCHOOL IN THE OLD TIlES.

9fi

CHAPTER I.

I have written these Sketches for the sake of the entertainmeft
there was in thus employing some oftthe time iii which [ had noth-
ing else to do. I am now going to publish them, because I trust
they will impart to otliers, assuredly not the same amount, but
enough to frave me excused, both for the writing and for the pub-
lishin g. I am willing that this -be thought an apology instead of a
preface ; and if it be not a sufficient one, it is as great, I insist, as a

man at my time of life ought to be expected to make.

P. P.

P. S.   I trust that those who have pd either of the first two of
these stories, (the former in Porter's Spirit of the Times, the latter in
the ie 1dand fireside,) will not seriously object to see them again
~ . andi in this present form.  .

l4

'V

"You callthis education, do you not
Why 'tis the forced march of a herd of bnloeks
Before a shouting drover."
Booxs !-There is nothing terrible in this simple word. -On the
contrary, it is a most harmless word. It suggests quiet and contem-
plation, and though it be true, that books do often produce agit a' .
tions in the minds of men, and in the state of society itself-some,"
times even effecting great revolutions-yet, the simple enunciation,
of the word, it would seem, could never be adequate to the production
of even the smallest amount of excitement. As little would it seem,
mn looking upon it from any point of view into which one could get
one's self, to be capable of allaying excitement and producing the
most sudden and perfect stillness. I never could exactly tell why
it is, that as often as I have read of the custom in England, of read-
ing the Riot Act, during the progress of a riot, and begun to wonder
how such an exercise was available in quelling it, my mind has
recurred to the incidents aLout to be narrated, and been made at
last, however reluctantly, o admit that the reading of the Act
aforesaid, might be as proper a thing as could be done on such an
oceasiou. For there was one point of view, or rather a point of
hearing, from which one could observe the above last mentioned
phenomenon produced by. the utterance of the word which begins
this story, twice a day for five days in a week  It was the word of
command with which Mr. Israel Meadows was wont to announced
the pupils of the Gooepond school-house, the opening of the eehooI
morning and afternoon.  o-                                           /

 .\-'

9

{, M' q,
s L

,l,


%.  4

HUMOROUS TALES.

The Goosepond was situated in one of the counties of Middle
Georgia,-on the edge of an old field, with original oak and hickory
woods on three sides, and on the other a dense pine thicket.-
Throgh this latter there lay a path which led to the school from a
neighboring planter's house where Mr. Meadows boarded. The
schol'hquse itself,, a rude hut built of logs, was about one hundred,
and twenty yards from this thicket, at the point where the path
emerged from it.
Onecold, frosty morning, near the close of November, about twenty
oys ul grls; 'were assembled as usual at the Goosepond, waiting
tfor h. w;e '    Co both sexes were studying their lessons and
some were playing--the boys at bull-pen, the girls at jumping the rope
but all of them, with one exception-those studying and those
playing, the former, though, the most eagerly---were watching the
outh of the path at which the master was expected. Those
yng were the most anxious :The players seemed to think the
feworth the candle; though the rope jumpers jumped with their
faces' toward the thicket ; the boys invariably ran to the corner
nearest to it when they were about to throw the ball, and looking
behind a moment, would instantly turn and throw it at his man in
the opposite direction. The students, they walked to and fro before
the door, allstudying aloud, and apparently exhibiting the greatest
anxiety to transfer the secrets of knowledge which the books con-
tained into their little heads. There was: one boy in particular whose
eagerness for the acquisition of knowledge seemed to amount to a
most violet passion. He was a raw-boned boy of fifteen years,
with very light, coarse hair, and a freckled face. He wore a round-
about and pants of worn walnut dyed homespun, an old sealskin
cap and red brogans, without socks. He had come up after all the
others had gotten there. He lived three miles and a half from the
school-ho\1se, and walked the way forth and back every day. He
came up shivering acid studying, performing'both of these apparently
inconsistent operations with 'great violence.
'lallo, Erinckly t' shouted half a. dozen boys. "Got in in time
this morning, eh ? ha I ha I Why you aretoo' soon, my'boy. le

I

1i
I '

HUMOROUS TALES.

5

won't be here for a carter of an hour yet. Come and help us out
with the bill-pen. Now, look at him, got that eternal jography, and
actily a studyin it, an he nigh an in about friz. Put the book down an
go an warm yourself a bit, and come an take Bill Jones' place.--
Its his day to make fires. Come, we've got the inses.'
This last was addressed by the 'one exception' above mentioned
a large, well-growh, square-shouldered boy, eighteen years old,
named Allen Thigpen. Brinckly Glisson paid no attention to the
invitation; but came on up shivering and studying, and studymg
and shivering: and just as he passed Allen he announced the i:w-
ing proposition.
'A-an emp-pi-re is a e-c-ountry ge-ge-overned by an' e-emperor'.
Now ordinarily, the announcement of this proposition, one wyivld
think would be entirely incapable to excite any uncommon amount
of risibility. It contains a simple truth and expresses it in simple
. terms. And yet, so it was, that Mr. Allen Thigpen burst into a roar
of laughter; and as if she understood that the proposition had been
submitted to him for ratification or denial answered
'Well, Brinckly, spozen it is. Who in the dickens said it were'nt "?
I didn't; did you, Sam Pate?'
'Do what'?' asked Sam, pausing in the act of throwing the ball.
'Did you say that a empire want a-what Brinc kly said it was?'
'I did'nt hear what Brinckly said it was,'
Allen strode up behind Brinckly and looking over his shoulder
said slowly, 'A country governed by an emperor.'
:&amp;No, I never said nothin about it; and I don't know nothing about
it; nur I don't keer nothin about it neither.' And away Went the
ball, but Sam had thrown it too suddenly, after looking towards the
mouth of the path, and he missed his man,
Allen laughed exceedingly at this efort at humor. But Brinkly
did not even notice the. interruption. H walkedto nd  r  and
shivered and studied. He bowed to the book;- he dug into it;- he
grated his teeth, not*e anger, but in his eagerness to get what was
in it; he tried to fasten it in his head, whether or not, by alghtl

3

j '

"


hanging the words, and making them, as it were, his own to cm
sid.
'An'yempire,' said he fiercely, but not over loudly, 'is a ke-uney
geuverned by an ye-emperor.'
'And what is a ye-emperor, Brinekly ?' asked Allen, and he
{anghed again.
'Oh Allen, pleasago awayband let me alone. I almost had it.
You know Mr. Meadows will beat me if I don't get it ; you know h
loves to beat me any how. Do let me alone ; it sorter begins to
come to me now.' And he went on shivering and studying, and
shiveringly announcing, among other things, that, .an y-empire was
a ke-untry ge-uverned by -an ye-emperor,' emphasising each one of
the polysyilables in its turn ; sometimes stating the proposition
slowlyand cautiously, and rather interrogatively, as if half inclined
to doubt it; at others asserting it with alvehemence which showed
it to be his settled conviction that it was true, and that whoever
deuUed it, knew nothing about the subject.
Allen Thigpen turned from him' and walked to where a rosy..
peeked little fellow, of eight years, was sitting on a stump with a
spelling book in his lap, and a pin in his right hand with which lh
dotted every fourth word, after reciting the following :
'Betsy Wiggins.' '
'ieneritter Bangs.
'Mandy Grizzle.
'Mie! (dot) a-ig-htlight-alight'
Betsy Wiggins-
'ieneritter Bangs.
Mandy Grizzle.
'Mine't do de l-i-g-h-t light-delight ;' and so on.
'I yi, my little Mr. Asa,' said Allen, 'and spozin Betsy Wiggins
misses her word, or Heneritter Bangs hern, er Mandy Grizzle Bern,
then who's goin to spell em, I want to know? And what'll you give
me,' continued Allen, placing his rough hand witiMionical fondness
+m the child's bead, 'what'll you give me not tartell Mr. Meadows
ouve been gittin your own words ?'
'Ah  len, please don't,'

~UMO~WT.ALJ.

1   :. L. u41
P yR, ;+
- yi 1^
,x
t
' " t
gg
t4 P''
r 4 a
,,wfa', kyp
.  y  5 J y5'
yEEkj???.

7

'Whatl1 you give me ?
Twenty chestnut' And the little fellow dived into his pockets,
p, counting out twenty, handed them to Allen.
'Got any more?' asked Mr. Thigpen, cracking one with his teeth.
'Oh, Alien, please don't take em all,
Out with em, you little word gitter. A boy that picks out words
ai-. liable to eat che nuts.'
Asa disgorged to the last one. Allen ate one or two, lookig
queically into the child's face, and then handed the rest back to
ak.
'Thke your chetnuto, Asa Boatright, and eat em. If ever I git to
be as feared of a human as you and Brinkly Glisson is of Isrel
Meadows, drot my hide if I don't believe I will commit sovicide on
ysel    ysm onmyse by cutting my own throat.'
'Yes,' answered Asa, 'you can talk so because you arq a big boy,
and you know he's afraid of you. If you was as little as me, you
would be as afraid of him as me. If I never git a man'-the little
fellow was about to continue whimpering, but suddenly chec king
bimseli lhe took his pin and mumbled :
'Betsy Wigg ins.
'Heneritter Bangs.
Mandy Grizzle.
'Mine'! he resumed his interestIng and ingenious occupation of
dotting every fourth word. Brinckly had overheard Allen's taunt
and closing his book, after a pause of a few seconds, he walked
straight up to him and said :
'Allen Thigpcn, I am no more afraid of hih than you are; 4or
than I am of you. I aint waiting to git to be a man to pay him
back for the beating he has given me. Do you think that's what
aakes me stand what I do? If you do, you are much nistaken.
Allen, I'm try ing all the time hard to keep down on mother's
account. I've told her of some of his treatment to me, and that I
woid'nt staid it;. and she's always crying and teling me she is to
an xious for me to git an education, and that its my only chance;
and it does seem it would nigh and in aou.t kll her if I wa tp

,
. .-,
,:, --;s
,  ,_,-
,_

_

"

4  r


IpY

HUMOROUS TALES.

t
 '
"2::

xV  f
} r-
aY u
ryi'' {L F i
i
i
.x

1ose it, that I have been trying all I could to git the lessons, and to
keep from fighting hirn when he beats me ; and I could git em if I
had a chance. But the fact. is, I aint got on far enough in reading
to have been put in this jography ; and he's just put me in it before
I learnt to read right, just to git out of mother th e extra pay for
jography; and I can't git it. and I have'nt learnt anything since I
have been put into it; and, Allen Thigpen, I am not going to stand
it much longer, nor I aint going to pay you ,chestnuts not to tell
him 'I said so neither.'
'Hooraw!' shouted Allen, 'give me your hand, Brinkly.' In a
lower tone he continued, 'By jiugo, I thought it was in you. I seen
you many a time when, thinks I to myself, it would'nt take much to
make Brinkly Glisson fight you old fellow.' Then taking him a little
way off, he whispered, 'you've stood enough already,,and too much,
too. My blood has biled many a time when he's been a beating
you. Don't you stand it no longer. Ef he beats you again, pitch
into him. Try to 'ride him from the ingoin. He can maul you I
expect, but look at this,' and Allen raised his fist, about the size of a
mallet.'
Brinkly looked at the big fist and brawny arm, and smiled dis-
mally.
'BooKs!' shouted a voice, and Mr. Israel Meadows emerged, from
the'thicket with a handfull of hickory switches.
In an instant there was a rushing of boys and girls into the
house-all except Allen, who took his time. .Asa Boatright was the
last of the others to get in. He had changed his position from the
stump, and was walking, book in hanti, apparently all-absorbed in
its contents, though his eye was on the schoolmaster, whose notice
he was endeavoring to attract. Book"in hand, he bowed and digged
and dived, until, as the master drew near, he weariedly looked up,
and seeing him quite unexpectedly,..gave one more profound dive into
his book and darted intothe house.r
It was a iule at the xoosepond, that the scholars should all be in
anfd aheir... seats when Mr  eadows arrived. His wont was to
shout 'Books fiomthe-mouth of the path,then to walk with great

HUMOROUS TALES.

8 '

I

9

rapidity to the house, Woe to the boy or girl who was ever too late,
unless it happened to be Allen Thigpen. He had, some months
before been heard to say that ding any sich rule, and he was'nt
going to break his, neck for Israel Meadows nor nobody else; and
so he was wont to take his time. If he got in behind the master,
which frequently happened, that gentleman was kind enough not
to notice it--an illustration of an exception ta the goo d discipline of
country school-masters, which was quite common in the times " in
which Mr. Meadows lived and flourished.
On this occasion, when Mr. Meadows saw Allen, knowing that
the gait at which himself was walking would take him into the house
before Allen would get in, he halted a little, and taking a step or
two, stooped, and, having untied one of his shoestrings, tied it again
While this operation       Q was going on, Allen went in. Mr. Meadows
rising immediately, struck fnto a brisk walk eas if to a Mefos
his delay, and then entered into the scene of his daily triumphs.
But before we begin the day's work, let us inquire who this Mr.
Meadows was and whence he came.
CHAPTER II.                 .
Mr. Israel Meadows was a man thirty-five or forty years of age,
five feet ten inches in height, with a lean figure, dark complexion,
very black and shaggy hair and eyebrows, 8:nd a grim and forbidding
expression of countenance. Tu      t   of training the youthful
mind 'and leading it to the mountains of wisdom, as delightful and
interesting as it is, was not in fact Mr. Meadows' choice, when, on
arriving at manhood's estate, he looked around him for a career in
which he might the most surely develop and advance his being in
this life. Indeed, those who had been the witnesses of his youth and
young manhood, and of the opportunities which he had been favored
withal for getting instruction for himself, were no little surprised
when they heard that in the county of   , their old acquaintence
had undertaken, and was in the actual'prosecution of the profession
of a schoolmaster. About one hundred miles from the Goosepond,
was the spot which had the honor of giving him  lrth. In a cot-
tage on one of the roads leading to the city of. Augusta, there' had

7'


itioxOvThTAU~A.

lived a coupe who cultivated a farm, end traded 'with the wagoners
of those days by bartering, for money and groceries, corn, fodder,
potatoes, and such like commodities. It wae a matter never fully
accountabl how it Was, that Mr. Timothy Meadows, during al1
seasons, had corn to sell. Drought or drench affected his crib alike
That is, they did not affect it at all. When a wagoner wished to
buy eorn, Timothy Meadows generally, if not always, bad a little to
spare. People used to intimate sometimes that it was mighty cuious
that some folks could always have corn to sell, while other olks
could'nt. Such observations were ipade in reference to no individual
in particular, but were generally made by one farmer to another,
when, perchance, they'had just ridden by Mr. Meadows' house while
a wagoner's team was feeding at his camp. To this respectable couple
there had been born only one offspring, a daughter. Miss Clary
Meadows had lived to the age of twenty-four, and had never, within
the knowledge of any of the neighbors, had the first beau. if to the
fact that her father's always having corn to sell, without his neighbors
knowing exactly how he came by it, had to a considerable extent
discouraged visiting between their families and his (though it must
be owned that this was not the fault of the Meadowses, who had re-
peatedly, in spite of their superior fortune, shown dispositions to
cultivate good' neighborhood with all the families around) if to this
fact be added the further one, that Miss Clary was bony, and, in no
respect, possessed of charms likely to captivate a young gentleman
who had thoughts upon marriage, it ought not to be very surprising
that she had, thus far, failed to secure a husband. Nevertheless'
Miss Meadows was eminently affable when in the society of such
gentlemen of the wagoners who paid her the compliment to cal
upon her in the house. So that no person, however suspicious'
would have concluded from her manner on such occasions, that her
prolonged state of single blessedness was owing to any prejudice to,
'he opposite *.
It is a remarkable thing-.whether in physiology or psychology,
do really not know-how often, not only the traits of cbaragter, and
the lineaments of form in parents are inherited by their, children, but

7k
+r   {, .
}dr
y kif;f
Cign
'k
xs"
, .
'r     j:
'. -
i '   ;
sl L _ft
j(  \
r tr
f  r a:
y ',
p .si
5    :i.
Y-- z t,
vi.     '
f y"'=
."
-
T ,Q +
f
i  '
.-
j
i jtdK
ney 43;
i . 17 (t.
'.   lr
. '  fE i
_ . .-
E,''Ft
k   ''
,n
}[t
i'   '
}}}"  f
'    i
s .n ,
i' t;,
,  ,  , .

10

4

1i

i{

nrMciJ c cTJ  TALi.i!"

their very habits and ways, and even the good luck and bad huck of their
#ves. We have seen how that Mr. Meadows was wont to have corn to
sell at all seasons, while nobody ever knew how he got it. Strange and
unaccountable as this wa's, it was not more strange and unaccountable
than a fact which, about this period of Miss Olary's life, transpired
in her fortunes. To make short a long matter, Miss Clary had a
baby ; and in reference to this same baby, as to how he came there,
there has been no more definite information-yea, even to this day-
than as to how three-fourths of the corn which Timothy Meadows sold,
found its way into his crib.
Israel, the baby---another thing uncommon with children--took the
name of his mother. The class of children of which he was an in-
dividual, are wont to have no names except such as they can acquire
by reputation. Generally, we know, society gives to the young the
names of their fathers; and by good rights, Israel ought to have borne
another name than Meadows. Yea, doubtless, he would have done s'
if it had ever been possible for him to have found his father.
But if he ever went out upon that laudable and pious pursuit, it is
certain that he failed in the prosecution of it. And so society, being
no more successful than himself, pronounood him in legal terms nul2iue
jiJus, which was asserting in so'many words, that he never had a
father, and considering Miss Clary as solely responsible for his coming
ito the world, it gave him her name after he got here.
There were many interesting occurrences in the early life of Israel
which, it would be foreign to the purpose of this history to relate. It is
tough to say, that he grew up under the eye and training of his grand-
father, and soon showed that some of the traits of that gentleman's charao.
ter were in no danger of being lost to society by atfhiluro of reproduction,
In process of time. Mr. and-Mrs. Meadows were gathered to their
fathers, and Miss Clary, yet unmarried, had become the proprietress
af the cottage and the farm. Israel had the luck of the Meadowses to
be always able to sell corn to the wagoners. But unluckily the secret
which lay hidden in euch profundity during the lifetime of his grand-
father, of how this wonderful faculty existed, did about six months
' reviuflp to the period when he was introduced to the 2e' der, trati-


HUMOROUS TALES.

HUMOROUS TALES.

spire--a circumstance which would induce one to suspect, in spite of
the declaration of the law in such case made and provided, that there
was something in the blood of Israel which was not all Meadows.-
One Saturday night, a company of the neighbors on patrol, found a
negro man issuing from the gate of Miss Meadows' yard with an
empty meal bag. Having apprehended him, they had given him not
more than a dozen stripes with a cowhide, before he confessed that he
just carried the bag full of corn to Israel from his master's corn crib.
The company immediately aroused him, informed him what the slave
had confessed, and although he did most stoutly deny any and all
manner of connection With the matter, they informed him that they
should not leave the premises until they could go and get a search
wgrent from a neighboring magistrate, by which, as their spokes-
man, a shrewd man said; they could identify the corn. This was a
ruse to bring him to terms. -Seeing his uneasiness, they pushed on,
and in a careless manner proposed, that if he would leave the neigh-
borhood by the next Monday morning, they would forbear to prose.
cute him for this as well as many similar offences, his guilt of which
they intimated they had abundant proof to establis h. Israel was
caught ; he =reflected for a few moments, and then, still however,
asserting his innocence, but declaring that he did'not wish to reside
iii a community where he was suspected of crime, he expressed his
resolution to comply with their demand. He left the next day.
Leaving his mother, he set out to try his fortune elsewhere, intend-
ing by the time that the homestead could be disposed of, he would
remove with her to the west. But determining not to be idle in the
meantime, after wandering abut for several days in search of em
ployment, it suddenly occurred to him one night, -fter a day's travel
that would endeavor to get a school for the remainder of the
year.                                   .     . ~
Now, Israel's education had been somewhat neglected. Indeed,
he had never been to school a day in his whole life. But he had at
1ome, under the'-tuition of his mother, been taught reading and
writing, and his grandfather had imparted to him som*  wleage r e
of arithmetic.

But Mr. Israel Meadows, although not a man of great learning, was
a great way removed from being a fool. He had a considerable
amount of the wisdom of this world, which comes to a man from
other sources besides books. He was like many other men in one
t respect. He was not to be restrained from taking office by the
pF      consciousness of parts inadequate to the discharge of its duties.
This is a species of delicacy which, of all others, is attended by
fewer practical results. Generally the most it does, is to make its
owner confess with modesty, his unfitness for the office, with a he
''had hoped some. worthier and better man had been chosen,' and'
then take it. Israel wisely reflected, that with a majority of man-
kind, the only thing necessary to establish for oneself a reputation of a
fitness for office, is to run for it and to get into it. A wise reflection
indeed ; acting on which, many men have become great in Georgia,
and, I doubt not, elsewhere, with nopother capital than the adroit-
ness or the accident which placed them  in office. He reflected
further, and as wisely as before, that the office of a schoolmaster in
a country school was as little likely as any he could think of, to
furnish an exception to the general rule. Thus, in less than six
-    weeks from the eventful Saturday night, with a list of school articles,
which he had picked up in his travels, he had applied for and had
obtained, and had opened the Goosepond school, and was professing
to teach the children spelling, reading and writing at the rate of a
dollar a nionth ; and arithmetic and geography, at the advanced rate
of a dollar and a half.
Such. were some of Mr. Meadows' antecedents.
CHAPTER III.
It was the custom of the, pupils in the Goosepond, as in most of
the other country schools of those times, to study aloud. Whether
the teachers thought that the mind could not act unless the tongue
was agoing, or that the tongue agoing was the only evidence that
the mind was acting, it never did appear. Such had been the cus-
tom, and Mr. Meadows.did not aspire to be an innovator., It was
his rule, however, that there should be perfect silence on his arrival,
o give him an opportunity of saying or doing anything he might

12

I

r

13

f

I

'

?Si s           '
5i                    t
" f
i
i

4
4
r
r
F
}}S'
k
'
of
Fr
,  ,
} }yyyy  I
1
g ,
ri
t,
5^
i
i,
}  .
tit
S

Y                            l
51                           t
.    x          _.  ._

I: r


'N

14

IiU3(OROST AWF.

wish. This morning there did not seem to be anything on his mini
whieh required to be lifted off. HEo, however, looked at Brinckly
Glisson with some disappointment of expression. He had beaten
him unmercifully the morning before, for not having gotten there ino
time, though the boy's excuse was that he had gone a mile- out of hihs
way on an errand for his mother. lie looked at the boy as if he had
expected to have had some business, with him. which now unexpet-
edly had to be postponed. He then looked around over the school
and said :
.Go to studying '
It was plain, that in that house, Mr. Meadows had been in the habit
of speaking but to command, and of commanding but to be obeyed. fn-
stantaneously was heard then and thero, that unintelligible tumult, the
most invariable incident of the country schools of that generation.
There were spellers and readers ; geographers and aritlimeticians, all
engaged in their several pursuits, in the most inexplicable confusion.
Sometirhes the spellers would have the heels of the others, and
sometimes the readers. The geographers were always third d,, and
the aritmeticians always behind. It was very plain to be seen that
these last never would catch the others. The faster they added or
subtracted, the oftener they had to rub out and commence anew. It
was always but a short time before they found this to be the case,
and so they generally concluded to adopt the maxim of the philos
opher, of being slow in making haste. The geographers were a
little faster, and a little louder. But the spellers and' readers had it,
I tell you. Each speller, and each reader went through the whole
gamut of sounds, from low up to high, and from high down to low
again ; sometimes by regular ascension and descension one note at
a me, sounding what musiciains call the chromatic intervals ; at
other tiuies, goin' up and coniing down upon the perfect fifths.
only. Oh.! it was so refreshing to see the passionate eagerness
which these urchins manifested for the acquisition of knowledge.
To have sliced out about five seconds of that studying and pub the
words together, would have made a sentence somewhat like the
following :

ggwoto15 TALES.                    IU)
)-d-e- twice e-an c-three r-ding-i-two l-v-old. My seven viii times
S de4cru-i-l coin-g-f-is man osix-h-nin-four ni-h-eight eat p-c-a-t-r ten
= e1'ht i ea-light i.light x tween-by-tions fix de-a-bisel-oru-fa-cor-a-
light-bisel-rapt-double-fe-good ty-light man era-forn-ner-ci-spressfiX-
Oh,,!'
To have heard them for the first time, one would have been re-
inded of the Apostles' preaching at Pentecost, and it might not
have been difficult to have persuaded a; stranger unused, to such
things that there were then and there spoken the languages of the
Parthians and Medes, Elamites and the dwellers h- Mesopotamia,
and in Judea and Cappadoei ;- in Pontus and Asia; Phrygia and
Parophylia ; in Egypt and in the parts of Syria about Cyrene ; and
strangers of Rome, Jews and Prossylites, Cretes and Arabians.
Sometimes these cloven tongues would subside a little, when it
might be half a dozen would stop to blow; but in a moment more,
the chorus would swell again in a new and livler ac crescendo.--
'When this process had gone on for half an ho;r, Mr. Malows lifted
tm his voice and shouted 'SILENcE,' and all was still.
Now were to commence the recitations, during which, perfect
u'euce was required. For as great a help to study as this jargon
was, Mr. Meadows found that it did not contribute any aid to the
doing of his work.
He now,performed a feat which he had never performed before in
exactly that manner. He put his hand behind the lappel of his
o at-collar for a moment, and thqjn, after withdrawing it and holding
Q. it up, his thumb and forefinger joined together, he said :
'There is too much fuss here. I'm going tQ drop this pin, and I
shall whip every single one of you little boys that don't hear it when
it falls. Thar '
'I heered it Mr. Meadows. I heerod it, Mr. Meadows,' exclaimed
simultaneously, five or six little fellows.
'Come up here you little raseals ; you are a liar1' Etaid he to each
'se. 'I never drapped it; I never had nary one to, drap. It just
,"k  shows what liars you are. Set down and wait a while, I'll show you
low to tell me lies.!

9

U

r
ti
yt      tx                   f.
,,
'


4

6.

HUMOROUS TALES.

The little liars slunk to their seats. and the recitations comn-
menced. -Memory was the only faculty of mind that underwent the
smallest development at this school. Whoever could say exactly
what the book said was adjudged to know his lesson. 'About half
of the pupils on this inorning were successful. The other half were
found to be delinquent: Among these was Asa Boatright's class.
That calealatirg young gentleman ;knew his words and. fet safe.
The class had spelled around three or foui' times, when, lo ! the
contingency which Allen Thigpen had suggested, did come to pass,
Betsy Wiggins missed her word ; Heneritter Bangs, (in the lan-
guage of Alln,) hern, and Mandy Grizzle hernm; and thus responsi-
bilities were suddenly cast upon Asa, ivhibh he was wholly unpre.
pared to meet, and which, from the look of mighty reproach which
hegave each of these young ladies, as she handed over to him her
word, he evidently thought it the height of injustice, that he should
have been called upon to meet. Mr. Meadows, closing the beok,
tossed it to Asa, who, catching it as it was falling at his feet,
turned, and, his eyes swiming with tears, went back to his seat.
As he passed Allen Thigpen, the latter whispered :
'What ditl I tell you? You cheered the pin drap too.'
Now, Allen was in no plight to have given this taunt to Asa. He
had not given five minutes study to 'his arithmetic during the
whole morning, But Mr. Meadows made'a rule, (this one with him-
self, though all the pupils knew it better than any rule he had, never
to allow Allen to miss a lesson ; and as he had kindly taken this
responsibility upon himself, Allen was wont to give himself no trou-
ble about the matter.
Brinkly Glisson was the last to recite. Brinkly was no great
hand at pronunciation. He had been reading but a short. time
when Mr. Meadows advanced him into geography, with the pur-
pose, as Brinkly afterwards came to believe, of getting the half
-        ,dollar extra tuition. This morning he thought he knew his lesson.;
and he did, as he understood it. When called to recite, he went up
with a countenance expressive of wild happiness, handed the book
to Ir. Meadows, 'and putting his hands in his pockets, awaited the
questions. And now it was an interesting sight to see Mr. Meadows.

1TJMOROtTS TALES.

'
.  -s j 
%  f,
C  t",~    F
5 {t  : Y,
-{   _.

17

smile as Brinkly talked of is-lands, and prhmonitaries, thismuses
and hemispheries. The lad misunderstood that smile, and his heart
was glad for the unexpected reception of a little 'coinplacency from
the master. But he was not long in error.
'Is-lands, eh ?. Thismuises, eh? Take this book and see if you
can find any is-lands, and promoniteries ; and then bring them
to me; I want to see them things, I do. Find 'em if you please.'
3rinkly took the book, and it would have melted the heart of any
other man than Israel Meadows to have seen the deep despair of
his heart as he looked on it and Was spelling ovei- to himself th
words as he came to them.
'Mr. Meadows,' he said, in pleading tones, 'I 'thought it was
is-land. Here it is, Il-a-n-d-land : island;' and he looked into his
face beseechingly.
'Is-land, eh? Is-land ! Now, thismuses, ,and promonitaries and
hemispheries -
'Mr, Meadows I did not know how to pronounce them w ords. I
asked you how to pronounce 'em, and you would'nt tell me; and I
asked Allen, and he told me the way I said them.'
'I believe that to be a lie.'
Brinkly's face reddened, and his breathing was fast and hard. He
looked at the master; as but once or twice before during the time he
had looked at him, but made no answer. At that moment Allen
leaned carelessly on his desk, his elbows resting on it, and his chii
on his hands, and said, dryly :
'Yes E did tell him so.'
Mr. Meadows now reddened a little. After a moment's pause,
however, he said
'How often have I got to tell you not to ask any body but me how
to pronounce words? That'll do sir ; set down sir.'
Brinkly went to his seat, and looking gloomily towards the door
a minute or two, he opened his book, but studied it no more.

A


CUAPTIR IV.
Mr. MeadoWes now set about,, what was the aly really pleas ant
portion of his duties, te punishment of offenders. The lawyers tee
as that of the several portions of the law, the ,ivdicatory is the most
inperanti. Thiselement of the Goosepond had been-cultivated so
much,, that it badgrow f t'beoore almost the only ene which was
eonsulted &amp;t all. A for thy  dedla-ratory, and the directory, they were
considered, when clearly understood, as impediments to a iair'show-
ing and proper development of the vindicatory, in so much that
the latter was often, by their means, disappointed of a victim for its
daily food. 'Mr. Meadows used, somtimes when his 4rchins would
not 'miss' or violate any law, to put the vindicatory first, punish an
offender, and declare what he had. done to be an offense, and then
direct him that he had better not do so any more. He seemed to
owe a grudge to society. Whether for its not having give a him a
father, as it had done to every body else, or because it had inter
fered in the peacefulocupation which he had inherited froin his
grandfather, as if to avenge itself on . him for violating one of it
express commands, that he, and such as he, should inherit nothing
from anbody, it did appear. But he owed it, and he delighted in
paying it off by beating those children, each of whom did have, or
had had a father: So, on this morning, by'way of taking up another
instalment on this immense debt, which, like most other debts,
seemed as if it never would get fully paid, he took down his bundle
of hickories from two pegs in one of the logs in the side of the house,
on which he had placed them on his coming in, selected one five or
six feet long, and walking to the middle of the vacant place between
the fire-place and the rows of desks, he 'sat down in his chair and
'Them spelling classes and"reading classes, and them others that's
got to be whipped, all but Sam Pate and Asa Boatright, come to the
circus.'
Five or six boys, and as many girls, from eight to thirteen years
old came up, and sitting down on the front bench, which extended
all along the length of the two rows of desk, and pulling off

HUMOROUS TALES.                    1
their shoes and stockings, the boys rolling up their pants, and the
girls lifting their skirts up to their knees, 'they made a ring around
Mr. Meadows as lie sat in his chair, -and commenced a brisk trot.
They had described two or three revolutions, and Mr. Meadows was
straightening his hickory, when Asa Roatright ran up, and crying
piteously, said .
'Please sir, Mr. Meadows ; please sir, Mr. Meadows, let me go io
the circus !'
Mr. Mea lows rose up, and raised his hickory to strike ; but he
looked at him  a moment amusedly, and pointed to his seat.
went back to it, looking most forlorn. Mr. Meadows, resuming h%
seat, went at once into the exciting part of the exhibition, by to y-
ping the legs as they trotted around him. This was done nat first
very gently, and almost lovingly.- But gradually as the sport
warmed in interest, the rapidity and violence of the blows increased.
The children began to cry out, and then Mr. Meadows struck the
harder, for it was a rule-oh, he was a mighty man for rules, this
Mr. Meadows-that whoever cried the loudest should be hit the
hardest. ie kept up this interesting and exciting amusement, un-
til he had given them about twenty five lashes apiece, ihe most of
themr being easily counted by the stripes. Ie then ceased. They
stopped instantly, walked around him once, then seating themselves
again on the bench, and resuming their shoes aid stockings, they
went to their seats. One girl, thirteen years old, had begged him
to let her keep on her stockings ; but Mr. Meadows was too f1rm a
disciplinarian to allow it. When she returned to the front bench,
she put on her shoes, and taking her stockings up, and putting them
under her apron, she went to her seat and sobbed as if her heart was
broken.
Allen Thigpen looked at her a moment, and then he turned his
eye slowly around and looked at Brinkly Glisson, The latter did
K ~  not notice him. He sat with his hands in his pockets, [and his lips
compressed. Allen knew the struggle that was going on, and he
longed to see how it would end. Mr. Meadows rested three
minutes.


nUoMoUs ALL

It. has no doubt occurred to those who may have been reading
this true story, that it was ,a strange thing in Asa Boatright, who so
well'inew Mr. Meadows' ways, that 'he should have expressed so'
decisive a wish to take part in this last described exhibition, an
exhibition which, however entertaining to Mr. Meadows, as it.doubt
less was, and might 'be to many other persons, placing them in the
attitudes of spectators purely, was not, t te highest degree, agree-
able to one in the attitudewhich Master Asa must have known he
would have been ade to assume, had Mr. Meadows vouchsafed to
have vilded to his request. But Aa awas not   Lby byho was
aeihe  bo U not oue 'who ha1 no care forhis, p' al eieing.
ie hew what e was about.
'8a3n Pate and A a Boatiight,' said .Mr. Meadow , after his ren1
come out here and go to horsin--
Tb'two lads came out. Master Pate gently inclined himself for-
ward, and Master Boatright got upon his back, and locked his arms
around his neck. The former gathering' the latter's legs in his arms,
and drawing as tightly as possible his pants across his middle,
commenced galloping as fast as he could around the area before the
fire-place. Mr. Meadows having taken a fresh hickory; commenced
appplying it with great force and precision to that part of Master'
Boatright's little body, which, in his present attitude, was the
most exposed. Every application of this kind cpused that young
gentleman to scream to the utmost of the strength of his voice, and
even to kickwhich, Master Pate being for the occasion a horse, was-
to understand as the expression of a wish on the part of his rider, that
he should get on faster, and to frisk apd-toprance, and otherwise to
imitate a horse as far as he could in the circumstances. Now, these
circumstances being, that as soon as Mester Boatright should have
ridden him abo t long 'enough, to have become incapacitated from
riding a real horse with even the smallest degree of comfort, they
were to reverse positions, Master Beatright becoming horse and uhiu-
self $,dr, they were hardly sufficient to make him entirely forget
his identity in the personation of that quadruped. He did his best
though in the circumstances, such as they were, and not only

UUMOROUs TALCs.                     21
pranced, but even neighed several times. When Asa was put into
the condition hinted at above, he was allowed to dismounts Sam
having mounted on his back, it was truly stirring to the feeltgto
see the latter kick and the former prance. This was always the
best part of the show. A rule of this exercise was, that when the -
rider should dismount and become the horse, he was to act well his
part, or be made to resume the part of rider, a prospect not at all
agreeable, each one decidedly preferring the part of the horse. Sam
w    bo°t three yenr' oledr  t A' f  r , -   rfmm. heQ ' vht"
.'t
about furiously, but fell several times. Finding that he~ eiikM
no grea things at prancing, he attempted to make up ir 'l -
n ciency by neighing. When Sam cried out and kicked, Asa neighed.
He would stumble against a desk and nigh ; he would run head-
long against the wall and neigh ; he would lift up one, foot and
neigh ; he would put it down, take up the other and neigh; and
then when he would attempt to lift up both feet at once, he would fall
down and neigh. Never 'before had Asa so well acted his part in
the horsin' at the Goosepond. Never before had horse, with such
odds on 'his back, neighed so lustily. Sam screamed and kicked'
Asa pranced and neighed, until at last, stumbling +iolently against
the bench, Sam  let go his hold upon his neck, for fear of breaking
his own, and fell sprawling on his belly under a desk. Mr. Meadows
burst into a paroxysm pf laughter. His soul was satisfied. He gave
up the pursuit and ordered them to their seats. They went to thorn
and sat down upon them with such a graduated declension of body,
as one would knowingly sit withal into a basket of eggs.
CHAPTER V.
After the close of the last performance which Mr. Meadows face-
tieously caed horsin,' he rested about ten minutes. The most in.
teresting, the most delightful, the most inspiriting exercise was yet
to flow. This was the punishment of Brinkly Glisson. It was

~KK


uni"MOEOrs TALES.
strange to see how he delighted in it. He was never so agreeable
at playtime, and in the afternoon, as, when he had beaten Brinkly in
the morning. If he recited his lesson, and there was no other pre-.
text to beat him, Mr. Meadows was sadder and more peevish than usual
during the remainder of the'day, and looked and acted as a man who
felt that he was deeply injured. Now Brinkly was one of the best,
and bravest, and honestest boys in the world. He was the only son
of a widow, who had, at great sacrifice, sent him to Mr. Meadows'
school. He had pitched and tended the crop of a few acres around
her house, and she had secured the promise of a neighbor to he! p
her to gather it when ripe, and thus afforded her son an opportunity
of getting, as she said, ' little schooling. He was the apple of her
eye-the idol of her .heart. He was to her as we always think of
him of whom it is said, 'He is the only son of his mother, and she is
a widow.' The sacrifice she had to make, she made cheerfully; 'for
she loved him as she loved her own soul. And Brinkly had ever re
paid that fond mother's care, by the most constant love and duty.
He soon learned, to read tolerably at the school, and was advanced
into geography in a couple of months. How proud the widow was
when she bought the new geography and atlas, with the proceeds of
the sale' of four pairs of socks; which (sweet labor of love!) she had
knit with her own hands. What a world of knowledge, she thought,
there must be in a book with five times as many pages as a spell-
ing book, and in tiose great red, blue, and pink pictures, covering
a whole page a foot square, and all this knowledge to become the
property ff Brinkly! !But Brinkly soon found that geography was
above has present capacity, and so told Mr. Meadows.- That gen-
tleman received the communication with displeasure ; said that
what was the matter with him was laziness, and that laziness, of all
the qualities whiehla boy had, was the one which he knew best what
.do with.  H then took to beating him. Brinkly, after the lirst
eating, which Was a light one, went home and told his mother of it,
and intimated his intention not to take another. The widow was
sor 1ly disreesed, aid knew not what'to do. On' the one hand was
her grief' to kow her son was unjustly beaten, and his spirit sowed ;
er she knew that he studied all the irme he had, and though unu-

)UIMOROUs TALES.
cated herself, she was not like many other l);11euts of heir day, who
thought that 'the best means to develope the mind, was to heat the
body. But, on the other hand, would be the disappointment ofhis
getting an education if he should leave the school, there being then
no other in the neighborhood. This, thought the poor wonaa, was
the worse horn of the dilemma ;' and so she wept, and begged him ,
as he loved her, to submit to Mr. Meadows. He should have the
more time for study. She would chop the wood and feed the stock.
He should have all the time at home to himself. He could get it
she knew he could. It would coite to him after awhile.
Brinkly yielded ; but how many a hard struggle he'made to con-
tinue that submission, no one knew but he,-not even his mother,
for he concealed from her, as much as he could, the treatment which
4r j     he had received and the -suffering  which he had    endured.
Mr. Meadows could see this struggle sometimes.    He knew
that the boy was not afraid of him. . He saw it in his eye
every time he beat him, and it was this which afforded- him such a
satisfaction to beat him. He wished to subdue him, and he had not
succeeded. Brinkly would never beg nor weep. Mr. Meadows
often thought he was on the point of resisting him; but he knew
the reason why he did not, and while he hated him for it, he trusted
that it would last. Yet, he often doubted whether it would or not, and
thus the matter became so intensely exciting, that he continually
sought for opportunities of bringing it up. He loved to tempt hjm.
He had no doubt but that he could easily manage him in an even
combat; but he did not wish it to come -to that.  He only gloried in
goading him almost to resistance, and then seeing him yield.
Hr    o'eno all seen how the showman adapts himself to
the different animals of the menagerie. How quickly and
sharply he speaks to the lesser animals who jump over his
wand and back, and over and back again, and then crouch in
subnssion as lie passes by. But'when he goes to the lion,
you can scarcely hear his low tones, as he commands him to
friend perform his part, and is not certain, whether the kingr
of the beasts w  do as lie is bidden or not. Doubts like these
were in the mind of Mr. Meadows, when he was about to set
upon Brikly Glisson ;sbut the greater thes9 doubts the more
he enjoyed thie trial. After a short rest fromn the tatigues .of

j


24

Jhe last exercise, darig which he curiously and seriously eyed
the lad, he rose from his seat, paced slowly across the  oo
once or twice, and taking a hickory switch, the longest ofr all
he had, he stopped in the middle of the floor, and in a low
quiet tone, said :
'Brinkly Glisson, come.
Allen had been eyeing Brinkly all the time, since the elos
of $he circus. He saw the conflict which was going on in his
soul, and when Mr. Meadows had burst into  eparoxysm o
laughter, at the uintoward ending of the bhorsin, he thought he
saw that'the conflict was ended:
Slowly and calmly Brinkly rose from his seat, and walked
up nd stood before Mr. Meadows.
y Why, hi!' thought Allen.
tOff with your coat, sir,'-low and gentle, and with a coun-
tenance almost smiling. Brinkly stood 'otionesr  utance
had done so onec or twice before, in similar circumstances,
and at length yielded. 'Off with it, sir,'-louder and not so
gentle. No motion on Brikly's part, not even in his eyes,
which looked steadily into the master's, with a meaning which
he nearly but not quite understood.
Aint' you going to pull off that coat, sir?'
'What for ?' asked Brinkly.
'What for, sir?'
'Yes, sir ; what for?'
*Becausei am going to give you this hickory,.you i -puient
scoundrel; and if you don t pull it off this minute, Igve
you sich a beating' as'll make you feel like you never was
wl:ped before since you was born. Aint yourgoing to pul
it o , sir ?        ,
'No, sir.'hte ul
Allenlwrigged n his seat, nd his face shone as the ull
mo'on. M.Meadows retreated a step, and'ig his ski
two feet from the larger end, he raised that end to strike.
tlop one minute if you Please.'
r. Meadows lowered his arm, and his face siled a tri-
u ph. This wasthe first t  e lrinkly had ever begged. He
cb ekked. Allen looked    pointed.
top, ehi? I yi! This ena looks heavy, does it? Well, I
would'nt besurprised if it war'nt sorter heavy. Will you pull
off your coat noW, sir'

3~JVO~O~A A]h.2

Mr. Meadows, I 'asked you to stop, because I wanted to y
a ew words to you. You have beat me and beat ime, worse
than you ought to beat a dog,' (Allen's face getting right
again;) and God in heaven knows that, in the time that have
come to school to jou, I have tried as hard as a boy ever did,
to please you and get my .lessons. I can't understand that
geography, and I aint been reading long enough to understand
it. I have, asked you to let me quit. Mother has asked you.'
You would'nt do it; but beat me, and beat me, and beat me,
(there: is no telling whether Allen wants to laugh or to cry),'
and now, the more I study it, the more I don't understand it.
I:would have quit school long ago, but mother was so anxious
for me to learn, and made me come. Aid now, I have took
off my coat to you. the last time.' (Ai! now there is a great
tear in Allen's eye,'. 'Listen to me,' (as the teacher's hand
makes a slight' motion,) 'don't strike me, I know I'm  not
learning anything, and your beating aint .going to make me
learn any faster. If you art determined to keep me in this
geography, and to beat me, just say so, and I'll take m hat
and books and go home. I'd like to not come to-day, ut I
thought I knew my lesson. Now, I say again, don'tfor God's
sake, don't str&amp;e me.' And he raised up.both his hands,. pale
and trembling.
It would be impossible to describe the surprise and rage ex-
pressed on the faeon"of Mr. Meadows during the delivery, and
at the close of this little harangue. He oe kc  at 'the Tboy a
moment. His countenance expoesel thl deepest sadness ;
but there was nothing in it lik" r;e  or threatening. It
was simply sad and beseenig. The master raised his switch
and struck with all his might across his shoulders.
'My God!' cried the boy; but in an instant sadness and be-
seeching passed from his face. The long pent up resentment of
his soul shed forth, and the fury of a demon glared from his
eyes.  e was preparing to spring upon Mr. Meadows, when
the latter, by a sudden rush, caught 'm and thrust him back-
ward over the front bench. They bothtumbled on the floor,
between the rows of desks, Mr. Meadows uppermost.
'It's come,' said Allen, quietly, as he rose atd looked down
upon the combatants.
Mr. Meadows attempted to disengage himsir' and ise; but
Brinkly would rise with hin. After several attempts at this,
I  5  '         ,I

4

25

Y'KOt+'i  'TALI.


26               -,    onoRtis m .TALE
Brinkly managed to get upon one knee, and by a violent jerk,
to bring Mr. Meadows . down". upon    the floor, where
they were, in the phraseology of. the wrestling ring,
cross and pile. Mr. Meadows shouted to two or three of the
boys to hold Brinkly until he could rise. They rose to obey,
but Allen, without saying a word, put out his hand before
them, and motioning them to their seats, they resumed them.:
And now the contest .set in for good. Mr. Meadows strug-
ling to recover his advant age, and Brinkly to improve what
he had gained. The former s right arm was thrown acx ops the
latter's neck, his right hand wound m and pulhng vioently
his hair, while his left hand pressed agaimsthis breast. Brink-
ly 'sleft leg was across Mr. 1Ieadows' middle and with his
right against a stationary desk, his right arm bent and lying
under him like a blizzard's, and his left in Mr. Meadows' shirt
collar, he struggled to get uppermost. When Mr. Meadows'
upper parts were rising, and about .to rule  the ascendant,
Brinkly's lower parts would swell like a sea wave. Between
these two the strife was even ; and 'it was plain the natter
would have to be settled by Mr. Meadows' lower parts. and
Brinkly's upper parts. Yet, whn Brinkly would attempt to
raise his head, that hand wound in his hair would instantly
bring it back' to- the floor. When Mr. Meadows would at-
tempt to disengage himself from underneath Brinkly's leg,
that member, assisted by its' brother from the desk, against
which it was pressed, held it like the  boa holds- the bullock.
Oh, Mr. Meadows ! Mr. Meadows ! You don't know the boy
that grapples with you. You blow, Mr. Meadows! 'See!
Blinkly blows not half so hard. Remember, you walk a mile
to and from the school, and Brinkly seven,.often running the
first half. Besides, there is something in Brinkly's soul which
will not let him tire. Theremembrance of long continued
wrongs, which cannot lQnger be borne; the long subdued but
'ow inextinguishable desire of revenge; every hostile feeling
but fear---all these are now dominant in that simple but heroic
heart, and"if you1hope to conquer, you must fight as you never
have fought before, and never may have to fight again.
Your right hand pulls less vigorously at the hair of Brink-
ly's ascending head. Look there ! Brinkly's le° has moved
an inch further across you ! Wring and turst, M7r. Meadows,
for . right under that leg, if any where for you, is now the post
of honor. Can't you draw out your left leg, and plant it

-e

+  MO O 1 bTALB1.

27

against the desk behind you, as Brinkly does with his right.
Alas ! no. Brinkly has now mnade-a hook of his left, and his
heel is pressing close in'the cavity behind your knee. Ah !
that was an unlucky move for you then, Mr. Meadows, when
you let Brinkly's hair go, and thrust both of your hands at his
eyes. You must have done that in a passion. But you are
raking him some now, that is certain. But see there, now !
he has released his grasp at your shirt collar, and thrown his
left arm over you. Good morning to you now, Mr. Meadows !
-"In the instant that Mr. Meadows had released his'hold upon
his hair, Brinkly, though he was beige gouged terribly) re-
''' ' '  leased his hold upon his collar, threw  -arm over his neck,
and pushing with all his might with his right leg against the
desk, and making a corresponding pull with-his left, he suc-
ceeded in getting fully upon him; then, springing up quick as
lightning, as Mr. Meadows, panting, his eyes gleaming with
the fury of an enraged tigress, was attempting to rise, he dealt
him a blow in the face with his fist, which sent him back bleed-
ing like a butchered beast. Once more the master attempted
to rise, and those who. saw it will never forget that piteous
spectacle of rage, and shame, and pain, and fear. Once more
Brinkly struck him back. How that brave boy's face shone
. ut with those gadia certamini, which the brave always feel
when in the midst of an inevitable and righteous combat !
Springing up on his adversary again and seizin 'his arms and
y.      pinioning them under his knees, he wound 1is hands in his
r. shaggy hair, and raising his head, thrust it down several times
with all his might against the floor.
S'Spare me! for God's sake, spare me!' cried Mr. Meadows,
in tones never before heard from him in that house.
Brinkly stopped. 'Spare you,' he said, now panting him-
self. 'Yes ! you who never spared anything that you could
hurt ! . Poor cruel coward ! You loved to beat other people,
and gloried in seeing them  suffering, and when they begged
you to spare them, you laughed.--you did. And now, you are
beat ,yourself and whipped, you beg like a dog. Yes, and I
-w111spare you,' he continued, rising from him. 'It would be a
pity to beat any such a poor cowardly human as you are any
longer. Now go ! and make them poor things there go to
horsin again, and cut 'em in two again; and then git in the
ircus ring, and make them others, girls and all-yes, girls

,

-


m

-~-
and all-hold up their elosthes andtrot around you, and when
they cry like you, and" beg you to spare 'em, do you laugh
again.'
He rose. and t raed away from him. Gathering up his
boQks he went to'the peg whereon his hat was hanging, and
was in the act of taking it down, when a sudden revulsion of
feeling came over him, and he sat down, and wept.
oh! the feelings in that poor boy's breast! The recollection
of the cruel wrongs which he had suffered; of the motives so
ful of pious duty, which had made him  endure them, the
"  ought of how migeen had been the wish of his mother thatJ
lie sold endure'them; and then of how terribly they had'
been avenged. These all meeting at once in his gentle but un-
taught sprit overcame it, and broke it into weeping.
Meanwhile other things were going on. Mr. Meadows, hiag-
ard, brui ed, bleeding, covered with dirt, slank off twyr g
a e fire-place, sat down in his chair, and buried his face in his
1ands. The pupils had been in the highest states of alternate
alarm and astonishment. They were now , all standing aont
their seats, looking alternately at Blinkly and .Mr. Meadows,}ut
't at the latter mostly. .Their countenance plainly indicated that
this was a sight which, in their minds,'had never before been
vouchsafed tQ mortal vision. .;A schoolmaster whipped ! beat !
choked!. his head hmbed:and that by one of his pupils.
And that school stet C.rMeadows! Mr. Meadows, who
ten minutes before, had been in the ,exercise of sovereign and
despotic authority. And then- to hear him beg! A school-
master !-4Ir. Meadows!-to hear him  actually beg Brinkly
pare him    These pooi children actually began to feel not
onyr pity, but some- resentment at what had been done. They
wee terrified,; and to some extent miserable at the sight of so
'mci h power, so much authority, so much royalty dishonored
and laid low. -Brinkly seemed to them- to have transformed.
lie was a murdere't! a, regicide!! Talk of the divine right of
kings. 'There was never more reverence felt. for it than the
children in country selools'felt for the kingly dignity of the
schoolmaster of forty years agone.

oAPTER     'sI.
Allen Thigpen was the only one of the pupils who did not entirely lose hi
wits while the events of the last few minute; were transpiring. While the
contest was even between the combatants, he stood gazing-down upon them
with the most intenseinterest. His body was bent down slightly, and his armi
were extended in a semi cireie, as if to exclude the rest of the world from a. scene
which he considered all his own. When Mr..Meadows called for quarters,
Aflen folded his arms across his breast, and to a tune, which was meant for
'Auld Lang Sync,' and which sounded indeed more like that than any other, ho
A       sang as he turned off, about half of the line beginning with

'Jerusalem, my happy home,'
When Mr. Meadows had taken his seat, he looked at him for a moment or two
as if hesitating what to do. He therm walked slowly to him end delivered the
following oration:
'It's come to it at last, jest as I sail. I seen it from the fast ; you ought to
a seen it yourself, but you woald'nt ue you could'nt, and I don't know which,
and it makes no odds which, you did'qt. I did, and now its come, and sich a
beatin, Jerusalem ! But don't you be too much took back by it. You war'at
goin to keep school here no longern to-day, nohow, Now, I had laid off in my
mind to have gin you a duckin this very day ; and I'll tell you for why. Not as
I've got anything particklar agin you, myself ; you have not said one word out
of the way to me this whole term. But, in the fist place, its not my opinion,
nor haint been for sometime, that you are bitten too be a schoolmaster. Thar's
them sans in intrust--intrust is the very thing and the onliest thing I wanted
to learn-I say, thar's them sums in intrust, which I can't work and which you
can't show me how to work, or haint yit,,though I've been cypherin in it now
two months. And thar's Mely Jones, that's in the same, and she haint learnt
'em neither, and dinged if I believe ll the fault's in me and her, and in course it
can't be in the book. But that aint the main thing i its yoir-impouin disposi-
tion. If this here school-house,' he continued, 'looking around, 'if this here
school-house haint seen more unmercitul beatin than any other sehool-house in
this country, then, I say its a pity that thar's any sich a thing as education-
And if the way things has been oar'd on in this here school-house, sense you
you've been in it is the onliest way of getting ofr a education, then -i say again,
its apity thar's sich a thing. It paint worUi while for me to name over all the ways
you've had of tormentin o' these children. You know 'em; I know 'em; every.
body about this here school-house J nows 'em. Now, as I said before, I had Idid of
to a gin you a duckin this very day, atd this morning I was going to lot
Brinckly into it, tell I found that the time I seen was a coming in him

k   15
.i      .
:1;        Y
=   r      r
f
.
.r
C
'
j   '   +' , ;;
5.
;4_
. _
r
i  r
_         -

,
-:.; t


30 EIMOReWa TALEu.
was done come ; and I knowed he would'nt jine in ducking, you on account of
his mother. Now I've been thinking o' this for more'n two weeks, bekase--
now listen to me ; did'ut you say you was from South Carolina?' =
Paising, for, but not receiving an'answer, he continued:
'Yes, that's what you said. Well, now I've beam a man-a travelin man-
who staid all night at our house on his way to Fluri~day, say he knowed'you.
You aint from South Callina ; I wish you was, but, you aint ; you're from
Georgy, and I'm ashamed to say it. He ast me, seem  me a studyin, who j
went.to school to,'and when I told him, (Mr. Meadows appearing to be listee-
ing) Meadows,' says he, 'what Meadows?' 'Iserl' says I. 'Iserl Meadows a
school-master, says he ?' and he laughed, he did ; he laughed fit to kill hisself.
Well, he told me whar you was raised, and who you was. But you need'nt be
too bad steered. I aint told it to the fust human,,and I aint going to tell you
leave.' Now, I had laid off, as I told you, to gin you a duekin, but I had'nt
the heart to do it, and you in the fix you are now at the, present. Nuff sed, as
seed in a bar-room in Augusty on a piece of pasteboard, under the words 'No
credit,' when I was thar. Wonder, if thar's going to be' much more schooling
here?'          -
Saying which; Allen puckered up his mouth as if for a whistle, and stalked
-  back to his seat.,
Mr. Meadows, during the last few sentences of this harangue, had exhibited
evidence of a new emotion. When Allen told him what the traveler had said
he looked up with a countenance full of terror, and on Allen assuring him that
he had not mentioned it,' he had again buried his face in his hands. When
Allen went back to his seat, he rose and beckoning to im imploringly, they
went out of the house together a few steps and stopped.  .
I never done you any harm,' said. Mr. Meadows.
'You never did, certin,.shore,' answered Allen, 'nor no particklar good. But
that's neither here nor that ; what do you want?'S
'Don't tell what you heard tell I git away.'
'Did'nt I say I would'nt ?  But 'you must leave tolerble soon. I can't keep
it long. I fairly eech to tell it uow,'S
The sehool-master stood a moment, turning his hat i his hands, as if hesi-
tkting what sort of leave tQtake. He timidly offered Allen his hand.
'I rather not,' said Allen, and for the first time seemed a little embarrassed.
Suddenly the man hauled his hat on his head, and walked away. He had just
entered the path in the thicket, and turning unobserved, he paused, gnd looked
back at the school-house. And oh, the anger, the impotent rage, the chagrin
and shame which were depleted on his bloodshot face. -No exiled monarch

InMR,n    TALES.                         1
ever felt more grief and misery than' he felt at that moment. He paused but
for a moment. Then raising both his hands and shaking them towards the
house without saying a word, he turned again and almost ran along the path.
After he had gone, and not until he had gotten out of sight, Allen, to whom
all eyes were turned (except Brinkly's who yet sat with his head hidden in his
hands on the bench) took Mr. Meadows' chair, and crossing his legs, said :
'Well, boys and gals, the "oosepond it seem are a broke up school. The
school-master have, so to speak, absquatulated. Thar's to be no more horsin
here ; and the circus are clean shot up. And the only thing I hates about it
is thatits Brinkly that's dotne it' and not me. But he would'nt give me a
chance. No,' he continued, sorrowfully and as if speaking to himself, 'he
.'   would'nt give me a chance. Nary single word, could I ever git him to say to
.   me out'of the way. I have kiisted lessons, 'deed I never said none. I never
kept nary single rule in his school, and he would'nt say nothing to me.'
'Jhen rising and going to Brinkly, he put his hand upon his shoulder.
'No, its jest as it ought to a bin ; you was the one tc do it, and in the nare
of all that's jest, Brinkly Glisson, what is you been crying about? Git up, boy
uand go.and wash your face. I would rather have done what you've done, than
to a bin the man that fooled the tory in the Revolutionary War, and stolen his
horse in the life of Marion. Come along and wash that face and hands.'
And he almost dragged Brinkly to the pail, and poured water while he
washed.
'The children, recovering from their consternation into which thcy had been
thrown by the combat and its result, now began to walk about the house,
picking up their books and laying them down again. They would go to the
door and look out towards Mr. Meadows' path, as if expecting and indeed, half
way hoping, half-way fearing that lie would return; and then. they woul
stand around Allen and Brinkly, as the latter was washing and drying himself. But
they spoke not a word. Suddenly Allen, mimicking the tone of Mr. Meadows,
cried out:")
'Asa Boatright and Sam Pate, go to horsin.'
= 9 -   In a moment they all burst into shouts of laughter. Asa mounted upon
Sam's back,,and Sam pranced.about and neighed, ah, so gail'. Allen got a
switch and made as if he would strike Ma, and that young'gentleman for the
4  first time in the performance of this interesting exercise, screamed with delight
instead of pain.
.      'Let Aa be the school-master,' shouted Allen. 'Good morning, Mr. Boat-
right,' said he with mock humility. 'Mr. Boatright, may I go out.?' asked
timidly, half a dozen boys.

M


HUMWv t koRL

Asa dismounted, and seizing a hickory, he tood up in the middle of the flogr
and .the others formed the circus around him. Here they came and went,
jumping over his switch, and crying out and stooping to rub their legs, and
begging him to stop 'for God's sake, Mr. Boattight, stop.'
Suddenly an idea' struck Mr. Boatright. Disbanding the circus, he cried
out.
'You, Is'rl Meadows, come up here, sir. Been a fighten, have you, sir? come
up, sir. Oh, here you are.'
Mr. Boatright fell upon the teacher's chair, and of all the flogging  which a
harmlcss piece of furniture ever did receive, that pniucky chair, did then and there
ihrr'1."'                                     e 7'''' :1 ;
rga- 'th     1; 'one e :Oun.s failing o'u ,h.'eat i lu most unmercifully
with that; and at last, exhausted by the exercise and satisfied with his revenge,
he indignantly kicked it Out of doors, amid the screams and shouts of his
school-fellows.
CHAPTER VII.
'Far you Well,' said Allen, solemnly, to the fallen chair.
They now all gathered u p their books and slates, and hats and bonnets, and
started off for their several homes. Those who went the' same way with
Brinkly, listened with the most respectful attention as he talked with Allen on
the way, and . showed how bitterly he had suffered from the cruelty of Mr
Meadows.. h      ad already lost their resentment at the dishonor of that
monarch' royalty, 'and were evidently regarding Brinkly with the devotion
with which mankind always regard rebels who are successful. Each one strove
to get the nearest him as he walked. One little fellow, after trying several
times to slip in by liis side; got ahead and walked backwards as he looked at.
Brinckly and listened. He was so far gone under the old regime that he felt no
relief from what had happened. He had evidently not understood anything at
all about it. He seemed to be trying to do so, and to make out for certain
whether that was Brinkly or not. The voice of those young republicans, had.
Brinkly been ambitious, would have made him dictator of the Goosepond.
Rven Allen felt a consideration for Brinkly, which was altogether new. He
had always expected that Brinkly would at some day resist the master, but he
,did not dream of the chivalrous spirit of the lad nor that the resistance when it
should come, would be so terrible and disastrous. He had always regarded
Brinkly as his inferior; he was now quite satisfied to consider him as no more
than his equal. How we all, brave men and cowards, do honor the brave!.

HUMOROUS TAIs.
And Brinkly had just given, in the opinion of his schbl-fellows, the most
brilliant illustration of courage which the world had ever seen.
But Brinkly was not ambitious nor vain ; he felt no triumph in his victory.
On the contrary, he was sad ; he wished it could have been avoided. He said
to Allen that he wished ha could have stood it a little longer.  O
'Name o'      Baly Glisson, what for? It is the astonishenist ting I
ever heerd of, for yon to be sorry for maulin a rascal who heat you like a dog,
and that for nothing. What for, I say again?'
'On mother's account.'
al9 -l'P(-I''a  P   *1airr.
l+ 41 ! 2((h {'l1 'U ~7'eh o~' ur'1 4 n ~an il
,_              P        A r Y.1n 4;4 _                    i  t . 13' a
a  uo you tel lyour  other th' 't ifshe gets hurt with ye.)o I  tforaM  . h  Iohin  al
will get worse hun with herself when she knows what 4 do.
Saying this, Acen hook hands with him and the others and went ofi, inerriiy
singing 'Jerusal: t my happy home.' Soon all the rest had diverged- by by-
roads to their'own homes, and Brinkly pursued his way alone.
It was about twelve o'cock when he reached home. The widow's house wa.-
a single log tenement with a small shed-room behind. A kitchen, a meat-house,
a dairy, a crib with two stalls in the rear, one for the horse the other for the
cow, were the out buildings. Homely and poor as this little homestead was, ii
wore an air of much neatness and comfort. The yard looked clean ; the floors
of both mansion and kitchen were clean, and the little dairy lod'ked as if it
knew it was clean, but that was nothing new or strange. Several large rost
bushes stood on either side of the little gate, ranged along the yard paling.
Two rows of pinks and narcissus hedged the walk from the gate to the dooQ
whore, on blocks of oak, rested two boxes of the geranium.
The widow was in the act of sitting down to her dinner, when hearing the
gate open and shut, she advanced to the door to see who might he there. slow-
ly and sadly Brinkly advanced to the door.
L   'Lord have mercy upon my soul and body, Brinkly, what is the matter with
you? and'what have you been a doin, and what made you come from the school.
house this time o' day?' was the greeting he met.
'Don't be scared, mother; it is'nt much that's the matter with me. Let us
sit down by the fire hera, and I'll tell you all about it.'
They sat down, and the mother looked upon the son and the son upon the
Smether.


HUMOROUS TALES.                  35

Twtneseev  TALES.

'I was afraid it would come to it, mother ; God knows how I have tried to
keep from doing what I have had to do at last.
'Brinkly, have you .gone and fought with Mr. Meadows?'
'yes, mother.'
'Anmlo ruined yourself and me, too.'
'I hope not, mother.'
'Yes, here have I worked and denied myself;i day and night I have pinched
to give you an education, and this is the way you pay me for i.' and she fell
straight to crying.  "
'Mother, co listen to me before yea cry and fret any more, and I believe you
wiil think I have not done wrong.- Please, Mother, listen to me,' he entreated
as she continued to weep, and rocked herself in order, as it seemed, to give en-
couragement and keep time to her weeping. But she wept and rocked. Brinkly
turned from her and seemed dogedly hopeless.
'Say on what you're going to say. Say on what you're going to say. If
you've got anything to say, say it.'
'I can't tell you anything while you keep crying so- Please don t cry, mother
I don't believe you will blame 'me when I tell you what I hava  rn through.,
His manner was so humble and'beseeching, that his mother sat till and in a
less fretful tone, again bade him go on.
'Mother, as I said before, God knows that Ive tried to keep from it, and could
not, you ,don't'know, mother, how that man has treated me.'
'fIow has he treatedyou ?' she inquired, looking at her son for the first time
she had been sitting.
'You were so anxious fo: me to learn, and I was so anxious myself to learn,
that I have never told you of hardly any of his treatment. Oh, mother, he has
beat me worse than anybody ought to beat the meanest dog. He has called me
and you poor, and made fun of us because we were poor. He has called me a
scoundrel, a beggar, a fool. When I told him that you wanted me to quit
geography, he said you was a fool and had a fool for a son, and that he had no
doubt that my father was a fool before me.'
The widow dried her face with her handkerchief, settled herself in her chair
and said : -
'When he said them things he told a---what's not so ; I'll say it if he is a
school-master.' And she looked as if she was aware that the responsibility of
that bold observation was large.
'He said,' continued Brinkly, 'that I should study it, nda if I did'nt git the
lessons he'd heat me as long as he could fd a hickory to beat me with. I stood
it all because it was my only chance to git any schooling. But I told him then

-that is when he called you a fool, and father one, too--that it was'nt so, and
that he ought not 10 say so. Well, yesterday, you know you sent me by Mr.
Norris' to pay batk the ineal we borrowed, and I did'nt get to the school-house
quite in time. But he was'nt more than a hundred yards ahead of me, and when
he saw me, he hurried just to keep me from being in time. When I told him
how you had sent me by Mr. Norris', he only laughed and called me a lIar, and
then-look at my shoulder, mother.'
He tgok off his coat, unbuttoned his shirt and smr  his shoulder and back,
blackened with hideous bruises.
'Oh, my son, my poor son, was all that mother could say.
She had not, in fact, know 1 a tenth of the cruelties and insults whin Brinkly
had borne  lie had frequently' importune her to let him quit the et . But
she, supposed that it was because of the dificultis of learning his l, which
got for him an occasional punishment, andsuch  was ineinht     life of
every school-boy, bad and good, idle and industrious. These thought  dining
with her ardeit desire that he should have some learning, even a  'isk of
receiving some harsh and even unjust punishment made her permia. ecping
him there. Seeing her anxiety. and to avoid making her unhappy, Brmidy had
concealed from her the greater part of tih wrongs which he had sufferred.- But
when she heard how h1e had been abused, and saw the stripes and bruises upon
his body, her mother's heart could not restrain itself, and she wept sorely.
Well, mother, I stood this ,too,-but last night I eould'nt sleep. I thought
about all he had said and all he had done to me, and I made up my mind to quit
him ,any how. But this morning before day I thought, for your sake, F would
try it once more. So I got up and studied my lesson here and all the way to
the school-house ; and I did know it, mother, or I thought I did, for he would'nt
tell me how to pronounce the words, but Allen Thigpen did, and I pronounced
tlem just like Allen told me. When I told him that, he called me a liar, and
ateras I begged him not to strike me but toilet me go home. But
would strike me, and I fought him.'
'And you done right. 'Oh, my son, my poor Brinkly! Yes, you are poor,
? the poor son of a poor widow ;Ibut I am proud that you have got the heart
to t when you are abused and insulted. If 'd known half of what you have
haoear, you should have quit his school long ago, you should, Brinckly, my
S      darling, that you should. But hew could you expect to fight hini and not le
beat to death? Wh didn't you run away from him and come to me? He
ul'nt have beat you so where I was.' And she looked as if she felt herself
teequite sufficient for the protection of her young.
e, I didn't want to run; I could'nt run from such a man ashe is. Once
thought I would take my hat and books and come away; but I could not do


36 -                          rtt TAES

that without running and I could'nt run; 'yowwould'nt want me to run, would
you, mother ?' The widow looked puzzled.
'No, but he is so much' bigger than you, that it would'nt a looked exactly
like you was a coward ; and then he has hurt you so bad ; my poor Brinkiy,
tol don't know how your face is scratched.'
I hurt him worse than he hurt me, mother.'
vhat ?'
'I hurt him worse than he hurt me ; I got the best of it.'
'Glory!'
'In fact, I whipped him.'
'Glory! glory!'
'When I had him down-
'Brinkly, lid you have him down, my son?
'Yes, and he begged me to spare him:  .      -
'Glory be to---glory be to-but you did not do it. did you?'  -
Yes, mother, as soon as he give up and begged me to stop, I le hi°. n oie.'
'T would'nt a done it, certain, shore !'
'Yes you would, mother ; if you had seen how he was hurt and how badly
he looked, yob would a spared him, I know you would.'
'Well, maybe I might ; I suppose it was right, as he was a man grown ad a
school-master to boot. Maybe it was best ; maybe it was best-n  aybe [ might
a done it too.'
She had risen from the chair and was pacing the floor. This new view of
Brinckly's relation to his tyrant was one on which she required time for reflec-
tion. She evidently felt, however, that as Brinkly had so often been at the
bottom in the combat, now,ywhen he had risen to the top, there was no great
harm in staying there a little longer. 'But maybe it 'was best ; I reckon now h3
won't be quite so brash with his other scholars.'
'He will never have another chance.'
'What?'
'Allen has found out all about him, and where he came from, and says he is a
man of bad character. He begged Allen not to say anything about it until he
gothis money and could git away.,. So he is quit and the school is broke up.'
'Glory ! glory ! hallelujah!' shouted again and sung the mother.
Let her shout a'nd sing I Infinite justice, pardon the poor widow for shouting
and singing, now, when her only son, though poor and an orphan, though bruised
and: mangled, appears to her grand and beautiful as if he were a monarch's so '
and the heir to'a mighty empire.

, . JUDGE MIKE AND HIS COURT
-  OR,-
FIVE CHAPTERS OF A GEOR GIA HITORY.

(JILAPTE 1L I.

*     -

neJl upon a, time, u this glOrion country, trespectable but
uICdleated gentlewoman, wio had taken to elr home the
child of poor parents, bad bIroughlt heu' itp with mnh care and
tei F derness ; and had, though reluctantly, allowed hr to rc-
Ceive, at the hands of some other behevolent person, a year's
scoou, had the misfortune to lose her prote ge. Theyoung
ady, Who was very pretty, being offered a home in a family
where she supposed that she could find' better society and mo
enjoyments than were to be had in the house of her first bene-
aCtress, accepted this ofuer, and refused to return. The good.
oady, in her distress, searching eagerly low she might avoid
p lacng any blame upon the beloved child of her adoption, at-
trinbted her loss -to ediucatiou.
It was education, sir,' she said bitterly, when she had given
up her efforts to recover her lost love. 'It was education that
done it all. They may say what they please  about education:
I do believe :that the more education people have tke meaner
they get.  Woe had been to the schools and colleges h
forth if she could have had her way with them.
There are many persons in this, which, in our pride for some
thns she has. done, we call the Empire State of therSouth,
fel and speak likethis gentlewoman regarding another
great nstruent of civihiation. A few of the judgments of

0

S


38                   HUMoRoUs TALES*

our Supreme Court have appeared to them to be erroneous, and
destined to be fruitful of evil effects upon the enjoyment .of
personal security and private property. Now if it be not, it
ought to be generally known, that the jadges of that Court are
required, (an4suich has actually been the case with each one
of them, that ceremony never having, mn a single instance,
been omitted,).to take solemA oaths on their accession to the
Bench, that they will administer the laws of the State. Un-
fortunately, however, it has thus far, from some cause, been
impossible for our Legislatures to make a perfect judiciary
system. So various are thQ pursuits of men, so complicated
are the relations of business and social intercourse, and so
subtle are the influences, which control their minds and direct
their actions, that our Legislators, even admitting that they
have usually been our wisest and best men, have sometimes,
as' if to make good the saying, 'that there is nothing perfect
under the sun.' enacted l very unwise laws. These laws, our
judges not being invested by the constitution with power to
change thetn, have had occasions to , declare to be in full force
as long as they remain' unrepealed. But many of those who
have been dissatisfied with the judgments which seem so
blameable, are wont, in their hasty indignation, to attribute all
the consequences of erroneous legislation to the circumstances
of there being an- institution called. 'A Supreme Court for the
correction of Errors.' If we hear that, away down in a Wire-
grass county, where there is not much of anything good to eat
but beef, a hungry lout has stolen a yearling, and been ac-
qutitel on the trial of the indictment of a jury, the foreman
of which had a hind quarter to himself, too cheap and asked
no questions, rhy, there is the Supreme Court! Why" don't
it stop such things? If an evil disposed person is guilty.of
malicious mischief, or an owner of a tippling shop keeps it open
on the Sabbath day, and a young solicitor, who has been six
months or a year at the bar, does not know how to prosecute
these offences, and they go unpunished. Why there now!
didn'tI tell you so? Can you expect anything else as long as
we have a Supreme Courty? If a good man's daugher, thir-
teen years old, is stolen, hurried before a Justice of the Peace,
and in five minutes' time made the wife of a vagabond-good
Heavens I Is there no law, to prevent such outrages against
the happiness of parents and the yell being of society. None-
Ah it no, I suppose not. That Supreme Court! it ought to be

-    ./       iUMOROUS TALES.                3)
abolished: I do hope the next Legislature will abolish the
whole concern. _ We shall never have any peace again until
we get back to the good.old times under which our fathers
lived.
Well, those Old times -were very good in many respects
Beef was Cheap, and the temptation to steal it was small. Men
did not often commit malicious mischief, or keep open tip-
pling houses on forbidden days, because land was not high,
people lived more widely apart, and every one kept his own
liquor at home, gave to his neighbor, and received from his
neighbor as much as they wished.; and, except upon Sundays,
when they went to church, all got drunk as often as they
pleased. Nor did maids of thirteen very often run off with
vagabonds; because, fortunately for themselves, they were
kept at home with their mothers at that age, and knew no bet-
ter than to obey them; while what few vagabonds there were
were wont, in the small developement which the credit system
had undergone, to carry upon there' persons the unmistakable
badges of their profession.
It is pleasing to an old man, like me, to recur to those times.
Corn, twenty cents a bushel, except to wagoners, who being
strangers, and considering that their silver might prove to be
pewter, were made to pay a quarter of a dollar. Bacon  no
price at all, because everybody had a plenty, ani because the
woods were full of game, and the creeks were §ull of 'fis
Blessed be the memory of those old ties ! The most of those
who were then my "friends and eo-v unre gone, and I
am left almost alone. But _jr dejrecollection of what they
were to me, I say again, blessed be the memory of those old
times!
But like all other times, they had their evils and their wants.
Men and systems were not perfect even then. True, they had not
many schools, and they had no Supreme      Court. And
yet, 'in what schools and courts they did have there
were many things, which, when men thought ul-on them at all
they thought might as well have been done differently or left
undone. The schools had ways of righting themselves. The
thins done in them, though seriously inconvenient at the time
doig were not 'very- serious in their consequences.
t  ~ewthem to be, as they were, institutions, and learned
e      to them. Or, if a schoolmaster grew to be too had,
he got his ducking, and was cooled down to a moderate ard

d74i
.4


Q                   HbUMORO's TALts
reasonable temperature. Not so with the Courts and the
Judges, when, what sometimes wa's the case,. one of the latter
was neither fully educated in all the learning applicable to all
cases arising in law and in Chancery, nor wholly above the
prejudices and other infirmities to which the rest of mankind
are 'subject.
While men are thinking of these old times, and reminding
one, another of the many glorious things: which they had, (es-
pecially young men, who, having received them by tradition,
regard them with peculiar love and veneration, I hope it will not
be amiss in me-who have lived in both the old and the new
-to describe as well as my memory will serve me, a character
or tiro, and a scene or two, which the former enacted in i
Courtnow nearly thirty years ago. And as I have used many
words in the way of preliminaries, and as I have mentioned
one fact which, (though it has nothing whatever to do with
my narrative, except to help to ill strate its moral,  is yet :
fact, having transpired in the old times,) I will stop for a mo-
ment right where I am, and call what I have written a C1ia Lter.
CHAPTERII. I.~
A young man, a native of Virginia, and a graduate o the
law-school in the University of that State, had come to Geor-
gia for the purpose of seeking a home and practising his profes-
sion. One morning, inthe beginning of spring, in company
with a middle-aged gentleman, whose acquaintance he had
. newly made, he rode towards the village near which the latter
resided, for the purpose of being introduced to some of the mem-
bers'of the Bar residing there. As the two were riding along,
after some conversation upon the practice of law and other pur-
suits in the South, the younger gentleman asked of the elder if
there'was in the South a Court of Errors.
'I do not remember to have so heard, but I presume that
you have such a Court.'
'Yes, indeed,' exclaimed the elder, 'many a one. We have
no other sort in Georgia.. But I know what you mean,.sir,' he
added, seeing the young man's surprise. 'I answered your
question literally, because what I say is very nearly literally
true, and it is so doubtless.because wehave no court foh *cor-
rection of errors which those we do have continually Coiri it.
1 -kiow little of the law inyself, although I once studied  nd
- vas admittedtd the Bar. I' never practiced, and yet :ve

HUMOROUS TALEs.                 41
esei enough to know that, with our present judiciary system,
the law can never become a science settled upon any ascer
tained principles.'
'There can-be very little doubt as to that.'
'We have no lack of lawyers of real ability, but I doubt it
there is. i the South another Srate so deficient in its judiciar
as ours. We have, as I said, many able lawyers, but seldom
an able Judge. The salary is so small that a lawyer of first
rate ability, iuless he be a man of property, ('and such men,'
he added, in parenthesis, with a slight touch of dignity which"
did not escape the other, 'rarely enter the professions,') will not
go upon the lBench. It is, therefore, generally occupied by men
ofinferior learning and ability; and as we have no Supreme
Court, and each is independent in his circuit, there is of course
no uniformity in their decisions, but many an error you may be
sure. I reside here near the boundaries of three circuits. I and
my neighbors of'two adjoining counties, live under three diffe-
rent systems of laws. I am tolerably posted on that of my
own circuit, but I dare not move out of it, as I have known
others to do to their sorrow. Even here, whenever a new
judge is elected, we shall have a new system to learn; for, like
every schoolmaster who begins by throwing out of the school-
room  all the text books which his predecessor employed he
will fear that he will be considered as nobody unless he over-
rules- much of what our present judge has decided.'
'Does not your constitution provide- for a Supreme Court?
'It does, but, bless you sir, the people are almost unanimous-
ly  osed to its beig established. They say that they are
ready to much worried by Courts to think of making any
more of them. The lawyers too, the most of them, are equally
opose to it, because they know-.hang them, and who should
knows well as they-that it would lessen !itigation by lessen-
ang what is to them the glorious uncertainty of the law. A
fanwho would get an office here must not open his mouth in
favor of a Supreme Court. He had as' well avow himself a
disciple of Alexander Hamilton, or a friend of the administra-
tion of John Adams.'
They had just reached the public square and alighted, when
Mr. Parknson pointed to a little office on the corner of it, into
which two men Were entering.
'There go two limbs of the law now. \Ve will go in at once.

ti
I'


9

42

HUMOROUS TALES.

and leading the way he walked in and introduced the young
man, Mr. Overton, to Mr. Sandidge and Mr. Mobley.
Mr Sandidge, ('Elam Sandidge, Attorney at Law,' Over-
ton had read upon a shingle as he entered,) was about fifty
years old ; tall, with very 'long legs, which seemed as if they
were ashamed of his rather short body, from the fact that they
would never hold it straight up. He had long arms, long
hands, and long fingers, which last never looked clean. He
-'ore shabby clothes too, which, if they had been ever so fine,
Wottld yet have looked shabby for a habit he had of chewing
tobacco all the time when he was not eating or asleep, and spit-
ting' on himself. Yet, for all these drawbacks, Mr. Sandidge
hbld, as it seemed, an ambition to appear perfectly and univer-
sally agreeable. His countenance; when he looked at another,
was invariably 'clothed in smiles. He never laughed, he.oly
smiled. While nature had given him no very acute sense of
the humorous; and while, therefore, he never felt like laugh..-
in, he had, .apparently from a 'sense of duty, learned to smile,
and he smiled at everything. If one said 'good morning' to
him, he was sure to smile as he returned the salutation. If
one, in answer to an inquiry concerning his health, complained
of a headache, he smiled the most cordial sympathy. There
bras no cnsiderable amount of cheer conveyed by his smiles-
no more than there was b  his shabby coat and hands; but
like. these they were a part oflhim, and one got used to them
But whoever said anything funny where he and others were
standing, and no person laughed except Sandidge, who was
_sure to smile, he felt cut up.
When Mr1 Parkinson introduced Mr. Overton, :Mr. Sandidge
arose and extended his hand with a smile, which seemed', to
say 'Ah I-you young dog ! You have come at last . Iknew
you would.'
Mr. Mobley was a stout, fine looking man, about twenty-three
years of ageof the middle height, with dark complexion, very
black hair and whiskers, and a fine mouth, full of large sound
teeth of perfect whiteness. There was an ease and grace in his
manner, and an expression upon his face which marked him at
once to Mr. Overton as a well educated and talented man. Im-
mediately after the introduction Mr. Sandidge 'looked at the
new comers and then at Mr. Mobley with a smile, which the
latter interpreted tt once; and after an exchange of a few words
of civility, he rose to go.

1,

IUMoRoUs TALES.
'No, do not leave, Mr. Mobley,'   Mr. Parkinson .aid.
'We have no especial business with Mr. Sandidge, but came to
see you both. So please to remain, unless you have business
which calls you away presently.
Mr. Sandidge smiles upon Mr. Mobley as he resumecthis seat ;
and but that we knew that he was bound to smile at all events,
we should have suspected that he was infinitely amused by the
idea that Mr. Mobley should have, had any business of such
pressing importance as to require him to go to it ina hurry. He
then turned to Mr. Parkinson and smiled inquirinly, for this
was the first time that that gentleman had ever ea led on him,
except upon business..
'Mr. Overton has removed to Georgia with a view of be-
coming- located permanently somewhere in the State in the
practice of the law ;. and 1 have brought hin here to make him
acquainted with you both, knowing that he could obtain from
you more of suchinformation as he needs than he could from
myself; besides,' he added, looking at Mr..Mobley, 'I desired to
give him n opportunity of extending his acquaintance among
those with whom he might spend pleasantly such of his leisure
as he will have when he is wearied with the dullness of Ches-
.G            '
nut Grove.'
Mr. Mobley boved ; Mr. Parkinson rose, and saying that
he would return 'in an hour, left the office, Mr. Sandidge smiling
at him all the while, even at his back as he went out. A con-
versation was begun at once between the young men, with an
occasional but rare contribution from Mr.'Sandidge. The lat-
ter was no great talker in a social way. It wad a wonderful
thin to him how many things people could find to say to one
another on matters of no business whatever, but only in the way
of civility. He could talk forever on business, and in the Court
house often made speeches of two hours length. He. under-
stood such things mighty well ; but it puzzled him to see two
persons sitting down together. and talking for hours on miscel-
laneous subjects, sporting from  one to another with perfect
ease, having no apparent motive except ;a desire in each to en-
tertain the other. There was Mobley now, he would think,
a young man, who in the Court house was as skittish as a girl,
whose practice, though he had fine education and ability, after
a year's pursuit of it, was barely supporting him, and yet, as
soon as lie was out of that dread place, and in the society of
the iost intelligent and able of the profession, he would 'bear


HUMOROUs TALE%.               45

his part in the discussion of general subjects, and even of legal
questions; with an ease and fluency which made him the most
interesting of then all; and the object of'the especial envy of
Mr. Sandidge. Being no philosopher, Mr. Sandidge could not,
for the life of him, understand how these things could be \and
it seemed to him tp be not only strange, but wrong that Mr.
Mobley, whom he was accustomed to runt over in the Court
house, should not .only seem to be, but should actually be
above hiin everywhere else. And yet such things- have been
beforeand since, and are to be hereafter, and have excited the
surprise of others besides Mr. Sandidge. 'How many young
men of excellent talents and the most finished education, have
for a year or two striven in vain to begin successfully careers
at the bar, and have at length shrunk from  tlie pursuit, and
left its honors and emoluments to be gathered by the San-
didges ! The Sandidges whom men laughed at when they saw
them enter the profession, and whom they contined to laugh
at for half a dozen years, and after half ad dozen more years
have carried them ill their eases, and have at last lived to see
them rich and prosperous. Mr. Sandidge would not ' have
thought of exchanging places with Mr. Mobley, or the tine
young fellow who had been just now introduced to-him; but
the more they ran on with each other abgut law, literature and
what -not, the more he wandered at and envied what he thought
was their only dift. .But he smiled whenever anything was
said to him, or he was expected to say ann did say anything to
them. When Mr. Overton inquired if there was much litigation
in that circuit; and if money was to be made by the practice,
Mr. Mobley slightly blushed, looked at' Mr. Sandidge, and an-
swered that there was not a great amount of litigation then
originating; and that Mr. Sandidge knew more as to what was
to be made by the practice than himself. Regaining instantly
his ease of mauner,. he laughed good naturedly at himself, who
had. managed; he said, 'thus far to make money to pay my
board and store accounts, and not, I think, anything over. I
do not, however, despair to do better after a while;' he added,_
looking composedly upon Mr. Sandidge. ,
Mr. Sandidge being thus appealed to, and looking as if he
felt that that was a subject of which he ought to know some-
thing, answered that-there were some few lawyers in the circuit
who were making a ,living. Law was a mighty hard thing to
make a living at. He had been trying it twenty-five years

and better, and ought to know how hard it was. There was
no business that it was not easier 'to make money at than
law. If he had his time to go over again he hardly 'thought
he would undertake it. Indeed, he knew he would not if' he
knew what a young man had to go through with the first five
or six years. Now, Mr. Sandidge had commenced the prac-
tice of the law without a dollar, and with not even a good
suit of clothes.. But he economized. He borrowed money at
eight per cent. and shavedyjaper at sixteen and twenty. lie
went to every Justices' ourt in the county ; learned the
name of every manin it, got acquainted with every man's busi-
ness, hunted up and set a'going litigation, until here he was in
the possession of at least forty thousand dollars. And though
many a man would have shrunk from what Mr. Sandidge had
to go through with, yet, Mr. Sandidge told a story when he
said what he did. lie would have gone through with it a
thousand times over. For next to the money which he had
made by the law, he loved the springs which it gave opportu-
nities to make into the secrets of his neighbors, their silent
struggles with sufferings and embarrassments, and he loved yet
more the influence which the knowledge thus acquired enabled
him to exert over them. But it was not his wont to encourage
young, lawyers. Nobody encouraged him,,he reflected, and
let them encourage 'themselves.
'Yes,' he said, 'law is a hard thing to get on with. There's a
power of books to read, which requires a power of money to
buy; and there are so many contrary decisions on the same pints,
and the practice and the pleadings are so hard to -learn, and
then a man, a young man, has so often got to speak before the
Court, where everybody is watching him, and when he don't
know sometimes what tQ say, when a pint is made he did'nt ex-
.: pect, and aint prepared to meet, and he gets embarrassed, and
sometimes even has to- give up the case, and be non-suited.
These things, as I said, and a heap of others I might mention,
makes law a hard business to follow. But some  en' do, by
hard labor, make living by it, by being economical. They
say in Alabama, and down in South-western Georgia, it is
easier to get along with it, and that some men even make for-
tunes. There is more litigation there, and not so much compe-
tition. But,' he ended, smiling quite, encouragingly, 'it may
be worth while to try it even here. The profession is pretty
well stocked to be surebut the more the. merrier, you know;'

44

u1JMORous.TALES.

a}
,, , .
S   ' ,*
"tt
-


46                   nuMoous uTALES.

andjhe smiled almost audibly, and with such satisfaction at this
attempt at pleasantry, that Mr. Mobley laughed at it heartily
and said:.
'And Saudidge, you know it is some consolation to a fellow who is
getting along slowly to know that there are others who are at no
faster pace than. himself ; fo'r appropos of your proverb is the one
that misery loves company.'
'Just so,' answered Mr.'Sandidge, and at this moment Mr. Parkin-
son returned, and the two took their leave.
When they were on their way home, Mr. Parkinson asked Over-
ton how he liked the specimens is he termed his new acquaintances.
The latter answered that he. was much pleased with the young
man.
And you are not very much pleased with Sandidge, I suppose?
'Why, no, I cannot, say 'that I am  greatly prepossessed in his
favor ; and I guess he returns the compliment, as he discourages my
notion to practice law.'
'He does, does he?' said. Mr. Parkinson, laughing. 'I knew  he
would ; and though I am much of his opinion in regard to any
young man who can do anything else, yet I must say that his exam-
ple is encouraging. Hp very wll illustrates how a man of little
talent, and less education, can grow rich and even attain to some
eminence at the bar. Sandidge is certainly a queer genius. Twen-
five years ago everybody laughed at him;--the Judge, the lawyers,
the juries, and the people. But Sandidge laughed too in his way,
and worked every, day and night'sand somehow he got into prac-
tice. The Judge and lawyers came at last to respect him, the
sheriffs to fear'hiin,,aid the people to be in awe of him, until now
he has made a fortune, has more influence with the present Judge,
and is, more successful before juries than any lawyer in the circuit.
1,knew he would attempt to discourage you. He always does. I
doubtif it is because he has notfeeling, but because it gratifies his
vanity to exaggerate those obstacles which he had to overcome, and.
which.nobody thought he would. And Sandidge, though he looks
likc a fool; is really a, pretty good lawyer. There are men infinitely
his superiors, but he is untiringly industrious. lie prepares his cases
so thoroughly, and hangs.to them so doggedly, and studies the peo-
ple so constantly, that hb is, I repeat it, the most successful prac-
titioner I know, lie loves the law; he glories in "it, and  knows
nothing outside of it.'
'But Mr. Mobley ; heis certainly a man of real talent and educa-
tion.. Ishe not likely.to succeed'?'
'Mobley has very superior talent and a most finished education.
He was educated by an uncle who died in the first year of his col-
legiate life, leaving in the hands of his executors money to enable

him to complete his course, and enter his profession. His parents
both died when he was a child: But Mobley shines everywhere ex-
cept in the Coirt room. There .he does not yet seem to be quite at
home. I have heard him speak once or twice, and .h ertainly
speaks well. But Sandidge worries him sowith the starting-of un-
expected issues that he is often put to his wit's end. If he could
live without the practice, I am inclined to think that, notwithstand-
ing his prT Ie,.he would abandon it. He' will' succeed though after
a while, I doubt not, if he will persevere. He is a fellow of fine
wit, and gores Sandidge badly sometimes when he can reach him,
which is not often the case, with' this weapon. But Sandidge only
smiles, and almost always givns things a turn which is sure to give
him the best of it at last.'    .i                    t
'Deyou usually have much business in the Courts?'
'And if so, which of'these men do I employ to attend to it, you
would ask. Well,' continued Mr. Parkinson, somewhat ajologeti-
cally, 'what little I ha. e do in that way, I usually give to Sandidge.
,;I have known him a long time, and he has always seemed to act an
, honest' part towards me. Besides, a man, you know, does not
usually like to change the channel of his business.'
Mr, Povkinson did not have the heart, after what he had said of
Mr. Sandidge's influence with the presiding Judge, to give that as
t another reason for retaining him.
The young man said nothing ; but'he thought with himself that
hard as it was on a poor fellow like Mobley, it was natural. And
is it the less hard because it is natural that the world will delay t
givehelp to a 'man in any business of life until, by long toiling and
striving alone, he has at last reached a point where lie can live
without it? Yet, such is the way of life. You man with many
cents, and many more friends, has there not been a time when
nineteen  of every twenty of those    whom  you now    value
° the most highly would have forborne to lend you a helping
hand, but would have waited ultil they had seen whether by the
aid of the few who did stand by you, you were likely to rise or to
fall? Let us not then fall out with what is natural in our feIgw
men, and what our very selves would do, and what we actually do,
because it is natural'to us. We would spare ourselves many an
comfortable feeling of contempt, for the infirmities of human na-
ture as we see them illustrated in the lives of our neighbors, if we
would but reflect that, what is more often than otherwise. the case
with us, we would act in'the same circumstances just as they do.
Ask yourself, 0! best of men, how many young men are there in
. any ptofession whom you so cordially wish to prosper in it, that
you would be willing to take any ofyour business out of its old tried
channel--a channel so freighted with yours and other people's bus-

HUMOROTJS TALES.               47


48

t~I5MOOU TALES.

mess that it would not-miss the little you take fromit-and risk it
in their are until they have proved that~the. consignment will be a
safe one  Or$f you sometfiesuaothis, is-it not done alittle slyly, and
do you not feel like apologizing, and when discovered, do you not
actually apooiet he old channel, and tell how trifling was theaoogeto.fb
freight you havetaken from it, and how yDU supposed it would not
care to be pestered with such a small matter?  Yes, and the old
channel says it makes no difference, ati hat it is all right; but
then you feel as if it was not all right, and as if you had injured the
old channel, ani you go to work straightway, and ship a whole
boat load on it at once..
CHAPTER Ill.
'Can't we get through with the docket by Friday night !
'There's business enough here to occupy the whole week and more
too. You'll have to sit an adjourned term to get through with it.'
I shall do no such thing; nd what is more, I shall adjourn the
Court Friday night.'
Mr. Sandidge smiled with wanted complapeney. '1 don't think
.oosdlkdapiwe can hardly get to the Appeal before Wednesday  odrm; and it
look lie pity btwa oeo hmcssta'             r   otne
so long could be tried. We lawyers ain't like judg' u to goi and
draw our salaries every three months, but have to wait until the
cases are disposed of, and sometimes a lon  are gtg
this excellent joke puthim on a broad grin. The judge did not
Thiecelen jok ph h on    h broad in Then judged - o
seem to appreciate it much, though he smiled in faint commenda-
tion. 1He was fifty years old, twenty-five of which had been spent
in the practice of the law in which he had risen to a fourth  ank.
As a set-off to this professional eminence, he had rem fined as he
had begun, poor in purse. Three ycars before this an election was
beingi'eld for the office of judge of the Superior Court of that cir-
cuit. Let us remember that at that time the judge ol the Superior
Co rtwa-the only high judicial officer in the circuit. He was both
judge and chancellor. His discretion was uncontrolled and uncon-
trollA1e in all cases regarding the security, the property, and repu
tation of citizens ; and even his construction of the Constitution of
the State was unalterable by any human power,-Three years be-
fore, politics had taken one of its tnrns, and the party to which the
fourth-rate lawyer of twenty-five year's practice belonged, unexpct-
edly found itself with a small majority in the legislature. The i-
cunbent of the Bench, being a member of the minority, was ef course
to share its fate and retire from office. There were two prominent can-
didates from the party in power ; one .a retired member of Congress
who was finding it difficult to recover the practice which he had
given up fifteen years before, and the other a man of ten years con-

iT
i
I
rx
Ii
4
i
:n
i
i
e
h

nection with the profession, of very promising talents, and of a good
property, who sought the office for the eclat, and the powerwhich it
would confer upon him. Several ballots had been mad without an
election. Mr. Elam Sandidge, for certain reasons of his own, had
consented to represent his county in the Senate, and was one of the
party in minority.A more amused man    r it was  seldom any one's
privilege to see than was h~ when on foie repeated counting oto
the votes the presiding officer announced that there had been no
election. He looked to this and to that one on either side of the
house, and went about whispering to some and winking at others.
'What is that dirty old rascal doing on our side of the aisle?' in-
quired a majority member of his neighbor.
I can't tell ; but some rascality brings him here, you may sweat
to that.'
While the votes were- being counted out for the fifth time M
Sandidge walked quickly over to that side. A dozen anxious, piti-.
ful looking members gathered around him.'p
'Put him up nezt! put him up next time!' he said, and walked back
again, taking in with a sweeping wine the whole of his own party.
When the result was announced, anti directions given to prepare for
another balloting, 'Mr. President, Mr. residnt,' scr   aieoio
hrom the majority side, 'I announce the name of Littleberry W. Mike
Esq, from the county of     . This announcement was followed
by roars of laughter from the minority and by hisses, and cries of
'who is he . from the other. Immediately, however, the leaders of
both were busy ,a. bees. Threats and criminations were heard
among the friends of the two prominent candidates; then entreaties
from both to the opposition. 'Take him down, for heavens sake.'
'It is a shame by blood.' 'Don't put him on us, if you please.' 'Any
body else,'  &amp;c.'All to 11 , ) -r1  Tlyu las.
loy next' blc. Allto    I)mpos. The nominee was eleeled on
thie next ballot.
'Why, how did you get elected; Berry ' slyly asked Mr. San-
(lidg. of the judge elect, as on the dispersion of the members he met.
him, trembling and Pale as a corpse, at the foot of the gallery, and
shook his cold hand.  It appears like you must have got some
votes from our side of the house.' The newly elected pressed the
hand of his friend, and they went. togetheN to the hotel, on the way
to which he was forced to hear from among the crowd many a bitter
jest of which he was the subject.
This election wa- an instance o{ that miserable policy yet adhe red
, by worities,         order, to render majorities odious, do not
hesitate to contribute all . they can .to make them do the greatest
amount of harm to public interests. Men may say what they will
of caucuses, but until there is a higher standard of public and pri-
vate virtue amongst us, they will be indispensable.

?IMORUS TALES.


50                      HUMOROUS TALES.
When a man of inferior parts is raised to an office ofg rtat author-
ity, he is apt, unles he has great virtue,'and very am ble disposi-
tions, to tert tk t' hority, as far as is compatible'-with safety, in
enforcing'a -regar  which those parts have been inadequate to se-
cure. Cowardly as thissis, it is not more injurious to truth, and jus-
tice, and reason thaf when such a man is led by such an elevationY
to look upon himself  s havii been, heretofore depreciated, and to
consider the elevation, whatever were t1 circumstances which af-
fected it, as the decree of infinite justice in his favor, determining at
last to give merit its just, reward. Sometimes he is in one, and some-
times in the other of these two states alternately ; never being able
to determine exactly whether he ought to occupy his position or
not, but ever attempting to resolve the doubt by such a vigorous
exercise of authority as viil at least foreclose all doubts in the minds
of others as to his actual possession of it.  Of such a character was
the newly elected judge. He had long had his heart set upon the
bench. He looked up to it as a mighty emifience-mighty enough
to satisfy the most eager ambition. Yet his desires were not ac-
tuated wholly by ambition. He wanted the salary. He needed it.
He was poor and had a family ;'and pitiful as the salary was, it was
twice as much as he made by his practice. Ashamed as he was to
know how the people'regarded the notion of his-being Judge of the
Superior Court, he never, even for one moment, gave up his desire
to become so, but kept himself always, yet in a quiet way, in candi-
dacy fort. And though to the leading members of the bar he had
never presumed to speak of the matter, knowing that he would be
laughed at if he did, they yet well knew what his thoughts and
his hopes were. Nor had he publicly announced his candidacy at
the meeting of the Legislature. He knew well that his only chance
of election depended upon the fact, whether true or false, it made no
material difference with him, that he was considered the weakest and
shabbipt of the candidates of his party. While the prominent ones
of these were making interest with the leaders of.the party in the
Legislature, he had quietly, and in a way known only to himself and
them, and vdry probably to Mr. Sandidge, obtained the promise of
assistance from a -few unknown members who should be able, by
scattering their votes under the direction of him and Mr. Sandidge,
to defeat te election f anmy one until a, suitable opportunity should
occur for the name to lbe presented. We have seen with what re.
sult this was done.
With the recollection of all' the 'circumstances, Judge Mike
thanked two objects for his elevation : first, his own lucky genius,
and secondly, Mr. Sandidge. He was, doubtless, quite inclined to
indulge in kindly and grateful feeling towards the latter from habit ;
for he was under a pecuniary indebtedness' to him of several hun-

v
.
p
.
:
a
,i
da
.l
_
i
1
t
f
a+3C

'Knowing everything but law, I suppose, and knowing nothing
about That?'
'Just so. The fellow  studies like rip  but judge, ho don't
study right. He studies books instead of men.'
Mr_. Sandidge delivered this sentiment with contemptuous pity
'e thinks if we had a Supreme Court he would do something
grand.
'He's for a Supreme Court, is lie?' inquired the Judge, with a
frown.
'Warm, warm. Has been from the first.'

VntOaoU5TALES .
dred dollars-under a writ of fieri facias which Mr. Sanclidge, three
or four years before, had been kind enough to 'lift,' to have trans'
ferred to himself, and to foirear. enforcing payment thereof in con.
'sideration of sixteen, which he called a living'per century of into-
rest. What sacrifices the indulgent creditor was always making,
when at every renewal of the note for the extra interest, he solemn.
]y avowed his need of the money, and of his subru ssi n to go with
out, it for no earthly reason than to oblige his friends ! On that
friend's accession to the Bench, when first they were alone together,
he took the last note of renewal from his pocket book, and handed
It to him without saying a word.' The judge, appearing surprised,
Mr. Sandidge, with skiing solemnity, protested that he never could
exact usurious interest from a Judge of the superior Court of the
State of Georgia. He hoped he had too much respect for the digni.
ty of the office to do any such'thing as that. The judge, after foo.
ble remonstration, took the note, looked at it, signed,' and tearing it
slowly to pieces, felt already one of those palpitating and almost
painful joys which only men in office have. It vvas a small malters
but it touched' him, for his means were small, and he felt as if hence
forth he could live.
But to return to the conversation with whiqh this chapter began,
and which took place in the judge's room at the hotel, on the Sunday
night before the sitting of the court.
'flow does that smart chap Mobley get on?'
'Aboutlike he was.'

r
.p
;.
"r


52                    htomers TALs.
rIt will be some  time  before he  gets it  I'm  thinking.'
'That's what I tell him.'
'Thank God it's onl these book men that want a Supreme
Court. They don't know, Sandidge, they don't know anything out-
side of books.'-
Not the first thing. That's\wbat I tell 'em.'
'They think:that because such a pint has been decided such a.
way, by such .judge, that it should be decided so always; and
they are forever and eteaally talking about settling the law, set-
tling the law-like it was, Sandidge-.just like it was so much cof-
fee.'
Mr. Sandidge spat all over himself, wiped his mouth with his hand,
and came very near laughing outright.
'And I would like to know how, in the name of common sense,
it ever could get settled. There aint any thing to settle it by.
That's the pint ;' there aint any thing to settle it by.' He looked
enquiringly at 1.i 1. Sandidge, and seemed to wish that gentleman to
tell what there was to settle it by if he knew of any such thing.
The latter shook his head.
'No sir ! there aint nothing to settle it by - and when Mobley is
talking about what Lord Mansfield said, and what Lord Hardwick
said, or any of them okd lords and judges, it's on the end of my'
tongue to stop him, and tell him that they are all dead, and conse-
quently can't know any thing about the case at bar. And, San-
didge, it always struck me as very curious that the laws of Eng-
land should be the laws of Georgia,''
It was a remarkable coincidence that that idea had over and
over again struck Mr. Sandidge. He, however, hinted, that in
some cases, (and those were=cases in his opinion when the authority
happened to be on his own side,)- where the English law was very
'plain and directly in point, and it ought to be followed.'
'Certainly, certainly, in such cases ; and I do follow it ; but I
am the judge of that myself.'
'AhI! yes--that was i-ight ! Now they were exactly agreed-
'1he judge, if he was judge, of .course, ought to be the judge. If by

t
i
{s.
[ rf
x
r
[T
t

4 V
I

.
F
{
9   r      ,

MeWMR0s TALES.                          53
wasn't, of course, he couldn't be, which was absurd;' and Mr. San-
didge almost frowned in. the effort of elaborating this reductio ad.
absurdum.
'Absurd-so I think; and Mobley and such as he may study their eyes out
for me. When they bring up law that I think is right, I shall sustain them;
when I don't think so I shall overrule them. They may get their Supreme
Court if they can. It aint going to be in my day, thank God. If it was, I
just know that I couldn't and wouldn't stand it. Before I would havb an.
overseer over me, and I judge of the Superior Court, and have to be eternally
looking into old books to find out what them old English lords and judges
said a hundred years ago, when the country wasn't like this, nor the people
neither--why Sandidge you know I havn't got the books, and couldn't afford
to buy them-I say before I would be put to all the trouble and expense of
reading law and nothing else, and then have my decisions brought back on me,
and treated like I was-like I was in fact a nigger-I would die first.'
Mr. Sandidge smiled approvingly.
'Why; who would respect me?'
'Nobody.'
'How could I enforce the authority of tje Court?'
'couldn't- be done.'
If I put a fellow in jail just like as not they would take him out.'
Like as not.'
'If I fined one, ten to one it wouldn't stick.'
'Just so. He wouldn't stay found.'
'If I refused to grant a new trial, knowing that I am against then, they
would send a paper ordering me to grant it. Don't you see they would
knowing I am against 'em?'
'Plain as day. Send a'paper ordering the Judge of the Superior Court!'
I tell you, Sandidge,. before I would stand it, I would die first. In fact, I
would RESIGN I!'
This was capping the climax. Dying would be a poor and very inade-
quate resentment. lie would go beyond that. He would voluntarily and
disgustedly let go his hold upon power. The consequences might be what
they pleased, he would resign. 'I tell you, Satididge,' he repeated once more,
with fearful emphasis, 'I should RESIGN!!'
Mr. Sandidge, although purposing to appear alarmed, smiled notwith-
standing ; and perhaps the more because he thought such a deplorable event
not very likely to come to pass; and perhaps yet more, because it instantly
occurred to him that if it ever should, he would console himself in themnidst


HUMO; 5 TALES.
of his owi losses and grief as well as le could by replacing the extra interest
upon the' F FA not yet paid off and c.  arged.
'And'what' will you leading lawyers do when young men, smart young men,
like Mobley, go before the Supreme Court with books in their hands und turn
you down ?'.
'I shant live to see it,' and it was doubtless the prospect of a far distant
organization of such .a tribunal, rather than of his own early decease,, which
gave the gratified and complacent expression to that smiling countenance.
CHAPTER IV.             *
Overton attended the Court, and obtained, by the assistance of Mr. Mobley,
seat within the bar. He had been introduced to several lawyers from dif-
ferent counties within the circuit, and toythe jtidge. On his introduction to
the latter, he remarked a certain ungainly attempt at a congratulation on his
expected accession to the profession,' which was authing else but cordial.
Mobley had spoken of him to the other lawyers, ih the judge's hearing, as a
young man of education and genius, when Mr. Sandidgerwho was sitting by
him at the time, whispered that that was the sort'of'men who were always
talking about a Supreme Court. -After this, His 'Honor took no further no-
tice of him. During the week, he noticed what was new to him how much
of an art it was to conciliate and to control' the Court. It was evident that
Mr. Sandidge was the favorite. Every body knew that. Mr. Sandidge him.
self, who had long foreseen and fore-ordained it. Of all positions in a free
government, where favoritism is worth having,- it was that of'a favorite cir-
cult judge of Georgia in the old times. When the fortunes of men, their sccu-
rity, and sometimes even the~it lives were dependant upon the will of an indi.
vidual, and that individual' menable to no earthly tribunal for whatever
errors ,he might commit, or even for his wickedness, except upon principles
the most vagih and uncertain, it was an art ranking as high as the science of,
the law itself, and attainable by greater cost and sacrifice, to obtain an easy
and successful access to the ear of that most important depositary of
rower. They were the fortunate accidents of our ;mcient judiciary system,
that there was a goodly number of virtuous and talented men upon the bench ;
for neither virtue nor any very considerable amount of talent were essential
qualifications. If the occupant for the time hilg possessed\ them, very well-
Rf not, then not so well, yet well enough.
The present occupant, we have seen, had no uncommon talents. In vir.-
tue, he was neither good nor bad. At least, he was incapable of bribery. If
bawas below the capacity to feel or to understand a noble impulse, he was

x
, Y
+ .
:
 i
.
'vt
S
.y,
r
f'
« =-_ 1
:1
:i
'
S
.f,
}
p

ElUMOROUS TALE3-

65

,above that of perpetrating an act of plain dishonesty. In talent and in  ir.
tue, he might be said to have occupied a-middle state between high and low,
but tending downwards. Fortunately for some, unfortunately for others, he
was not'brave. Now, of all official personages, cowards are the most trouble-
some and oppressive. Tliy are troublesome to those of whom they are
afraid, and oppressive to those who are afraid of them; troublesome to the
former by inflicting petty annoyances, in the use of small advantages, and
the punishment of-unimportant lapses in :cmembrances. and in resentment of
the pain they feel on account of such persons ; oppressive to the latter in or-
der to preserve the equilibrium between the feeling and the excitement of fear.
This quality is not peculiar to official nor even t6 human cowards. Instance
canine. I once saw in the city of Milledgeville, one cur badly bitten and con-
quered in single combat with     c tr. Immediately afterwards, as with his
tale shrunk between his hind legs, he iwas making for home with what speed
be could employ, he spied one of those dogs commonly denominated amongst
us as flee, whereupon his tail at once came out to its natural suspension; ho
rushed upon the little animal, and without any known justifiable cause, and
even without any previous acquaintance with him, caught him by the throat
and shook him until he was beaten off with rods. After ho had gotten out of
the reach of these, he went on his way leisurely, apparently satisfied that b
was again even with the w6rld.
Mr. Sandidgo was the favorite. The judge liked him not only for past fa-
vors of the kind we knew of, but for another reason. He thought Mr. San-
didge a man like himself and about his quality; and, therefore, he liked to
do honor to himself as it were in honoring his image. Mr. Sandidge made no
great pretension to a knowledge of books, and he thanked him for that. lie
never even hinted about a Supreme Court, but seemed to be, as in fact he
was, satisfied with the tray of the present administration of justice. Such
being the relations between them, Mr. Sandidge was lucky in gettingrulings
in his favor. He was in fact a much better lawyer than the judge, and
shrewod enough to beguile him of many a wrong decision, even had he been
different to him.
But, notwithstanding this favoritism, there were two or three lawyers of
real ability who, in spite of their contempt of him and his dislike of them, ex-
ceised over him that 'influence which a strong and bold intellect will always
exert over a weak and timid one. Above flattering him, they often, and even
against Mr. Sandidge, obtained rulings of doubtful right, when ho was un-
able, out of his dread oftheir unconcealed contempt, to resist them. But to
compensate Mr. Sandidge for such as 'this, and-to preserve his own regard for

"  a
.'
i
t
R'i
i) iy(
^ ;
7
3
4
,
v
n
';n
,t


*1

himself, he eagerly sought for opportunities to help himin taking advantage
of oversights in pleadings and in proof ; oversights which Mr. Sandidge him-
self never committed. The latter was, in addition, graciously allowedto dom-
ineer to, any extent over the younger lawyers. They stood in great awe of the
:bench. They could neither cajole nor brow-beat. Even a respectful remon-
strance 'from them was usually  'ollowed by a fine, ora threat tf it. They,
'therefore, timidly went about their business in the Court, hoping for the com-
ug of the day when they might become brow-beaters of Sandidges.
Like most small-minded men who go upon the bench, this judge set him-
=self up for a great reformer of abuses.. He was a terror to evil doers ; espe-
cially to those who did it on a small scale. Whenever he got a chancehe was
wont to stiok the law on to thern (to use his own phrase) up to the very hilt.
There were two vices in particular which he hated cordially. They were
fighting and usury. Whenever he could get a blow at either of these, he
struck it with all his official might. Mr. Sandidge well knew his weakness
on tie subject of usury, and managed so as to have no cases of his own, bu
'confined his financial operations to shaving paper. And yet he was lucky
enough to make more out of usurious transactions than he was accustomed
to when he loaned out his own money. For nqw the pleading of usury had be-
come common, and there was no lawyer, who could compare with him in fer-
reting testimony to establish its proof.  .
Of the younger lawyers. Mr. Mobley was an exception sofar as to the
standing in any awe of the judge. He was usually ve'y much embarrassed-in
the management of his cases, because ofhis apprehension of being cast by the
starting of sbme unforeseen difficulty, as was often the case from the want of
familiarity with precedents and forms. Here was Mr. Sandidge's forte. He
understood pleading and the' rules of practice thoroughly, and it was his de-
light to pick flaws in his adversary's papers, and drive him out of court. Mr.
Mobley was afraid of hjm on these grounds, and well he might be ; but other-
wise he was insensible to fear. The people were generally in great need of the
court. Here was where he could domineer at his pleasure. They should feel
his power. All absences, of witnesses and jurors, all noises in the court room
and court yard, all misdemeanors of all sorts, met with ready and condign
punishment: always, the more condign when their convictions came on shortly
after a series of browheatings from those whom he could not frighten. One
morning during the progress of a trialin whichhis patience had been sorely tried
a man ini the crowd near the bar having a cold blew his nose-an action
natural and necessary to the preservation of whatever amount of comfort is
consistent with that ailmen4. The action in this instance was accompanied by

S
0x

the usual loudnessa of sound produced by those who have uncommonly good
lungs.
'Mr. Sheriff bring that nose-blower within the bar.'
The culprit was brought in.
'Is this court a stable, sir, that you must bray in it like a jackass?'
eg unhappy man answered the question respectfully and candidly in tho
negative.
What dobyou bray in it for then, sir?'
.I didn't br-. I didn't know I was a brayim in it ,edge.    only blowed
my nose, havin of a bad cold.'
'What are yon doing here any way, sir ?.
1 jest come to court, sir.'
'Got any business here?'
'No, sir.'
'What did yo-u come for, then?'
Why, I thought, edgeg, that everybody was liable to come to court.'
'Liable, liable ! yes, and so are they liable to behave themselves ; and it'
they don't, they are liablo to be fined.  WXhat is your name, sir ?'.
'Allen Thigpen, sir.'
'Thigpen, Thigpen ! I might have known that any body by that iamno
could'nt tell a court room  from a stable. Mr. Thigpen you are fined in
the sum of two dollars?
Mr. Thigpen ran his hand into his pocket, And drawing out adirty buckskin
purse, emptied it, and counting the pieces with a rueful face, walked up two
or three of the steps,,and extending his hand to the edge. Dollar one-and-
nine i the highth of what I could raise if I was going to be hung.'
Now, whether from looking upwards at so -resplendent a luminary as the
judge, or from the violence of his cold, we could not say ; but, as His honor
was' gazing upon the extended band in ludicrous surprise and wrath Mr.
Thigpen felt a sudden impulse to sneeze-an impulse which, whenever it
comes, in court rooms or elsewhere, must be obeyed. Ie made herculean
efforts to suppress it; but as is usual in such eases, its victory was but the
more triumphant and violent. In his terror, and endeavoring to assure the
judge that he was doing his best, he could not avert his eyes from vim.1 is
face assumed the agonized contortions of a maniac; his great chest heaved like
a niountain' in labor, and he uttered a shriek which, in any circumstances but
those which showed that nothing serious or uncommon was the matter, would
have filled all within a circle of two hundred yards diameter with consternation.
In the violence of the paroxysm, thQ coin flew up from his hand as if they had


$8'                     HUMOROUS    TALE .
bee  discharged from a catapult, and coming down, some of themfell upon
thajudge's head and rolled into his lap. An instantaneous burst of laughter
followed this explosion, which, however, was-as instantly hushed. No words
can depict the expressions upon the faces of the two prominent actors. The
judge had been, as it were lifted out of his chair, and there the two stood
glaring upon each other, speechless. Each seemed to feel that this was no
time for talking-that words were inadegqnate to do justice to the occasion.
His Honor snatched up the docket with the evident intention of knocking Mr.
'1 higpen down, whether in self-defence, or in vindication of the outraged dig-
nity of the court, it was impossible to tell. Mr. Thigpen looked at it beseech-
iagly--as much as to say, knock me down with, it and welcome, but please
don't hang me. There they stood for a quarter of a minute - then the
judge, feeling doubtless that neither the penal code nor the court's discretion
were adequate to punish the outrage as it deserved, said almost in a whisper,
as the offender stood with his face untorted and unwiped:
'For God's sake be off from here, you cussed fool, and never let me see you
again in this world.'
11e made no unnecessary delay. When he had gotten fairly without hear-
ing of the court, a crowd which had followed him were roaring around him
with laughter.'
'How did you feel, Allen?' asked one.
'Feel! I did'nt have no feelins. They was all scared out o' me.'
'But what 'did you carry him the money for?'
Carry him the money?   Wasn't that right?  He found me.'
They whooped.
'I thought the money was his'n. I 'lowed that was the way he got hia
livin.'
'Gentlemen '!" he resumed, when the crowd had recovered from the effect of
this last remark, 'gentlemen, there's two things in this country that 'm agin.
They are schools and court rooms. When I were standing thar jist now, if
the feelins had not been skeered out o' me, and I had had my jedgment about'
me, I should a felt like little Asa Boatright used to feel when Iserl Meadows
told him to go to horsin ; and I had hoped never to have them feelins enduring
my nat'ral life, because I hid the conceptions from Asa's looks of what they
nust fe. Gentlemen, I never seed a man before that I was afeerd of I
thought every,body was liable to come to court. Gentlemen, I cones no
more without I'm fotcht. . When I sneezed-and I couldn't h '. holped it, if
the'allis hadbeen right before' me-when I sneezed, says I to myself, gone;
then, ding my skin, ef I don't believe that's what sared me. Gentlemen I

u
;"
' ;
'
f
{T  {
R
:
7
{
s
t
S
f

a1

II

* ,

t

4

arMOnoUs TALES                           69
goes home;' and as they laughed and shouted, Mr. Thigpen left. Many and
many times after that, even dewn to old age, he was heard to say that he had
'never seed but one man that he was afeerd of, and that was the jedge-old
Jedge Mike, as used to be.'
CHAPTER V.
Strain against Rickles!'
It was now Friday morning. The Judge was weary with the session, and
fretful from repeated wranglings with several leading attorneys. These had
all gone, the important cases having been tried or continued. The Court had
announced its determination to adjourn that afternoon, whether the docket
should be finished or not. It had not seen its family in two weeks, and it
must and would see its family by to-morrow night. Juries and by-stan4er.
were quiet as mice. Mr. Sandidge was in the enjoyment of mild happiness,
not only from the remembrance of having had a good run of luck 'during the
week, but because the Judge was now in a hurry, and the case of Stra
against Rickles was yet untried. He wished it continued, for he was of coun-
sel for defendant, and their plea was doubtful.
'Strain vs. Rickles,' announced the Court, rapidly and fretfully, with pen in
hand, as if to hint that it was expected to follow the fate of the half-dozen
preceding cases, and be disposed of summarily.
'Ready for the plaintiff,' announced Mr. Mobley.
The Judge dropped his pen,leaned back in his chair, and cast a throatontng
look at the counsel. Mr. Sandidge merely remarked that that was a case iin
which some pints of law were involved, and as the Court was anxious to ad"
journ and to go home and see its family, he suggested that if the counsel was
willing/it might be Continued generally. Mr. Mobley objecting to this dispo..
sition, he, after having a witness called, and receiving no answer, proceeded to
make a showing for a continuance by the defendant. This was the absence of
a witness who, as he had been informed, had said that he knew all about the
case from beginning to end. It was in vain that Mr. Mobley urged the in-
sufficiency of the showing for its indefiniteness, and the right of the opposing
counsel to send for the witness who lived in the village, and who, as his client
informed him, was then on the street and within hearing of the sheriff's call.
He mentioned this fact and that his client had just passed him in the street
and heard hin say when he was called, 'It is Sandidge. I know what he
wants ; he don't. want me.'
'If the counsel or the court desires the presence of the witness, he can be
procured in less than five minutes by sending the sheriff for him. Do I 


T~WMOROil TATE.
derstand that this court will continue a case and delay' the rights of creditors
when it is assured that a witness who refuses to attend its summons is within
hearing of its officer's call-a witness whose acquaintance with the facts there
is only a heresay and that the most indefinite-a witness who, to appearances,
is absent by the procurement, if not of the party at least of his counsel?'
The Judge hesitated. Mr. Sandidge seeing the effect upon both of them of
an exposure of, what was the fact, his instructions to the witness, not to obey
the call, withdrew his motion.
'I do this, may it please your Honor, not from anything my brother Mobley
has said in argument, or for his insinuations about procurements and such
like.' The showing is a sufficient one ; but I'll waive it-I'll waive it, sir, and
I think I'm prepared-I say, I think I'm prepared (noticing the judge's dis-
satisfaction at the direction the matter was taking,) to end this matter very
summarily. The defendant is ready.'              .
A jury was impannelled, and Mr. Mobley proceeded with the case. It was
a simple action upon a promissory note given, by defendant to plaintiff, who
was a merchant from Augusta. Ile read the declaration, exhibited the note
and closed.
Mr. Sandidge rose, and remarking tJiat this was a case which he apprehended
would not long occupy the time of the court and the time of the county, an-
nounced to Mr. Mobley, t1iat upon consulting his client, he had just ascer-
tained that the consideration of the note sued on was usurious, and that his
conclusion-being to rely on that defense solely, he should have to ask time of
the court in order to mak out the plea, unless counsel would agree to consider
it in already.
Mr. Mobley, turning to his client, who assured him that it was not true,
allowed Mr. Sandidge, to proceed.
A witness, the same who had been called, and whom Mr. Sandidge private-
ly' sent for, went to the stand. After the iuual preliminary that he did not
particularly charge his mind with what he leard and saw, not expecting to
be called on, he did remember that the parties said something about tie note
being in rend wal of accounts, some of which plaintiff himself had against de-
fendant, and others of which he had traded to him; that he heard plaintiff tell
defendant that if he would give hi note for them, adding in the interest, he
would indulge him a year on its payment ; that the defendant having agreed
to the proposition, gave his note, payable at twelve months. In answer to a
question from Mr. Mobley whether anything was said about extra interest, he
did not recollect as to that: didn't particularly 'charge his mind, not Ax-
pecting to be called on. Mr. Saudidge offered in evidence the accounts with

1
r
j
,
i
i
F
s
b
x

61  y

legal interest computed in, acknowledging payment by note and bearing even
date with it. Then casting a triumphant smile at every body, he sat iown.
Mr. Mobloy looked at the judge with an expression which seene(l to say
'Surely, no fool,,not even you, would admit such testimony.' The judge looked
at him, and his countenance seemed to . ask, 'What do you say to. that, Mr.
Mobley?' Mr. Mobley avowed his belief that ih all judicial history, a thing
so absurd had never l)cfore been proposed, and he move that the whole evi-
dence be excluded, and he . bealhowed to take a verdict. Being called on for
his reasons: 'Because,' said he, contemptuously, 'it does iot, support the plea.
You have pleaded usury, and you have proved that the contract is not
usurious.
Mr. Sandidge said, that lie might be mistaken ; that he said he might he
mistaken, but that he had never heard-he had now been practicing law
twenty-five years and better-but that to the best of his recollection, he had
never seen nor heard of a case where interest wo , elected, or could be collect-
ed on open accounts, on accounts that were not li1uidated.
'Who gainsays that?' Mr. Mobley interposed.
'The counsel will please allow me to l)occd, kuiwitig as he does, his r ight
to reply. I said, may it please your Honor, that in my reoollection, in a
practice now of twenty-live years and better, I had never seen nor heard of a
case where interest vias collected or could he collected on open accounts-on
accounts that were not liquidated. That thing is for the first time in my
practice; sought to be enforced upon a court and upon a country. The plain-
tiff in this case-and these Angusty merchants--'
'Go on to the jury,' ordered the judge.
Mr. Sandidge bowel and turned to the jury.
'These Augusty n   hats, gentlemen of the jury,' 'easily resuming the
thread of his argumen t, 'these Augusty merchants, as a general thing, always
krow what they are a bout. I say always-not a single exception ;' and he
bestowed on the plain iff a look fully significant of his admission that he was
entitled to his share o Ihe encomium pronounced upon the class of which he
was an individual. 'These Augusty merchants know more in an hour than we
plain country people do in a week. And it is reasonable to suppose that they
do ; and 'tis because they are Augusty merchants ; for what chance have we
here in the country got to know as much as they know? We don't see the
steam boats, and the power of the wagons, and the thousands of cotton bags
and the fine brick ware houses, and the hardware stores and the other stores that
always keep full of one particular kind of goods. If Tommy Riekles was to go to
Augusty, and was to want to buy a dog-knife for his little boy, he would just as apt

lI

iir~v~TALES

t
.
'a
f


W!VOO  T 4.

to goto a store which bad nothing in it but calico and dry goods, and fuller of them
than all the stores in this town ; an I when they laughed and told him they
were just out of that article, he might go to a hat store, and then into a shoe
store, and then into a candy store-into a store where the shelves was literally
blinded with Jars of candy, and nothing but candy; and so it might be an hour
before he got to a hardware store and found a dog knife for his little boy, and
fjien ten to one, he couldn't find his way back to his wagon. I say we don't
know any thing to compare with these Augusty merchants. Bat still there are
someafew things that we do know if we do live here in the country where there
paint any steam boats, and hat stores, and candy stores, and hardware stores;
and one.of them is that you ce-ant collect interest on open accounts.'
That settled it Mr. Sandidge seemed to think ; and several of the jury,
though evidently not yet very clear, inclined t think so too.
'We all know thl,' continued 'Mr. Sandidge--'that is, all except Tommy
R ickles.' (G . c daughter , the jury seeing the matter a little. mere ciasriy
;specially as Tpmmy looked so innocent and pitiful.)
'And, geotlenen, Tommy knowed it too, if he had thought about it, and
had'nt been with a Augusty merchant ; Ond had'nt been thinking of the steam.;
boats, and the power of the wagons, and the hat stores, and the shoe stores, and
the hardware storess, and got his senses all confused up together.' (Continued
laughter, a majority of the ju ry being fully satisfied.)
The judge waxing stern at the disorder, Mr. Sandidge had to moderate his
humor, and concluded by arguing heatedly and seriously as he could, and even
womeWhat'pathetically that interest not being collectible on open accounts, this
plain principle vitiated the whole transaction and made it usurious . With
another avowal of hip desire not to take up the time of the court and the time
of the country by arguing so plain case, he sat down, bs countenaue ex.
pressing both a virtuous indignation at a great wrong which was attempted,
and a proud satisfaction that it could not he done over his shoulders
Mr. Mobley felt that, with the prejudices of the judge against himself and
especially against usiry, and the cunning Mr. Sandidge, he was in great danger
of losing his case. He spoke with great-e;ergy on the absurdity of the defend.
ant's plea. In the midst of his argument, 'Mr. Sandidge asked him for his au-
thorities. This was done to embarrass him and throw him off his guard, as he
would have had to admit that there was no authority in point ; but he had
now gotten too high to be reached by M:. Sandidge.
¢ am asked,' he said, 'for the production of authority that the giving of a.
nofein liquidation of a just debt is not usurious. I am asked for this by a
lawyer oNtwenty-five y'ars' practice -a lawyer who is old enough and promi,

r
:
K
F
i$
3
A
t
x
f
r

63

nent enough to be, what it esnecIally behooves every lawyer to be, a conser vko'
ofpublio tranquility and private integrity-one who, with all his boasted contempt
of legal precedents, and his real ignorance of them, yet knows full well thit in
no court of justice, even the most insignificant wa this question, or any other
one so absurd as this, ever raised; and whose only reason for raising it at this
time, was his knowledge of the existence of dishonest habits and unreasonable
prejudices which, as a leading citizen he ought to be one of the last to oucoUT
age. Violent as the presumption often i , nd far from the very semblance ot
truth, it is, nevertheless, a presumption that judges know the laws; and  t
ought to be the habit of attorneys and solictors, especially those of experience
and influence, to reftairi from  maisieg questions, a moment's entertainment of
which by any court is suficient to depriv? it of the respect of all men. I3et
it has remained for this day to witne' hit the highest court in one of the
sovereign States of this Confederacy, shall be insultd ilA its dignity and majesty
by a course of conduct which seems to have been designedly pursued in order
to test the vanity of that court's presiding ollicer. Assuredly to no other min d
than to that of the counsel had it b.en possible to fail to occur, that an insig.
nificant advantage in a suit at law was scarcely worth the having when it was
to be gained in a way which, to say nothing of its influence upon its client,
would establish either the stultification of the court, or (and he looked fixedly
and fearlessly into the judge's face,) raise the suspicion of a yet greater in
firmity. Even if he should consider himself as so great a friend to the court'
whether from past favors 'or present adulation, or from any other cause, as to
think himself entitled to the exalted privilege of being its favorite, one would
have suppcs d that, if for no other reason, at least from motives of prudence
and decency, he would have confined his conduct within that sphere whero
there would have been left at least a doubt as to what judgment that conduct
ought to receive. It is a duty which we owe even to our private friends, not
to demand a service of which there can be found no reason but friendship to
justify the rendering, while'every other reason but friendship would demand its
refusal. There are some services which  ho ardor of friendship is adequate to
procure-some indeed which a proper and worthy friendship would be the last
to exact.'
A large crowd had gathered into the court room, attracted by the vehemence
of the young lawyer's declamation. He was an eloquent speaker, and lie
speech was telling upon the bystanide -,  He saw it, and it stimulated him to
oontinually increasing endeavor.
'There is a vulgar maxim that there is nothing to be lost by the asking of
favors. The counsel has long and well learned how to profit'by it. Lila euo-

IUMOROU TAL!S


64M*ROS TALES.

cessful experience in this respect, while it reflects no great honor upon his
sincerity or even upon his ingenuity, pays a consideration to the 'source from
which these favors flow, which it is impossible to be considered as in the small-
est degree respectful. 'I warn him this day of the necessity to beware how he
abuses an influence whiclshis every action shows that he is conscious of exerting.
There is a decorum which men, even of the greatest ability, when in the en-
joyment of honors, even thode the most fairly won, cannot neglect with impunity.
Let those, then, especially beware, the success of whose career is mainly depend-
ent upon favor. For granting that the power which, strange as it is, he may
truly think that he has immeasurably above others succeeded in conciliating,
and controlling, is absolute and unlimited, yet when it shall at last of all others'
become convinced that such a control is no longer compatible, not only with the
appearance of respectability, but ever? with its own security, and shall, as it
assuredly will, withdraw from him the favor in which he seems to live, and move'
and have his being, he must then know how vain will be the late pursuit of
those other and higher means of success ::midci it has been his constant habit to
neglect. And even if this should not ome to pass, if dullness shall never be
ble to be conscious of, and to resist a c".. rol which binds it like the spell of
the charmer, surely, in a country so free ad so humane in all its institutions
except its courts of justice, in a country w 're there are so many good and
brave men-men who have been good enon i th md brave enough to resist and to
destroy every other form of tyranny, it is n ".to much to expect that the time
must come and come soon, when this last foray a'nst yield to the necessities of
an matancing civilization; and follow the fate of t hese which have gone before
it. Sm y, surely, it cannot long remain, that a free people, who have broken
the last shackle of political despotism, must continue to bow in ,abject submis-
ion before another which is the more odious, because thhir own hands have
created it, and because their own hands may peaceably destroy it.'
Mr. Mobley spoke for half an hour in this strain, during many parts of
which, Mr. Sandidge, smiling as he wasy was rather piteous to be seen ; and
when lie spoke of the merits of theplea itself, Tommy Rickles, but that he had
the great Mr. Sandidge for his friend, would have felt as if he ought to be in the
peaitentiary.
The judge had odee or twice opened his mouth for the purpose of arresting
the speaker and fining him for, contempt ; but Mobley's passion had terrified his
weak mind, and he had not the nerve to do it. When the last sentence of this
'terrible philippic was spoken, with feeble desperation he beckoned the sheriff to
him. Eis adversary paused, and fixed his eyes, which rolled and burned like
the lion's, rpon both of them alternately. The poor creature quailed, shrunk

~OiROuY TALE.

65

back in his chair, and bowed his head in the unutterable anguish of feeling that
one more, and he a mere boy, had assaulted him in his very castle, and van-
quished him. He dwelt in the latter part of his speech most solemnly upon the
grave responsibilities of courts, which sat in the last resort upon the trial of
the rights of citizens, In the absence of a high court for the correction of
errors, every judge should, and every upright one would hesitate in pronouncing
a judgment which was to be final and irrevocable. With some of the ihost
eloquent and touching observations upon this sentiment, he closed his speech,
His Honor had determined to charge the jury in favor of the defendant. He
w s from principle and -from habit (a habit much more common then than now)
opposed to the payment of interest on open accounts ; and from principle and
habit much more opposed to the payment of usurious interest. Ire had gotten
it into his head that not only was usury condemned in the Bible, but that it
had been mainly instrumental in the overthrowv of the great empires of the
ancient world, particularly the Roman. For some wag had told him that the
latter was once publicly sold and bought by a celebrated usurer, one I)idy
Julian, under an execution of fieri facias. Being by his position, one of the
conservators of the\ public safety, he had resolved'to prevent if possible any
such disaster to his native country, by rebuking and punishing this greatest
vice of society whenever it came in his way, let it assume whatever disguise it
might. In this renewal of open accounts, he imagined that he dimly perceived
an attempt to evade the law, and -had made up his mind when Mr. Sandidge
had  concluded, to oh ar g e  upon. it, like a squadron of horse.  But
Mobley had, in the very absence of all opportunity of argument, cast such an
amount of ridicule upon that motion, that he gravely doubted whether such a
charge be right. Besides, Mobley had now risen to the rank of those whose
ridicule and contempt he was ashamed and afraid to incur, lie, therefore'
refused' sullenly to give any instructions; but ordering the ,pleadings to be
handed to the jury, sent them to their room. Half an hour afterwards having
returned to the box, they wei'e asked if they had agreed upon a verdict. 1'he
foreman, a little dark man, with short, straight up hair, and a sharp voice, rose
and said:
May it please the cote, we has not ; we desires to ask your honor, if upon
the provosa --'
'I don't want to hear of your provosoes. Go back to your room, and ind a
verdict, or make a mis-trial, I have no instructions to give on your provosoes.'
The little man' dodged, turned quickly and led his followers back. They
agreed to disagree ; ten of the number not being able to see any usury in the
consideration, while two Sandidge men contended then, and ever afterwards
persisted in contending, that it was plain as day.

,  .

64:


~WOVS TA2LB.

And now it was the afternoon ; the sun was fast declining. Unless the court
could get fifteen or twenty miles on its way home to-day, it would not reach it,
and see its family by to-morrow night. /Basiness had to be despatched right
away everbody knew, or be left undone. ,Mr. Mobley had a money rule to take
against the eheriff.. That keeper of the county had been in some anxiety all
the forenoon on account of it, but now he was at his ease since-he had consulted
Mr. Sandidge.       S
'What are you scared. about? Don't you see that he's bent on starting home
this evening?'
'Bat I can't make a showing, because I've spent the money.'
'How much have you got about you at this particular time?'
'Twenty dollars.'
'Hand It over to me. It will do for you and me too for the present.'
The sheriff paid it over.. -
The last docket was closed ; in the intermission of court for dinner, the jury
for the next term had been drawn those of this term were discharged. The
judge took out his watch.        -
'May its please your Honor,' began Mr. Mobley, 'I desire to take a rule
against the sheriff.'
'Will it be resisted?'     .
'It will, may it please your Honor,' answered Mr. Sandidge. 'Mr. Sheriff go
to my office and bring mte the Acts of the last Legislature. Bring those of the
two last, if youplease, Mr. Sheriff. I disremember which it is that contains
the law I wish to refer to. I ask the indulgence of the court for only a few
minutes until I can make out the showing.
'Will tIere be any other rules or orders to be made ?' asked the judge im-
patiently.,.a.t
'I have'several,' Mr. Sandidge answered; 'but unless your Honor could hold
over to-morrow, I shall be obliged to postpone taking them until the next term,?-
as this rule will take up all the balance-of this afternoon, probably.
The sheriff was going slowly towards the do r ; 'come back here, sir,' bawled
the judge, rising, his temper all gone. 'This court has got powers ; it may be
insulted ; it may be abused ; but it has got powers ; it has got privileges ! Ad-
journ this court till the court in course 1!'
'I protest against this disgraceful---,' began Mi'. Mobley. but the sheriff in
thundering tones was already announcibg the adjournment, and as his Honor,
p    an4 haggard rushed rapidly past him, 'God save the State,' he cried in
thankful glc 'and the onerble court!''S
Mr. Mobley ias too full of indignatiou to trust himself with many words.

'^k4   ''

66

i
i
U;
'a
G
J

67

'You two and he form a glorious trio in the dispensation of humane justice,'
he said bitterly to the sheriff and his lawyer. 'But,' raising his hand and abak-
ing it towards the latter, 'your day is passing ; mine is coming.'
'I think he will have to wait for his Supreme Court, eb, Mr. Saudidge?' re'
marked the sheriff as Mobley, taking the arm of Overton, who had staid till the
last moment, walked away to his office.
Mr. Sandidge made no answer. but takhig a big chew, smiled thoughtfully
and serleusly. In twenty minutes from that time, the two rascals compelled
the plaintiff in execution, who had sought the rule, to settle his debt by taking
the sheriff's note at twelve months without interest, also deducting the fee which
had ben paid to Mr. Sandidge for defending him as he said 'from them disgrace.
ful proceedanecs.'
'And what do you think of Georgia justice?' asked Mr. Mobley, after he had
reached his office.
'Oar courts make as good a show as a caravan of wild beasts, do they not?'
'Such scenes as those to-day must surely happen very seldom"
'Seldom I I tell you they happen frequently.'
'In all the circuits?'
'No: in some of them, thank God, there are men who are neither fools nor
rascals. But our miserable judiciary system will not allow a-man to remain
,   very long on the bench, however learned and upright he may go upon it, with.
out his at least tending to become .one or the other of these characters. The
possession of unlimited power makes tyrants of the very best men, while it is
notorious that our judges when they come off the bench are worse lawyers thau
they are when they go upon it. Why, what you saw is no worse than what be
frequently occurred here. The miserable dolt used to crowd me, until I felt that
I must resist or be a collared slave. Tie knows now, however, I think, that I
am not afraid of him.'
'He is now evidently afraid of you.'
'I do not know as to that.' Mr. Mobiey brushed the hair from his forehead,
and looked as though he did know as to that.
'You have passed your ordeal at last, and will hereafter be able at least to
divide the control of the court.'
'Do you think so?'
'There is no doubt of it. le is evidently hacked.'
'I hope you are not mistaken ; for humiliating as it is to a gentleman's sense
of propriety and decency, he must, in order to attain professional success, either
become a favorite of the court or make the court afraid of him. Between the
two, unhappy as is the choice of either. he cannot for a moment besitate.'
The student made no answer, but parted with him, and having ordered his
horse, rode slowly back to Mr. Parkinson's.

WXMOZOtS TA.i,}M.


HOW MR. BILL WILLIAMS TOOK TIHE RESPoNSIBILITY.
CHA PT"ER L
"Our honor teachetlI us
That we he bouTila every  enlte'prisc.
The incidents Tat am about to relate transpired  uear Dukes-
borough, a small village something  nr a hundred miles from Au-
gu.ta.ve For many years it has ceased even to be mentioned, except
gusta  For  any yasl'    who knew it before the Dukes,
by the very few persons now living, who knere  the    Due
(from whom it was, named,) left-it. It ha suffered thae most absolute
decay that j have ever known to befall a village. It had not been
laid off in its beginning upon any definite plan It seemed, indeed,
t  have become a village unexpectedly to itself and to every body
else notwithstanding the fact that, instead of being in a hurry to be-
cone so, it took its own time, and that amounted to some years. The
Dukes first establisheda blakmith' rshop-thenin, a store. Both
prospered. After some time yothpr persons camnein and buying a
little ground, settled on botlhi des of the road, (a winding road it
li)untl there were several,? families, a school, and a church.-
hen the Dukeserew veambitions, and had 'the place called Dukes-
bdiugh. It grew on until this fariily left the place, some for the
cdenies farther west, and some for the grave. Then decay set in at
once, and to day a wretched log house on one side of the present
road and fit to be used for no purpose whatever, is the only sign of
a relic of ancient Dukesborouglate upon the causes of its fall. The
places owoulhuman habitation are like those who inhabit them. _ Some
persons die in infancy, some in childhood, some in yotuth, some at
middle-age, some at three score"'ang ten, and somme linger yet longer'
'ut the last, in their own times, die as surely as many of the former.
Methusaleh lived to nine hundred and sixty and eight years, but
then he died. The account in Genesis, of those first generations
of men, is, after all, I think, a melancholy one. The three last
words, closing the history of every one of them, are to me very
sad, 44nd he died.'
So it   with the places wherein mortals dwell. Some of them be-
come village, some towns, some cities; but all-villages, towns,
and cities;hate theirttimes to fall, just as infants, youth , aen and
odld men~ have theirs' to die. People may say what they please about

w

'

lUMoRoU    TALES.(9
the situation not being wvell chosen, and about th. disagreeableness
Sh    i  t       es of their residences all absorbed by the Dukes
whom few persons used to like. This i
was true in this use Yt,            eight be true, and I admit
s cas. Ye, imposition about Dukesborugh is
that it had lived out its life. It had run its race like all other
things, places and people, who have lived out their lives and run
their race ; and when that was done, Dukesborough had to fall. It
had not lived long, and it had run but slowly, if, indeed it can be
at al. But it reached its journey's end. When it
did, it had to fall ; and it fil. It not oftenhapntat1asth
place where it used t     .I    o   fe   happens that I pass the
to stand, but whenever I do, I feel somewhat
nas I feel when I go near the neglected grave of an old aci
ane.  Isaytomyself in the latter case. 'lore is the last of hinl-
lie was once a stout, heartygo-uoe         eloimSsdt
thin  f whi having dropped everything, and being covered up
here where the earth above him is now like the rest all around the
plce) an  us grave, but for my recollection of the spot Where it
was dug, would be indistinguishable. But it could not be heled  a
here he is for good. So of Dukseborou    Wen T       lp  ,an
road, I think, 'Here was once a smart village'-.no ga  ongs of
,Durse, but still a lively, busyarmovgraoan great things oif
oure,1)u silla iveybusy, harmless village. It might have
stood longer, and the rest of the''world not have age  t  but havi
no us    thin  about i because the thing is over, and Duksborouga
is no more. Besides himself there may )0oe   rtw    eros e
living who can tellwi.            may e one or two persons yet
liing wo tcan tell with some approxination) to accuracy, where
it used to stand. When we are (ead, whoever may wish to gather
of ec of muketoranienmust mo as they  ( otm the supposed siteu
f t   i   of more ancient tsiis,-Wliat asto say, they must dig
for' it.Y
These reflections, somewhat-grave-
fitly Preliminary to'the narrative which is to follow theo. Butn.
trust they will be pardoned in an 01(1 man who could ot frbeart
make them, hen calling to mind the forsaken places of his bov-
hood   albeit, the scenes which lie proposes to describe, so far
srml, g a serious. are rather sportive i their character. Tf I car
smile, and sometimes Ido smile at the recital of thmgs that Were
one and m words that were said by somo of my earliest cotemporaries,
yatnd t  t bsayi owed also a sigh when I remember that the doings
and he sayings of nearly all of them are ended for this world.
CIIA PTER I.
When Josiah Lorriby came into the neighborhood to  eep a school,
I was too young and too small to go to it alone  lHaving no olde
brother or sister to go along' with me, my parents, although they

{

-


t

rUMO OuS TALES.

were anxious' for me to begin, were about to conclude to give it up,
when, fortunately, it was ascertained that William Williams, a big
fellow, whose widowed mother resided' near to us,intended to go
one term and complete his education, preparatory to being made
the better fitted for a prospect of some ambition which he had m.
view. His way lay by our door, and as he was one of the most
accommodating persons in the world, he kindly proffered to take
charge of me. Without a moment's hesitation, and with much
gratitude, this offer was accepted, and I was delivered over into his
keeping. .
William Williams was so near being a man that the little boys
use to call him, Mr. Bill Williams, usually wore a stout dress-coat
of homespun, with pockets opening upon the outer instead of the
inner sde   ots.wit   po any oa time, when  I. was  fatigued  with
mne side of the skits.  a.h    a  m      ad   etn upon his
walking, have 1 ridden upon his back, my hands resting uo  i
shoulders a   rd my feetstanding in those capacious pockets. Mr.
Bill promised to take care of i'e, and he kept his wordw.wntt-
Onthe first morning when the school' was opened, we went to-
gether to it. About one mile and a  Ialf distant stood the school
house. .Eighteen by .twenty feet were it~ dnsons. door ad
built of logs and covered with clap.boards. It had one door, and
oppo'Site.to that a hole in the wall, twoa feet square, whi c rmrled
the window. It stood in the corner of a field (having formerly been
used as a fodder-house,), and on the brow of a bill, at the foot of
which, overshadowed by oak trees, was a noble spring of fresh
water. Our way led us by this spring. Just as we reached it,
Mr. Bill pointed to the summit and said :
Yonder it is, Squire.'facetious-
Mr. Bill frequently called me squire, partly from moreaJusticeof
ness, and partly from his respect tor my ' er,
the Peace.
I did not answer. We ascended the hill, and Mr. Bill led me
into the presence of the genius of the place.
Mr. Josiah Lorriby was a remarkable man, at least in appearance.
He was below the middle height, but squarely built. He h low
good enough, but hi   ther parts were defective. He h a  lw
fgat head, with very short hair and very long ears. His a tms were
reasonably long, but his hands and legs were disproportionately
short. Many - tales were told of his feet, which he wore in shoes
with iron soles. He was sitting on a split-bottom chair, on one
side'ef the fire-place  Under him, with his head peering out be-
tween the,rounds, sitting on his hind legs, and standing on his fore
leg8, was (small yellow dog, without tail or ears. This dog's name
.was sum. How ie came by it I never knew. It was, I suppose,

70

given rperely arbitrarily. I have. frequently had occasion to no-
tice that school-masters,,as a class, are wont to bestow uncommon
names upon not only their children, but their dogs, and even their
horses, whenever they appear to have any of the last mentioned
species of property..
On the other side of the fire-place, in another split bottom, sat a
.       tall, raw-boned woman, with the reddest eyes that I have ever seen.
This was Mrs. Mehitable, Mr. Lorriby's wife.
When I had surveyed these three personages,---this satyr of a
man, this tailless dog, and this red-eyed woman, a sense of fear and
helplessness came over me, such as I had never fqlt before, and
have never felt Siee. I looked at Mr. Bill Williams, but he was
obseirving another pupil and did not notice me. The other pupils
eighteen or twenty in number, seemed to be in deep meditation.
My eyes passed from one to another of the objects of my dread, but
they became finally fastened upon the dog. His eyes also had
wandered, but only with vague curiosity around upon all the
pupils, until the became finally fixed upon me. We gazed at each
other several moments. Though he sat still and    sat still, it
seemed to me that we were drawing continually nearer to each
other. Suddenly I lifted up my voice and screamed with all my
might. It was so sudden and sharp that every body except the
woman jumped. She indifferently pointed to the dog. Her husband
arose, came to me, and in soothing tones asked what waa the matter.
I am scared!' I answered, as'loud as I could speak.
'Seared of what, my little man? of the dog ?'
'I am scared of all of you I'
He laughed with good humor, bade me not be afraid,  lled
Rum, talked to us.both,'enjoined upon us to be friends, and propho
cied that we would be such-the best 'that ha: ever been in the
world.-" The little creature became cordial at once, reared his fore
feet upon his master, took them down, reared them upon me, and in
the absence of a tail to wag, twisted lis whole hinder parts in
most violent assurance that if I should say the word we were friend
already. Such kindness, and so unexpected, dissolved myappre-
hensions. I was in a condition to accept terms far less liberal. So
I acceded, and went to laughing outright. Every body laughed
and Rum, who could do nothing better in that line, ran about and
barked as joyously as any dog with a tail could have done In the
afternoon when school was dismissed. I invited Rum to o home
with me; but he, waiting as I supposed, for a more intimate ac-
quaintance, declined.
CHAPTER HIlLa.
It was delightful to consider how auspicious a beginning Ihad made,
Other little boys profited by it. Mr. Lorriby had no desire to lose

I

11

~UU4OOt3Ti5  E


7                       iM   ths TALSa
aniyof his scholars, and we all were disposed to make as much of
advantage as possible of his apprehension, however unfounded, that
on account of'our excessive timidity, our parents might remove us
from the school. Besides, we knew that we were-to lose nothing by
being on friendly terms with Rum. The dread of the teacher's
wife soon passed away. She had but little to say and less to 1o.
Nobody had   any notion   of any reason which she    had for
coming to the school. At first she occasionly heard a spelling
class recite. After a little time she began to conic iiunch less often,
and in a few weeks her visits had decreased to one in several days.
Mr. Lorriby was not of the sort of schoolmasters whom men use
to denominate by the title of knock-down and drag out. He was
not such a man as Israel Meadows. But although he was good
hearted enough, he was somewhat politic also. Being a new comer,
and being poor, he determined to manage his business with due re-
gard to the tastes, the wishes, and the prejudices of the community
in which ho labored. He decidedly preferred a mild reign but it was
said he could easily accommodate, himself to those who required
more vigorous policy  lHe soon learned that the latter was the fa -
vorite h're. People cemplined that there was little or no whip-
pig   Sohw who had read the fable of the frogs who desired a
sovereign, were heard to declare that Josiah Lorriby was no better
than 'Old King Log.' One patron spoke of taking his children
home,placing the boy at the plough and the girl at the spinning wheel.
Persons in those days loved their children, doubtless, as well as
now; but they had some strange ways of showing their love. The
strangest of all was the evident gratification which the former felt
when the latter were whipped at school. While they all had a no
tion that education was something which it was desirable to get,.it
was believed that the impartation of it needed to be conducted in
most mysterious ways. The school-house of that. day was, in a
manner, a cave of Trophonius, into vhich. urchins of both sexes en-
tered amid certain incomprehensible ceremonies, and were ever-
lastingly subject and used to be whirled about, body and soul, in a
vortex of confusion. I might pursue the analogy and say that,
like the votaries of Traphonius, they were not wont to smile until
long after this violent and rotary indoctrination, but rather to
weep and lament, unless they were brave like Apollonius, or big
like Allen Thigpei, and so could bully the priest far enough to have
the bodily rotation dispensed with. According to these notions,
the principles of the education of books were not to be addressed
to the ihind and to the heart; but, if they were expected to stick, they
must be beaten with rod into the back. Through this ordeal of
painful gere onies had the. risen generation gone, and through the

HUMOROUS . TALES.                     7
same ordeal they honesty believed that the pres nt generation
-    ought to go, and must go. No exception was made in favor of
genius. Its back was to be kept as sore as stupidity's ; for, being
yoked with the latter, it must take the blows, the oaths, andthe
imprecations. I can account for these things in no other way than
by supposing that the 'ofd set of persons -had come out of theold
system, with minds so bewildered as to be ever 'afterwards incapa-
ble 6f thinking upon it in a reasonable manner. In one respect there
is a considerable likeness between mankind and some individuals of
e brte creation. The dog seems to love best that master who
beatse   before giving hui  a hone. I have heard persons say,
(those who had carefully studied the nature and habits of the mule,)
buat heos wodd to eyine a gratitude, somewliat touching, when a
bundle of fbdd-er is thrown to him, at the close of a day on whieb
he has been liven within ai inch of his life. So with the good
people of. former times. They lid bden beaten so constantly, and
so mysteriously at school, tiet they seemed to entertain a gi"ateul
affection for it ever afterwards.  [t was, therefore, with feelings of
bi  st      ion, somneunes not unixed with an innocent
gayety of mind, that they were wont to listen to their children
tey complained of' he thrashings they (aily received Sonie
of which would be wholly uniaccouitable. Indeed the latter sort
thepunimecnsde, o        allothers, the most salutary. Wlheii
e punishment was graduated y the o          it was supporting too
grea a lkenes totheall's iI5o every day life and, tllerel'ore,  vanit-
ing in solemn impressiveness. Ilhut when sSchool ia;t,  wna
countable reason, whipped a boy, ad s set hs mi in ftle
utter bewilderment as to what could be lie matter, -nd I h most
vague speculations upon what was t+no hc one or ' lii in this xvi'lid
to say nothing af the next , ah ! then it was that, tlm axpe-'iclccd
felt a happiness that was gently (xatic. They reurredlither
mids to their own school tine, and they concluded that, as these
things had not killed them, they must have done Ithem gool.
some of our goad mothers iii brael, on occasion  oi grea  r
excitement, as they bend over a shijekin; sinner,smile iii u
happmess as they fan hi throbbiii temples, ani floudly eneonm'ae'e
him to shriek on ; thinking of the pit f rom which they were (figgei,
and of the rock upoin which now thy are sto      id      ,
sing, and fan, Lnd fidning ever, conitinie li dig and shout.
-1
(Uf1I lLUIV.
Wben Mr. Lor'iy ha t rwnsi  1 the  1;p1i h  o puzhlire  nl;iiei liecanie
a  rew  m ani .  One  M onday  hmornimi'gh  ,'fPiit,  c d 1 ,1 . t unle    on rt o be n
over a iew leaf, and he went straieh wsva, 'i Oro,  ni'. Beforenght
several boys, from small to nim, bal  ogt                g


74       -KMOBous TAL
the nin       w e t in one instance. In that I wilt remember the surprise I felt at
the manner in which her case  yas disposed of. tHer name was Susan Pot-
ter. She was about twelve years old, and well grown. When she was called
up, inquiry was made by the master if any boy present was willing to take upon
himeelt the punishment which must otherwise fall upon her. After a moment's
silence, Seaborn Byne, a boy of fourteen, rose and presented himself.tae wa
good. tempered and fat, and his pants and round jacket fitted d him closely. He
advanced with the air of a rau nwho was going to do what was right, with no
thought of consequences. Miss Poter unconcernedly went to her seat. '
Bat Seaborn soon evinced that he was dissatisfied with a bargain that was
so wholly without consideration. I believed then, and 1 believe to this day
but for his being so goad a mark he would have received fewer stripes. Bud
his rcund fat body and legs stcod so temptingly before the rod, and the latter
' fell upon good flesh so entirely through its whole length, that it was really hard
to atop. Ho roared with pain so unexpectedly severe, and violently rubbed
each spot of recent infliction: \VJaen it was over he came to his seat and looked
at Susan Potter. She seemed to - feel like laughing. Seaborn got no synu
athy, except from a source, which he despised, that was his younger brother,
Joel. - Joel was weeping in secret.
'Shutup your mouth,' whispered Seaborn, threatningly-and Joel shut up.
Then I distinctly heard Seaborn mutter the following words:
' + I ever takes another for her, or for any of'ern, may I be dinged, and then
dug up and dinged over again..                       +
I have no doubt that he kept his oath, for I continued to know Seaborn
Byne until he was an old man, and I never knew a person who persistently
held that vicarleus system of school punishment in deeper disgust. What his
Ideas were about being 'dinged,' and about Cit it operation being repeated, I did
tot know, but I supposed that was so ething, that, if possible, better be
avoided.
Such doing as these made a great change in the feelings of us little ones.
Yet I continued to run the crying schedule. It failed at last, and I went
under.-
Mr. Lorriby lali it upon' me remorselessly. I had never dreamed that he
would give me such a  ogging-me who considered myelf, as every body else
considered me-a favorite. Now the charm was gone; the charm of security.
It made me very sad. I lost my love for the teacher. I own grew cold to.
wards Rum, andRum in his turn grew cold towards me.              .
.I a short time Mr. Lorrioy bad gone as nearly all. around the school as it
was prudent to go. Every boy but two had received his portion,-some onee,
some several times. These two were Mr. Bill Williams, and another big boy,
named Jeremiah Hobbes. These were. of course, as secure against harm from
Mr. Larriby as they would have been had he been in Guinea. Every girl also
had been flogged, or had had a boy flogged fer her, except Betsy Ann Acry,
the belle of the school. She was a light-haired, blue-eyed, plump, delicious
looking girl, fourteen years old. Now for 1tiss- Betsy Ann A cry, as it was
known to every body about the schoolhouse, Mr. Bill Williams had aapartic-
1            ty which, though not avowed, was decided. ie had never courted her in set
words, but he had observed her from day to day, and noticed her opening lto
woma   ood, with constantly increasing desire. He was scarcely a match for
her even if they.both had been in condition to marry. He knew this very well.
But comiderations of this sort soldom do a young man any good. More often

IIUl3OROUS TALES.
than otherwise they make bis worse. At least such was their cfcct upon Mr.
Bill.The greater the di stance et wec u d n  and MTis Betsy Ann, the more ho
3earncul across it. He sat in  chool vhw'o be could always' see her, and oh!l
howlie Cy('d her. Oitcn, often have I notic d M. Bi 1, leniysg the side of is
lid r~j is arm;, ('x ends (1 on h e desk iii froitt of him, u(i1 looking at her
ion. aesy c ntn ce vch it sied to n, ought to h .ve made soelC imipres-
idon. Ia showy An o siccvcd ll of this as it it was to more than Ehe was enti-
t.e t  . B l hoed nsn d   l hao an        aleupon the po:aessioa or
not. Mr J3i11 hoed wh (Id ; ie rest of us kflieved she did not.
Mi. Bis hadl at taer fali tOt on, which was, i. possib., even higher than the
wuhni of Miss Aery. Having rmo t cxliavarant notions of the greatnes .
of Diiks borolgsn, and the ( c51thiiton of being a iesid nt within it, he had long
d sired to go there as a  etk in a store. He bad made repeated applications
to be tlnenint by Messrs. Bland &amp; Jones, and it was in obedi ice to a hint from
hose gontl mLren that he b adetermiiite to tae  a term of finishing off at the
school ot Mr Loirihy. This pioet was run out of his mind, even in moments
of his fondest imaiinga about Miss Betsy A nui. It would have been not easy
to ray which he love the best. e c ksh'p s( ae ed to  ecome nearer and
nearer, alter eacti Saturday's visit to town, until at last he had a distinct ofder
of the p'ate. nTo tsalery was small, but lie waived that consideration in view of
the exaltation of the office, and the greatness of' living in I)akesboi-oiigh. Ha
accepted, to enter upon hi duties in f yurceka, whcn the quarter sesSIon of tbu
school wou'd expire.
The dign'fied ways of Vr. Bill after this, made considerable impression upon
all The school. Even Betsy Ann condescended to turn her eyes oftener in the
direction where he happened to be, ard he was almost inclined to g'ory in the
lbpe that the possession of one dear object wonld draw the other along with it.
At least he felt that i lie should lose the latter, the former wodh  the
highest consolation which he could ask. The news of the dist inguished ho or
that had b-en conferrel upon him, reached the heads of the school early on the
Monday following the eventful Saturday when the business was done. I say
beads, for of late Mrs. Mehitable came with her husband almost every day.
She received the announcement without emotion.' Mr. Lorrihy, on the other
an    npte otheropectof losing a scholar, was almost extravagant in 'is
'It wa- a honor to the whole school.' he said.
I feels it myslr. iSob i nwar cider all the circumstances. It was obleeged
to be. and sich it war, onn as it war sieb, Iucls it myself.'
Seabora Bvne heard this speech. Immediately afterwards h turned to m
'H whispered the following comment:
'He be dinged ! T'he decateiul old son-of-a-bitch l
CIIA PTER    r.
It was the unanitrons opinion amotn  Mr. Lorri'ay'abpupils that ho ws
grossly inconsstent with himself'; that lac onelit to have begun wallt'the rigid
policy at first, or to have held to-the mild. Having once enjoyed the sweets
of the latter, thoughts woild occasionally ise and questions vould be asked
Seaborn Byne was not exactly the head, but he was certainly the orator of a
revolutionary party. Not on his own account, for he had neret except as
the volunntary substitute of Miss Susan Potter, felt upon his own boderthe


76                   IUMO110US TALE".

tHUMOROS17 TLALEM.               7

effects of the change of dicipline. Nor did he seem to have any apprehensions
on that score. Ed even went so far as to say to Mr. Bill Williams, who had
layfully suggested the bare idea of suchta thing, that 'ef old Jo Lorriby -raised
is old pole on him, he would pift his blizzard, (as Seaborn facetiously called his
knife,) 'into-his paunch. This threat had made his brother Joel extremely
untha pp. Hialittle heart was bowed down with the never resting fear and be-
 lief that Seaborn was destined to commit the crime of murder upon the body of
Mr. Lorriby. 'On the other hand S.aborn wa- constantly vexed by the sight
qf the scores of floggings which Joel received. Poor Joel had, dbmehow, in the
beginning of his studies, gotten upon the wrong road, and as nobody ever
brought him back to the starting.point, he was destined, it seemed, to wander
about lost evermore. The. more floggings he got, the more hopeless and wild
were his efforts at extrication. It was unfortunate for hin that his brother
took any interest in his condition. Seaborn had great contempt for him, but
yet he remembered that he was his brother, and his brother's heart would not
'allow itself to feel no concern. That concern manifested itself in endeavoring
to teach Joel himself out of schoAl, and in flogging him himself, by way of pre-
venting Joel's having to submit to that disgrace at the hands of old Joe. So
-eager was Seaborn in this brotherly design, and so indocile was Joel, that for
every flogging which the latter received from the master, he got from two to
three from Seaborn. Amongst all these evils, floggings from  Mr. Lorriby,
floggings from Seaborn, and the abiding apprehension that the former was des-
tined to be killed by the latter, Joel Byne was a case which-was to be pitied.
'It ar' a disgrace,',said Mr. Bill to me, one morning as we were going to
school; 'and I wish Mr. Larrabee knowed it. Betwixt him and Sebe that
'little imiercent individiel ar' bent 'on being' useded up. It beats all natur. Ole
Larrabee ar' bad enough,'but Sebe ar' wusser yit. The case ar' wusser than if
there was two Larrabees:. In all my experence I has not seed jist sich a ease.
it ar' beyant hope.'
Mr. Bill's sympal by made him serious, and almost gloomy. I believe that at
That moment both Betsy Ann Acry aod the clerkship were out of his mind. The
road on which 1 he ITyne's tame to school met ours a few rods from the Spring,
we were now at the latter place. Mr. Bill had scarcely finished his last seni-
tence when we heard behind us the screams of a child. We should have been
much alarmed if we had not known where they were and what was their cause.
'Thar it is aging ' said Mr. Bill; 'at it good and soon; It do 'beat everything
in this blessed world, ef it don't, ding me.'
We looked behind us. Here came Joel at full speet, hatless, his spelling
book in one hand, and his dinner baslket, without cover, hanging from the other,
screaming with all his might. 'Fifty yards behind him ran Seaborn, who had
been delayed, as it seemed, by having to stop to pick up the bucket cover and
Joel's hit, as he had them both in his hands.
'Stop, you son-of-a bitch,' he cried.
Just before reaching the spot where we were, he overtook the fugitive, threw
him down, took out of his hand the spelling book, opened it, and then getting
upon him, fastening his arms with his own knees, 'Now,' said he, 'you rascal,
spell crucifix.'
Joel attempted to obey.
'S again, you little devil ! S-i, s-i! Ding my skin, if you shan't lam it ef I.
have to eram every bit of it intoo your mouth with my fist.'

'Look a here, Sebe !' interposed Mr. Bill; fun's fun, but too much is too
much.'
Now what these words were intended to be preliminary to, there was no op-
portunity of ascertaining; 'for just then Mr. Josiah Lorriby, who had diverged
from his own way ia order to drink at the spring, presented himself.
'What air you about thar, Sebion Byne?'
Seaborn arose, and though lie considered his conduct not only justifiable, but
proper, he looked a little crest-fallen.
'Ah, indeed     You're the assistant.teacher, air you?  Interfering with t/m
business, and myrrights, and my duties, and my -, hem. Let us all go to the
school-house now. Mr. Byne will manage business hereafter. 1, as f or me, 1
paint no whar now. Come, Mr. Byne, less go to school.'
Mr. Larriby and Seaborn went on, side by side. Mr. Bill, looked as if he
were highly gratified. 'Ef he don't get it now, he never will.'
Alas for Joel! Delivered from Seaborn, he was yet more miserable than be-
fore, and he forgot his own griefs in his pity for the impendingfate of Mr. Lorriby
and his apprehension for the ultimate consequence of this day's work to his
brother. He pulled me alittle behind Mr. Bsl!, and tremblingly whispered
'Poor Mr. Lorriby ! l)o you reckon they wi lhag Seahy, Phil ?'
'What for?' I asked.
'For killing Mr Lorriby r
I answered that I hoped not. This was as far as 1' could go, for I had some
confidence myself in Seaborn's desperate resolution.
The matter was settled before we two had reac. ed the house. As we got to
the door Mr, Lorriby began to lay on, and Seaborn to roar. The laying on
and the roaring lasted until the master was satisfied. Joel and I had staid out-
side. When it was over I looked into Joel's face. It was radiant with joyful
smiles. -Happy little fellow ! Sea born'would not he hung! That delusion
was gone forever.

l

CJiHAPTER VI.

having broken the ice up')n Seaborn, Mr. Lorriby went ibto the sport of
flogging  him  whenever  he  felt like  it. Seaborn's revolutionary senti-
ments grew  deeper and stronger constantly. But he was now, of course, hope-
lesief accomplishing any'results himself, and he knew that the only chances
were to enlist Jeremiah hlobbes, or Mr. Bill Williams, and make him the
leader in the enterprise. Very soon, however, one of these chances was lost.
Hobbes received and accepted t oflerto become an overseer, and Seaborn's
hopes were now fixed upon Mr. liill alone. That also was destined soon to be
lost by the latter's prospective clerkship. Besides, Mr. Bill being even tdm-
lpered, and never having received, and being never likely to receive any provo-
cation from Mr. Lorriby, ithe prospect of making anything out of him was
gloomy enough. In vain Seaborn raised inundoes concerning his pluck. In
vain he tried every other expedient,;even to secretly drawing on Mr.-Bill's slate
a picture of a very little man flogging a very , big boy, having written as well
as he could, the name of Mr. Lorriby near the former, and that of Mr. Bill near
the latter. Seaborn could not disguise himself, and Mr. Bill, when he saw the
pictures, informed the artist that if he did not mind what he was about, he
would get a worse beating than ever Joe Larrabee gave him. Seaborn had
but one hope left ; but thatinvolved some little delicacy, and could be managed
only by its own circumstances. It might do, and it might not do. If Seaborr

77


f
f
:

had been a praying boy, he would have prayed that if anything was to be made
oat of this, it would come before Mr. Bill should leave. Sure enough it did
come. Just one week before the quarter was out, it came. Seaborn was in
ecs'acie . Let us set what it was that so exalted him.
Miss Betsy Ann Acry had heretofore escaped correction for any of her short
comings, although they were not few. She was fond of ni ebief, and no more
afraid of Mr4 Lorriby than Mr. Bll Williams was. -Indeed. Mss Betsy Ann
considered herself to be a woman, and she had b en heard to say that a whip-
ping was something which $ihe wo rd take from nobody. Mr. Lorriby smild
at her mischievous tricks, but Mrs Lorripy fr wned. These ladies became to
dislike each other. The younger, when in her frotics, frequently noticed the
elder give her husband a look which was expressive of muchnmeanog. Seaborn
had al:o noticed this, and the worse Miss Acry grew, te oftener Mrs. Lorriby
came to the school._ He had come to believe fully that tl e.o1ject which the
female Lorriby had inr:ing at all.was to protect the male. A bright thought I
He communicated it to isAcry, and slyly hinted several times that he be.
lieved she was'afraid cf Old °Red Eye, .as he denominated the master's wife.
Miss Acry indignantly repelled every sneh insinuation, and became only the
bolder in what she said and what she did. Si aborn knew  that the Larriby's
were well aware of Mr. Bill's preference for the girl, and be intensely enjoyed
her temerity. But it was hard to satisfy him that she was not afraid of Old
Red Eye. If. Old Red Eye had not been there, Betsy Am would I ave done
so and so. The reason why she did not do so and so., yas because old Red Eye
was about. Alas for human nature-male and female! Betsy Ann wtut on
and on, until she was brought to'a hat. The occasion was thus:
There was in the school a boy, of r bout my own size, and of a vear'or twb
older, wbcse name was Martin Grarger. He was somewhat of a pitiful looking
creeture-wlined when he spoke, and'rwas frequently in quarrels, not only with
the boys, but with the girls  He was suspected if soviet mes playing the part
of spy and informant to-the Lorriby's, both of whom  tented him  with trore
con iderat on than any other pupil received, except Mr. Bill W illinm. Miss
Betsy Ann cord ially disliked him, and she honored myself by calling me her
favo ite in the.wbole school.    .
Now Martin and myself got ourselves very unexpectedly info a fight. I I-d
divided my molasses with him at dinner time. for wteks tud wi eks. A few of
the pupils, whose parents could affpd to have that luxury, wecre accustomed to
carry it to school in vials. I usually att my part, afier boning a hole in my
biscuit, and then filling it up. I have oten wished, siue I have been grown,
that I could relish that-preparation as I relished it vhen a boy. But as we
grow old{:r our tastes change. Martin Granaer relished the juicy even more
than I. In all my observations. 1 have never known a person, of any description,
why was as fond of molasses as he was. It did me good to se eahim eat it. He
never bronght any himself, but he used to hint, in iis whining wny, that the
time was not distant when his father would have a whole keg full, and when
le should brinmit to school in his father's bi snuff bottle, whieh was well known
to us-all. . Although I was not so sanguine of t e realization of his presl, ect s
he seemed t . be, yet I had not on that accountt became tired of ftn fishing him.
I only grew tired of his presence while at my dinner, auf I availed myself of a
triflingclispute one day to shut down upon him. I not only did not invite him
to partake of my molasses. but I rejected his proposition 1o do so wi'hont invi-
tation. He had been dividing it with me so long that I believe he thQught my

I

right to cut him off now was stopped. He watched me as I bored my holke
and poured in, and ate and even wasted the precious fluid. I could not con
sume it atll. When I had finished cat in, I pouted water into the vial and
made what we called 'beverage.' I won d drink a little, then shake it and hold
it up before me. The golden bubbles shown gloriously in the sun light. I had
not said a word to M irin during these it  resting operations, nor oven looked
towards him. But I knew that his eyes were upon me end the vial. Just as I
svollowed the last drop, ils lull heart could bear no more, and he uttered a cry
of pain. I turned to him and asked him what was the matter. The question
seemed to be considered as adding insult to injustice.
'Corn deternally trive your devilish hide,' he anwei-ed, and gave me the full
benefit of hip clenched hand upon my stomach. Ie was afterwards heard to
say that 'thar vas the place whar he wanted to hit lust.' We closed, scratched,
pulled hair, and otherwise strugled until we were separated. Martin went
immediately to Mr. Lorriby, gave his version of the brawl, and just us the
school was to be dismissed for the day, I was called up and flogged without
inquiry and without cxplanntion.
Miss Betsy Ann Acry had seen the fight. When I came to my seat, crying
bitterly, her indignation could not contain itself .
'Mr. Lo ribee,'.she said, her red cheeky growing rdder, 'you have whipped
that boy for nothing.'
Betsy Ann, with all of her pluck,had never gone so far as this. Mr. Lorrihy
turned pale and looked at his wife. Her red eyes fairly glistened wiJi fire. Ho
understood it, and said to Betsy Ann in a hesitating tone,-
'You had better keep your advice to yourself.'
'I did not give you any advice. I just said you whipped that boy for noth-
ing, and I said the truth.'
'Aint that advice, madam?'
'I am no madam. I ihank you, sir ; and if that's advice -.-.'
'Shet up your mouth, Betsy Ann Acry.'
Yes sir,' said B. A.,' very loud, and she fastened her pretty, pouting lips t-
gethr, elevated her head, inclined a little to one sideand seemed umnusedly
awaiting further ordrs.
The em d1e Lorriby here rose, went to her husband, and whispered earnestly
to him. He hesitatel and then resolved.
'CMme here to me, Betsy Ann Amrv.'
She went up as gaily as if she expe ted n present.
'I am going to whip Btsy Ann Acry. Ef any boy here wants to take it for
her, he c in no v step iorrards'
Betsy Ann patted her foot, and Iook:ol neither to the right nor to the left,
nor yet behind hr.
When a substitute wis invited to appear, the hiuse was as atilas a grave
yard. I rubbed my legs apoligetically, .nd looked up at Seaborn who sat by
me.
'No sir; if I do may I be dinged, and then du-t up and -' I did not listen
to thf remainder, and as no one elsa seemed disposed to vo'unteer,'and as the
difficuhy was b-oucrht about upon my own.aecoun, and us Betsy Ann liked me
and I liked B tsy Ann, I made a de=perm e resolution, and rose and pres nted
myself. Busy Ann appeared to be disgusted.
'rtdon't think I would whip that child any more to-day, if I was in your
py1ce, especially for ctar fpik'sdoings.'

I

IItMOROTS TALES.

nUMOBO US iALilh d

79

i


80                         HUMOROUS TALES0
'That's jist as you say.
'Well, I say go back to your seat, Phil.'.
I obeyed, and felt relieved and proud of myself. Mr. Lorriby began to
straighten his switch. Then I, and all the other pupils, looked at Mr. Bill
Williams.
CHATER VII.
Oh ! what an argument was going on in Mr. Bill's breast. Vain had been
all efforts, heretofore made, to bring him in eny way in collision with the Lor-
ribies. He had even kept himself out of all combinations to get a little holiday
by an innocent ducking, and useless had been all appeals, heretofore, to his sym..
pathies ; for he was'like the rest who had been through the ordeal of
the schools, and had grown to believe that it did more harm than gotd. If it
had been any hody but Betsy Ann Acry, he would have been unmoved. But
itwas Betsy Ann Acry, and he had been often heard to say that if Betsy Ann
Acry should have to be whipped, he should take upon himself the responsibility
of seeing that that must not be done. And now that contingency had come. What
ought to be done? How was this responsibility to le discharged?  Mr. Bill
wished that the female Lorriby had stayed away that day. He did not"know
exactly why he wished it, but he wished it. To add to his other diftleulties,
Miss Betsy Ann had never given any token of her reciprocation of his regard ;
for now that the novelty of the future clerkship had worn away, she had re-
turned to her old habit of never seeming to notice that there was such a person
as himself. But the idea of a switch falling upon her, whose body, trom the
crown of her head to the soles of her feet, was so-precious to him, outweighed
every other consideration, and le made up his mind to be as good as his word,
and take the responsibility. Just as the male Lorriby, (the female by his side,)
was about to raise the switch.
Stop a minute, Mr. Lorrabee,' he exclaimed, advancing in a highly excited
manner.
Therteacher lowered his arm and retreated one step, looking ia little -irreso-
lute. His wife advanced one step., and looking straight at Mr. Bill, her robust
frame rose at- least an inch higher.
'Mr. Larrabee II- ah- don't exactly consider myself -' ah - as a scholar
here now;' because- ah- I expect to move to Dukesborough in a ;few days,
and keep store thar, 'for Mr. Bland and .Jones.'
To his astonishment, this announcement, so impressive heretofore, failed of
the slightest effect now, when, of all tines, an effect was desired. Mr. Lor-
eribyp in answer to a sign from his wife, had recovered his lost ground, and
looked placidly upon him, but answered nothing.
'I say,' repeated Mr. Bill distinctly, as if he supposed he had not been heard.
'I say that I expect in a few days to move to Dukesboaough ; to live thar,
to keep tore thar for Mr. Bland and Jones.'
'Well Williams, I think I have heard that before, I want to hear you
talk about it some time when it aint school time, and when we aint so busy
as we air now at the present.      ,
'well, but -.' persisteded Mr: Bill:
'Well, but?' enquired Mr: L:
'Yes sir,' answered the former, insistingly:'
'Well but what? Is this case got anything to do with it?  Is she got
any thing to, do with it'?'

I

81

In cose it have not,' answered Mr: B., sadly:
'Well, what makes you tell us of it now, at the present?' Oh! what a
big word was that us, then, to Josiah Lorriby.
'Mr. Larrabee,' urged Mr: B., in as persuasive accents as he could em-
ploy;. 'No sir, Mr: Larrabee, it havenot got any thing to do with it; but yet -'
'Well-yit what, William?'
'Well, Mr: Larrabee, I thought, as I was a goin to quit school soon ; and
as I was a going to move to, Dukcaborough,-as I was a goin right outen
your school, intoo Dukesborough as it war-to keep store thar---may be you
mount, as a favor, do me a favor before I left.'
'Well! may I. be dinged, and then dug up and dinged over agin !' This was
said in a suppressed whisper, by a person at my side. 'Beggin ! beggin ! ding
his white-livered hide- -be-g-gin!'
'Why, William,' replied Mfr. L.,' ef it ware convenant, and the favor war
not too much, it mout be that I mout grant it.'
'I thought you would, Mr. Larrabee. The favor aint a big one. Least
ways, it aint a big one to you. It would be a mighty -' But Mr. Bill thought
he could hardly trust himself to say how big a one it would be to himself.
'Well, what is it, William?'
'Mr. Larrabee !-- Sir, Mr. Larrabee, I ax it as a fv or of you, not to  wip
Betsy Ann--which is Miss Betsf Ann Acry.'
'Thar, now !' groaned Seaborn, and 1'. ed his head in despair.
The male Larriby looked upon the £cmale. Her face had relaxed somewhat
from its stern expression. She answered his glance by one which implied a
conditional affirmative.
'ef Betsy Ann Acry will behave herself, and keep her impudence to herself,
I will let her off this time.'
All eyes turned to Betsy Ann. I  ver saw her look so fine as she raised
up her head, tossed her yellow rig .s back, and said, in a tone increasing in
loudness from beginning to end;:-
'But Betsy Ann Acry wont do it.'
'Hello agin thar!' whispered Seab'rn, and raised his head. His dying hopes
of a big row were revived. This was the last opportunity, and he was as eager
as if the last dollarhe ever expected to makeha been pledged upon the event.
I have never forgotten his appearance, as with his legs wide apart, his hands
upon his knees, his lips apart, but his teeth nearly closed, he gazed upon that
scene.'
'Lorriby, the male, was considerably disconcerted, and would have compro-
promised ; but Lorriby, the female, again, in an instant, resumed her hostile
attitude, and this time her great eyes looked like two balls of fire. She'con-
,centrated their gaze upon Betsy Ann, with a ferocity which was appalling.
Betsy Ann tried to meet them, and did for one monent, but in another she found
she could not hold out longer ; so she buried her face in her hands and sobbed.
Mr. Bill could endure no more.
'The fact ar',' he cried,'that I am goin to take the responsibility. Conshe-
quenchesmay be conshesjuenches, but I shall take the responsibility.' His
countenance was that of a man who had made up his mind. It had come at
last, and we were perfectly happy.

7. 4J lYZ4SG14 U i!  TAL  M.


4W

82

flflMOO'TS; TAI5..

The female Lorriby turned her 'eyes front Betsy Ann and fixed them Fte'adfly
on Mr. Bill. She advaned a step forward, and raised her arsra nd placed
them on hr Ades. The male Lorby placed himself immediately behind his -
mate's right urm, while Iom, wno seemed to understand 'hat wus going on,
came up, ard standing on his iticss's left, 1cokcd curionely up at 1ir.. 1d.
Seaborn Byne noticed this last nOvement. 'WVl, of that don't beat cream
tion. You in it, too, is you ?' he muttered through his teeth. 'Weil, never do
,ou mind.    f I don't fix you, and put you whair you'll never know no more
butvwhat y  've got a tail, may I be dinged, an.l thin, &amp;c.
It is true that Seaborn had been counted upon for a moro iiprtant work
than the neutralizing of Rum's forces; still. I knew that Mr. B1 wanted and
needed no assistance. We were all ready, however ; that is, I should as y all
but Martin. He had no griefs, and therefore no desirs.
Such was the height of Mr. Bill's excitement, that ho did not even s' em to
notice the hostile demonstrations of these numerous and various fots. His mind
was mrcle up, and he wan going right on to his purpose.
'Mr. orrabc,' he said, tirnly, 'I am going to tyke the resporsibility. I n cd
you as a favor to do me a favor before  ift. I hint much uscd tq axin fuvots;
but sickhit war now. It seems as (f tba favor cannot be grant( d. Yea, sIh
is the Ciromances. But it must be so. Sense I have been be re they aint been
ao difidnlties betwixt you and me, nor betwixt me and Miss L irrabte, and no
noth 1 of the sort, not even bewi':t me end Rum. Sich, iherelore, it was why I
axed the fivor as a favor. But it can't be hoped, and s) I takes the responsi-.,
abidty.    r. Larrabee, sir, and you, Miss Letiabee, I urn going' from this school
right, too Dukesborough, straght intoo? Mr Bland's store, to clerk thar. Seb
being' all tbe circurnances, Ilate s to do wbY  tils you I'm goin' to do. Bui
lt can't be hoped it seem, and I ar' go n' t  .  '
Mr. Bill announced this cone usion in    r  ghly elevated tones
'Oh, y s, ding your Id 1 :ha of you,' I -  !'.t rmy side.
Mr. Larrabee, and you. liss L  'rabee  inued the speaker, q docs not de
sires that Betsy Ann Aery shall be whip,   I goes on to say, that as sieb it
ar', and as sich the eireumiinces, Betsy A  Aciy can't be whipped whar I ar"
ef I can keep it from binSdone.' -'                     .
'You heered that, d d't yu?' a=ked Seaborn, low but cruelly triumphant ; and
Seabornlooked at Rim as if corside ing how heshould begin the battle with him.
Mrs. Lorraby, seldo n spcike. W aenever she did, it was to the po ut.
'Yer, but Weelliam \Veeltlams, you can't keep it from' b"in' done.' And she
straightened herself yet higher, and raising her hands Iet higher upon her sides,
changed the angle of her elbows from obtuse to acute..
'Yes, but. I, kin,' persisted Mr. Bill.  Mr. Larrb e!1 Mr. L-irrahee!I'
Th's gentlemen had lowf red his head. and was peering at Mr. B 11 through
the triangular opening formed by his mya1_te's side and arm. The reason why
Mr. Bill addressed him twice, was beaus, he had missed him when  e threw
a     the first address over her shoulder. The last was sent throughthe imng e.
'Mr. Larrabeel1 I say it kin be done and rm goin' to co it. Sir, little as I
counted on sich a case, yit still, it at' so. Let the eonshcaenclies be what they
be, both now and some futur day. Mr. L arrabee, sir, tsat whipping' th it you
was a goin' to give to Betsy Ann Aery cannot fal upon her shoulders, and-
that is, upon her' shoulders, and before my.facc. 1istid of s'ch, sir, you may
jist-nstid )f whippin' her; sir, you -nay-instid of her, give it sir-'-uotwith-
*       standing' and nevertheless-you may give it to ME.'

tr.MOrOUS TALS.

0

CHAPTER Viii.
"Ohi what a fall was there, my countrymen !
Then you and I and. all of us fell down !"
If the pupils of Josiah Lorriby's school had had the knowledge of all tongues ;
if they had been familiar with the histories of all thy base men of all the ages,
they could have found no words in which to ch tracrerize, and no person with
whom tg compare Mr. Bill Williams. If they had known what it was to be a
traitor, -they might have admitted that he was more alike this, the most
despicable of all characters, than any other.. But they would lIave argued that
he Was baser than all other traitors, because he had betrayed, not only others,
but himself. Mr. Bill Williams, the big boy ; the future resident of Dukes-
borough ; the expectant, clerk ; the vindicator of persecuted girlhood, in the
person  f the girl he loved ; the pledge taker of r sponsibitities,-that he
should have taken the pains, just. before he was going away, to degrade him-
self by proposing to take  upon his own shoulders tho. i od that had never be-
fore descended but upon the backs and 1 gs of children ! Poor Seaborn Byne!I
If I ever s iw expressed in one human being's countenance, disgust, anger and
abject hopelessness, I saw them as I turned to look at him. lie spoke not one
word, not even in whispers, but he looked as if he muld never mote place con-
fidence in mortal flsh.
When Mr. B.1 had concluded his ultimatum, the female Lorriby's arms
came down, and the male Lori iby's head went up. rThe y sent each the other a
smile. Both were smart enough to be satisfied. The latter was more than
satisfied.
-I am proud this'lay of Williati  Williams. It air so, and I can but say I
air proud of him. William, Wllianis were now id a position to stand up and
shine in his new spere of action. If he went to Dukesborough to keep store
thar; he mout now go saying' that as he had been a good scholar, so he moat
expect to be good clerk, and fit to be trusted, yea, with thousands upon thou-
sands, ef sich mout be the case. But as it was so, and as he have been to us
all as it ware, and no difficulties, and no nothin' of the sort, and he ware
goin', and it mout be soon ; yea, it mout be to morrow, from this school
straight intoo a store, I cannot, nor I cannot. No, far be it. This were a
skene too-solemn and too lovely for sich. I cannot, nor I cannot. William
Williams may now take his seat.
Mr. Bill ob ed. I was glad that he did not look at Betsy Ann as she
turned to go4,o hers. But she looked at him. I saw her, and little as I was,
I saw also that if he ever had had any chance of winning her, it was gone
from him forever. It was now  late in the afternoon, and we were dismiss d.
Wit hout saying a word to any one, Mr. Bill took his arhhmatie and satP, (for
ciphering, as it was called then, .was his only stuJy). We knew what it
meant, for we felt, as will as he, that this was his last day at school, As my
getting to school depended upon his'continuance, I did not doubt that it was
my 1st also.
On the way home, but not until after separating from all the other boys,
Mr. B 11 showed some disposition to boast.
'You all little fellows was morstous badly sheered this evening, Squire.
'Was'nt you scared t oo?' I asked.
'Skeered ? I'd like to see the schoolmaster that could skeer me. I steered
of Joe Larrabee ?'

a
,
."


84                 EUMO1 USTALES.
'I did not think you were scared of him,'
'Skee'red of who then?  Miss Larrabee? OldRed  Eye?  She mout be
redder eyed than what she ar', and then not sheer me. Why look here, Squire,
how w uld I look goin' into Dukesborough into Mr. Bland and Jones store,
right f' om being skewered of old Miss Larrabee ? To be runnin' right intoo Mr.
Bland and Jone's store, and old Mehetibilly Larrabee right arter me, or old
Joe nuther. It wur well for him that'he never struck Betsy Ann Acry. El
he had a struck he-, Jo Larrabee's strikin' days would be over.'
'But was'nt yougoin' to-take her yhippin' for her?'
'Lookee here, Squire, I didn't take it, did I?'
'No; but you said you was ready to take it-'
'Poor little fellow !' he said, compassionately. 'Squire, you are yit young in
the ways of this sorrowful apd ountimely world. Joe Larrabee knows me, and I
knows Joe Lariabee, and as the feller said, that ar'sufficient.'
We were now at our gate. Mr. Bill bade me good evening, and passed os
and thus ended his pupilage and mine at the school of Josiah Lorriby.

I'

MISS PEA, MISS SPOUTER AND THE YANKEE
CHAPTER I.
"Companions
That do converse, and waste the time together,
.Whose souls do hear an equal yoke of love."
Merchant of Venice.
Mr. Benjamin (but as everybody called him uncle Ben) Pea, re-
sided two miles out of Dukesborough ; he was a small farmer---not
small in person, but a farmer on a small scale. He raised consider-
able corn, a trifle of cotton, great quantities of potatoes and some
pinders. It was said that in. his younger days he used to be brisk in
his business and to make something by hauling wood to town. He
spent as little as he could and saved as much as he could ; but for a
.certain purpose he kept as good an establishment as ho could. His
little wagon used to be good enough to carry him and the old woman
to town, yet he bought a second hand gig, and did other things in
proportion. It was extravagant and he knew it, but he had a pur-
pose: That purpose was to marry off his daughter Georgians. Now
Georgiana had told him for years and years, even before the o1
woman died, that if he wanted to marry her off (a thing she car'.
nothing about herself) the only way to do that was for the family to
go in a decent way. And now the old woman had died, and her
father had grown old, she had her OWf way, and th'.t wns ns decent
as could be afforded, a'nd no tnore.
Miss Georgiana Pea was heavy ; heavy of being married off, and
heavy of body; her weight for fifteen years at the least, had not
been probably less than one hundred and seventy pounds. In her
seasons of highest'health, which were probably oftoner.in the latter
part of the fall than at any other period of the year, people used to
guess that it might be even'more ; but there was no getting at it at
any time, because she always stoutly refused to be weighed. True,
she laced, but that did not seem to diminish her materially, for what
was pressed down by the corsets managed to re-appear somewhere
e158. She had a magnificent bust-this bust was her pride, that was

N

'+r
l


86

rtTMoROtrs TRAILS.

evident. Indeed, she as good as confessed as much to me. I knew
-   the family well ; she did'nt mind me-I was a very small boy, and
she was aware that I considered that bust a wonderful work of
nature.
Yet she did'nt marry. The old.gentieman had been so anxious
about it, that he had long ago rather given it out in a public way
that upon-her marriage with his consent, (she was the only child-
Peterson died when a boy, of measles) he should give up everything,
houses, lands; etock furniture, and money, and live upon the bounty
of his son-in-law. These several "items of property had been often
appraised by the neighbors as accurately as could be done, (consider-
ing that the exact amount of money could not be gotten at) in view
of ascertaining for their own, satisfaction what her dowry might be.
The, appraisement had gone through many gradations of figures, while
the bridegroom delayed his coming. At the period of which I am
now telling; there were those who maintained that uncle Ben way
worth four thousand dollars ; others shook their heads and said
thirty-five,.hundred ; while others yet, who' claimed to know more
about it than any body else, they did'nt care who it was, insisted that
three thousand was the outside. Many a man, it seemed to me, and
one that would have been worth having, might have been caught by
that bust and that prospective fortune. I remember that I was con-
stantly expecting them to marry her off. But theyedid"not ; and now,
at thirty, or thereabout, she was evidently of the opinion that even if
she had many desires to enter intothe estate of marriage, their chances
'of gratification were-few.' Indeed, Miss Pea was at that stage'when
she was beginning to speak often of the other sex with disgust.
Mr. Jacob Spouter resided in the very heart of'Dukesborough, and
kept a hotel. The town being   mall, his business was small. He
was a small man, but looked bright, capable and business like. To
look at'hi b, you would have supposed that he kept a good hotel, but
he did not, It is surprising, indeed, to consider how few mon there
are who do. But this is a great theme and entirely independent of
what I wish to tell, except so far as it may relate to the fact that Mr.
Spouter had yet living with -him, an only child, ; daughter, whose
name was Angeline. Miss Angeline, in short, took after the Panigans,
who were long. She was a very thin young lady, almost too thin to
look well, and her hair and complexion were rather sallow. But then
that hair curled-every hair curled-
Who has not a weakness? Miss Pea had hers, we saw; and now
we shill see, as everybody for years had seen, that Miss Spouter had
hers, also. It was an innocent one-it was her curls. In the memo-
ry of man that hair had never been done up, but through all chat gee
.of cir.umstances and weather, it had hung in curls, just as it hung on
the day when this story begins. They had been complimented

'U

aUMOROtIS rTAjLE8

thousands of times, and by hundreds of persons ; the guests of years
had noticed them, and had uttered and smiled their approbation ; and
there had been times when Miss. Spouter hoped, in spite of the want
of other as striking charms, and in spite of the universally known fact
that her father had always been insolvent and always would ae, that
those curls would eventually entangle the person, without whom she
felt that she never could be happy. While this person was a man, it
was not any particular individual of the species. Many a time had
she seen one who, she thought, would answer. She was not very
fastidious, but she positively believed (and this belief made her appear
to be anxious) that in view of all the circumstances of her life, the best
thing that she could do for herself would be to marry ; besides, there
was something in her, she thought, which she constantly understood,
to be telling her that if she. had the opportunity, she could make some
man extremely happy.
But though those curls had been so often praised-yea, though
they had beei sometimes handled-to such a degree did people's
admiration, of them extend, that Miss Spouter, like her contemporary
in the country, was unmarried, and beginning to try to feel as if she
despised the vain and foolish world of man.
These young ladies were friends and had been always. They
were' so much attached that each seemed, to a superficial observer,
to believe that she had been born for but one special purpose, and that
was to help the other to get married ; for Miss Spouter believed and
Miss Pea knew that marriage was a subject which, without intermis-
sion, occupied the mind of her friend. It was pleasant to hear Miss
Spouter, who was more sentimental and the j  r talker of the two,
praise Miss Pea's biggerr,' by which terms side meant only her bust.
No one ever dreamed that it was possible for any jealousy to rise be-
tween them; for Miss Spouter had no figure worth mentioning, and
not a hair of Miss Pea's head could be curled ; not only so, but the
fact was, that in her heart of hearts. (so curious a thing is even the
most constant friendship) neither thought much of the other's special
accomplishment ; rather, each thought that there was entirely'too
much of it, especially Miss Spouter touching'the biggerr.' If Miss Pea
considered the property qualifination in her favor, Miss Spouter did
not forget that she resided right in the very heart of Dukesborougb,
and that her father kept a hotel. Now, as long asthe world stands,
persons of their condition who live in town, will feel a little ahead
of those who live in the, country ; while the latter, though never
exactly knowing why, will admit that it is so. Miss Pea was gener-
ally very much liked by the neighbors ; Miss Spouter had not made
a great number of friends. Probably town airs had something to do
in the matter.. Miss Pea was considered the superior character of
the two, but neither of them thought so ; Miss Spouter, especially,

;
i
.t!  _

87t


SB              RUMOR  5TALI2.

who knew the meaning of many more woi'ds in the dictionary than
her friend, and who had Tead Alonzo and Meli;4sa and the Three
Spaniards, until she had the run of them fully, never dreamed' of
suoh a thing..
Miss Spouter was fond of visiting Miss Pea, is pecially in water-
melon-time. Miss Pea valued the friendship of 1 iss Spouter because
it afforded her, fregient opportunities of staying al a hotel, a privilege
which she well knew not-many country girls enjoy i. To stay there,
not as a boarder, but as a friend of the family :to eat there, and
sleep there, and- not to pay for either of these di : tinctions as other
people did, but to do these things on invitation ! Now, while Miss
Pea got much better eating and sleeping at hom, iet she could but
consider -the former as privileges. She never wo1 forget that once
when there was a show in Dukesborough, given by a ventriloquist,
who was also a juggler, she had been at Mr. J. Spouter's and had
been introduced to the wonderful man' and his wife too, and had
heard them talk about general matters just as other people did.
But, time was waxing old. The bust had about ceased' to be
ambitious, and the curls, though wishful yet, were failing into the
habit of giving only despondent shakes.

CHAPTER IL~

Miss Spouter sat in the hotel parlor ; it was on the first flo9r and
opened upon the street ; in it were two wooden rocking-chairs, six
split-bottoms and a half round. I shall not undertake to describe
the window-curtains. She was pensive and silent : the still summer
evening disposed her to meditation. She sat silent and pensive, but
not gloomy, Looking out from the window, she espied on the further
side of the square, Miss Pea, who was in the act of turning towards
her. here she came, in ood yellow calico and a green calash.  As
the walked, her arms were crossed peacefully upon her chest.
'Howdye, stranger!' saluted Miss' Spouter. They had not met in
a fort ght.-
'Stranger yourself,' answered Miss Pea, with a smile and a sigh.
They embraced ; the curls fell upon the bust and the bust fostered
the curls, a only long tried friends can fall upon and foster. Miss
Pea came tQ stay all night ; never had they sept in the same house
without sleeping together.
'Well, Georgy,' Miss Spouter remarked, sweetly, but almost invid~
idusl, as they were getting into bed, 'figger is figger'
'It's no sioh a 'thing, answered Miss Fea, with firm self denialf
1t's curls, you know it's curls.'
No, George, its bigger.

88

HUMOROUS TALES.                     8
'Angeline Spouter, you know it aint; it curls, and you know its
curls.
They blew out the candle,and for a. short time continued this
friendly discussion ; but soon Miss Pea got the best of it,, as usual,
and Miss Spouter, by silence and other signs, admitted that it was
curls,
'We've been sleeping a long time together, G(eorge.'
'We have that.
'Ten years.'
'Yes, fifteen of 'em.'
'Gracious me! fifteen?'
'Yes, indeed.'
'Welt, but I was but a child then.'
Miss Pea coughed. She was the elder by exactly six months.
'Did we think tei years ago that ycu would now be a Pea and I a
Spouter ?'
'I did'nt think much about myself, but I had no idea you would.'
Yet so it is; you with your bigger and yet a Pea.'
'And what is worse, you with your curls and yet a Spouter.'
'No,. not worse." You ought to have been married years ago,
Georgiana Pea.'
'If I had had your curls and had wanted to marry, J should a been
married and forgot it.'
- 'No, George, 'I never had the requisite figger.'
a    'Angeline Spouter, do hush.'
'Suppose we had married, George?'
'Well.'
'I think I could have made my husband love mc as few men have
ever loved, be they whomsoever they might.'
'A'h! every body knows that.'
'No, alas I none but thee, George.'
'Yes, but I know better.'
Miss Spouter again gave it up.
'Do you reckon we would have had families, George?'
. Miss Pea smothering her head under her friend's pillow, declared
that she could laugh fit to kill herself.'
'I have often thought, my dear George, of what I would think if I
had married, and had a little girl-'
'With curly hair ?'
'Well-yes; I should have had no objection, hit--I hopSe he
would have been a good child, George.'

r
t
r           t'.


90

EtMO1tO'us TAL

'No doubt about that,' answered Miss Pea, with something of a
yawn.'
'8he should have loved you, Georgiana, and all yours.'
'All mine ?' Miss Pea seemed to wake up.
'Yes, all yours.'
'Well, if I had been married, and if it had been my lot, I would'nt
a wanted it to been but one, certain, sure.'
'And that should have been Georgiana Pea, over and over again.'
'Well, it should'nt; he--'
'He? O, George, would you have. bad a boy? What a creature!'
'Yes, I would, Angy, certain ; girls are a trouble.'
'But girls are so much prettier, George,-la, me P
'They may be prettier, but they are a trouble.'
'He would have been a good child, teorgy.'
'If-he had'nt I'd have made him good.' Miss Pea. poke with
decision.
'Oh, you cruel creature l'
'No, I'm not cruel, Angeline, but J belive in making children mind.
'So do I, but I can't see how-a woman can beat her own offspring
to death.'" Miss Spouter was indignant.
I doi't mean that; still--la, Angeline Spouter, what are we talking
about? we have'nt got-any children, and as for me, I shall never
have any myself, certain and sure.-!'
Miss Pea laughed heartily, but Miss Spouter sighed, and remarked
that it was not in people to say what was to be nor what was'nt
to be.'
'George, I do believe you are going tosleep.'
Miss Pea declared that she was'nt, and like all'persons of her size,
she thought she was telling the truth. Miss Spouter had one or two
other remarks which she' always made on such occasions, and which
she wanted to make now.'
'Georgiana Pea, do you or do you not ever expect to marry ? I
ask you candidly.'
'No, Angeline, I don't; I may have had thoughts, I may have
had expectations; pap looks as if he would go distracted if I don't
marry, but to tell you the truth, I have about come to the conclusion
that there's more marries now than does well, Pap declares that he
means to marry me off to somebody before he dies. He thinks that
I eould'nt take care of myself if he was to die, and that he takes
care of me now himself. I think I'm the one that takes care of him,
and I think I could take as good care of myself then as I do now.
He says I shall marry though, and Pm waitin to see how it'll be.
But I tell you, Angeline Spouter, that there's more marries now:
than ever does well.'

r
,t
4x
a
a

HUMOROUS TALES.

91

&amp;And--well,' answered Miss Spouter, 'and so have I concluded
about'it, It is the honest expression of the genuine sentiments of
my innermost heart. What is man? A depeitful, vain and foolish
creature, who will to-day talk his honey words, and praise a girl's
curls, and to morrow, he is further off than when we first laid our
eyes on him. What is your opinion of man, George? What now is
your opinion of Totn Dyson, who used to melt before the sight of
you like butter ere the sin had set?'
'I think of Tom DysonI like I think of Barney Bolton who used to
praise your curls just like they were sn much gold, and like I think
of all of 'em, and that's about as much as I think of a old dead pine
tree or post oak.'
Miss Pea had not read many books like Miss Spouter, and must
necessarily, therefore, borrow her comparisons from objects familiar
to her country life. Miss Spouter noticed the difference, but re-
frained from remarking on it.
'And yet, Georgiana, there is something in me, I feel it ; it tells
me that I could have made Barney Bolton much happier than, Ma-
linda Jones has. Barney Bolton is not happy, Georgiana Pea.'
Miss. Pea only coughed.
Yes,.indeed ! Alas ! I see it in his eye ; I see it in his walk ; I
see it in his every action. The image of Angeline Spouter is in hi
breast and it will ,stay there forever.'
Miss Pea was always perfectly silent, and endeavored to feel
solemn when this last speech was said.
'If you were to marry, George, I should be the lonesomest creator"
in the wide, wide world.'
'Ah, well ! when I marry, which is never going to be the case,
(that is exceptin pap do go distracted and hunt me up a good chance)
you'll .be married and' forget it, and that little curly . headed girl
will be readin, ritin and cypherin.' Miss Pea yawned and laughed
slightly.
'Never, never ! But won't you let your little boy come sometimes
in a passing hour to see a lonesome girl, who once was you friend,
but now, alas!, abandoned ?',
'Angeline, Spouter, do hush.
*          * *     *     *     *    *        *   .
'George, it is very warm to-nigh ; is it late ?'
'I should think it was,' answered Miss Pea, and snored.
Miss Spouter lay for some time awake, but silent. She then
lifted the curtain from the window through which the moon, high
in heaven, shone upon -the bed, withdrew from her cap five or six
curls, extending them upon her snowy breast, smiled dismally, put
them up again, looked a moment at her, companion, then abruptly
tuned her back to her, and went to' sleep.


92

HUMOROUS TALES.

ci

CHAPTER III..
"is all the counsel that we too have shared,
The sisters' vows, the'hours that we have spent
When we have chd the hasty footed time
For parting, us----M, and is all forgot ?"
Midsummer-Night's Dream.

N

{                 5a I
j
t
t
j
k
b
q

9

/1°

, .. t
¢,
}  CY
.f "        ttF'N Tr-oY.
'

'
s
'               r;  4
.
s'           G
}  s            F
r

But friendship, like other good things, has enemies: One of the
most dangerous of these is a third person. These beings are among
the most inconvenienf and troublesome upon earth. Not often do
confidential conversations take place in a company of three, especial-
ly conversations appertaining to friendship or love. When senti
ments,'hot from, the heart, has to move in triangles, it trust often
meet with hindrances and cool itself before it has reached its destina-
tion. As in mathematics, between two points, so in social life
between two hearts ; the shortest way is a straight line. A third
person makes a divErgence and a delay. Third persons have done
more to separate very friends and lovers, than all the world besides
They had gotten between other persons before, and now, one of
then had come to get between Miss Spouter and Miss Pea.
Adiel Slack, some years before, had left his native Massachusetts,
and from going to and fro upon the earth, came in 'an evil day, and
put up at the inn of 'Jacob Spouter. He was tall, deep voiced, big
footed, and the most deliberate looking man that had ever been in
Dukesborough. He was one of those imperturbable Yankees that could
fool you when you were watching him just as well as when you were
not. When he said that he was twenty-eight his last birth-day, his
fresh looking hair, his unwrinkled and unblushing cheek, and his
patire freedom froi all signs of wear and care, made one believe
that it must be so. If he had said that he was forty-five, the gravity
of his countenance, the deliberation of his gait, and the deep, wordly
wisdom of his eye would have made one believe that he spoke truly.
The mere arrival of such a person in that small community, must
'necessarily create some stir. lie was greatly the most remarkable
one'of all the pay singers who came bythat morning's stage. While
they ate their :breakfast with that haste which is pecliar to the
traveling, public, he ;took his time. The stage went away and left
'him at the table' eating his fifth biscuit, while Mrs. Spouter's eyes
were fixed upon him with that steadfast look with which she was
wont to regard all persons who ate at her table more than she thought
was fairly He took another biscuit, looked about for more butter and
attempted to open a convereation with that lady ; but she was not in
the 1ood to be communicative, so he set to the work of studying
he;. Ee made her out to be a woman- of a serious turn of mind,
less attentive to dress than her husband, but at the same time aspir-
ing and possibly with propriety and with success to be the head of

93

S

the family. After breakfast, he stood about, sit about, picked his
teeth, ('with a ivory lancet, blamed if it were'nt,' Mr. Spouter said)
then took his hat an'd strolled about the villoge all the forenoon.
He went into both the stores, got acquainted with the doctor and the
black smith, and the shoemaker, found aid bargained for the rent of
a room, and at dinner, announced himself a citizen of Georgia and a
merchant -f Dukesborough. In less than a week, a smallfstock of
'goods had arrived and were neatly arranged in the room, over the
d1o4t of which, hung a sign board, painted by himself, which made
Mr.. Boggs and-Messrs. Bland nand Jones wish either that they had
never had sign boards, or that Adiel Slack, dry goods merchant, had
- never come here.
Being a single man, Mr. Slack boarded at the hotel of J. Spouter.
Now,. no sooner was it settled that he was to become a citizen than
Miss Spouter, according to ancient usage in such cases, felt herself
,to be yielding to the insmious influences of yet another love. Who
know, she thought, that the fond dream of her life was not des-
tined new to become a blit ;'l consummation. The fact that Mr.
Slack had come from afar,    her sentimental soul only the more
hopeful. How this was so d1u could not tell, but it was so, and the
good girl began at once to . estow the most assiduous cultivation
upon every charm which sli ti.,ught she possessed. 'NMr. Slack soon
began to be treated with inoi consideration than any of the board-
ers. He had within a week joved from Mr. Spouter's end of the
table up to Mrs. Spouter's, ant become, as it were, that lady's left
bower, Miss Angeline being, of course, her right. The hot biscuit
were always handed first to him, and if anybody got a hot waffle, it
was he. People used to look up towards Mrs. Spouter and get oo-
casional glimpses of little plates of fresh butter and pi'eserves that
tried to hide behind the castors or the candlestick. When there was
pie,' Mr. Slack was helped first, because, among other things, he was
the more sure of getting another piece, if the pie, as it sometimes
would , happen, in spite of precaution, should not go around the
second time.
The servants did not like him because he never gave them a kind
word nor a cent of money. But let any one of them omit to hand
the best things to him  rst. o,. the partiality that was shown as
plain as day to that man! Every body saw it, and spoke of it
among confidential friends. Some said it was a sin; some said it
was a shame, and some went so far as to say it was both.
Among the boarders, was one whom we have seen before. For
Mr. Bill Williams had now been installed in his office, and had
already began to take now responsibilities. When this conduct
towards the new comer had become notorious, he was heard by
many persons even to swear that she'd be dinged ef he- had had a hot

VOEtO TALES.

s'


H -M.o.s TATL.
waffle, even when thar was waffles, sense that dadblasted Yankee had
moved up to old Miss Spouter's eend. As for the second piece of
pie, he had done gin out ever hearin of the like any mor throout the
ages of . sorrowful and ontimely world.' He spoke with feeling it
is true ; but he,was a clerk in Mr. Bland's store, and he thought
that'ifhe could not take some responsibility, the question was who
could. 'Consequenses mount be consequences,' said Mr. Bill, "be they
now or at some futer day. I takes the responsibility to say that, the
ease ar a onfair, and a imposition on the boarders and on the tran.
shent people, and it war also a shaihe on. Dukesborough, and also
---,' Mr. Bill shook his head for the conclusion.
But in spite of every body and every thing, Mr. Slack kept his
place. He soon discovered Miss Spouter's weakness and her pas-
sion. Flattering as it might be to find himself the favored object of
her pursuit, yet the reflection that her only capital was a head of
curls, which in time would fade, caused him to determine, after making
his calculations, that no profit was to be netted in being caught. It
was not to be overlooked, however, that , there would be, if not an
entire saving of expense, at least a postponement of its payment in'
keeping his thoughts to himself and in seeming to be drawing nearer
and nearer the vortex which was ready to swallow him up. The
terms of board at Mr. Spouter's included monthly payments. These
did not suit calculations which were made upon the principle of col-
lecting his own dues at once and postponing his payments as'long,
as possible, and if possible, to the end of time. Now, he guessed
that great as were Mr. Spouter's needs, that affectionate father would
not be the man to' run the risk of driying off his daughter's. suitor
by worrying him'with dues for a little item of board, which might all
come back again into the family. In addition to this, he was not
insensible to the advantage of maintaining his seat at the dinner
table; where biscuits, waffles and pies, when they came at all, were
wont to make their first appearance. These several matters, being
actual money to him, were ,not to be overlooked by a man w ho did
nothing without deliberation..; After deliberating, therefore, he de-
termined to so conduct himself before the' -Spouters'as to create the
hope' that the time would 'come when he would solicit the hand of'
her who long had been willingto bestow it upon somebody. But
he was careful to keep his own advances and his meetings of ad-
vanbes without the pale of such contingences as he had named were,
in the South, accustomed to follow breaches of marriage contracts.
He maintained his place at the table, and took what it afforded, in
the manner of a man who was very near to being one of the family.
He chatted in a very familiar manner with Mrs. Spouter, and sym.
pathised with her and Mr. Spouter's. complaints of the high price of
everything except board, He lounged in the parlor, where he told

'1

HUXOOUS TALES.

95

to Miss Angeline touching stories of his boyhood's home. He be-
stowed due admiration upon those curls which, every time he saw
them, reminded him of a portrait of his mother, (row a saint in
heaven), taken when she was a girl eighteen years old. Then he
spoke feelingly of how he had been a wanderer, and how he began
to think it was time he had settled himself for good ; how he had
never felt exactly ready for that until since he had come to Dukes-
borough, and that-and that---and that---- embarrassment would
prevent him from saying more. But whenever he got to this point,
and Miss Angeline's heart would be about to burst, and she- would
be getting ready to cast herself upon his faithful boson, he would
change abruptly, become frightened, go-away and stay away for a',
week.
'At their first meeting at the breakfast table after such scenes,
Miss Spouter would appear quite conscious, hold herself yet straight-
er and endeavor to show that she had spirit. But before she had
carried it far, she would conclude to stop where she was, go back and
begin again.-
0
CHAPTER IV.
But while these things were going on among the Spouters, what
had become of the Peas? who ever supposes that Miss Georgiana
was buried irn the country, dead or alive,'is simply mistaken. When
she heard that there was a new store in town, she wanted to see it ;
and when uncle Ben heard that it was kept by a bachelor, he was
determined that he should see his daughter ; for as he 'grew older,
his, anxiety became more intense for Georgiana to find some body,
as he.expressed it, 'to take keer of her when my head gits cold.'
He begged her several times to go before she was ready.
'Georgy, put on'your y aller caliker and go long.'
'Pap, do wait till I get ready. I do believe you will go distracted.'
Georgiana waited until she got ready, and when she did get ready
she went. Her plan. was to go and spend the night with Miss
Spouter, and in company with her visit the new store the next
morning.
Some persons believe in presentiments, and some do not. I
hardly know what to think of. such things, and have never yet made
up my mind whether they are reliable or not. Sometimes they seem
to foreshadow coming events, and sometimes they are clearly at
fault. I have occasionally had dro   , and subsequent events
were in such exact accordance with thaut that I have been inclined
to accord to them much of the itnportanee that by some persons it
is maintained they have. Then, again, t' e reams I have had (for I
have always been a dreamer) hive bey .   entirely unreasonable,

y'


1MOROU    TALES.
nay, absurd, and ,even tridieulous, as' to be impos ible of fulfillment.
For intanee, I have more than once dreamed that I was.a woman,
and I have since been much amused by the recollection of so'e of
the silly thingsthat I did -and said while in that estate. I do not
consider this an opportune place to mention them, even if they were
worthy of mention ,on any occasion, and I allude to them for the
purpose of satyig that after such dreams I have bean disposed to
reject the whole of' the theory of dreams.
But all this is neither here nor there. The divergence from my
tory, thourhnatural, cannot with propriety be farther extended,
and will return at once to m'r two heroines in whose deportment
iinmediately subsequent to what was last being done by them both,
will be found the reason' why such divergence was made.
o sooner had Miss Spouter determined fully in her mind that she
would catch Mr. Slack if she could, than she was conscious of..a
wavering in her friendship for Miss Pea ; for she felt that that
person was destined to be the greatest, if not the only barrier between
er and the objeet of her pursuit. 'She, Miss Spotter, had seen him
first slh thought. She had, as it were, found him, and when George
was noteven looking for any such property. George did not have
even a shadow of the remotest claim to him. It was wrongsand un-
in  in George to iuterfere. She, Miss Spouter, wouldn't .have
treated her so. Now 'all this was before Miss Pea had ever laid
eyes on'Nr. Slack, and Miss Spouter knew it. That made no direr-
ence, she said to herself, if anything, it made it worse. She was
huit and she could not help it.
Miss Pea might have had a presentiment of this state of things,
antd shemight not. But at all events, when she went upon her
visit, she carried a bucket of butter as a present to Mrs. Spou ter.
It wasjust before supper time, and consequently tooalate for her to
return that evening. If it had not been, as she afterwards declared
upon her word and honor, she; would have done so. The Spouters
were as cold as ice.' Not even the bucket of butter could warm Mrs,
Spouter a single degree. Strange conduct for her. Miss Angeline
at first thought that she would not goin to the supper table.. But
then that would be too plain,and upon reflection, she thu  t 'she
preferred to be there.           -
Miss Pea and Mr. Slack, of course, had to be" introduced. He
found her disposed to be chatty. Miss'Spouter looked very grave;
and raised her pocket handkerchief to her mouth, as an occasional
provincialism- fell from the lips of' her country visitress, while her
dear mother, taking the cue, would glance slyly at Mr. Slack and
sniker.1-
'This is oncommon good butter, Mrs. Spouter,' he remarked to the

r ,  u.  ,
' 'U
rti

HUMOROUS T ALES.
lady of the house; and oh, the quantities of butter that plan did
consume !
Now, it was from Miss Pea's bucket ; they did not like to confess
it, but they had it to do..
'Ait ?  Oh! well, Miss Pea's mother must be a noble housekeeper.'
Mrs. Pea had been dead several years,
'Is it possible ?  You, then"!'
.Miss Georgiana would have told a lie if she had not acknowledged
that it was.
Mr. Slack bestowed a look of intense admiration upon her whicn
made Miss Spouter become quite grave, and her mother somewhat
angry..
After supper the gentleman followed the ladies into the parlor.
Miss Spouter was pensive, and complained 'of head-ache. Miss Pea
dd ot believe she had it, and therefore she spoke freely of her
father's plantation, of what he was to her and she to him, and of how
he was always uring her to get married, a thing which she had
made up her mind never to (do. When they retired for the night,
Miss Spouter being no better, but rather worse, they did what they
had never done in their lives before, they slept apart. This was
capping the climax, and Miss Pea went home thi next morning,
asking herself many times on the way, if friendship was anything
but a name.""
It seenmad to be a sad thing that these youngladies should part.
Hand in hand they had traveled the broad road of life, and never
jostled each other when men were plentiful. But these animals had
broken from thept like so many wil4 cattle, some dodging and dart-
ing between them, some taking to by-paths, and some wildly leaping
over precipices, until now they were drawing nigh to the road of
young womanhood, and there was but one left for them both. If
they could have divided him it might have been well ; but he was
indivisible. The fact is, Mr. Slack ought never to have come there,
or he ought to have brought his twin brother with him.
'What's become of your friend ?' he inquired at breakfast.
'She's gone to look after what she calls her father's plantation, I
reckon,' answered Mrs. Spouter, sharply.
'Haint her father got any plantation, then?'
le's got a little bit of two hundred acres of tolerably poor land.
That's all the plantation he's got.
'Oh, nia!' interceded Miss Angeline, 'Georgiana is a very good girl.'
'She may be good, but if you call her a gi. I don't know what you
would call them that's fifteen or twenty yeai y' nger ; in fm h
was young that wouldn't make her daddy rich,.'rl
'Oh, ne But, oh, ma I' Miss Spouter persisted in a general way,
fgr she seemed to think that this was all that could be- said in her


98              H XOI  T'XALE.,7O~O~TLE~9

favor. Upon reflection she asked Mr. Slack if he did not think Miss
Pea had a good figger. Then she took a very small sip of water,
wiped her mouth carefully and coughed slightly.  1
'Wall, I--ah,' began Mr. Slack, but ma laughed so immoderately
that he laughed too, and did not finish giving his opinion in words.
Alas, for Miss Pea! Big as she was, she was cut all to pieces and
salted away by Mrs. Spouter, while Miss Angeline could only look
.a little reproachfully now and then, and say 'Oh, ma!'
*     *     * - e,     * -        *     *    )4   -*
'Two hundred acres,' mused Mr. Slack on his bed that night. In
Massachusetts that is a considerable farm; other property in propor-
tion. What would it bring in ready money if the old gentleman (he
is old, certain) should take a notion to gjve it up now ; already some
money. 'e brought me a fine watermelon this morning, and asked
me to go out and see them all. I'm a going. Quick work, Adiel;
quick work,'
Mr. Slack was a hard man to catch ; it bad been tried before and
had failed. Nevertheless, Mrs Spouter and Miss Spouter, about
six weeks later, actually caught him in the act of coming' away
from Mr. Pea's- What made it worse, he had a bunch of pinks in
his hand. The next time Miss Spouter met Miss Pea, she did not
speak to her. She-only shook her curls and said to herself in words
which were audible, 'such is life.' Georgiana folded her hands over
her bosom and asked, if friendship was not a name, what wastit?
But the man maintained his place at the table, to which he march-
ed with-utiqsual confidence and good humor at the first meal after
his detection:; what is more, the little plates maintained 'their places.
In spite of all his goings to the Pea's and his returning with bunches
of pinks in his hands, his deportment in any other respect, had not,
at least for the worst, changed, Indeed, he looked oftener and
more proudly, at they curls. Yes, thought Miss Spouter, he n ay
marry her, but the image of Angeline Spouter is in his breast, and
it will stay there forever. * But for her entreaties her ma would have
removed the little plates and sent him back to the other end of the
table, where he came from.
. I'm jest the woman to do it,' she said. 'That long-legged Yan-
kee has eat more than his worth in butter alone, The house '1l
break or be eat up, it makes no difference which, and nary cent of.
money has he paid yit. Settle himself, indeed! He'll never, settle
his .nasty self excipt whar thar's money, or everlastin butter, and
he not' to pay for it neither. And.I'll move them plates to-morrow
mornin, if I don't you may--'
'Oh, ma! he DON'T love her, I know he don't. Let them stay a
while longer.'

t

And the next morning the little plates would come in, take their
places and look as cheerful as if nothing had happened.
Mr. Slack did a cash business. Time rolled on ; the faster it
rolled the cheaper he sold. His stock dwindled, and everybody
asked why it was not being replenished. It began to he rumored
that he was going to buy a plantation and settle himself. The ru-
mor was traced to uncle Ben Pea, Miss Goorgiana. was asked
about it and became confused.
'She jist as well a give it up,' said Mr. Bill Williams, at Mr.
Spouter's table. Mr. Bill was gradually edging up towards 'quality
eend' as he termed the head. 'In fac, she did give it up fairly. I
axed her a plain question ; she couldn't say nothing, and she didn't.
She merrily hung her head upon her bros, and she seem monsous
comfortubble. She ar evidenly scogitatin on the blessed joys of a
futur state.'
The next morning, th   " tie plates were absent, and Mr. Slack,
without, seeming to not   hat Mr. Bill Williams had usurped his
place, took his seat by \ pouterr aid alled with him in the man-
ner of a man who hE     ea on a journey of some weeks and had
now returned. That ge ,nman did not seem to be at all congratu-
latory on the occasion, but immediately after breakfast brought
within view of his guest an amount for three; months' board. The
latter looked over it carefully , remarked that he thought it-was cor-
rect, begged that it m'ght be considered as cash, and walked away.
This was an eventful day to Mr. Slack, for besides the aforemen-
tjoned incident, he sold out the remainder or his stock to Messrs.
Bland and Jones, went without his dinner, borrowed a. gig from the
Justice of the Peace, took him along with him to Mr- Pea's, where,
at three o'clock P. M. he was married to Miss Georgiana.
'Wretched creature I' exclaimed Angelisa, the forsaken, when
her mother informed her of the news at night  At first she thought
she would faint; but she did not. She retired to her room, undres-
ed, looked at her curls in the glass, even longer than was her wont,
put them away tenderly, got into bed, apostrophised property and
the other sordid things of this world, and went to sleep with this
thought upon her mind : 'Georgiana Pea may be by his side, but
the image of Angeline Spoutei is in his breast, and it will stay there
forever
CHAPTER V.
"Are we not one? Are we not joined by Heavenite
Fair Penitent.
Georgiana was married and her father was satisfied. It was what
he had wished a long time. The danger otL going di tracted was

mmroBou Ai


r

14)1

over. He would have preferred a Southern man, it is true, but all
of that class had discovered such a want to appeciate his Georgy
that he persuaded himself that she had made a narrow escape in not
marrying one of them. Mr. Slack had some ways of -doing and talk-
ing that he did not quite understand ; but ho elieved that they
would wear off. Georgy now had a husband to take care of her
when his head got cold, and that war enough. She did not seem
to be perfectly happy, but, on the contrary, somewhat ill at ease.
BRut then she wasn't any young thing to. let getting married run her
raving distracted. He liked Mr. Slack upon the whole ; he suited
him well enough, and that is what parents generally care mostly
for. 'He was  business man, that's what he was. He talked upon
business even on the afternoon of his marriage, and renewed the
subject after supper and the next morning. One would have thought,
to hear hith1 talk about business, tha tl.e honey moon had shone out
and gone down long ago. It did  -t look exactly right ; but now,
that Mr. Slack was a married mi. he was for making something.
If he owned the farm;,he should du this thing and that thing, sell
this piece of property and convert it ito cash ; in short, he should
sell out the whole concern and go where land was cheaper and bet-
ter. If it were-left to him he should turn it over, so that in twelve
months it should be worth at lear.t wice as much as it was now. It
was very clear to uncle Ben that his son-in-law was a business man';
still, he did not make out tha title deeds. Notwithstanding his
hints to that effect heretofore, he had never entertained the slightest
notion of such .a thing. When Mr. Slack persisted in saying what
he should do if he were the owner, the old gentleman took occasion
to say,. but in a somewhat jocose way, that he and Georgy would
have to wait for that until his head got cold, which, he said by way
of consoling for the disappointment, wouldn't be much longer, This
was only a day or two after the marriage. Mr. Slack seemed to be
somewhat hurt, but he merely remarked that hi bad a plenty to live
on, and that all he wanted with property was for Georgiana to enjoy
it. He had money enough to buy a tract of land adjoifing Mr. Pea's
and two or three fellows. If Georgiana had a good house woman it
would save her from a good deal of work which now, since she was
his 'wife, he would rather she didn't have to do - but-ah-he sup-
posed he should have to wait for that.
Yes, but he needn't to do any such thing, Mr. Pea stoutly main-
tained. Those being Mr. Slack's .intentions the 'oman should be
bought. The money was therein that side-board drawer whenever
they found one to suit them. He should buy the. 'oman himself.
The son-i1-law's countenance brightened a little.: He might have to
go to Augusta in a few days ; the likeliest gangs were ,there gen-
erally, and it might suit just as well to take the 'money along with

him and buy the woman there. Georgiana didn't say anything ; but
la me, what did she know about business?
Mr. Slack sent into the village every day for the mail, for Dukes-
borough being immediately on the great line of travel, had its daily
mail. He had been married less than a week, when, one morning
a letter was brought to him which made him turn a little pale.
Upon his father-in-law's inquiry from whence it came, he answered
after a'moment's hesitation, that it was from a man who owed him
some money, and who had written to say that if he would meet him
the next day in Augusta, he would pay him a hundred dollars and
renew the note. A hundred dollars indeed ! The rascal had prom-
ised to pay half the note, and now as he was about settling himself
he was to be put off with a hundred dollars. He had a good mind
not to go and would not but for the importance of having the note
renewed. But could he get there in time? How was that Mr. Pea ?
Why, it was easy enough ; the stage would pass in a couple of hours,
and as it traveled all night,-he could reach Augusta by nine o'clock
the next morning. Mr. Slack hesitated. He was loth to go so soon
after b6ing married, but as he had expected to go in a few'days any
how, he guessed he had as well to go on at once, especially as no-
groes seemed to berising in price, and it was important to get the
woman as soon as . possible. Certainly business was business, if
people were married. Mr. Slack ought to go at once ; he should if it
was him.
'Uncle Ben took out the money,. and Georgiana ordered lunch.
Mr. Slack had so often complained of the old gentleman's time piece,
that the latter, upon his entreaties to be allowed to take it with him,
for repairs (at no expense to the owner of course) consented. TI.he
man of business then went to packing his trunk and satchel. " Al-
though he was to stay but three -days at furthest, yet, riot knowing
but that he might need them, he packed in all his clothes, looking
about all over the house to be sure that he had not niislaid anything.
It was a nice lunch. It ought to have been, for it took a long
time to be gotten ready. Mr. Slack was not sure that he was going
.to get his supper, and ho therefore determined to put away enough
to last him to the end of his journey. He had barely finished when
the servant, who had been stationed to watch for the stage, announc-
ed that it was coning. He bade both an affectionate adieu, looked
inio the stage to see if there was any person in it whom he knew,
didn't seem to be disappointed that there was not, hopped in, and
off he went.
Far from pining on'account of the absence of her mate, Georgiana.
sensible woman that she was, went about her work as cheerfully as
if nothing had ha pened. She had been so taken up with Ur. Slack
that several small domestic rmaeters needed to be put to rights again,

I

EMOROUS TALE.

100

HUXMOROUS TALES.


102

HBUOROUS TALES.

and she seemed to be even glad of the opportunity to look after them.. She ac-
tualiy sang at her work-she was a good singer, too. The Peis always had
been ; I knew the family we'l. She wasn't going to fret herself to dea'h, cer-;
tain and sure. So she resumed her old tasks and habits, moved things back to
their old places,,aud, in every respect, did as if she had forgotten that she had
ever been married.
Uncle Ben was glad to see her in such gay spirits. ]E knew what it was all
for, and he laughed inwardly atid became gay himself. It was that nigger
'oman. The old man counted ten days and nights. As much as he wanted to
see Mr. Slack, he wanted yet more to see his watch ; without it he felt like a
man without a newly ampu ated leg.  Bat that, he would not allow to trouble
him very much. He talked a great deal, especially at meal times about his
Georgy's prospects, joked her about many things, talked of the prospects agam
and what he and Mr. Slack were going to do to make her the happiest woman
in the world. Georgiana never suggested any change of their plans, and looked
as if she intended to be but clay in their hands.
Three days passed. Mr. Slack's very longest time was out. The stage hove
in view ; Mr. Pea was at his gate, his hat was in his hand.
'Good mornin, uncle Ben,' said the driver, and was passing on.
Hello r hello, Thompson,' shouted the old man. Tliompson drew up.
'Haint you got Mr. Slack aboard?'
'No, SIR 1'
'Haint you got a nigger 'oman?'
'No, sir.'
'Whar's Mr. Slack?'-
'I don't knoww'
'Naint you seed him ?'
'No,.sir,'
'Haint you hearn of him?'
'No, sir.'
'Why, what upon yearlh does it mean?'
'Mr. Slack didn't go to nary tavern, but got off at a privit 'ouse way up town.
I haint seed him nor heern from him sence. Was he to get back to-night.?'
'Why, yes, certain and sure without fail.'"
'Well, he paint here, certin. Good evenin.'
Efe haint' come, Georgy,' said uncle Ben, as he went into the house,
'Hasn't he?'
'Why, no, ha baint''
Welwe unust iry tnd wait till he does comet'

I

I O OU 'TALIS.

1OS

Unble Ben was too much occupied with his own disappointment to observe
the equanimity with which Georgy bore her's. It was now bed time; the
daughter went to her room, the father sat up at least half an hour longer than
usual. HE was disappointed, certain and sure. When people told people they
were coming at a certain time, he wanted 'em to come ; especially when they
had people's watches. Oh, how he had missed it ! If he had missed it by day
he had missed it as much by night. It used to hang by a nail over his bed, and
be longed for the gentle lullaby of its tjckings. He had to go to bed, of course,
but he lay awale another half an hour. A dreadful thought came: What if
Mr. Slack, after all, was an IMPOSTERER ! Oh, he couldn't bear it. So he
turned over and went to sleep ; but it wouldn't stay behind, it crawled over and
came close to him in his sleep, and he dreamed that he was the owner of a
jeweler's shop, and that while he had no power to move, thieves were breaking
through and stealing.
The next morning, immediately after breakfast, uncle Ben stood at his gate.
He had a notion that Mr. Slack was coming in a private conveyance. Sure
enough, yonder came a gig with a man in it and a horse behind with some-
thing on the horse. Uncle Ben's eyes were dim, and ho couldn't make it out;
but he hoped and believed that it was a nigger 'oman. Vain hope and vain
belief! The gig carried Mr. Triplet, the deputy Sheriff, and the horse bore
Mr. Pocket, a young lawyer from town. Uncle Bon had no business with
them, certain and sure; so he bade them a good morning, as they came up,
and again turned his eyes up the road. But the gentlemen stopped, and
inquired if Mr. Slack was at home, No, but Mr. Pea looked for him every
instant.. He had been gone to Augusty'three days, and was to a'been back
last night, but he didn't.
Mr. Triplet looked upon Mr. Pocket and smiled ; Mr. Pocket looked upon
Triplet, but did not smile.
'You must follow him.'
'There must some foller him that kin run faster than I kin.' answered Mr.
Triplet.
'Foller who?' asked Mr. Pea.
'Mr. Slack.'
'Why he'll be here to-night. Or I'll be bound he's in a private conveyance,
and'11 be here this mornin, In cose he's coming back; because he's got four
hundred dollars of my money to buy a nigger 'oman with, and my watch be-
sides. In cose he's coming back.'
Mr. Triplet looked upon $r. Pea and smiled compassinately. Mr. Pea
looked upon Mr. Triplet and frowned threatningly.


104

If7  RO   bLS

What's the matter, Jim Trilet ?,
'he matter ar, that you won't see your four hundred dollars agire nor our
watch, nor the gentleman what carried 'em off.'
'Why, what upon yearth is you talking about?'
I ar talking about the business of my office, which ar to arrest Mr. Adial
Slack, or Mr. Elisha Lovejoy, or Mr. Ejhraim Ilamlin, or what mouth be the
name of the gentleman that carried off your four hundred dollars and your
watch.'
'Don't kick before you're spurred, Triplet, becase nobody aint accused him
of takin the money and watch-leastways of stealin it. Mr. Slack is a honest
man and my son-in-law, and I tell you he'll be- back to-night; and I look for
him every minit of the day.''
So nuch the better for us if he do come. I has not come to arrest hin for
taking of the money and the watch, which is misdemeanors that I didn't
know of tell now. But he is charge of obtainin credit by false pretensions of
sealin divers money, of trading with niggers, and finally, with marryin three
swimming, and not waitin for nary oneof 'erm to die fust.'
'Oh, Lordyl' exclaimed Mr. Pea: He then approached the sheriff and in
a tone which invited candor and confidence, and even hinted at gratitude, said,
'Jeems Triplet, I voted for you,.you know I did ; I always has. Ar what
you say a fac ?'
I know you did, uncle Ben, and I tell you the plain truth, it ar a fac-
'hay;alit no doubt about it. Mr. Pucket here can tell you all about it.'
Mr. Pea, without waiting to hear further, turned and got into the house as
fast as he would. lie went mito a shed room with uncommon desperation for
a man of his years, and raised his hands in order to take down a shot gun
from tvo,forks on which it used to hang. Tli forks were there, but the gun
Waa gone   He looked at the forks with the most resentful astonishment, and
with a voice towering with passion, asked them what in the name of thunder
had become of his gun? Not receiving ,any answer, he put the same inter-
rogatory to the corner behind the door, to the space under the bed, and even
to two small glass drawers, after opening and shutting them with great vi
lence. sue then ran back to the front.door and questioned the whole universe
on the suibject.-
'Roa    ! ROBBED 1!' roared the old man. 'Gen-tul-men, cf I paint robbed,
.  Mr. Pea had not 'cussed' before (as he afterwards declared upon his
word and honor) in twenty years.                       a
Georgy! Where's Georgy ?' It just now occurred to him that it was pos-
sible that Georgy might not like the state of Things herself-.

I

105

HUMOROUS TALES.

Georgiana had been at the dairy, superintendimg her butter. She had seen
the men as they came, had gone into the house as quietly as she could and
was peeping and listening through the wimdw of her own room.
'Pap,' she said; not loudly, hut earnestly, (o( come here, if you please.'
He went into her room.
I reckon now you're satisfied. He's go1 what lie cane here for; lhe's stole
from you, and lie's stole from me ; I haint a pocket handkerchieffto my name.
But do, for goodness' sake, go and send them men away.'
'Oh, Lordyt!' reiteratedl Mr. Pea, retiring. 'Gentnlucn, its no use, wo
are cotcht; (Georgy and me has both been cotehit-I acknowledge the corn ,
and what is worser, it seem that I am the cause of it all. IIe have took my
money, he have 1ook my watch, he have took my gun, anid da-ing his low
life skin, he have even took Georgy's pocket handkerciefs. It seem like he
jest picked me and Georgy out for all his rascalities. And to think that I
should be cused for it all. T did want her to marry. It look like a pity for
her not to git married. And now she is married, and what have she married?
A nasty, da-dblasted thievious Yankee, and aint even married at that. She is
married and she aint married ; and I don't understand it; and ef there's
conchekenches, thay aint nobody can tell what it wil be; and (Georgy's name
wiil go down to posterity, and the Peas wont be nobody any more ; and-Oh,
Lordy l
'Pap, do  or goodness gracious' sake, hush and come in the house,' said
Georgiana, advancing to the front door. 'The Lord 'knows I'm glad I aint
married ; and if thenLot11  women don't grieve after him any more than I
grieve after him, they've done forgot him, that's all. Pap, do come in the
house.'_
Mr. Pea subsided, and the mnedif rode away. Mr. Pucket begged Mr. Trip-
let to hasten, but the latter, who wau too old to be running for nothing, de-
clared in round terms that he'd be dinged ef he did.
'I wouldn't a made myself ridiculous, Pap, before company, if I'd a been in
your place. That was pretty talk to have before men, and I in the house
hearin every word.'
Mr. Pea, hearing himself accused of a new crime, couldn't stand it.
'I do believe that if old S'aton was to come, it would be me that fotch him,
or leastways sent for him, and I'd as leave he had a come as that d-adblasted
Yankee: Yes, its me, in cose its me. 'Anything wrong, I done it; oh, yes,
in chose, certing. Whar's my hat?' And the good man sallied forth to his
field, where he remained until dinner time. . There were so many contending
emotions in his breast that he ate in silence. Georgiana had a good appetite ;
she ato away with a gusto and eyed her father amusedly.


CQs                    rnO1nus TALES.

HV1O3OtT TALC.                   107t

'Pap, if I'll tell you solnething will you swear you'll keep it ?-
Uncle Ben laid down his knife and forlt and gazed at her in amazement.
'Wi    our mouth, Pap, and tell me if you'll swear.
'WhatV it?' he dsmanded authoritatively.
'Wil  ou swear, I asked you?'
at's a mighty pooty question for a child to ask its parent.'
Oh, very well.' And she helped herself again from  her favorite dish.
WV 't you have some more, pap?'
'Ge gy, what does you mean ?'
'Will you swear?'
'No; I WONT.'
'Oh, very well then.' And she peppered fand salted.          .
'Well, I never 'spected to come to this while my head was hot. My own
child, that I've- raised, and raised respectable, to be .settin thar, at my own
table, a axin her own parrent to swar, jist the same as ef I was gwine into a
Free Mason's lodge, which she knows I don't hold with no sich.'
- 'Pap, I've heard you often talkin against the Free Uasons. I never thought
they were so mighty bad. What do they do that is so awful bad?'
'You don't do you? -o, I suppose you don't ; in cose yon don't, takin
after them as you do, in cose you don't '
'How do I take after 'em?'
'In havin o' secrets that's a sin to keep, and in tryin to make people sway
that they won't tell 'em, and not even to their own parrents. That's how you
are takin arter them.'
'Oh, yes, I see now,' she said, appearing to muse. 'Still this is something
that I couldn't tell without your swearing not to mention to a blessed soul.
Its worth swearin ,for, pap,'
'Ar it anything concerning that mean runaway Yankee?'-
'If it is will you swear ?t
'Ye, I WILL, and cuss too, if you sent one. I've been a cussin to myself
all day any how.'
'You've cussed to other people besides yourself, but I only want you to
swear.'
She brought the family Bible.
'La, Georgy, is you in yearnest sure enou8h ? Why, what do you means?
You aint no Jestice.'
It made no difference ; she made him placehis hand on the book and swear,
that he would never reveal what she was going to tell him without her' con-
sent. Uncle Ben was very solemn while the oath was being administerd.

It required several minutes to impart the secret. The old man's joy was
boundless. He jumped up and ran into his own room, where he cut up more
capers than any one could have believed that he could cut up ; he ran back
again, made Georgiana rise from the table, hugged her, and made her sit down
again; he rushed to the front door and huzzaed to the outer world ; he rushed
back again and hugged Georgy as'she sat. Then he took his seat again and
looked upon hei- with ineffable admiration. Suddenly be grew serious.
'Oh, Georgy' no if I only had- '
B efore he could speak further she taken something from her bosom, and
handed it to him. He seized it with both hands, gazed at it, held it at arm''
length and gazed at it, opened and looked into it, shut it up again, held it for
a moment to his ear, patted it gently, laid it on the table, then lifted up his
voice and wept.
CHAPTER VI.
-, grant i am a woman."
Julias Ciesar.
When the news of Mr. Black's escapade reached Dukesborouigh, there wa5
running to and fro; business was suspended. Somq asked if the like had
ever been heard of. Otlhers asked every body if they hadn't told him so. J.
Spouter was among the former, and Mr. Bill Williams among the latter. He
got leave of absence from  the store in order to roam  up and down all the
forenoon, for the purpose of proving that he l1ad prophesied what had taken
place or its equivalent. He was delighted. My observation is that almost
everybody is, by the verification of a prophecy, which he has made, or which
he thinks he has made. Miss Spouter tried to laugh, but she didn't make
much ont of it. Mrs. Spouter didn't laugh at all. How could she when she
remembered the plates of butter that had'been consumed not only without
thanks but without pay? She did all the talking in the domestic circle. Mr.
Spouter- seemed inclined to be taciturn.. He 'merely remarked that he had
never been so outed in his born days, and then shut up. But, then, Mr.
'Spouter never had much to say when Mrs. Sp outer had the floor ; If how-
ever, he had had the floor now, there was nothing for him to say. He had
not sued his debtor but for reasons other than the being a merciful creditor.
He was not used to such things. Indeed, the very word SUIT was, and had
long been, disagreeable to .his ear. So much so. that he had never gone into
court of his own accord. It was one of his boasts, in comparing himself with
some others, that he had never been plaintiff in an action, and never expected
to be. He always discouraged people from going to law, maintaining that
people never got much by going there, a remark that was true, when con-


HUMOROUS TALES.               109)

fined in its application to those who had gone there, carrying him vith them
Yet, Mr. Spouter ieldom lost a bill, It was always a 'wonder to me how
rapidly persons in his condition could collect their bills. But this time Mr.
Spouter, as he said, was outed.. As he didn't relish Mr. Bill Williams' joke,
and as Mrs. Spouter didn't, and at last, as Miss Spouter didn't, Mr. B. W. had
to suspend.
Poor Mr.- Puoket! his mind had been set upon.a fee; but as no one. could
be found wh could run fastar than Mr. Triplet, and as the fugitive had gotten
three days' start, there was no pursuit.  None but a briefless lawyer. can.
imagine how badly'Mr. Pucket felt.
'And so. she isn't married after all !' said Miss Spouter to herself, when she
was alone in her chamber that night. 'Not married after all; no more than
I am. Yes, I suppose more than I am, because she thought she was married,
'and I KNEW I wasn't. That makes some difference; and .then--and then
-,' but it was too wonderful for Miss Spouter, she couldn't make it out. .So
she only, said, 'Qh, I wonder how she feels!'
Now, there was but one way to get the desired information, and that was
to se her and hear it from her own mouth. To most persons that way would
seem to be barred, because the last'tinje the two ladies met, IJis's SpoutEr had
refused to speak.. But it did not seem so to her ; she would herself remove
all obstacles: SHE WOULD FORGIVE UEORGE! Yes, that she would. Wasn't'
it noble to forgive?  Didn't the Bible teach us to forgive ?  Yes, she would
forgiye. What a glory overspread the heart of the injured when, in that ten,
der moment, she found she could forgive. She wished now that she had gone
to Georgiana to-day; she would 'go to-morrow. Malice should never have an
abiding place in that heart. It might have it in other people's herrts, but it
never should have it in that one. She laid herself calmly and sweetly upon
her bed, and was forcibly reminded, as she thought of herself and her conduct,
of the beauty and the serenity of a summer's evening.
CHAPTER VIl.

"In that same place thou hast (tjppoiutedl me
To-morrow truly will Imeet with thee."
Midsummer-Night's Dream.
Mr. Pea writhed and chafed under his oath. He begged his Georgy to let
him tell somebody. He swore another oath that he should die if he didn't.
He did tell it there in the house several times to imaginary auditors, after
looking out of the doors and windows to see if no real ones were near. Even
when he'was out of doors, he' went' all about whispering excitedly to himself,
occasionally laughing most tumultuously. Ueorgiana became uneasy.'

'Pap, are you going to run distracted again?'
'Georgy, of I don't believe I am I'll--- you may kill me.'
Georgiana had to yield. She wished to see Mr. Spouter upon a little matter
of business connected with Mr. Slack, and she concluded to consent for him to
be sent for and her father to inform him of what she saw he must inevitably
tell somebody. The old man was extremely thankful, but he wanted to make
a request.
'Georgy, you must let me send for rjplet. 've 'got a good joke on Trip-
let, a powerful joke on him. And he's a officer, Georgy, too,' he added, se-
riously.
 'Triplet is a officer. This case, an'a leetle more, an' it would a got into
cote ; an' as Triplet ar' a officer, he ought to be here in cose.'
Georgiana consented on hearing this last argument. But she expressly 'i-
joined upon her father, that at any period of his disclosures, when she called
upon him to stop, he had to do it. Ie promised to obey, and the servant
was sent into Dukesborough with the request that Messrs. Spouter  &amp; Triplet
should come out the next morning on particular business. Georgiana knew
fully what she, who was her friend but now, alas, abandoned, was thinking
about, and therefore she was included in the summons.
Early the next morning the )arty arrived. Miss Spouter alighted ii great
agitation, rushed through the front room into Georgiana's who was there
waiting for what she knew was to happen, looked all around as if she was ex-
pecting to find somebody besides Georgiana, fell upon her in the old way
pronounced her pardon, and then demanded to he told all aboat it. Oh, my!
Dreadful! Did ever ! Vain and foolislh man ! How did Georgiana feel!
Georgiana led her into her father's room, which also served for tln  parlor.
She was surprised and annoyed to find Mr. Pucket there with the other gen-
tlemen. Mr, Pucket had, somehow, gotten the wind of it, and said to himself
that he didn't know what might happen. lie had been told by an old lawyer
that the only way for a young man to succeed at the bar was to push hims olf
forward. So he determined to go, and he went. Uncle Ben was glad of it.
lie was going, for the first time in his life, to make a speech, and he wished as
large an audience as possible. No, no; in cose there wern't no intrusion, and
no nothin of the sort, nor nothin else.
Georgiana sat very near her father.
Then he opened his mouth and began:
'You see, gentul-mhen, it was all my fault, from the fast. \After Georgy
seed him she didn't think much of him. She said she didn't keer about mar"
ryin no how, and ef the did, she wanted it to be to a Southering man. But I

fifl&amp;ofto1 TALPS


10

HtlMOROUS :!riL.

and him too, we overpersuaded her. He seemed to think so much of me and
her too; and he had a store, and 'peared like a man well to do. And I did
want to see my only daughter settle herself. the feelin is nat'ral, as you know
yourself, Mr. Spouter ; all parrents that has daughters, has 'em, ain't it so.
Mr. Spouter?'    C
Mr. Spouter answered rather by his manner than in words. Miss Spouter
became confused, and didn't look at Mr. Pucket when he coughed, although
he was a married man. Mr. Triplet had seen somewhat of life in his time,
still he took a chew of tobacco.,
'Go on, pap,' said Georgiana.'
'Yes; well, you see, getulmen, rich it war-any how they got married.
Georgy said when she gin her consent, she gin it to keep me from runnin dis-
tracted, as it did 'pear like I war. Howbeever, I ar clean out o' that now.
Circumances is altered powerful, Well, as I said, any how they got married
-that is, they didn't git married, because he were already married .and -thay
warn't no law for it, as you know yourself, Mr. Pucket, they warn't. But..-
al-leastways they went throo the-ah-the motions and the-ah-gittin out
lisens, and the.--ah--stannin up in the floor and jinin o' hands, and he come
here to live. Well now, don't you b'leeve that Georgy, she spishoned him
from the very fust day : for no sooner were he married hardly, than he began
to reach~behind every nuke and corner about here, and before night, bless your
soul, he knowed more about whar things was in this house than I did. Least..
ways, Georgy says  o, and its obleeged to be so; for there's things, many of
'em in this house that I don't know whar thay are.' And Mr. Pea looked
around and above, taking as big a view as if he were surveying the whole
universe.
'Well, Georgy, she and he tuk a walk that fust evenin. Instid of talkin
along like tether folks that's jest got married, he went right straight to talking
about settlin hisself, and put at her to begin right away to git all she could,
out'n me ; which, Georgy, she didn't like no sich, and no body wouldn't a
liked it that thought anything of herself. You wouldn't, Angeline Spbuter,
- you know you wouldn't, the very fust day you was married.'
'Go on, pap, please.'
'Yes, well, Georgy spishuned him agin at supper, from the way he looked
at the spoons on the table ; which of they had a been the genuine silver, they
would'nt a been in this house now, to my opinion, probly, leastways, ef.--,
uncle Ben smiled and concluded to postpone the balance of this sentence.
'Well, you bee, Georgy Ann, arter supper, she got sick, she did, and she
bilt on to her head powerful. In coe bed time, hit had to come arter a while,,

HUMOROtTS TALES.

111

when hit did come, she were wusser, and she give that feller a candle to go
long to bed by hisself. When she went to bed, I thought she was a goin on'
 I thar in cose, like 'tother married people; but she, instid o' that, she went
on thoo into the little jinin back room and she locked the door arter her. I
never knowed one word o' this untel arter ho went off. Well, arter he went
to sleep, Georgy, she heered a mighty groanin. So she ups, she does, an
onlocks the door and creeps in mighty sly. It seem like he ware dreaming
and talkin in his sleep powerful. He called names, sich as Jemimy, Susan
Jane, Betsy Ann, and-what was all them names, Georgy?'
'It makes no difference, pap, go on.'
'And a heap more of 'em. Georgy can tell you. Cose ho heard 'em over
and oging. Well, he seemed to be powerful shamed of all of 'em, and he swore
'he wern't married and them that said so was a liar, and all sich, Well, sich
carrin on made Georgy b'leve that he was a married man befo, and had two
or three wives already, or probable four or five. And'so she jist wouldn't
sleep with him no how. She-well, in fac, she jist didn't think she was
liable too sleep with him. And she was right, Triplet, she was right, wasn't
she Triplet?'
'In cose,' answered Mr. Triplet.
"'IDo go on, pap.',
'Well, yes. Yit still she didn't let on. She kept up tolerable well in the
day time, but when night come, Georgy she kep on gittin sick, and going into
the jinin little room. I never seed sich carrin on befo.'
,    Uncle Ben would stop and laugh some. Georgy begged him to go on.
'Well, she kep ona hearin him a going on, and you think she would tell me
the fast'thing o' all this. Ef she had a told me, howbeever, that aint neither
here nor thar. Well, it seem he talked in his sleep about other people be-
sides wimniing, about men and about money, and declared on his soul that he
never stole it, which goes to show Georgy that he war a rog t as well as a
rascal about wimming. Yit in this time he begin to hint even around me
about property, and even insinivated that he would like to have the whole
plantation and all that's on it.' Mr. Pea showed plainly by his manner, after
making this last remark, that no man had ever had an ambition more bound-
less than the late Mr. Slack.
'But I mighty soon give him to understand that he war barkin up the
wrong tree of he thought I was gwine to give up this plantation and my
property before my head got cold. Them's always fools that does it.'
flowbeever, he talked so much about scttlin hisself, and so easy and. good
about Georgy, and how that all he veered about property was for her, and I

(I

~fl


r.

112

tI MO OT TALES.

knowed that was all I keered about it for, that I told him, I'd pay for a nigger
oman for 'em. Well, you see, I no sooner says that than he ups with a lie
about having to go to Augusty. But shore enuff, arter he had been here
two or three days, he had to go too Augusty, or somewhar else. Becase he
got a letter which skeered him powerful, an he said hp. war goili right off. I
didn't spishun nothin agin the man, and I'lets him have the money to buy the
m"    ,.
rugger 'oman. I had no more spishun of him, .Jeems Triplet, than I have of
you, only krwin that he was monstrous fond of money; which is all right
enough,'ef a man comes by it honest. Well, (Georgy she was tuk back tre-
menduous by his gittin the money so all on a budding. Yit she didn't let on,
but makes out like she's mighty sorry he war goin so soon, but mighty glad
he's goin to fetch her a nigger''oman when he come back. She has hip got a
mighty good smack of vittles, and what ain't common for dinner, she puts on
the table a plate of nice fresh butter and a plenty of biscuit, Triplet,' Mr. Pea
now looked as sly and as good humored as it was possible for him to be.
'Triplet, I've got a good joke on
Mr. Triplet seemed to guess what it was, and smiled suybduedly.
'You know what you said about my never seem  certing people and certin
things- .certing property no more?'
Mr. Triplet acknowledged that he did.
'Well, Triplet, part of it was so and part of it were not so, all which both is
,jist as I wants it to be. Triplet, that butter and them biscuit is what saved
"      me. He never expected to eat no. more tell he got to Augusty, and I tell you
he hung to that butter and them biscuit. While he 'was at 'em, and Georgy
she made 'em late a coming in a purpose, she takes some old keys which she
had picked up, and finds one that could onlock his peleese whar she seed him
put the money, and whar she knowed he kep all he had.'
Uncle Ben intended to laugh mercilessly at Triplet, but he was stopped by
the sight of r. Pucket, who did as if he was trying to swallow something that
was too big or his throat.
'Ar anything the matter vith you Mr. Pucket? Is you got a cold?  Ar
your that so?' asked the old gentleman, with undisguised interest:
Triplet snickered as Mr. Pucket denied being sick,
Uncle Ben proceeded
'So she jest opened it sly as a mice and took out my money-'
And what else? eagerly asked Mr, Pucket.
'My watch, that the billion beg me to let him take with him to have it
worked on, which I didn't like no--.-~'
'What else?' asked Mr. Pucket again.
'That's the last pint I'm a coming too, and that's why Georgy sent arter Mr.
Spouter. She knowed that he owed Mr. Spouter thirry dollars, and she made
p   r md to pay the debt as now she seed his money, and she tuck out
thirty dollars o' his money, which here it ar for you Mr. Spouter.'

1TMOROU   TALES. .113
'I garnishee the thirty dollars,' interposed Mr. Pocket, holding out his hands.
'You are too late,' answered Mr. Spouter, taking the money, putting it into
his pocket, and lookgiii as if he bad gotten in again after being ousted by Mr.
Mack.     '
'Can't I garnishee, Triplet :''.
'Garnishee for whit?'
'For my fee?'    '
'Fee for what ?'
'Why, for my ser 'ices in -4h,- coming out here on two occasions.'
'Well-you can't garnishee.'
Mr. Triplet looked as if he was ashamed of Mr. Pocket. Uncle Ben hoped
there was goin' to be no bad feelins, and no difficulties.
'Certainly not,' answered Mr. Triplet. 'Mr. Pucket ar' a young lawyer, and
forgot at the minit that it war other peeple that owed him for his services in
stid of M Slack: resides, furthermo, Mr. Packet ought to know that you
can't garnishee jist dry so,. without fast gittin' out some sort o' )aper-from the
cote. That would take so much time that Spouter, here, moot spend his thirty
dollars befo he got it, that is, ef Spouter wanted too.' Mr. Triplet looked in-
terrogatingly at the 'tother gentleman.
'Yes, ef I wanted too,' answered Mr: S., oraculously:
'But,' persisted Mr. Pucket,'there was other monies.'
'Whar?' asked Mr. Triplet.
*In Mr. Slack's trunk.'
'No they want,' answered Mr. Pea, who thought he ought to keep Mr.
Pucket to the true word. 'They was in his peleesc.'
'Well, in his peleese. That makes no difference,' and Mr. Pocket looked as
if he thought he had them on that point.
'Puget,' said Triplet, 'it won't make no difference. You are right. 11 don't
make nary bit o' difference with no body, ncr with your fee neither. That fee
ar' a lost ball. They amt no money here to pay it with; an' cfthere was it
would be Mr. Slack's lawyer, and not you that would git it. Well, gin it
and another time try to have better luck.'
Mr. Pucket was a young lawyer, and was, in part, owned by Mr. TI'riplet.
So he subsided. Uncle Ben looked troubled, until the sheriff assured him that
there could be no difficulties. 'Go on, uncle Ben. You got your gun, of cours?'
'Triplet, you rascal ! You may laugh ; but I don't want the gun. i-e may
keep it, and do what he pleases with it, even to blowin' out his own thevious
brains with-it for what 1 keer. Lie's welcome to the gun. You Triplet!'
'Don't mind me, uncle Ben. Go on.'
'Well, thar's lots more to tell of Georgy would only let tne; and some tuiigs
as would make you laugh powerful, Triplet, of you was to hear 'em.. But she's
made me swar, actily swar, that I won't tell without her leave. Maybe she'll
tell your ole 'oman] spme o' these days. Well, I felt'mighty glad when I got my
money back, and, ef any thing, a wosser gladder when I got back my watch
agin.. Triplet, when I seed her,' (and the old man drew out a watch as big and
as round as a turnip,) 'when I seed her agin, ef I didn't cry you may kill me.
I've had her thirty year, and none o' your new-fangled ones can beat her run'
nin' when you clean her out and keep her sot right with the sun. Ai, well.
he continued, putting it back and shaking his foot in mild satisfaction ; 'the
thing is over, and the best of it all ar' that ---'
'Hush pap,' said Georgiana, raising her finger.

-'
,p.


114                      UUXOrto~  sTALES.
af.  .    The old man smiled and htished.
After hearing parts of the story over several times, the party rose to go.
Mr. Tlriplet rising, said that in cose it war not any of his bisines-, but he would
like to ax Miss G.eorgy one question, ef he wouldn't be considered as meddlin'
with what didn't belong to him ; and that was why she didn't tell on the villion
as soon as she found him out. GeorgiTana answered:
'Well, Mr. Triplet, I many times thought I would ; bui you see I did'nt
know for certain that he had done all the things that I was afraid be had. Be.
sides, Mr. Triplet, even if he was't t my husband, I one time thought he was;
and before God and man, I had promised to-be faihful to him., And then he
had staid in this house, and eat at our table, and-and called pap father, and-
and-and- Well, Mr. Triplet, somehow it d don't look right for me to be the
first one to turn against him; and--and wheh I did -think cf telling on him,
something would rise up and tell me that I ought not.'
'Wimming aint like men no how, uncle-Bin,'. said rT'riplet, wiping his eye as
- he bade him good bye.-
'No they aint, Tripkt,' and he laid his hanr1 fondly on hi daughter'sshoal
der while the tears ran down his cheelks.
The visitors now left, all except Miss Spouter. She wished to get behind
the scenes and know more. How much more she leaf ned I cannot say. They
went to bed early when the day ended, and to sleep late. 'There was something
which made them easily reunite. It wasfa pity. Miss Spouter imagined that
she pitied Sher friend because she had been deceived by a man. even more than
herse f had ever been, and because of the hurtful influence which that decep-
tion would probably exert upon any future expectations of marria e. Miss
Pea, who, instead of having any regrets, felt relief in the thought that hence-
forth her father would be satisfield to allow her to manage such matters for
herself, and that she should be satisfied to have none to manage, really pitied
her friend because she yet yearned for-an' impossible estate. When the time
came for them -to go to sleep, (and Georgiana thought it long coming) she
id not wait a moment. ,Miss Spouter lay awake some time further. She
pondered long on what she had heard. It was'strange. It was almost like a
novel, How could George be still the same GJeorgiana Pea ? She had been
Mrs. Slack. Wasn't she Mrs. Slack now ; and how, oh ! how exciting every-
thing must have been. Her thoughts followed M r. Slack a while ; but he was
so far away that they came back and went looking after Mr. Bill Williams.
He was not much, but he was something. Ie had never exhibited any regard
for her yet, but it was possible that he would some day. He wyas at least ten
years younger than herself,  But her'curls were the same as ever, and besides,
were not marriages made'in Heaven? or were they not a lottery, or something
f        of the sort ?. Who knows?  Mr. Bill Williams, after all, might be the very
one to whom the, something in h  r alluded when it had so repeatedly told
her that she was destined to make some man so happy. rihen her mind
turned again, and notwithstand ng Mr. Slack's great distance ahead, it started
foth in the direction he had taken. She dwelt upon his strange conduct and
his- unipg away, d although it was plain that he had done the like before,
an wlen :he had~ never seen her nor heard of her, yet, she halfway persuaded
herself that. she was the cause, though the perfectly innocent cause, of it all.
" ~~    Yes,, yes I'she was saying to herself, as sleep stole upon her at last, 'he is
.one, but the image of Angeline Spouter is i'n his br-east, and it will stay there


                                                           
             
         
       
   
