
    ----CITATION----
        Chellis, Mary Dwinell.. Deacon Sims' Prayers .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6025 wright2-0499
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  He had that very morning passed a barefooted thinly clad child. "Deacon Sims," page 15.
               
            
         
         
            
               Deacon Sims' Prayers.
            
            BY MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, AUTHOR OF "MOLLY'S BIBLE," "EFFIE WINGATE'S WORK," &C.
            
               BOSTON:
               HENRY A. YOUNG & CO. 
                     No. 24 CORNHILL.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by MASSACHUSETTS S. S. SOCIETY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts.
               CHANDLER & CO., PRINTERS.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               I. The Noon Prayer-Meeting. 5
               
               II. The Old Home. 71
               
               III. Summer in the Country. 144
               
               IV. Rizpah and Nat. 218
               
               V. Death of Mrs. Powers. 289
               
               VI. Conversion of Mr. Powers. 349
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Deacon Sims' prayers
            
            DEACON SIMS' PRAYERS.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE NOON PRAYER-MEETING.
               
                  
                     
                        Casting loose from ancient moorings,
                        Drifting outward with the tide,
                        Fast receding shore and landmark,
                        Safely shall thy frail bark ride?
                        Deeming every light a beacon,
                        Gleaming o'er the distant wave,
                        Bearing neither chart nor compass,
                        Danger near thee, who shall save?
                     
                  
               
               "I HAVE not seen you at the noon prayer-meeting yet," said one merchant to another, as, after transacting some business together, they conversed upon various topics.
               "No, I don't go," said the gentleman to whom this remark had been addressed. "The fact is, I don't think as you do about such things. Religion is well enough in its place, but there is such a thing as carrying it too far."
               "Carrying what too far?" asked Mr. Long.
               "Why, religion. You were talking of that; were you not?"
               "I was speaking of the prayer-meeting."
               "Same thing, I suppose; is it not?"
               "It may amount to the same thing. I never heard of a prayer-meeting without some religion. Did you ever attend a prayer-meeting?" asked Mr. Long, seriously.
               "Not since I was a boy. I used to go then, with my parents, and if I must tell the truth, I have never had any desire to go since. I got tired of them."
               "I hope you will not think me too inquisitive if I ask why you were tired of them," said Mr. Long.
               "Because they were so dull. They were just the same thing over and over again. Old Deacon Sims always talked and prayed. He was a good man, I know, but dreadfully tiresome."
               "Deacon Sims doesn't go to our prayer-meeting," said Mr. Long.
               "I know he doesn't," was the reply, "but I suppose you all talk about the same subjects he did,—death, judgment, and eternity."
               "We do talk about them. They are subjects that can never be exhausted But our talk is not confined to them."
               "I thought those were the orthodox subjects for a prayer-meeting," said Mr. Powers, with a scarcely perceptible sneer.
               "You are right in thinking so," replied Mr. Long, "but they are not the only ones. The interests of this life are not forgotten. I wish you would go and hear for yourself. You might find our meetings less tiresome than those you attended when you were a boy, although we still pray to the same God that Christians did then."
               The two men whom we have thus introduced to our readers were wholesale merchants, both doing an extensive business and both of undoubted integrity. Both had come from country homes when young men, with their own way to make in the world, and had been eminently successful. Both had been early taught the doctrines and principles of our New England theology, which, though it may be ridiculed by open infidels, and caricatured by elegant scholars, has done more to strengthen and perpetuate our free institutions than all other influences combined.
               As a legitimate result of his early training, Mr. Long was an earnest, working Christian, who considered his covenant nant obligations binding upon him at all times and under all circumstances. He exemplified his religion in the counting-room and on 'Change, as well as in the meeting for prayer.
               Mr. Powers, on the contrary, had, to use his own expression, "cut loose from the superstition of his fathers," and was drifting out upon an unknown sea. The rigid notions and somewhat ascetic manners of the teachers of his childhood, a natural result of the circumstances in which these teachers were placed, were attributed to the influence of the "doctrines" they so stoutly maintained.
               Having made this great mistake in his conclusions, Mr. Powers was not a man lightly to change his opinions. He honestly thought he had been very candid in his investigation of the subject, and quite prided himself upon the fact. He did few things rashly. He had a clear head and a strong will that held all mere impulses and passions well in abeyance. He had determined to be rich. This was the one great object before him when he first engaged as clerk in a large mercantile house, and, as we have before said, he had succeeded.
               He had not married until he could provide a luxurious home for the bride who was so ill-fitted to preside over any other. She was the only daughter of a retired merchant, a perfect child in experience and knowledge of the world. She was considered very beautiful, yet hers was not the highest type of beauty. It was not the expression of the face that arrested the attention, but the perfect regularity of the features and the exquisite purity of the complexion.
               Perhaps it was not strange that Arthur Powers, turning from day-book and ledger, should have fancied this young girl the angel of his destiny. To his mind, somewhat worn and jaded by close application to business, there was something irresistibly fascinating in the ignorance of life and its duties, which she so constantly betrayed. The uncharitable and envious whispered that there was another motive for the wooing,—Burnie Deans' father was a millionnaire.
               At the time my story commences, they had been married fifteen years, and a family of six children were growing up around them. Mrs. Powers' father had died a few years previous, leaving her property to the amount of one hundred thousand dollars, which she held in her own right. Her mother, despite the entreaties of her sons that she would make her home with them, maintained a separate establishment, where her grand-children were welcomed, petted, and indulged to an alarming extent.
               
               Mr. Powers was nearly fifty years of age, a gentlemanly, dignified man, who, if he had ever been disappointed in any of his plans or expectations, never betrayed the fact even to those who knew him most intimately. He was one of the solid men on 'Change, whose word was as good as his bond, and both above suspicion. At home he was a kind husband and father, although it must be confessed that, when there, he devoted more time to reading the papers than to conversing with his wife. She, having lost the first freshness of youth, and lacking the graces of heart and intellect which, as each succeeding year rolls round, give an added charm to the countenance, was now only a common-looking woman, indebted to the adornments of dress for all her attraction. She had never known the want of anything which money could purchase, and she was perfectly satisfied with her position in life. Her husband was all she could desire, except when some of his "old-fashioned notions" conflicted with her more aristocratic ideas. In such cases, she always made a virtue of necessity, and yielded with as good grace as could be expected from one brought up as she had been.
               But to return from this digression, which was necessary, in order to give a better insight into the character of these gentlemen. Mr. Long endeavored to combat the prejudices of his companion. But Mr. Powers, having set his face like a flint against everything of the kind, arguments and entreaties were alike unavailing.
               Yet Mr. Long was not discouraged, and, but for a business engagement, would have continued to press the subject. There was not much danger that Mr. Powers would be offended by his plain speaking. He had too sincere a respect for Mr. Long, as a business man and a friend, to manifest any impatience.
               "That prayer-meeting is one of Long's hobbies," he said to a merchant who came into his counting-room a short time after that gentleman had left.
               "I know it," was the reply, "and if he never has one more objectionable, I shall not find fault with him. He practises all he preaches."
               "I have not a word to say against Mr. Long, but I had enough of his doctrine when I was a boy. I believe in a man's being honest and upright, and doing to all as he would be done by, and that's enough. That is religion of the right kind, if I know anything about it."
               "That would be high-toned morality," replied Mr. Bond, "but I doubt if such men as Mr. Long would think there was much religion in it."
               "You may call it what you please," said Mr. Powers. "I wont quarrel about names, but the man who practises it does well enough."
               "Yes," said the other, musingly; "but how far do you propose to extend this golden rule?"
               "I suppose it should extend to every one," was the reply.
               "I think it should; but I would like to see the man or woman whose conduct is always regulated by this pure precept."
               Mr. Powers, who was scrupulously honest in all his business transactions, was about claiming this merit for himself. But remembering that he had that very morning passed a barefooted, thinly-clad child, shivering with cold, without even stopping to give him a penny, he forbore to make any reply.
               "I should like to see such a person," repeated Mr. Bond.
               
               "I know it is difficult always to do this," at length said Mr. Powers. "There are so many calls upon our charity, and business is so pressing that we neglect some opportunities for doing good."
               "More than we know," said the other, seriously. "I'm getting to be of Mr. Long's opinion,—that it takes heart religion to carry us safely and honorably through the world. As for these prayer-meetings, they are just what we need."
               Again Mr. Powers quoted Deacon Sims, who, good Christian man, lacking an intuitive sense of the fitness of things, a want which a broad and generous culture had never supplied, had really often been very tiresome. But he always forgot that this same deacon who talked so much of death, judgment, and eternity had a heart full of all kindly sympathy, which manifested itself in words and deeds that made many a widow and orphan to rejoice.
               "I don't know anything about your Deacon Sims," said the visitor; "but I do know that there are no tiresome speeches and long prayers in this meeting. It is worth your while to go, if only to see the animated faces of our merchants and plodding business men. Whatever I may do, I believe they are in the right, and when my boys grow up, I hope they'll have the same kind of religion Mr. Long has,—the religion of the heart."
               With this remark, Mr. Bond bade his brother merchant good-morning.
               All that had been previously said failed to make any impression upon the mind of Mr. Powers, but this allusion of the speaker to his boys recalled an incident of the previous week.
               The "old-fashioned notion" of his which had given most annoyance to his wife was that of sending their children to the public schools of the city. She and her brothers had received private instruction until they were of suitable age to be sent from home, and she considered this the only proper arrangement. She remonstrated strongly against her husband's plan, shed some tears, and once alluded to her own property, the income of which was amply sufficient to defray the expense of her children's education. This last was impolitic, and she hastened to apologize, but still persisted in her opposition to the public schools.
               Mr. Powers was decided. "My children are no better than others," he said. "They should learn to submit to discipline, and if they fail in obedience, I am willing they should suffer the consequences."
               So the lady mother had cautioned her sons against improper associates, and pitied her daughters that they must be brought into contact with the children of low people, while she dressed them daintily and sent them to the public schools.
               Arthur, the oldest child, named for his father, and possessing something of his strong will, was beginning to assert his independence in a way that was not always agreeable. He knew that the wealth of his parents placed him in a social position above most of his companions, and the mistaken fondness of his mother and grandmother had a tendency to make him feel that it was quite beneath him to submit to the exact rules by which "common scholars" were governed.
               His father, absorbed in business, did not detect the presence of this feeling until informed by the teacher that his son had been guilty of disrespect to himself self, and open violation of the general rules of the school.
               Mr. Powers' father was one who believed that sparing the rod would spoil the child, and he could remember when such a message in regard to himself had resulted in his receiving a sound flogging at home, the second edition of which was administered by his teacher in school. He did not wish to resort to such severe measures, but he did insist that Arthur should make a public apology to his teacher, and yield implicit obedience in future.
               The boy, understanding the character of his father, had not a single thought that he could in any way evade this requirement; but he was intensely mortified and indignant. His mother sympathized with him, and his grandmother even ventured to expostulate with her son-in-law.
               Arthur was at this time nearly fourteen teen years of age, dressed in the finest broadcloth, sported an expensive gold watch, had a liberal allowance of pocket-money, and considered himself a young gentleman of importance. But, notwithstanding this importance, he was obliged to enter the school-room and stand upon the platform while his father apologized to the teacher in his behalf, and expressed the most sincere regrets for his conduct. Then, stepping back, he gave place to Arthur, who, overcome with shame and disgrace, could only ask pardon in the fewest possible words, when he was allowed to resume his accustomed seat.
               Mr. Powers made a few remarks to the school on the importance of strict discipline and application to study, related something of his own experience as a scholar, and then left. Everybody said he had "done well, saved his boy, and set a good example for others." He felt that he had done his duty, taught Arthur a lesson he would not soon forget, and gave himself no further anxiety in regard to him. It had probably never occurred to him that his sons could be other than honorable men, or his daughters fail to take their places as ornaments of society. His father's children had all made honorable records for themselves. Why should not his own? He had forgotten, or perhaps did not choose to remember, that in the home of his childhood, where the Bible had been the lawgiver, he had been trained up in the fear of the Lord. His father was a poor, hardworking farmer, who found little leisure for reading or recreation, yet always had time to look closely after his five boys, and keep them where they should be. His mother, burdened with the care of a large family and the work incident to her position, was not a particularly cheerful woman. Life seemed to her a sober, stern reality, and if her notions were a little rigid, and her manners somewhat ascetic, it was certainly no cause for wonder. Work that taxes the physical powers to their utmost limit of endurance is by no means conducive to the best development of head or heart.
               Yet, in most respects, Mrs. Powers was a model mother. She nursed her children tenderly when sick, and had an eye to their comfort when well. No sacrifice of ease was too great for her to make in their behalf, while she never allowed her multifarious cares to interfere with the constant watch she exercised over their habits and morals. She held the reins of government with a firm hand, rarely reproving without quoting some passage of Scripture to enforce her own words. The sins of profanity and lying were her utter abhorrence, and she labored to impress her children with the same feeling. Often had her son Arthur shuddered, when a boy, at the bare idea of telling a lie, and he had good reason for doing so.
               In order to escape deserved punishment, he had once told his mother a falsehood. It was in the morning, when she was unusually busy, but she left her work as soon as she detected the deceit. The common wants of the family were of little consequence, compared with the moral welfare of her child. Taking him into her room, she read the story of Ananias and Sapphira, and when she made an application of it to his own case, he verily expected that he should be punished in the same way. After this, she prayed with him in a manner to impress him still more strongly with a sense of his guilt. He was then left alone until night, when he was permitted to be present at family worship. The fifth chapter of Acts was again read, and again was he made the subject of special prayer. When this was over, he was sent fasting to bed, where he tossed through the long hours in an agony of terror.
               The next morning how he dreaded to meet his parents! What additional punishment his father had in store for him he never knew. His haggard looks must have pleaded eloquently for him, and he was allowed to go about his usual work without any allusion being made to the falsehood. That day, an elder sister, moved to pity by his evident distress, told him that liars were not now punished with death. This relieved him from a terrible apprehension, but it was several weeks before his parents would accept his word as authority, unless corroborated by circumstances.
               When his time of probation had passed, and he was again restored to confidence, he thought himself perfectly happy. It was not necessary to punish him again for lying. He was proverbial for his truthfulness even in a family where speaking the truth was the universal rule.
               This is a fair specimen of the training of New England fathers and mothers, who looked upon sin as something too serious to be trifled with. Such discipline was not likely to be transient in its effect, and to this, with other of like spirit, Arthur Powers, merchant, owed the sterling uprightness that had contributed so largely to his success in life. When he first came to the city, it was found that he could be trusted. His employers advanced him rapidly, giving him the preference over others who had been much longer in their service. He had no bad habits to undermine his principles, no expensive vices to drain his own purse and diminish the profits of his employers, yet such is the perversity of the human heart, that, while owing all his noblest qualities to the influence of the religion of his parents, he deliberately decided that he had no further need of it. He espoused a more "liberal Christianity," and worshipped on the Sabbath where the three subjects that had been so distasteful to him were seldom mentioned. He was not troubled with any misgivings either in regard to his faith or practice, and had been rather glad of an opportunity to express his sentiments to Mr. Long.
               Mr. Bond might wish that his boys should adopt the "old-fashioned religion," but he had no such ambition for his own children. There was not much prospect of such an event when the home influence was directly opposed to it. He had said to Mr. Long, "Religion is well enough in its place, but there is such a thing as carrying it too far." There was no danger that it would be carried too far in his family, and as to its place, he had never taken the trouble to locate it. Indeed, he had thought more about it that morning than he had before for several months; and with an expression of impatience at having allowed it to occupy so much of his time, he called his confidential clerk, Mr. Dunbar, and consulted him in regard to some transactions involving heavy responsibilities.
               This young man had been in the employ of Mr. Powers four years, and understood every part of his extensive business as well as he did himself, and, what was more, it was safe in his hands.
               Mr. Dunbar was a member of a church of the strictest sort, and, strange as it may seem, it was this fact which decided Mr. Powers in his favor. He often congratulated himself upon having secured his services. While other merchants were obliged to use every precaution against fraud on the part of their clerks, he was entirely free from apprehension. Mr. Dunbar was above temptation, and his influence over every one in the store, even down to the porter and errand-boy, was such as to make the slightest dereliction from honesty disgraceful.
               "He is a treasure," often said his employer, "and I would double his salary rather than have him leave me."
               After despatching his business with Mr. Dunbar, the merchant went home to dinner, at which time he met all his children, even down to Baby Maud. This was another "old-fashioned notion" which he had maintained against all opposition.
               The character of Arthur, the oldest of these children, has already been described scribed. Then came Burnie, a child after her mother's own heart, never likely to forget that her father was a rich man.
               Third on the list was Nat, the very embodiment of good-nature, fun, and frolic. His name had been as great a horror to his mother as his manners promised to be. The first day he went to school, he gave all his pennies to a ragged little girl who was crying at the corner of the street. For this he received a reproof, which only caused him to open his blue eyes wider and shake his curly head in wonder. Since then he had been doing "all sorts of strange things." He would as soon play with a child who wore patched clothes as with the best-dressed boy of his acquaintance. Thoroughly democratic in feeling and action, he had a host of youthful friends among those whom his older brother and sister considered quite beneath their notice tice. His Grandmother Deans said he inherited his peculiarities from his father's uncle, for whom he was named and it may be that he did; for whenever his father was particularly pleased with him, he often said, by way of commendation, "There's Uncle Nat, over again."
               But there are three others to claim our attention, and we must not linger longer with this "odd boy." Gustave, the third son and especial pet of his mother, had always been a delicate child, presenting a striking contrast to his robust brother Nat, who enjoyed the most perfect health.
               Mabel, or as she might justly have been called by all who had any claims upon her Ma belle, and Maud complete the group, and as Mr. Powers looked upon his household treasures, he envied no man his possessions.
               For some reason, his children had a new interest in his eyes on the evening in question. He could not forget what Mr. Bond had said. He watched Arthur more closely than usual, and for the first time he realized that he would soon be a young man, exposed to all the trials and temptations of this critical period of life. What assurance had he that he would not fall? Had the boy any fixed principles? He was obliged to confess that he did not know. His son might have already contracted habits that would prove his ruin, and he in utter ignorance of it.
               It was not thus his parents had cared for him; but they were living for eternity, and he was living for this world. They had considered themselves accountable for the souls of their children, while he had taken no thought for the eternal welfare of those whom God had given him. His brow clouded as he thought of this. He had heard no new complaint of Arthur from school, and he never heard any from his mother, who had pitied him so much for the punishment he had received that he was fully persuaded his father had been unjust and severe.
               Nat was often in disgrace, but he usually managed to come out from it with a smiling face. His great trouble was want of funds,—as Arthur said, "depletion of the pocket," or, to use his own expression, he was "dead broke," most of the time. He never invested in candies and sweetmeats, his stock of balls and marbles was not large, and he had no assortment of fancy pocket-knives, yet he was nearly always "out of money," and Gustave, who spent most of his time indoors, and whose every wish was gratified almost before it was expressed, often loaned him small sums, which were scrupulously pulously repaid. This poverty of Nat was so much commented upon in the family that it finally aroused the curiosity of his father, who called him to an account.
               The boy was perfectly willing to tell how he spent his money, knowing he would be neither ridiculed nor blamed. In some way, he had made the acquaintance of an old man who had once been a sailor, and to him he devoted more than half the money he received each week.
               "He is dreadfully poor, father," said Nat. "He lives in a little room no larger than our closets. He makes some coarse baskets, and gets a little money, but he is always hungry, and is so glad when I give him anything."
               "How do you know what he does with your money? Such men are not always very good."
               "But he is good, father, I know he is."
               "How do you know?"
               "He reads the Bible, and Grandmother Powers says bad people never read it much. He reads it every day, but his Bible is so old and the print so fine he can't see very well, and I'm going to buy him a new one, just as soon as I can save money enough."
               "And when do you expect to do that?"
               "I don't know," said Nat, sorrowfully. "There's Pat and Burns and Dennis and Owen," he added, counting off the names on his fingers, "they all expect me to give them two or three cents to buy some broken crackers, and it goes before I think. Mother and grandmother don't give me any money now. They say I never have anything to show for what I spend."
               "Well, Nat," said his father, "how much do you think would be sufficient for you and your poor people?"
               
               The boy considered. "If you would give me ten cents more a week, I think I could get along," he said.
               Mr. Powers laughed heartily at the moderate request. "I think I must make more of an addition than that, or you'll be out of funds again directly. Are you in debt?"
               "I owe Gustave fifteen cents."
               "I'll pay that, Nat. You shall have twenty-five cents more a week, and here is the money to buy your old man a Bible."
               "This is more than enough," said the boy, as he took the money. "I inquired the price of one that I know will just suit him."
               "Then give him the rest to buy a dinner. But how comes it that you are on such terms with Pat and Dennis?"
               "The other boys made fun of them because they wore old clothes, and so I just stood up for them. One cold morning I found out they had come to school without their breakfasts, and when I talked with them, they told me how poor they were. But they want to learn, and they are among the best scholars in the class. Owen Murphy, too, is the handsomest boy, as well as the best scholar. I like to look at him. I went to the house where he lives once, but I didn't go in. He says his father and mother can't read a word."
               All this was told with the greatest animation. Nat was delighted to find a listener who manifested any interest in his protegés.
               
               "I'm afraid you'll learn low habits from such boys," said his father, quite astonished at the revelations he had heard.
               "Please tell me what you mean by low, father," said Nat. "Arthur says it's low to speak to anybody who is poor, and Burnie says it's dreadfully low to play with a boy who isn't dressed smart. Is that what you mean?"
               "No, indeed," said Mr. Powers, with an expression of disgust. "Money doesn't make people any better. My children must learn that I was poor once. That's not what I mean at all. It is low to lie and swear."
               "I never do that," said Nat, quickly. "I never should think of such a thing, after what Grandmother Powers said to me."
               "What did she say?" asked the father, wondering if she still retained her faculty for managing boys.
               "I can't remember all, but she said it was dreadfully wicked, and every time anybody swears it is written down so it can't ever be rubbed out. I told the boys at school about it, but some of them laughed and said that was only woman's talk, and they should swear just when they wanted to. Herbert Long stood by me, and he told them it was just what his father said, and he isn't a woman. He's a good man, I know, for he reads the Bible and prays when he sits down to the table, just as grandfather does."
               "Well," said his father, a little troubled by this last remark, which implied a censure of his own conduct, "you have not told me about these Irish boys."
               "Oh, they don't swear now," said Nat. "If they did, I shouldn't have anything to do with them. Herbert and I are going to try to put down swearing."
               A noble example! Nat was only eleven, and Herbert Long twelve years of age, yet, in a large school, where the majority were guilty of this wicked, vulgar habit, they were using their influence against it.
               
               "You are right, Nat," said his father, "and I am proud of you for having so much independence. Never utter an oath. As for lying, I believe that is not one of your faults."
               "No, sir," said the boy, "I hope not. Grandmother read the story in the Bible to me about the man and woman dropping down dead because they told a lie. I always think of that. She said you told her a lie once, father."
               "I did," was the reply, "but I never wished to do it again; I was effectually cured of using deception, and it was a good thing for me."
               Mr. Powers gave Nat some good advice, which such a boy as he would be likely to remember.
               There was much curiosity among the children to know the result of this interview. It had been so prolonged that Gustave was afraid Nat was being punished ished, which would have been a great grief, as this brother was one of his most patient friends, who never tired of devising ways for his amusement. He was much relieved when Nat came from the library with a happier-looking face than usual.
               "What did father say?" asked Gustave.
               "He said lots of things," said Nat, "but he didn't scold a word. I'm going to have some more money, so I sha'n't have to borrow any of you. Here are fifteen cents father gave me to pay you."
               Gustave was very anxious to know more about the business, but Nat didn't choose to tell him. When the family met again at the dinner-table, Mr. Powers took the opportunity to exonerate Nat from all blame in spending his money, while he commended him for the common sense he manifested in his intercourse with other children.
               "I would as soon have him play with a poor boy as a rich one, if he is only intelligent and well behaved."
               Arthur and Burnie looked at their mother, expecting she would make some reply to this; but she wisely kept silence, and her husband continued,—
               "The idea of children putting on airs because their fathers are rich is simply ridiculous, especially when those same fathers were once poor boys."
               Nat was delighted with this.
               "Were you a poor boy?" asked Gustave.
               "I suppose you would call it poor," said Mr. Powers, laughing. "I had plenty to eat, with clothes enough to keep me warm in winter, and cool in summer. But I went barefooted, had patched trousers, and wore an old straw hat, which sometimes had neither rim nor crown.
               "But you are rich now," said Burnie, anxious to cover this picture drawn with so skilful a hand. It seemed to the younger children very amusing, but to her exceedingly "low."
               "I have some money," was the reply, "and a large store. I am doing a profitable business now, but am as likely to be poor again as many another."
               Arthur said nothing. He was congratulating himself that his mother had never been poor.
               "You know nothing of the worth of money," said Mr. Powers to his wife, "because you have never known the want of it, but I have heard your father say, that when he was twenty-one years old, he had only ten dollars in the world."
               Oh, dear! What a blow this last piece of intelligence was to Arthur and Burnie nie! They had thought one side of the house was certainly free from the stain of poverty.
               "Then Grandfather Deans made his own money," said Nat.
               "Yes," was the reply,—"made it by hard work and close application to business, just as every man worthy of the name can do if he pleases."
               Mrs. Powers was glad when this subject was dropped. It was extremely distasteful to her, and Burnie's sensibilities were deeply wounded.
               Mr. Powers intended what he had said as a lesson to his family, but example is better than precept, and they were not likely to underrate the value of money, while they saw their father devoting his whole time and energy to acquiring it.
               One was really benefited. It had helped Nat wonderfully. His older brother and sister would not be likely to ridicule his low tastes. If they did, he had a sure weapon of defence in the patched trousers and bare feet of his father's boyhood.
               As our readers will have learned, by previous allusions, the parents of Mr. Powers were still living on the old homestead. But they occupied a new and spacious house, built by their sons, while the little brown cottage, with its low-ceiled rooms and moss-grown roof, furnished a home to the worthy man who "carried on the farm."
               The old people always thought the house, into which they moved when they were married, more pleasant than the new one, although this was handsomely furnished and provided with everything for their comfort. They missed the shade of the old trees, and the water from the old well, where hung "the iron-bound bucket."
               
               "I brought up all my children there," was the reason Mrs. Powers gave for liking the old house better.
               Well might she say she had "brought up her children," so constantly had she labored, and so earnestly had she prayed for them. To see them honest, upright, and honorable, repaid her for all sacrifices.
               "They are good boys to the old folks," said Mr. Powers, when speaking of his sons. Arthur was the only one who had not embraced the religion taught them in their childhood, and his apostasy was a great grief to his parents. But they held fast to the promise, strong in faith, and instant in prayer. When he married Burnie Deans, the old lady wondered at his choice, but gave her a true mother's welcome, while the young wife, loving and respecting her husband, manifested nothing of the repugnance she would, under other circumstances, have felt towards such plain, hard-working people as his parents.
               As years went by, and the children spent most of the summers on the old farm, Grandmother Powers ceased to think much of the mother, who only visited her for a few days at long intervals. Mr. Powers always went with the children, and left them with his mother and a middle-aged English woman, who lived with her, more as a companion than a servant.
               "Let them wait upon themselves," he said to his wife, who proposed sending a servant with them. "No matter if they do tear their clothes and scratch their hands. They'll get used to it, and it will do them good."
               So the children went to the "old home," to frolic away the long summer days, regardless of dirt or freckles, and returned to their mother in the autumn, in perfect health, and, it must be confessed, with sun-burned faces. I should make an exception of Gustave, who had been so delicate that his mother had taken him to the sea-side; but he was pleading hard to "go to Grandmother Powers' next summer." Maud was still a baby, and had yet to make her first appearance in the meadows where her brothers and sisters had made wreaths of the golden buttercups, and expended a great deal of breath in blowing away the downy seeds of the dandelion.
               This country experience was quite at variance with Grandmother Deans' ideas, who, whatever she might think of her son-in-law, and she was really proud of him, looked upon his mother as anything but a lady. It was true she had found but little time to cultivate the elegant graces of manner, while Mrs. Deans had devoted most of her life to nothing else, but she had a true, loving heart and now that she was relieved from the pressure of work and care, she looked upon life cheerfully. Conscious of her defects, she never felt at ease in her son's fine city house. She preferred to see him and the children in the country, where she knew what to do with herself. The large mirrors, in which she saw herself contrasted with others, troubled her, and she was always afraid that by an awkward movement she should dislodge some of the exquisite vases from the fanciful brackets that supported them. She did not see the use of having so many pictures and statues. They all seemed staring at her, and, as she expressed it, she felt as though she was "treading on egg-shells every minute of the time." Even the conservatory, which contained a rare and most beautiful collection of flowering plants, did not interest her half so much as her beds of sweet-marjoram and sage.
               If we were giving you an ideal character, we should not write this last, for we know how it will prejudice all lovers of flowers against this good woman. But we are telling you of a hard-working New England woman, who, from the time that she became a wife and mother until her sons were established in business, lived in a constant hurry, conscious, whatever she was doing, that there were, at least, two other things which ought to be done at the same time.
               People may talk of order, system, and smiles as much as they please; but if a woman is obliged to rise every morning with the sun, perhaps after spending part of the night in soothing a sick child, then do actual, hard work all day, and can still have many smiles to lavish upon the world in general, or the family in particular, she must be more than human.
               I have no doubt that Mrs. Powers had as much natural love for flowers as Mrs. Deans, but she had been obliged to consider only the useful in life, leaving the beautiful entirely out of the question. Taking all the circumstances into consideration, it was not strange that she should think sweet-marjoram and sage of more consequence than camellias and japonicas.
               "I'm glad you're not obliged to work as I did," she said to one of her daughters who was "home on a visit." "I never remember feeling rested after Benjamin was born till you were all settled."
               "How did you live?" asked the daughter, who remembered something of the weary days that had taxed her mother's strength.
               
               "You know the Bible says, 'As your day is so shall your strength be.' This, with many other promises from the same blessed book comforted me. If it hadn't been for the Bible and prayer, I should never have gone through with it. Your father, too, worked as hard as I did, but he was a man of prayer."
               Religion had occupied its proper place there, controlling the labors of every day, comforting in sorrow, and sustaining those who were weary and ready to faint. Yet Arthur Powers attributed the defects in that home and the homes that lay clustered around it to the influence of that religion which can make tolerable even the darkest lot in life. He had made the same mistake that many others are making. But, to his credit be it said, he honored his parents too much to give utterance to such thoughts in their presence. He supposed himself to be looking ing at the world from a higher point of view than they had attained, but he never reminded them of his fancied elevation. He had learned "The Catechism" at his mother's knee. He never told her that he considered it "rubbish," and made no objection to his children having it for a Sabbath lesson when they were with her. When the noon prayer-meeting, for business men, was established, he had looked upon it as something that would soon "die out, if left to itself." But it was not left to itself. The Great Master was present, and one after another was induced to go in to see the things whereof they had heard.
               Mr. Powers' clerks had all attended, as many going each day as could be spared from the store. When Mr. Dunbar had first spoken to him in regard to it, he told him to arrange it as he pleased. He would not go himself, but he had the good sense and honesty to acknowledge that his clerks would be no less faithful to his interests for being found in a prayer-meeting. To Mr. Dunbar's request that he would accompany him, he replied kindly and respectfully, without any of the comments with which he had favored Mr. Long. The ghost of Deacon Sims was not called up. He had no wish to weaken the influence of his confidential clerk, and, moreover, if Mr. Dunbar had conscientiously adopted his present views, he was the last one to wish to undermine them.
               So the prayer-meeting was popular among the clerks, although the merchant refused to countenance it by his presence. He could find no fault, for he had seen no evil resulting from it, and yet his prejudices grew, every day, stronger and more unyielding. He wondered at the infatuation which possessed so many intelligent telligent business men. Sometimes the words of Mr. Bond recurred to him, and he was not surprised to hear that he had yielded to the influence which pervaded these meetings.
               About two weeks after their conversation on this subject, Mr. Long called again upon Mr. Powers, and made nearly the same remark as at first,—"I have been sorry not to see you at our prayer-meeting yet."
               "You did not expect to see me; did you?" was the reply.
               "Perhaps I had no reason to expect it from anything you said, but I certainly hoped you would come."
               "There is no prospect of it, Mr. Long. I have not changed my mind at all, unless it is to feel more decided that I shall never go."
               "I am sorry to hear it," said his friend. "I see Mr. Dunbar is often present."
               
               "Yes, he is a member of Dr. Belmont's church, and I suppose feels it to be his duty to sustain everything of the kind.
               "You might think pleasure rather than duty called him there if you could once see him and listen to his cheerful, earnest words. Stern duty never inspired such prayers as he offers. I'm afraid you are allowing an old prejudice to influence you, and I have come in for the express purpose of talking over the matter in a friendly way. I don't wish to press the subject unduly, my friend, but," and here the voice of Mr. Long took a turn of impressive tenderness, "your name has long been on the list of those for whose con version I constantly pray, and I cannot but be deeply interested in you."
               Mr. Powers said nothing. He was greatly annoyed by this intelligence, and, if he had acted upon his first impulses, would have refused either to listen or reply.
               Mr. Long read something of this in his face. "You and I were brought up by religious parents," he said.
               "Yes," said the merchant, pleasantly, regaining his usual courtesy; "I heard a great many dull sermons and long prayers when I was a boy."
               "So many that you never wish to hear any more?" asked Mr. Long.
               "Not that exactly," was the reply. "But it has always seemed to me that if my father and mother had been a little more liberal in their ideas, and not said quite so much about solemn things, it would have been better and pleasanter for us all."
               "I know it is getting to be very fashionable to talk in that strain, Mr. Powers. But please stop and consider a moment. Do you really believe that you, with your liberal views, will bring up your children to be any better men and women than your brothers and sisters are, to say nothing of yourself, whom we all know to be upright in everything connected with this life?"
               "No, I don't suppose I shall," was the honest reply; "and I would give half my fortune to be sure they would turn out as well."
               "Then the presumption is that you had excellent training," said Mr. Long. "What is the objection?"
               "Everything was so stiff, formal, and serious. Why, my mother laughs more now in one day than she used to in a month."
               "She hasn't changed her religion; has she?"
               "No, indeed, she'll never do that."
               "Then, you see, it can't have been religion that prevented her laughing when you were a boy. I presume she was tired, just as all mothers are who have large families, and are determined to bring them up well in spite of small means."
               Mr. Powers would not yield his point. He was sure there was some unpleasant things about his childhood's home, resulting directly from the "narrow religious views" of his parents, and he proposed to prove it.
               "Whenever any one of us offended against father's strict sense of right, he was sure to remind us of the perverse nature which must be subdued, if we would ever taste the joys of heaven. The terrors of the law were kept constantly before our eyes, and I must confess to a feeling of relief in being no longer obliged to listen to such doctrine."
               "That may not have been the wisest method of teaching the great truth that underlies all revelation, but it is not for me to condemn those who have thought differently. I have no doubt your parents acted conscientiously."
               "I know they did, but I think they were greatly mistaken," said Mr. Powers.
               "In manner or matter?" asked Mr. Long.
               "In both," was the decided reply. "That old story about the temptation in Eden and the fall of our first parents—"Mr. Powers did not finish the sentence. He was about to utter a criticism upon this Bible record, but checked himself in time to avoid it.
               "It is an old story," said Mr. Long,—"old as the race of man. It is a sad story, too, and one I never read without offering the prayer, 'Lead us not into temptation.'"
               "But do you believe it?"
               "I believe just what the Bible says in regard to it, and question neither the wisdom nor justice of Him who rules the world in righteousness."
               This blind faith was wholly opposed to Mr. Powers' ideas of "the dignity of human nature," but he did not say what a less intelligent man might have said, that he could not be expected to believe what he did not comprehend. He preferred to waive the subject.
               "We don't think alike about this," he said, "and why should we talk about it?"
               Mr. Long was not surprised to hear this. He had expected something of the kind, but he had made this interview a subject of prayer, and would not lightly be turned from his purpose.
               "One of us must be right, and the other wrong, Mr. Powers. Now, I honestly believe that you are making a fatal mistake in your ideas of religion, and, believing this, I must still entreat that we reason together."
               
               The self-righteous merchant knew there was no cant about the friend who pleaded thus with him, and he could not but respect his sincerity, while he pitied his weakness.
               "You must let me come back to the prayer-meeting," said Mr. Long, with a smile.
               "I told you something of my experience in attending prayer-meetings," replied Mr. Powers, catching the genial manner of his companion.
               "I know you told me you went with your father when you were a boy, and there was a good deacon who made long prayers and tiresome exhortations."
               "Yes, indeed, there was,—old Deacon Sims! I never heard him without thinking that when I was a man, I would go where they talked of something else besides his three stereotyped subjects."
               "And does the ghost of Deacon Sims stand between you and our noon prayer-meetings?"
               Mr. Powers could not but acknowledge the flimsiness of his excuse. "I don't suppose this ought to influence me," he said, "but you know the impressions made upon us in childhood are very strong."
               "I know they are," replied Mr. Long "and it is much to be regretted that these impressions are not all for good. I have seen a great many men, who, I presume, were very much like your Deacon Sims. Realizing the awful danger that threatens every unforgiven soul, it is possible that he gave undue prominence to what you are pleased to call the terrors of the law. He knew that we must all die, he believed in a judgment in which the destinies of all are unalterably fixed, and in an eternity of joy or sorrow. Do you not believe this, my friend?"
               
               "I believe it in part," was the somewhat hesitating reply.
               "I believe it wholly," said Mr. Long, "quite as strongly as your father or Deacon Sims could have done; but the picture, so vividly drawn by the hand of inspiration, has another side, and it is well to look on both. Love is often a more powerful motive than fear."
               "I think it is," replied Mr. Powers. "But there was very little of it in the preaching I used to hear. Do you believe in the depravity that formed the burden of so many sermons?"
               This much-vexed question had come at last, and Mr. Long was forced to smile at the earnestness with which it was propounded. He entered into no labored discussion as to the origin of sin, which, whatever may be said or believed in regard to it, is entirely distinct, from the great fact of its present existence in the world. He talked neither of "total depravity" nor "partial depravity." His simple reply was, "I believe that we are all sinners. We all offend against the law of God, and are therefore guilty in his sight."
               "Is that all you believe about it?" asked Mr. Powers.
               "I think that is enough," was the reply. "It includes all under sin, and the soul that sinneth it shall die."
               "I admit we are none of us perfect," said his companion, "but that is a different thing from being wholly sinful."
               "Excuse me, Mr. Powers, but I have said nothing about being wholly sinful. If we are condemned to die, it does not matter whether it be for one transgression or many. If you or I are ever so happy as to reach heaven, it will not be because we have merited it by any acts of our own, but because Christ has died for us." Rising, as he said this, Mr. Long took his leave.
               How the heart of the proud man rebelled against this last humiliating doctrine! He paced the floor of his counting-room, while back again came the teachings of his childhood. Verily he had been fed with meat and not with milk. The thunders of Sinai sounded in his ears. Over against the burning mount he placed not Calvary, but the record of his own life, which appeared to him so fair. He had defrauded no man; he had exacted no more than his just dues, and he had intended to do to others as he would be done by. True, he had sometimes swerved a little from the Golden Rule, but he always had a good reason for so doing.
               We cannot tell whither his thoughts might have tended, had not the news of a heavy failure recalled him to business.
               "A genuine failure, I suppose?" he said to Mr. Dunbar.
               "A genuine failure for the father, but a swindle on the part of the son," was the reply.
               The firm was in debt to Mr. Powers to the amount of fifteen thousand dollars.
               "Shall we save anything?" he asked.
               "I am afraid not. William converted everything possible into money and bonds, and left in the last steamer. I have just seen Mr. John Tilton. This has made an old man of him."
               "And well it may," said Mr. Powers. "But he has always stood fair as a merchant, and we must not let him go down for want of help. I'll go over and see what can be done for him."
               This visit of sympathy was a painful one to both parties. Mr. John Tilton, the senior partner of the firm, had a keen sense of honor. He had always prided himself upon his good name. The dishonesty of his son had not only involved him in heavy pecuniary obligations, which he had no means of liquidating, but it had struck a death-blow to his fondest hopes. He had no heart to enter into the details of the disgraceful transaction, and shrunk from an examination of the true state of his affairs.
               "I can never hold up my head again," he said to Mr. Powers. "May God spare you such an affliction. There is no fear of your present head clerk, Dunbar. He is a Christian. If my boy had been like him, this would never have happened. Ah, Powers, those men who spend an hour in prayer every day are in the right of it."
               The visitor made no reply to this remark, but he offered his personal assistance and influence in any way they could be made available. "Don't lay it too much to heart," he said. "I am sure your creditors will be glad to make most liberal terms with you, and there will be time enough to retrieve your fortune before you are an old man."
               "But my son," groaned the wretched father.
               "He may repent and return," said Mr. Powers. "Hope for the best."
               "I see no best," was the despairing reply. "He can never wipe out the disgrace he has inflicted upon himself and his family."
               "Oh, yes, my friend. It is never too late to reform. Many of our young men live so fast they forget to count the cost. We will hope all things for him. Meanwhile, wouldn't it be best to find out how you stand with the world?"
               "That is the very thing I ought to do, at once, but I hardly know how to begin," said Mr. Tilton. "I have depended on William so long, that I am ignorant of the full extent of our business. Your visit has done me good, and I will try to-morrow to commence a thorough investigation of my affairs."
               Mr. Powers returned to his counting-room with his mind so preoccupied that he passed several intimate acquaintances on the street, without recognizing them. They fancied he was thinking of his loss, but they were mistaken.
               The image of William Tilton rose before him. He was a young man of uncommon abilities, which, added to his attractive person and engaging manners, had made him a favorite in both business and social circles.
               From him, his mind reverted to his own son, Arthur. What if he should dishonor his name, even as William Tilton had dishonored that of his father!
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE OLD HOME.
               
                  
                     
                        Waiting still, the promise pleading
                        With a firm, undying faith;
                        With the Father interceding,
                        Through the Son's atoning death.
                     
                  
               
               THERE was a grand rejoicing among the four younger children in Mrs. Powers' nursery. Arthur and Burnie had quite outgrown this domain, and they were not likely to go there to care for or entertain those who were proper inmates of the "juvenile prison."
               But it was no unusual thing for Nat, "dear Brother Nat," as Gustave and Mabel called him, to spend considerable time there. The nursery-maid, Dilla Smith, said he had "a real knack for taking care of the baby." And he had. Just the same knack he had for doing a hundred other things, which required only patience and kindness.
               That morning, Dilla had a severe headache, which nothing but rest would relieve, and in order to obtain this, some one else must stay with the children. Unfortunately, the servants were all busy, and Mrs. Powers was out. She caught sight of Nat, through the window, and beckoned him to her. No fear but he would obey the summons. In a moment he was at her side.
               "Can you stay with the children?" she asked. "My head aches, and I am sure if I could rest awhile it would be cured."
               "I can stay just as well as not. There is no school to-day, and I have no lessons. I have been to see my old man, and my whittling is all done up. So, you see, I've nothing else to do. We'll have fine times; wont we, Maud?" he said to the baby sister, who came toddling across the floor to reach his outstretched arms.
               Gustave's face brightened up wonderfully at the sight of Nat. He had been sent there by Burnie, because she didn't wish to be troubled with him, but he would consider it no punishment, if Nat would only stay with him. Dilla went to rest her aching head, and the favorite brother was installed master of the nursery. He made play-houses of every conceivable size and shape. He explained the pictures in the story-books, and made some pictures himself, which he, with all his ingenuity, was unable to explain satisfactorily to his auditors. He told stories, kept school, and repeated Mother Goose's Melodies.
               But the children tired of even this variety, and Nat was at his wits' end to-know what to do next. At length he thought of his experience at Grandmother er Powers'. He related the Bible stories she had told him, and if the lions that didn't hurt Daniel had an unusual amount of natural fierceness, Nat ought not to be blamed. When he had exhausted this fund of entertainment, he described the old orchard on the hillside, where, nestled among the long grass, grew the largest, sweetest strawberries. A little way from the house there was a brook, shaded by alders and white birches. In this brook Nat had wonderful success in fishing, and grandmother always cooked the fishes, if they were "ever so small." He went to the pasture, back of the orchard, every morning for water-cresses. Once, he and old Rover unearthed some "baby wood-chucks." He forgot his water-cresses that morning, so they had none for breakfast.
               The children listened to these descriptions with eager faces. There was no weariness except on the part of Nat. Whenever he stopped to take breath, his brother and sisters insisted that he must "tell more."
               "Why," he said at last, "we are all going there the very first day of June, and then you can see it all for yourselves."
               "Am I going too?" asked Maud, clapping her hands.
               "Yes," was the reply. "I heard father say that we are all going. He and mother are going to stay a week, and I am going to stay until Christmas."
               Then began a consultation as to what playthings should be taken, but Nat soon put a stop to that by telling them that playthings grew in the fields at Grandmother Powers'. This must needs be explained, and in the midst of the explanation Mrs. Powers came in.
               "Where is Dilla?" she asked.
               "She had a headache, and wanted I should stay here while she went away to rest," replied Nat.
               "And we've had such a nice time," said the children in chorus. "Brother Nat says we are all going to Grandmother Powers', and he is going to stay until Christmas."
               "Perhaps he'll not wish to stay," was the evasive reply. This country scheme was not to her taste. She wished to take Arthur, Burnie, and Gustave with her to the sea-side, but her husband insisted that they should go to his mother's. His older children rebelled secretly, and would have done so openly, had there been any possibility that they could change their father's decision.
               "It is the best place for them," he said, in reply to his wife's representation of their dislike to the plan. "I have seen some things in Arthur recently that have made me a little anxious about him, and I am afraid Burnie is disposed to overrate her own importance. It will do them both good to go to the farm, where they will be under a wholesome restraint."
               "No danger of Grandmother Powers flattering their pride," he said to himself. As for his father, he required the same obedience from his grandchildren that he had always received from his own children.
               "I don't know how it is," said Mr. Powers, after a pause, "but ever since that affair of William Tilton's, last winter, I've looked upon Arthur with a good deal of anxiety."
               "Why, husband, you don't think it possible that one of our children would do anything so disgraceful!" replied the mother of these children.
               "I hope it is not probable, but it is certainly possible. It would be no more strange for our children than for others. I always considered William Tilton a pattern young man. He had the advantage of high social position, and his father's name is above reproach. The whole trouble resulted from extravagant habits, with want of moral principle. There is an end to money, and every child ought to be made to understand it."
               Mrs. Powers heard all this in silence, wondering what made her husband talk so strangely. She was sure Arthur's sense of propriety and gentlemanly habits would never allow him to stoop to anything so low as dishonesty. As for right and wrong, conscience and moral principle, she had very confused ideas in regard to them.
               "And now, wife, that I think of it, you will please make no addition to Arthur's pocket-money. I allow quite enough, and much more than he ought to spend upon himself."
               The wife opened her eyes in astonishment. She had been accustomed to give money to her son whenever he asked for it, without taking the trouble to inquire how it was spent. Of what use was her money, if she could not dispose of it as she pleased? She asked this question not in word, but in thought.
               "I dislike to refuse him," she said at length.
               "You must refuse him," said her husband, decidedly. "Everything depends upon his training for the next two years."
               Mr. Powers should have thought of the training four years sooner.
               It was now three months since Arthur's disgraceful school affair. Winter had laid aside his icy sceptre and given place to smiling, green-robed spring. It wanted but a fortnight to the time when there was to be a general exodus of the family from their city home.
               "Too early altogether," said Grandmother Deans. "If Arthur and Burnie must go, I see no reason why they should spend four months in that lonely place."
               "I am very sorry," said her daughter, hopelessly; "but I cannot prevent it. Their father says they need the country air and the wholesome restraint. Those are just the words he used. As if our children hadn't been brought up to behave themselves properly!"
               "Properly" and "propriety" were words frequently used by Mrs. Powers.
               "I am not to give Arthur any more money."
               "Why not?" asked her mother.
               "Because my husband has forbidden it," was the reply, with a very decided emphasis upon the subject of the verb forbidden.
               "The prohibition does not extend to me, I suppose," said Grandmother Deans. "But perhaps his father is right, for Arthur does manage to spend a great deal of money, or it would be a great deal for some boys to spend. It isn't well for him to get extravagant habits. You remember young Tilton."
               Mrs. Powers thought she was in no danger of forgetting him.
               Time sped on. Two weeks passed quickly, and the children, with the exception of Arthur and Burnie, were in a state of noisy delight. Gustave treasured every word he could induce Nat to speak about the farm, and still called for more, until the good-natured brother had been constrained to refuse any further information.
               "I'm going to the pasture with old Rover to find some baby woodchucks, just as Nat did," he said to Mabel, in one of his confidential communications as to what he should do at Grandmother Powers'.
               "But you can't," she said. "It's ever so far, and besides, Nat says it's all over stumps and stones. You know your back aches so you can't climb over such things. But I'm going after cresses every morning. Father has bought me some great thick boots, so I sha'n't wet my feet."
               Gustave began to cry in anticipation of his disappointment, and then Mabel comforted him by guessing he would grow strong, so he could go, after all.
               Mr. Powers had been watching Arthur closely during the last few weeks, and while he saw nothing in his conduct that could be made the object of positive censure, there was an air of haughtiness and a manifestation of impatience under restraint that augured ill for the future. He remarked upon this one day in the presence of his wife and her mother.
               "The boy is high-spirited," said Mrs. Deans.
               "I wish he was," replied her son-in-law; "but I very much fear he is quite the reverse. One with a truly high spirit acknowledges the rights of others, and yields willingly to his superiors. Arrogance is bad enough in men and women, but in a boy it is insufferable. I am afraid we have all indulged him too much. Perhaps it was natural. But I hope we shall be wiser in future."
               "I have no fault to find with Arthur," said his mother. "He is a perfect gentleman, if he is my boy," she added, proudly. "Just look at him."
               He was on the opposite side of the street from the house, and, as his mother spoke, was about to meet Mr. Long. As he passed him, he raised his cap and made a most graceful bow.
               The ladies smiled complacently, but the act went for nothing with his father. He was looking a little further down the street, where was a ragged boy, with a basket of apples on his arm. The boy did not notice the approach of Arthur, who jostled rudely against him, upsetting his basket, from which the apples rolled into the gutter.
               "That wasn't much like a gentleman," said Mr. Powers, rising to leave the room; but, Nat coming in sight, he waited to see what he would do. The poor "apple-boy" was crying bitterly. Nat seemed to say something to him, and it must have been a pleasant word, for the boy wiped his eyes on the sleeve of his old jacket, and began to pick up his apples; in which work his new friend aided him. When the apples were all in the basket, Nat gave the boy some money and came home.
               "Now, which of these boys do you think is the gentleman?" asked their father.
               "Both," quickly replied Mrs. Deans. "Arthur didn't see the boy, I'm sure."
               "I'm quite sure he did," was the reply. "He is respectful when he thinks it worth his while, but overbearing to those whom he considers his inferiors. I must look to him."
               "I don't see any use in making so much fuss," said Mrs. Powers, after her husband had gone out. "It was only an apple-boy. I wish Nat was as particular about his associates as Arthur is. His father encourages him in his odd ways, and his name is enough to spoil any boy."
               "Don't find fault with him," said the grandmother, "for I do believe he is the kindest-hearted child I ever saw."
               At the dinner-table, Arthur was uncomfortably conscious of his father's scrutiny.
               "You didn't stop to help the boy pick up his apples," said Mr. Powers.
               The burning blush that overspread Arthur's face showed that he understood the allusion, and, also, that his rudeness was no accident.
               "You can't expect your brother to rectify all your mistakes in life, or make amends for all your unkind actions. Nat, how much money did you give that boy?"
               "Only ten cents, father. It was all I had."
               "Arthur, you will give Nat ten cents, and after dinner come to the library."
               Nothing more was said in regard to it before the family, but Arthur remembered bered to appear in the library. There his father spared neither reproof nor ridicule, and the boy was really humbled. Part of the good effect was neutralized by his mother, who took care to let him know that she thought quite "too much fuss had been made about an apple-boy."
               As for Nat, he never imagined he had done anything deserving of praise. It was not the first time his kindness had healed a wound inflicted by his haughty brother.
               The next morning, what a chattering and clattering there was among the small people! What a hurrying of large ones up-stairs and down-stairs, until it seemed as though the last thing never would be ready!
               Poor Dilla (she was going this time) never could have gotten through all that was expected of her, if Nat had not come to her assistance. As for Arthur and Burnie, they were the most helpless of all, indulging in muttered complaints, whenever out of their father's hearing.
               At length the last trunk was strapped, the last orders given, and the waiting coachman was allowed to drive on.
               Glimpses of tiny lakes nestling in the embrace of wooded hills, gleamings of rivulets finding their way through grassy meadows, and all sweet pictures of rural life beguiled the way, and just in time for supper, our party reached "grandmother's house."
               The two sisters of Mr. Powers were there with their families, and the meeting with them was more pleasant from having been unexpected.
               "A house full of children!" said Dilla to Mrs. Douglass, who was grandmother's most efficient help. "What will be done with them all?"
               "We can manage that well enough," was the reply. "All the boys are going to sleep in the old house, and I guess some of the girls will go there too."
               "Plenty of room, plenty of room," said Grandfather Powers, looking round upon his four children and fourteen grandchildren.
               "This does seem good," said Arthur Powers, Senior, after all had gathered round the table, and the aged father had invoked God's blessing upon those who were about to partake of the food provided. "This is supper,—not tea or dinner, but a genuine country supper."
               Let me tell you about this supper. There were large plates heaped with the lightest of cream biscuits. These were flanked by smaller plates, containing delicate slices of ham and tongue. The pats of golden butter bore the impress of the same stamp that had given the family "pineapples to eat" ever since the children could remember. Then there was honey, clear, limpid honey, hidden in its waxy cells, the first offering of the year from the new apiary; maple honey, too, scarcely less delicious in its sweetness, its flavor, redolent of spicy woods and suggestive of glowing camp-fires. I need not speak of the loaves of cake over the compounding and ornamenting of which Mrs. Douglass had spent so much time; for all people who have money can have nice cake on their tables. But the custards!
               "Nobody can make custards like you, mother," said her daughter Sarah. "I have tried in vain, until I am quite discouraged."
               "It's the cream, child. That's all there is wonderful about them."
               "Then the cream must be of a peculiar kind."
               "The custards are of a peculiar kind," said her brother Arthur, as he finished his third glass. "Another cup of tea, mother, just for the sake of the cream."
               Grandfather sat at the "children's end of the table," hardly finding time to eat or drink, so numerous were the calls from his hungry charge. Even Arthur and Burnie, with all their aristocratic notions and dainty appetites, relished the supper, and after it was eaten, enjoyed a swing under the old elm with as much zest as Nat himself. They were really glad to see their cousins, towards whom they manifested nothing of the superciliousness which sometimes made them so disagreeable. Arthur was on his best behavior, and this, as we have before seen, was gentlemanly.
               The evening was devoted to mutual inquiries and conversation, until the old clock in the hall sounded the alarm for eight. Then the whole family assembled in the parlor for evening worship.
               "Arthur, I wish you to read to-night. My eyes are beginning to fail me," said Mr. Powers to his son, who was seated at his right hand.
               Was this request a reminder of neglected duty on the part of this son? It may have been, but he did not hesitate. Taking the Bible, he read the chapter indicated.
               "Let us pray," said the old man reverently, when the reading ceased; and the reader was the first to bend the knee with his father. He never assumed this attitude of prayer except in the old home, and there his example was always followed by his wife and children. He would have exacted this tribute of respect, if it had not been yielded willingly, for Arthur was not one whit lacking in deference to his parents, although he had no sympathy with their religion.
               "Arthur, I hear that the merchants of your city have established a prayer-meeting," said Mr. Powers to his son, when they were left alone.
               "Yes, sir," was the reply.
               "I hope you attend it."
               "I have not been in yet."
               "Why not?" asked the old man, looking at his son earnestly, never feeling but he had a perfect right to ask the question, although the son addressed had reached the meridian of life, and was, in point of intelligence, greatly his superior.
               The merchant was embarrassed by the inquiry. He was too honest to give any but the true reason, and this he knew would grieve his father.
               "It can't be for want of time," said the old man, "for you could always find time to do what you cared to. It must be because you have no interest there."
               "I suppose that is the reason."
               "I am sorry, sorry, Arthur. Your mother and I have been praying for you a great many years, and we hoped this movement would reach you. But it seems we must wait. When did you go to a prayer-meeting last?"
               "I went with you," said the son.
               "I remember it. It was the Sabbath evening before you first went to the city The meeting was in the school-house, and Deacon Sims took the lead."
               "Yes, father, that was the time, and I really believe the good deacon prejudiced me against prayer-meetings."
               "Prejudiced you against prayer-meetings!" said Mr. Powers, in astonishment. "Why, the old man loved such meetings with his whole heart. He always said he never knew when to stop praying ing, there was so much we needed, and so many things to be thankful for."
               "That was the trouble, father. His prayers were always too long."
               "Perhaps they were too long, but is that any reason why you should never pray at all?"
               This was a view of the case which had never before been presented to him. His father waited for a reply, and feeling sure he would wait until he received one, he said, "No, father, I don't suppose it is."
               "You know it isn't," was the reply. "Perhaps you think your good works will save you; but let me tell you, my son, that you are mistaken. You are a sinner in the sight of God, destitute of holiness, and under condemnation."
               This speech reminded Arthur Powers of the days of his boyhood. It was this "sweeping denunciation, this universal condemnation," which had seemed to him so unreasonable.
               "I know you think this severe, Arthur but it is Bible doctrine," added his father. "I confess that it would be severe and terrible, had not Christ made an ample atonement for the sins of the world; and his salvation is freely offered to all who will accept it."
               "Father," said the merchant, deprecatingly, "I hope I have never been wanting in respect to you."
               No, Arthur. You have always been a good boy to me. I wish you had as much respect for your heavenly Father as you have always manifested for the earthly one."
               "I think I have," was the reply.
               "I know you don't take the name of God in vain. Your mother took care of that. You are not profane or dishonest, but you are not a Christian."
               "Not in the sense you use the word."
               "I know of but one sense. Christian to me, means a follower of Christ, and I have no reason to think you are one."
               "We must all judge for ourselves, father."
               "So we must, and we shall all be judged for ourselves."
               The son was unwilling to prolong the conversation, but the father had been looking forward to this visit as the time when he must make one more effort to "win Arthur back to the true faith." For this purpose he used strong assertions and direct questions.
               "Do you expect to go to heaven, my son?"
               "I hope to," was the reply.
               "I suppose everybody does, but hope and expectation are not the same thing. I'm afraid you give but little thought to the great subject. Because prayer-meetings ings were tiresome when you were a boy, you stay away from them now. I think the fault, then, must have been in you, and not in the meetings; for Christians enjoyed them. But I've no doubt if you were a true Christian, and had as much love for souls as Deacon Sims had, that you could interest young people more than he did. You have had greater advantages, and perhaps would present a different view of the subject, as our minister says. We old people worked hard, and sometimes fared hard; but we loved our children,—their souls, as well as their bodies; and if we made mistakes in bringing them up, it was the fault of our ignorance and not of our religion."
               Tears were streaming down the old man's cheeks as he said this, moving the heart of the son more than any words could have done.
               "You have been a good father," was the reply, "and have nothing with which to reproach yourself. I know you have worked hard, and it is my greatest pleasure to contribute to your comfort in your old age. If we cannot think alike upon religious subjects, I hope it will be no cause for estrangement between us. Good-night, father," he said, clasping the hard hand extended to meet his.
               The morning dawned bright, beautiful, glorious, a June sky, shadowed by no clouds; while the myriad dewdrops resting on leaf and twig sparkled in the sunlight like so many brilliant gems.
               Grandmother Powers was up with the sun. She and Mrs. Douglass, with breakfast to prepare for a family of twenty, must needs be early astir. Dilla, hearing the noise in the kitchen, came down to offer her services until Mabel and Maud should awake. It was a wonder to her how two pair of hands could provide food for so many.
               Nat had roused the boys in the old house, and they all came rushing into the kitchen with wet boots and loud greetings.
               "I never can have you all here," said Grandmother Powers. "You must go into the sitting-room."
               "But father is here," said Nat; "and you always let me stay when you are getting breakfast. You know, grandmother, I can cook the eggs."
               He had seen the great slices of ham, ready for "the spider," and guessed, rightly, that there would be eggs to garnish them.
               "You see it's a very different affair to have six boys round."
               "I should think it was," said Will Somers, Sarah Powers' oldest son, who looked as though he might be twin brother to Nat.
               At the first intimation that the kitchen could not accommodate so many boys, Arthur had found his way into the parlor, where he was half inclined to lie down and finish up his sleep. Nat and Will had kept up such a talking ever since there was a gleam of light in the east that, within sound of their voices, sleep was out of the question. They had talked of minks and muskrats, squirrels and hedgehogs, trout, dace, and catfish, each having some wonderful experience to relate in connection with these subjects.
               Gustave, who had a crib beside Nat's bed, was so well entertained that he never thought of being sleepy. But the other three boys, who occupied an adjoining room, were in a state of high indignation. By dint of considerable scolding ing, they succeeded in getting the voices down to a lower pitch, and were just settling themselves to a morning nap, when Nat called out that it was time to get up.
               "I know Grandmother Powers will have her breakfast ready," he said, "and she never waits for anybody."
               He helped Gustave to wash and dress, combed his hair nicely, and made himself presentable, before any one except Will was up. Again he called, and this time to some purpose, as we have seen. But he had made a mistake in his reckoning. He was an hour too early. He went out upon the piazza, where the boys followed him, and began that never-failing source of amusement to children, telling stories. Pretty soon Uncle Arthur was called from the kitchen to verify a story told by Gustave.
               "I don't believe I dreamed it," he said; but as Nat had never heard it before there was some doubt as to its being genuine.
               "Didn't you take a mink off from the top of a post, right in your hands?" asked Gustave, his sentence getting somewhat mixed in his eagerness to ask the question.
               "I certainly did," replied his father.
               "There, I told you I didn't dream it!" said the boy, triumphantly.
               "Where was it, father?" asked Nat.
               "Just the other side of the knoll. You can't see the exact place from here."
               "Please tell us all about it," said two or three voices.
               "I presume Gustave has told it right, but I can repeat it," said Mr. Powers. "It was nearly forty years ago. We had a dog, then, by the name of Prince! We heard him barking furiously one morning, but as we were all busy at work, we paid no attention to him. It was nothing un usual for him to tree a squirrel, and then bark away at him for half an hour or so. This time, I think he must have barked two hours, when father told me I might go and see what was the matter. I found that Prince had a mink instead of a squirrel. The little creature was on the top of a tall stake, trembling with fear, and not daring to come down. I took the poor thing and carried him into the house, and when we had all looked at him as long as we wished, I let him go. So there is a mink story for you."
               "I never think of entering the kitchen at home," said Mr. Powers, going back to his mother, "but when I am here, I have as great a liking for seeing you get breakfast as Nat has."
               "Well, Arthur," said his mother, "if you are going to stay here, you must make yourself useful. Just break those eggs into a saucer, and then pour them into the spider. One at a time, remember, and don't let the fat sputter over."
               The sisters, who were at work in the dining-room, caught a glimpse of what was going on, and there was soon quite a crowd of "outside spectators."
               "Well done, Arthur!" said Grandfather Powers, driving up to the kitchen-door. "I'm glad to see you earning your breakfast."
               "And I reckon you have earned yours too. I should think a man seventy-five years old had better wait until after breakfast, before driving about the country a great deal."
               "I've only been two miles; I had some business to attend to, and thought mother wouldn't be in a hurry about her breakfast this morning."
               By this time the girls were on the piazza, and Mrs. Arthur Powers had appeared with Baby Maud.
               
               "Really, mother, I didn't know my husband was so much of a cook," she said.
               "He can turn his hand to almost anything," was the reply. "He used to be a capital hand to twist yarn."
               "Yes, indeed. I could make the old wheel buzz merrily, I assure you," said Mr. Arthur Powers, who was now engaged in turning a spider full of eggs. "There, mother, wasn't that well done?" he asked, as the last one went over.
               "Yes, so well done that I will relieve you now."
               "This is living," he said, as he took Maud in his arms and seated himself in the cool, spacious hall. "I expect to take a new lease of life in the week I am here."
               "But mother will be quite worn out unless she has more help," said his wife. "It seems really wicked for her to work so."
               "I've been thinking of that," replied the son, "and after breakfast I'll inquire if there is any one about here who can be obtained to help her."
               We will not linger over the breakfast, although in so doing we should but follow the example of those whose story we are writing. After this came the morning worship, which was never omitted.
               "About ten o'clock, Arthur, I'd like to have you go over to the west pasture with me to see our young cattle," said Mr. Powers to his son.
               "I'll be ready," was the reply. "And now for some help."
               Mrs. Douglass thought Rizpah Hughes, or, as she was generally called, "Rispy Huse," might be obtained. "She's been at work at Squire Leland's, but her mother was sick and she had to go home. I think likely she'll come here, because she can go home nights."
               Mr. Powers started on his errand immediately, taking his way by the brook, for nearly half a mile, when he came out on an unfrequented road, where stood the cottage of Aunt Sally Hughes. Everybody called her "Aunt Sally," but no one knew that she had a relative in the world except Rizpah; certainly none in that vicinity. She had come there many years before, when Rizpah was a child, and bought the cottage, which was then nearly new. She paid for it, and went to work to support herself and her child. There was the usual amount of curiosity, and gossip was busy for a time, recounting her peculiarities. She evaded all impertinent questions, and while treating her neighbors with kindness and consideration, allowed no one to intrude upon the privacy she chose to maintain in regard to her previous history. Not even from the child, could the most inquisitive gain the slightest clew as to why or whence they came.
               "She must have been well trained," said one, "to keep so close a mouth. There can't be so much secrecy without some guilt."
               Guilt or not, no one knew, and in time ceased to wonder. The mother toiled on, year after year, until Rizpah was a grown woman. She gave her all the advantages for an education which the place afforded, which advantages were well improved, and among her associates no one was a better scholar than Rizpah Hughes. Amiable, attractive, and a favorite with all, she was Rizpah Hughes still. It was said that more than one would have bestowed upon her another name, but she clung to her mother, who would live and die in the little cottage.
               As years went by and her health failed, Aunt Sally became more and more dependent upon her daughter, who engaged in any labor by which she could provide the accustomed comforts in their humble home.
               Arthur Powers recalled all this, as he walked along, crushing the pearly dew-drops beneath his feet. There was a romance, perhaps a tragedy, connected with the inmates of the cottage.
               Aunt Sally saw him approaching, and bade him come in. He had been accustomed to go there sometimes when he was younger, but for the last few years he had been a stranger in the cottage.
               The announcement of his errand was most welcome to Rizpah. She would go, gladly. It was just what she would like. "You see, mother, there is always a way provided," she said, after their visitor had left.
               "I know there always has been, child," was the reply.
               "Trust for the future, mother," said Rizpah, as she left the cottage and walked over the same path lately trodden by the rich merchant, more thankful for the proffered labor than he for all his wealth.
               "I declare, if there aint Rispy Huse coming," said Mrs. Powers, looking from the kitchen-door.
               "Yes, mother," replied the son, "she is coming to help you for a while."
               "I shall be glad to have her. I find I can't do so much work as I used to, and she and her mother need all they can earn."
               Rizpah took her place quietly in the kitchen, ready to do anything that might be required of her.
               
               "She's never in anybody's way," said Grandmother Powers, and no one was ever in her way.
               Nat had some acquaintance with her, as he had with most of the people within two miles of the "old home," and he greeted her as an old friend.
               "Only a servant!" said Burnie. "I wonder Nat can be so low!"
               Her grandfather overheard the remark, and sternly asked, "Who made you to differ? I only hope you will grow up to be as good a woman as she is."
               At ten o'clock, father and son started for the west pasture, where they found the young cattle in excellent condition. The conversation of the previous evening was not forgotten, and the son had a nervous dread that it might be resumed. But his father made no allusion to the subject. "We must wait," he had said to his wife; "and I fear Arthur will wait until God comes out against him in judgment."
               On the Sabbath the whole family, except the children, with some one left in care of them, attended church, making quite an addition to the usual congregation. It was the same house where Grandfather Powers had worshipped ever since he was married, and where every member of his household had been required to appear with him.
               "The new minister," who had been settled a few months previous, was one who literally obeyed the command to "preach the gospel." His theme in the morning was Christ and Him sacrificed. His sermon, too pure in its style to offend the most fastidious taste, was simple, earnest, full of love and good-will to men.
               To the speaker, Christ was the Son of God, ever recognizing his own divinity, and never losing sight of the object of his earthly mission. His miracles were veritable facts, not legends, born of a superstitious age, and the record of his life was the sweetest story ever registered, even by an inspired pen. "His death atoned for the sins of the world, and 'henceforth there is no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus.'"
               Arthur Powers listened to every word of that sermon. Calvary, not Sinai, was presented to his view; the infinite sacrifice made for a violated law, and not the law itself.
               "There is none other name under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be saved." Slowly, solemnly, with a voice full of tender pathos, was this said, moving the sensibilities of those whose hearts refused to accept this conclusion of the whole matter. To the aged Christians, who had borne the burden and heat of the day, and who were now looking forward to the rest that remaineth, this was good news of great joy, told often before, but seeming to gain an added charm with each repetition. The young, just started in the upward way, were moved to a deeper love and a more entire consecration to the service of Him who, "being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God."
               Accepted by some, rejected by others, this message was "a savor of life unto life, or of death unto death."
               Conflicting emotions filled the breast of the listener, who thought he had long ago "cut loose from all such superstition," but pride, habit, and false reasoning gained the mastery. His wife heard only the speaker, while He of whom he spake was as "a root out of dry ground."
               That Sabbath evening, the family separated into groups, the older members indulging themselves in reminiscences of the past, while the younger ones talked in subdued tones, or read the children's papers, of which grandmother always had a supply.
               When the bell rang for the prayer-meeting, Nat started up. "I always go," he said to Gustave, who was unwilling to lose his company. "I like to go."
               "It must be dreadful dull," said Burnie.
               "Stupid enough," said Arthur. "I cannot think what possesses you to go."
               "You think so, because you don't know," replied Nat. "It isn't dull a bit. I shall go to every prayer-meeting that grandfather does, all the time I am here. I went with Herbert Long two or three times when I was at home. His father goes, and almost all the smart men. I should think our father would go too."
               "There goes Nat," said his mother. "Where can he be going?"
               "Going to the prayer-meeting with father, I presume," replied her husband.
               "What a queer boy he is!" she said. "I never know what to make of him."
               "He is a good boy," said his father. "I have no fears for him."
               Grandfather was thinking nearly the same thing of "his boy" as they walked along together. They did not talk much. The old man was "meditating," and Nat was sufficiently entertained by the variety Nature offered him. The meeting was neither dull nor stupid; he enjoyed it, in his way, as much as his grandfather. He liked the singing, in which he joined. He had practised the tunes with Mrs. Douglass, and the hymns were some he had learned to repeat to his grandmother.
               Monday, as Mr. Powers was riding through the village with his son, the latter remarked upon the old church. "It really needs repairing, father. Some paint would improve it wonderfully, and I noticed that the carpet is badly worn. Now that you have a new minister, you ought to make the house a little more attractive."
               "I know it," was the reply, "and we are going to try and improve things a little; but we are none of us rich, and it is about as much as we can do to pay our minister. We give Mr. Howard more than we have ever given any one else."
               "And he is worthy of it. He is a fine speaker."
               "And an earnest Christian," added the father.
               "How do you propose to raise the money for repairing the church?" asked the son.
               "By subscription. But I don't expect we shall get much."
               Here the subject was dropped; but in the course of the day, Mr. Arthur Powers ers was shown the subscription-paper, and asked if he was willing to "give something." He looked down the list of names, and found his father had pledged himself to fifteen dollars. Making this one hundred and fifty, he returned the paper, and counted out the money.
               "But you have not given me your name," said the holder of the paper after he had expressed his surprise and gratitude.
               "I gave it for my father," was the reply.
               The week allotted by the merchant to recreation had passed, and the next day he must be in the city. Mr. Howard had consented to hear Arthur's recitations, and he was to keep on with his studies through the summer. This was good news to the boy, who was really a fine scholar, and ambitious to enter college as soon as possible.
               
               "As to Nat, he can do as he pleases," said his father. "If he wishes to study, he will probably need a little help. Gustave must learn something, and Nat can find part of his employment in teaching him. Dilla can attend to Mabel, and Burnie may get assistance from Arthur. And remember," he said, when all his children were together, "you are in everything to obey your grandparents. Everybody on the place is to be treated with respect, and if you wish for any service, ask for it politely."
               The discontent of Arthur and Burnie was fading away, and they were becoming reconciled to the prospect of a four-months stay in the country.
               Mrs. Powers had enjoyed this visit better than any previous one here, and would gladly have prolonged it, had not an engagement with her mother prevented.
               Mr. Powers talked with his mother in regard to Rizpah. "I think we can get along after this week," she said; "Sarah and Helen will go with their families, and with only the children, we can manage very well."
               "But, mother, you have worked hard long enough. There is no need of it now, and I propose to hire Rizpah for the summer, if she is willing to stay."
               "She'll be glad enough to stay," was the reply. "They have a hard time to get along, and now her mother is so feeble she can't leave her nights."
               "Don't you ever send her anything?" he asked.
               "That would hardly do. There isn't a prouder woman in town than Aunt Sally Hughes, if she is a Christian. Last winter they were almost out of wood, and Mr. Colby carried them some in the night, hoping they wouldn't find out where it came from. But the next day Rispy came up and paid for it, in spite of all he and father could say against it."
               Notwithstanding this, Arthur Powers walked over to Aunt Sally's cottage that afternoon, for the express purpose of giving her some substantial assistance. He did not know exactly how he should do this, and during his walk various plans suggested themselves.
               This time, Aunt Sally did not see him coming, but she answered his knock directly. "I am glad to see you," she said. "I've been alone all day; sometimes a neighbor comes in, but I haven't seen anybody to-day since Rizpah,"—she always pronounced her daughter's name correctly,—"went away this morning."
               Mr. Powers told her he wished to hire Rizpah for the summer.
               "To go to the city?" asked Aunt Sally. "I couldn't get along without her."
               "Oh, no," was the reply, "I only want her to help mother. I am going to leave all my children, and they will make a great deal of work."
               "Rizpah will be glad to stay. She was saying last night she didn't suppose you'd want her after this week, and—"
               The sentence was unfinished, but the visitor could guess what it would have been. "There has been no agreement in regard to wages, and as she will do me a favor by staying, I will pay her in advance, and leave the money with you." He took a roll of bills from his pocket-book, which he gave to Aunt Sally, saying, "Here is just enough to pay her."
               "How much is there?" she asked.
               "I don't know exactly," was the reply.
               "But I am sure there must be too much. We are not beggars," she said, as a flush of pride mantled her furrowed brow.
               
               "No one ever thought that," said Mr. Powers, uncertain what reply he ought to make.
               By this time Aunt Sally had counted the money. "Here are fifty-two dollars, Arthur Powers. How long will your mother want Rizpah?"
               "I don't know, but I wish you to keep every dollar of that money."
               "I told you that we are not beggars. The Lord has always provided for us."
               "Then don't refuse his bounty now, because he sends it by an unworthy messenger."
               "I'm not sure he sent it," she said
               "One thing is sure,—I have brought it, and I hope you'll not oblige me to carry it back again."
               She had laid the money on the table. "It is twenty-nine years since I came here," she said, "and in all that time, I have never intended to take one cent for which I did not render a full equivalent. You would make me a beggar."
               "Not so, Aunt Sally. I have been prospered in business, and have more than enough to supply all the wants of myself and family. Most, if not all, will be due to Rizpah, if she stays while my children remain. Will you not accept it?"
               "It will be large wages," she said, "and I can do nothing for you in return."
               "I wish for nothing," was the reply, "and only hope you may be comfortable and happy."
               "You have given me enough to make me comfortable for a long time, and no one can be unhappy who has the Saviour for a friend. I thank you for the money," she said, but the words died away in her throat, showing how much it cost her to accept the kindness. "I can pray for you, Arthur Powers, and the prayers of a poor old woman may do some good."
               "Good-by," he said. "No one need ever know of this, except Rizpah."
               This was the last business he had on his hands, and he congratulated himself on having accomplished it so successfully. He had done a good deed, and added another to the number of those who were praying for him.
               How much there was to be said to parents and sisters that evening! and in the morning how many last words to the children!
               "We shall miss the children sadly," said Mr. Powers to his wife, after they were seated in the cars. "But they will have a famous time. I almost envy them."
               "I believe, husband," replied Mrs. Powers, "that you enjoy the country better than either of the boys. I wonder you left it."
               "I had ambitious dreams when I was young," he said, "and thought to be a rich merchant was the very height of human happiness."
               "Then you must be satisfied."
               "Not entirely," was the reply. "Perhaps it is not in human nature to be wholly satisfied. We are always looking for something above and beyond us."
               Mrs. Powers, whose ambition was confined to being mistress of the finest house, giving the most brilliant parties, and having the best-dressed children of any one in her set, could hardly comprehend this last remark. Ordinarily, her husband would not have made it in her presence, and now it had been uttered involuntarily, without any thought of her to whom it was addressed.
               He had not left behind all the influences ences of the past week. Something in the earnest piety of his father, and his prayerful interest in himself, had appealed to him with a new power. The feeling that he might, after all, be mistaken in his estimate of this religion forced itself upon him. Yet how often he had said that all this anxiety in regard to a future state was without cause, and that, for his part, he had none of it! With an effort, he roused himself, and turning to a friend, was soon "deep in stocks, bonds, and securities."
               He reached home in season for an early dinner, and then went down to the store. Nothing had been neglected in his absence. His were not eye-servants, and for each and every one he had a pleasant greeting. He never forgot the time when he was a clerk himself, and when a word from his employer lightened all the labors of the day.
               "They are just as worthy of respect as I," he would say, "and if we all live twenty years, may be far in advance of me."
               Mr. Dunbar made a satisfactory report of the business for the week. "Mr. Tilton was in yesterday," he said. "He is beginning to look quite like himself. He had just received a letter from William."
               "Where is he?" asked Mr. Powers.
               "He didn't tell me," was the reply.
               "Of course not," said the merchant. "And I should not have asked such a question, if I had thought for a moment."
               "Mr. Tilton wishes to see you," continued Mr. Dunbar. "William has remitted several thousand dollars,—some that he carried away. He expressed great regret for his conduct, and pledged himself to meet every demand against the firm, if by any honest efforts he can obtain the means."
               "I am very glad to hear it," said Mr. Powers. "He always seemed to me like a noble young man, and I've no doubt he'll come out all right. It must have been cheering news for his father."
               "It was, indeed. He says he can work now, with good heart."
               "And he will succeed," replied the merchant. "He has been doing very well for the last two months. Everybody respects him for the noble manner in which he placed his whole property at the disposal of his creditors. Such a man will never lack friends."
               "He thinks his creditors were noble. He says he should have given up completely, if it hadn't been for you and Mr. Long," said Mr. Dunbar.
               "We only did as we would be done by," was the reply.
               The next noon meeting there was a written request that prayer be offered for an absent son. Mr. Dunbar knew that son was William Tilton. Everybody was rejoiced to hear good news from him. It was so much to be assured that he had not utterly fallen.
               When Mr. Powers saw Mr. Tilton, he found that he had regained something of his former cheerful look. "I can work, now," he said. "There is nothing like sorrow and disgrace for taking the heart out of a man. I don't care so much for the money. I could make that up in time; but that my William, of whom I was so proud, should prove to be dishonest, seemed more than I could bear. I never expect to see him again, but I shall be satisfied to know he has repented. Oh, Mr. Powers, keep a close watch over your boys. They may fall when you least expect it. I never had any fears, but experience has been a stern teacher. You know about Edmund Long, I suppose," he added.
               "I know he is a fine young man, and nearly through with his college course," was the reply.
               "He is more than that. He is a Christian, and united with the church during his last vacation."
               Mr. Powers had not heard of that. Such news would not be so likely to reach him as some others. He looked upon Edmund Long as a "very promising young man," "a chip of the old block," as many often said.
               "His father told me a few days ago that he had decided to study for the ministry," said Mr. Tilton.
               "I thought he was going into business with his father," replied Mr. Powers.
               "That has always been the understanding. But it seems that a change in his feelings has made a change in his plans, and Mr. Long approves the decision.
               "Mr. Long is a good man," said Mr. Powers.
               None knew that better than Mr. Tilton, for whom he had labored in season and out of season. By means of his foreign correspondence, he had discovered the retreat of William, and had written to him in the kindest possible manner. In reply, he had received a letter, containing a full confession of his career of extravagance. Most of the money taken with him remained untouched. Reflection, for which he had ample time while crossing the Atlantic, had placed his conduct before him in its true light.
               "I have nothing to hope for in this world or the next," he wrote. "I thought I was strong, but my strength proved weakness. If, by a lifetime of suffering, I could atone for my guilt, I would welcome every pang. But the misery which is sure to be mine can never blot out one wrong deed.
               "Thank you a thousand times for your assurance of sympathy. How little I deserve it from you whom I have so deeply wronged!
               "And my father! But I cannot speak of him. I will remit to him what money I have in my possession.
               "I shall leave here immediately, and bury myself somewhere,—where I cannot tell, and indeed, little care, for all places are alike to one who has no claim upon the world."
               Mr. Powers returned from his call upon Mr. Tilton somewhat troubled. The intelligence he had heard in regard to Edmund Long reminded him of a remark made by the young man's father several months previous. "If I didn't expect Edmund to go into business with me, I should wish to secure Mr. Dunbar as partner," he had said. He couldn't afford to lose him, yet it had always been a favorite idea of his to be "sole owner" of his business.
               About a week after this, he received a call from Mr. Long, and was not surprised to be told that this call was made on Mr. Dunbar's account. "I have heard you say that you never proposed to have a partner outside your own family, and as Edmund has decided to continue his studies, I am looking out for some one to take his place with me."
               "I have said that I intend to be sole owner until my boys are old enough to be associated with me," was the reply.
               "Then you are not calculating upon Mr. Dunbar?"
               "I had not thought of him as a partner ner," said Mr. Powers. "But he is invaluable to me in his present position."
               "You consider him competent to manage your business?" said Mr. Long.
               "Perfectly," was the reply.
               "Then he might be doing better than acting as clerk. You can hardly expect to retain his services much longer in that capacity."
               "I have not thought of his leaving me. Have you spoken to him about it?"
               "No," said Mr. Long, "I came to you first, not wishing to interfere with any engagements you may have made with him. I know that he has an invalid father and some younger brothers and sisters partially dependent upon him and therefore his income must be a matter of some consequence."
               "Are you willing to tell me upon what terms you would receive him?" asked Mr. Powers.
               Mr. Long stated them. They were very liberal, much more so than many merchants would have offered.
               Mr. Powers considered. He was too honorable and too sincere a friend of Mr. Dunbar to stand in the way of his advancement, yet he did wish that Mr. Long had gone elsewhere for an associate in business.
               "I have no one in my employ who can fill his place," he said.
               "And I know of no one whom I would so gladly take as partner," was the reply. "Yet I must yield to your claim."
               "I am not certain that I have any special claim upon him after this month," said Mr. Powers. "This closes up another year."
               "There are plenty of young men, with large capitals, who would come into the store with me, but good business habits and well-tried principles are of more value than money," said Mr. Long, after a pause.
               "But there are some with both of these qualifications," was the reply, and Mr. Powers mentioned the names of three who had fair reputations.
               "I have thought of them," said Mr. Long, "and I have never heard a doubt of their uprightness. But they are not like Mr. Dunbar."
               "Of course not. We never expect to find two persons alike."
               "Certainly not; but, if I must speak more plainly, their conduct is governed by mere worldly policy. They have no respect for the life which is to come."
               The face of Mr. Powers was slightly flushed at this remark, and he was on the point of making a severe reply; but he knew that the same reason would have weighed with him, even while claiming for himself, without religion, all the integrity and scrupulous honesty of the most exemplary Christian. "One can do right without so much pretension," was one of his sayings. Nevertheless, he had more confidence in the man who acknowledged his dependence on an almighty arm than in one who trusted to his own strength.
               "I should like to think of this a few days," he said, "and if I do not decide to offer Mr. Dunbar a share in my business on as good terms as you propose, I will give up all claims upon him, and congratulate you upon securing so desirable a partner."
               The conversation then drifted to other subjects. Some kind things were said of Mr. Tilton and his son, both expressing the hope and expectation that William liam would return and redeem himself in the eyes of the community.
               "Our young men live too fast," said Mr. Long. "Boys are not under sufficient restraint, and many parents find, when too late, that they have failed in the most important duties of their lives. If, as some say, the fathers of the last generation were too strict, those of the present err in the other direction, and the last error is worse than the first. I almost shudder, in view of the great want of home-training."
               "That is the trouble," replied Mr. Powers; "and I have almost wished, within the last few weeks, that I could turn my children back upon their grandparents, to be brought up. I don't wonder you smile, after what I have said before. But recent developments in regard to the sons of some of our most substantial men have made me think seriously upon this subject."
               "It is time that all parents should not only think, but act," said Mr. Long. "I know you think differently, but I can see no safeguard except religion."
               Mr. Powers, not anxious to dispute this, as he certainly was not willing to acknowledge it, made no direct reply. At home that evening, his mind was occupied with business, and as he was a man who thought rapidly and decided quickly, the evening had not passed before the matter in regard to Mr. Dunbar was settled, so far as he was concerned.
               The next morning this decision was stated to Mr. Dunbar, and with it, the proposal made by Mr. Long. "You can see him and talk with him before giving your answer," said Mr. Powers.
               "It will not be necessary, if you wish me to remain here," was the reply, "although under other circumstances I should most gladly accept Mr. Long's offer. I had never expected this from you, as I know your prejudices against 'a company business.'"
               "They have been very strong," said Mr. Powers, "but I now lay them all aside. I have been more than satisfied with you as clerk, and have no doubt I shall be as partner."
               Mr. Long was not surprised to hear this result, and rejoiced in the good fortune of his young friend.
               "It must have been a great disappointment to have your son Edmund make the decision he has," said one who looked upon the accumulation of dollars and cents as the most important business of life.
               "It was a most delightful disappointment," replied the father.
               "And you would rather have him a poor minister than a rich merchant!" said the other, in astonishment.
               "I hope he will be a good minister, not a poor one; and I trust he will have the durable riches of righteousness."
               "Strange so smart a man as Long should have such old-fashioned notions!" said the gentleman to a friend, to whom he had related the above conversation.
               Was it strange? Is it strange that those capable of calculating worldly gain and estimating the value of worldly possessions should deem the soul of more importance than the body? Is it strange that those who are diligent in business should serve the Lord? Rather, is it not strange that so many, wise in things pertaining to time, should neglect all preparation for eternity?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               SUMMER IN THE COUNTRY.
               
                  
                     
                        Human pride! How little worth,
                        When the heart in sorrow,
                        Turning from the darkened earth,
                        Seeks a brighter morrow!
                     
                     
                        Human wisdom! oh, how weak,
                        When the soul in terror,
                        With a fear no tongue may speak,
                        Sees its fatal error!
                     
                  
               
               NAT had been to the post-office, and returned with the usual weekly letter from his father. This time it was directed to him, which gave him the privilege of the first reading.
               "Mother is gone away," said Nat, after the letter was read, "and father is all alone there with the servants. He says he is coming up here to stay two or three days. He wants to come in the best of haying, and I am to ask grandfather when that will be, and write to him."
               Burnie, who was in no very amiable frame of mind that evening, was reading a letter from her mother, received by the same mail; but, as Mrs. Powers was only an indifferent letter-writer, the reading occupied but a short time. "Miss Burnie" had been disrespectful to Mrs. Douglass, and her grandmother had insisted upon her making an apology. Unwilling to do this, she had attempted to justify herself, but the old lady would not listen to a word. She could go to her room and stay there until she was ready to acknowledge her fault. A confinement of two hours satisfied her that it would be wise to make a virtue of necessity, so with the best grace she could summon, she asked Mrs. Douglass' pardon, and was restored to favor. She had not recovered covered from the ill-humor consequent upon her humiliation, when her mother's letter arrived. Contrasting her present situation with what it might have been, had she been allowed to accompany her mother, only increased her ill-humor, and nothing but the dread of further punishment, and the fear that her conduct would be reported to her father, prevented a decided manifestation of her feelings.
               The idea of Burnie's being punished or obliged to do anything that was not perfectly agreeable to her was something unusual; but Grandmother Powers was not afraid to do unusual things.
               Arthur had settled down for the summer, with every prospect that he would both enjoy and improve it. He applied himself closely to study, and was making great efforts to outstrip his classmates at home. Mr. Howard encouraged him, and rendered him all needed assistance.
               "I never learned so fast in my life," he said to Burnie. "I wish you could recite with me."
               But she did not care much for study, and was quite sure she "should not like to recite to the minister."
               Arthur liked Mr. Howard, but Nat had an enthusiastic love for him, and availed himself of every opportunity to see him. Grandmother, afraid that he might be troublesome, made some apologies, but she was assured that he was always welcome.
               The children were all in perfect health except Gustave, and he was improving. Aunt Sally had prescribed for him, and Rizpah administered the necessary treatment. He had been to the pasture once, and although quite tired with the effort, he was "glad he went." He found a "woodchuck's hole," which he proposed to explore as soon as he should become a little stronger. Meanwhile, Nat was a good teacher, and he repeated his lessons with all the gravity he would have used in reciting to Mr. Howard himself.
               "Everything is going on just right," said Grandmother Powers, when the children had been with her three weeks. They were all up every morning in season for breakfast, and, as Arthur said, breakfast was "always worth getting up for."
               The days commenced pleasantly and ended in the same manner. Mabel and Maud, Dilla's special charge, were the pets of every one on the place. They spent much of the time in the open air, and were as happy as the birds to whose songs they listened, and whose bright plumage was the object of their constant admiration.
               Rizpah got on famously with the children dren, and they had already made several calls upon her mother. It was a pleasant walk to the cottage, and Aunt Sally gave them a cordial welcome.
               Nat had a great respect for Rizpah, after he found she could do his "hard examples." He never would have thought of asking her about them, but one day, when Arthur was too busy to assist him, and he had racked his own brains till he "didn't know anything," Rizpah, noticing his troubled look, asked him what was the matter. Upon being told, she showed him the way out of his difficulties, and offered to help him at any time. Burnie, who was greatly attracted by something in her face or manners, said she would be glad to study, if Rizpah would hear her lessons, and when Mr. Powers came up, he found that he had hired a teacher for his children, when he thought he was only hiring some one to wash dishes, sweep, and dust. He was delighted with the arrangement, and made a visit to Aunt Sally for the express purpose of telling her that Rizpah was likely to earn more than he had given her for the summer's work. He was gratified with Arthur's progress in his studies, and the improvement in his appearance. Grandfather Powers' was the very last place where the putting on of airs would be tolerated, and the boy had sense enough to know it. Mr. Howard was having a good influence over him, and with no one to flatter him or minister to his pride, his best qualities were brought out.
               Gustave entertained his father with a long recital of what he had done and what he proposed to do, when he got quite well.
               "And who takes all this care of you?"
               "Rizpah," was the reply, "and Aunt Sally tells her how."
               "I am getting greatly indebted to you," said Mr. Powers to Rizpah. "I didn't know what a treasure I was bringing into the house when I hired you to help mother. It seems that you act in the capacity of nurse, teacher, and kitchen-girl. That is more than could reasonably be expected of any one."
               "But not more than I am glad to do in return for your kindness. I can never repay you for that. It came when it was most needed."
               Mr. Powers attended church another Sabbath with his father, and listened to Mr. Howard, who still pleaded that man should be reconciled with God.
               At noon the children entered the Sabbath-school. Arthur and Burnie had made some objection to this, but grandfather brought forward the "Question-Books Books" and showed them the lessons they were expected to learn. They saw that opposition would be useless, and Arthur had no disposition to make any, when he found that he was to have the same teacher on the Sabbath as during the week.
               Nat and Gustave were members of Rizpah Hughes' class, where they were taught the most important Bible truths. Burnie seemed most difficult to please, and fancied it quite beneath her to occupy a seat with "such meanly-dressed girls." Grandmother Powers, to whom she made her complaint, had no sympathy with any such feeling, and a false sentiment, indulged only in secret, with nothing to minister to its continuance, will soon die out of itself.
               Mr. Powers saw his children take their places in the Sabbath-school that day with real pleasure. Before that, he had thought it of no consequence, and was sometimes half inclined to ask his parents to excuse them from this and like requirements. Some influence had changed his feelings, but he had not the slightest idea of giving up his liberal views. He still kept aloof from the prayer-meeting, which was not difficult, now that he was never invited to attend. Yet hardly a day passed when he did not think of it, and he never met Mr. Long, or even heard his name mentioned, without remembering that this friend was praying for him. This consciousness that his name was daily presented at the throne of grace could not but have an influence over him, and as he would not yield his prejudices, he set to work to establish them more firmly. He appeared constantly in church, where he listened to eloquent dissertations and brilliant essays, instead of the teachings of the lowly Nazarene. He read those authors who pour contempt upon evangelical religion, and who, both in story and verse, attribute to its influence all that is unlovely in the character of those professing its doctrines.
               Mr. Powers had no wish to doubt this, yet he could not but wonder why so many of his liberal friends should have something of the same disagreeable characteristics. They certainly were not all distinguished for courtesy, and some of them were most forbidding in their manners. True, they never "talked dolefully of sin and the judgment," but they condemned those who differed from them in opinion with as much severity as they claimed for the sternest "Puritan divine." They never used cant, but some of them made use of language that savored strongly of profanity, and of the two, Mr. Powers thought the former was to be preferred. He read of all kinds of deacons, some most improbable ones, until he concluded that the business of making these church officers was entirely overdone, and he shut his lips tightly whenever the tall, gaunt figure of Deacon Sims appeared before him. Fresh from these readings, he went to visit his children, where he had an opportunity to contrast the actual with the ideal. All who had care of them were of the strictest sort of evangelical Christians, yet the old home was as bright as sunshine, flowers, and these happy children could make it.
               "You remember Mr. Bartlett, Arthur," said his mother, soon after his arrival.
               "Perfectly," was the reply. "He has been west for the last ten years, I believe."
               "Yes, but he came back a fortnight ago, and has settled down in the old house. His wife has been dead about a year, and he is alone in the world."
               "That is hard for a man at his time of life," said Mr. Powers; "he must be nearly sixty years old."
               "Sixty-two," was the reply; "but he looks older. He has seen a great deal of trouble. His children are all dead, and it is well they are, for they were no comfort to him or any one else."
               "He has always been an upright man himself," said the son.
               "Yes, a very good sort of man, but he prided himself too much on his knowledge. He thought he knew a great deal more than Parson White. He used to go to hear him preach, but he always said he didn't believe what he heard. Your father met him yesterday, and he says he is completely broken down. He has been worth a large property, but there isn't much left now, except the old place."
               "How did he lose it?"
               "His children spent it, or rather he spent it for them. They all seemed to go wrong. I've no doubt he meant to bring them up right, but the best make mistakes."
               Passing by the "Bartlett house," on Monday, Mr. Powers saw an aged-looking man walking in the garden, who came to the gate and addressed him by name.
               "I see you don't recognize me," he said, "and it's not strange. I knew you when you were a boy and a young man, but it must be twenty years since I saw you. You remember Nathan Bartlett? I see you do, but he was a different looking man from what I am now."
               Mr. Powers, recovering from his first surprise, assured him that he was remembered, and added, "We have both changed since we met. I am getting to be an old man myself."
               
               "You don't look old," was the reply. "I hear you have been greatly prospered, and have an unbroken family around you."
               "I have nothing of which to complain. I have met with as much success as I had a right to expect, and my children have all been spared to me. They are here, now, at the old home. I always feel perfectly safe when father and mother have the care of them. I know they will be looked after closely."
               "No doubt of that, and all children need it. I used to think my father was too strict, but I have learned better. Will you come in and talk with an old man a while?" he asked, opening the gate, and leading the way to his library, one of the front rooms of the house. It was a pleasant room, two windows of which opened into the garden, where some flowering shrubs, planted by the owner years before, filled the air with their delicious perfume. A Bible was open upon the table. Some new magazines lay beside it, but the leaves were uncut, although they must have been received several days before.
               "You have a choice collection of books," said Mr. Powers, reading the titles of several on the shelves near him.
               "Yes, I have many books; but this," he said, laying his hand with a sad smile upon the Bible, "is worth more than all. If I had studied it when I was younger, I should have been a wiser and better man. It is a bitter thing to find, when nearly through with life, that you have made an entire mistake in those things which are most important."
               "Mistakes are always to be regretted," replied Mr. Powers, evasively.
               "Yes, but some infinitely more than others. Mistakes, where the interests of the soul are concerned, may cost an eternity of misery. But pardon me for intruding my griefs upon you. I had almost forgotten that you were a stranger."
               Mr. Powers begged to be considered as a friend, and assured his host of his most sincere sympathy. Remarking upon other subjects, he drew out the fine conversational powers for which Mr. Bartlett had always been so much admired. He was a man of rare attainments. His mind had been disciplined by close study, and his manners and tastes cultivated by intercourse with people of learning and refinement.
               Truly had Mrs. Powers said that he had prided himself upon his knowledge. Pride had been his besetting sin, and fearfully was it punished. He had seen his property sacrificed in the vain attempt to save his children, whom he had at last laid down in dishonored graves. The wife of his bosom had died of a broken heart, and he was left alone with a legacy of sad memories.
               The spire of the village church could be seen through the trees, and Mr. Bartlett, turning his eyes in that direction, said, "The church stands just as it did when I was a boy. It has grown old with the people who worshipped in it. I am glad it is to be repaired."
               "It certainly needs it," said Mr. Powers. "It should be done, to make it worthy of the new minister."
               "You like him then?" said Mr. Bartlett.
               "I consider him an agreeable speaker and a superior man."
               "And do you not think him a good preacher? You know, of course, that fine speaking and superior abilities will not always make a good preacher."
               "I suppose not," said Mr. Powers.
               
               "I have changed my mind in regard to preaching," continued Mr. Bartlett. "I used to wonder that Parson White could stand up in the pulpit and say the things he did say, but it does not seem strange to me now."
               "And do you accept his doctrine?"
               "All, all," was the reply. "I was so blinded by pride that I rejected it then; but it was the doctrine of the Bible."
               Mr. Powers was astonished to hear this; for the man who now so strongly indorsed the preaching of the old minister had been one who contended for a more "liberal faith."
               "I find that I drift back to the same point," said Mr. Bartlett. "An old man's thoughts usually control his tongue, and mine tend ever to one subject."
               The merchant went out from that interview wondering if the time would ever come when he, too, should acknowledge edge himself mistaken. "An eternity of misery!" Who could bear it?
               On his way home, Mr. Powers met the minister, and invited him to dinner. "You will be a welcome guest," he said, "and it will give me an opportunity to talk to you about Arthur."
               "He is doing well," was the reply. "His recitations are a source of pleasure to me. I count him and Nat among my best friends."
               "The boys are very different," said Mr. Powers. "Nat is generally in the right,—firm and decided. Arthur is more wilful, yet, under certain circumstances, much more easily influenced. I have some fears for him."
               "I should think good training would be all that is necessary to keep him right. He will make a brilliant scholar."
               "I think he gives promise of it," was the reply. "But here are all the children dren," he said, as he caught sight of them coming down the road.
               Nat was drawing Maud and Mabel, who were seated in a small wagon, while Gustave walked by their side, occasionally lending a helping hand. Arthur and Burnie, books in hand, lingered a little behind the others. At a sign from their father, the whole party stopped under the shade of a large tree, and waited his approach. When he came up, Maud reached out her arms, and laughed with delight at being transferred to his shoulder. Mr. Howard relieved Nat, and all moved toward the house, where the older members of the family gave their minister a most cordial welcome, Grandmother Powers being particularly glad to see him at her dinner-table.
               Topics of general interest were discussed, and then came the subject uppermost in the minds of the church-going part of that community,—the repairing of the meeting-house. The liberal donation of Mr. Arthur Powers had given new life to the enterprise, and they were now hoping to do more than the little they had at first expected.
               Mr. Howard was persuaded to spend the afternoon, and about three o'clock there was a grand rush to the hay-field, Grandmother Powers and Mrs. Douglass being the only persons left in the house.
               Nat made a discovery that afternoon, which he was by no means anxious to monopolize. He whispered to Gustave that Rizpah was pretty.
               "Just look at her," he said; and they both watched the flush come and go on her face as she played with their sisters.
               "She is pretty," said Gustave, indorsing the opinion of his oracle, and the news was communicated to the older brother and sister.
               
               "Isn't Rizpah handsome?" asked Burnie of Dilla.
               "I never thought of it before," was the reply, "but she certainly is this afternoon."
               The object of these remarks continued to toss the new-mown hay with Maud and Mabel, utterly ignorant of the compliments she was receiving.
               "Why, Rispy Huse must be more than thirty years old!" said Mrs. Douglass, as Dilla repeated the observation of the children.
               "I don't see what difference that makes," was the laughing reply. "Twenty or thirty, she did look pretty this afternoon;" and Grandmother, Powers coming in, Dilla appealed to her.
               "She is good-looking," said the old lady. "She always was; but her face has such a sad expression that I pity her. She has looked happier since she came here than I ever saw her. Her mother was a handsome woman when she first moved into the cottage, but she always seemed to try to look as plain as she could. Rispy is a nice girl and a good scholar. The children are learning fast. Their father says—"
               Rizpah coming in at that moment, the conversation ceased, but Mrs. Douglass caught a glimpse of the beauty that had arrested the attention of her youthful friends.
               After supper, Mr. Howard returned to his boarding-place in the village, Arthur, Nat, and Gustave accompanying him most of the way. Their father was to remain with them but one more day, and this they proposed to make a holiday. They would have no lessons. In the morning, they would all have a ride in the family wagon, and in the afternoon, go down to the meadows. This was the plan discussed by the boys as they returned from their walk, and Mr. Powers gave his hearty approval.
               Nat was up very early the next morning, getting his fishing-tackle in order. He had heard of some fine trout in the brook that flowed through the meadows, and he was anxious to try his skill in "hooking" some of them.
               "That boy can do just about anything," said Mrs. Douglass, as she watched him at his work. "It always rests me to look at him."
               About nine o'clock, the family wagon, drawn by two strong horses, appeared at the door, and Mr. Powers, with his six children, started for a ride to the top of the highest hill they could see. From the summit, which was reached in about an hour, they had a fine view of the home village, and also of the surrounding towns. A tract of woodland crowned the hill, in which the children found some varieties of flowers they had never seen before, and they would gladly have spent a long time in exploring the depths of the dim old wood. But the meadows were in prospect, and reluctantly leaving the concealed beauties, the horses' heads were turned homeward.
               "We'll take a different road from the one by which we came," said the father. "I haven't been through here for nearly thirty years, but I think I can find the way."
               The road was nearly overgrown with grass, and there were but few freshly-made tracks, to show that it was ever travelled.
               "Why, it's all woods!" said Mabel. "There isn't a single house."
               "There used to be a small house just at the foot of the hill," said Mr. Powers. "But it wouldn't be strange if it had tumbled down before this. It was old when I used to come this way."
               "Who lived in it, father?"
               "Old Sam Barnes, a miserable drunkard."
               "Did he live here all alone?" asked Gustave.
               "Oh, no," was the reply. "He had a wife and several children, but when I knew him, his wife had died, and he had but one child left, a little girl by the name of Fanny."
               "Here is the house," he said, as they came in sight of it. It was so surrounded by large, thrifty-looking apple-trees, that it was quite invisible until one had reached the gate that opened into the enclosure, in the centre of which stood the wood-colored cottage, looking much as it did thirty years before.
               The old well at the end of the house reminded Nat that he was thirsty. He had drank from a spring that he found in the woods, but he was now just as dry as ever. His father was willing to stop. He had a curiosity to know who lived there.
               A middle-aged woman came to the door, in answer to Nat's somewhat loud rap, and cheerfully granted his request for a cup of water. "I can draw it," he said, taking the pitcher and tumbler from her hands, and the woman turned back into the house, without giving Mr. Powers an opportunity to decide whether it was Fanny Barnes or not. He had known her, as a shy, sad child, who always avoided all intercourse with other children, and there had been such a peculiar expression in her face that he fancied he should recognize her, even after the lapse of so many years. As he looked more closely at the house, he noticed some changes. There were no loose clapboards, no rags supplied the place of glass in the windows, and around the door bloomed some brilliant summer flowers.
               "Who lives in Sam Barnes' old house now?" asked Mr. Powers of his mother, when they were seated at the dinner-table.
               "His daughter Fanny, and a cousin who came here soon after Sam died."
               "I don't know as I've thought of him for twenty years," said the son, "until to-day. We came that way home. Nat was very thirsty, so we called at the house for some water. The woman who came to the door didn't stop long enough for me to see whether it was Fanny or not."
               "You wouldn't have known, if she had stopped," said his mother; "Fanny doesn't look at all as she used to."
               "It seemed to me I should recognize her by the frightened look there always was on her face. Poor child! She must have had a hard time."
               "There was reason enough for her looking scared," said his father. "Sam was always beating her about, and everybody was relieved when he died. Yet Fanny seemed to mourn for him. She is pretty well off now. A cousin of hers, several years older than she was, came to live with her soon after her father died. They set apple-trees all around the house, so they have an abundance of fruit. They have a garden they take care of after it is ploughed in the spring, and this, with what they earn by sewing, furnishes them with all they need."
               "Did her father own the house?" asked the son.
               "Yes," was the reply, "and five acres of land. He kept that through all his drinking, so Fanny had a home after he died."
               "Yes," said grandmother, "and she might have had another home, but she wouldn't marry, for fear her husband would be a drunkard."
               Mr. Powers laughed at this, but his mother commended her for her wisdom.
               "She had suffered enough for one lifetime, and though nobody thought, when he was a young man, that Charles Dempster would ever take to drink, he is a perfect sot, and Fanny Barnes has reason to be thankful that her name isn't Fanny Dempster. She is a happy woman, and really looks younger than she did twenty years ago."
               "Yes," continued the father, "she is happy. She never went to meeting till her cousin came to live with her; but after she had been here awhile, she got Fanny out with her. Now they always come when the weather is so they can walk. Fanny is a member of the church, ready for every good work. When she first found the Saviour, her happiness was too great for words. It was a new birth indeed to her. She knew nothing of happiness until Christ appeared as her friend. Since then, the old look has all gone from her face."
               Grandfather Powers attributed her happiness to the fact that she had become a Christian. His son thought it the result of her improved worldly condition. Which was right?
               The afternoon was too short for the pleasure that was crowded into it. Nat found the deepest, darkest pools, where he angled successfully for his favorite fish, while Gustave stood by, a silent but admiring spectator. Arthur and Burnie, less active in their habits, seated themselves in the shade, where they watched the hay-makers, and listened to the lazy humming of the summer insects. Mr. Powers tried his hand a little at raking and then sauntered along by the brook until he found Nat, to whom he gave some profitable lessons in trouting.
               Just as the sun was going down, work was done, and the younger portion of the company rode home on the loads of hay, delighted with their elevated and fragrant position.
               Maud and Mabel, who considered themselves aggrieved at having been kept at home, were the first to welcome the train, and claimed a double portion of attention from their father, to make amends for his long absence.
               The older children had told Mr. Powers when he first came up they wished he had brought a piano, and in the evening, before he left, Burnie again mentioned the subject.
               "Rizpah can sing," she said, "and we might have one of Nat's concerts, in grand style, if we only had a piano."
               In a week from the day he left, the piano arrived. It was the one they had used at home, and looked like an old friend when it had been placed in the parlor. Arthur called in Mr. Howard, who was passing, and he improvised a concert, in which Sabbath-school hymns held a prominent place. He was himself a good player, and this accomplishment raised him greatly in Burnie's estimation.
               The piano was the source of great pleasure to all in the house. In the next letter from their father, they heard that a new and finer instrument had taken the place of this in their city home.
               The last of August, Aunt Sally Hughes was invited to spend the day with Grandmother Powers. Nat, who had got to be a "famous teamster," went after her early in the morning. She had not been so well as usual for several days, but the ride "brightened her up wonderfully," and she was more entertaining to the children than ever before. She must see and admire the piano, and Mabel, who supposed Aunt Sally could do everything, asked her to play. The request was, of course, not complied with, and it was even forgotten that it had been made.
               After dinner, Grandmother Powers, thinking from the appearance of her guest that she was suffering from fatigue and the excessive heat, insisted upon her lying down in the parlor. "It is cool here," she said, "and there will be nothing to disturb you." At first Aunt Sally refused to listen to any such proposal, but when the pillows were brought and placed upon the sofa, her resolution wavered, and she consented to lie down for a few minutes. The children were sent to another part of the house, and charged to keep quiet.
               In about half an hour the piano was heard. The tones were uncertain and sometimes corrected, as though the keys were struck by one trying to recall a half-forgotten air.
               Grandmother started, and meeting Nat in the hall, asked whether it was Arthur or Burnie playing.
               "Neither," was the reply; "they are both up-stairs."
               She had left Mrs. Douglass and Rizpah in the kitchen, Dilla was with Maud, and there could be no one in the parlor except Aunt Sally. She paused at the door, which was just ajar, and listened. The touch grew firmer, the chords fuller, and a rich tide of melody filled the room. Nat, who could no longer restrain strain his impatience, pushed the door noiselessly open, and there sat Aunt Sally at the piano, playing with a force and expression seldom heard.
               By this time the music had attracted the other inmates of the house, who came through the hall quietly, as though fearing to break the spell. Rizpah looked at her mother with a face that alternately flushed and paled with deep emotion. The younger children could hardly be restrained from making some noisy demonstration of delight, but their grandmother, by signs well understood, enjoined silence. This was scarcely necessary, for the performer, entranced by the sweet sounds she evoked, was utterly oblivious to all else. The bowed form became erect, the withered hands swept the keys rapidly and skilfully, while grand, triumphal marches followed each other in quick succession. This continued
                     Aunt Sally. "Deacon Sims," page 180
                  
                   tinued for nearly an hour, when the musician paused for a moment, then began a solemn dirge, suggestive of the burial of a hero who had laid down his earthly laurels to receive an unfading crown in the upper temple.
               Another pause; and when her fingers again pressed the keys, they quivered and trembled beneath her touch, giving forth music like the last sad utterances of a breaking heart. A long, low wailing, a sudden crash of the keys, told that all was over, and turning to her audience a face blanched with extreme emotion, yet radiant as that of an angel, the musician extended her hands, as if imploring aid, and fainted in the arms of her daughter.
               Alarmed by the deathlike swoon that followed, Mrs. Powers would have summoned a physician, had not Rizpah so strongly opposed it. She was sure her mother would soon revive, and she was unwilling to answer the questions that might be asked.
               "It is just like a story," said Burnie. "Who would ever have thought Aunt Sally could play on the piano? I wonder where she learned."
               Where, indeed? Burnie was not alone in her wonder.
               When she recovered consciousness, her eyes wandered to the piano. "Did I play?" she asked, "or did I dream?"
               "You played," replied Rizpah.
               "I forgot," she said. "I am sorry." Closing her eyes, she was silent for a long time, during which she was left alone with her daughter.
               Grandmother Powers was soon summoned, and Rizpah went about her usual work. The interview between Aunt Sally and her hostess was prolonged until the call to supper summoned them from the parlor, when, against all remonstrances, the guest took her seat at the table. She had regained her usual appearance, and no one could have supposed that the quiet old lady, who seldom spoke, except when directly addressed, could be she who had charmed them all by her brilliant musical performance.
               She and Rizpah were carried home directly after supper, and then the children gathered around their grandmother to ask questions about Aunt Sally. "Where and when did she learn to play?"
               "Perhaps you will know all about it sometime," was the reply, "but I can tell you nothing now."
               "She must have been rich once," said Burnie, who considered all accomplishments the natural result of riches.
               "I should like to ask Rizpah about it," said Nat, "but I suppose it would not be proper."
               Whatever had been revealed by Aunt Sally was, at her own request, repeated to Grandfather Powers that evening, who could scarcely credit the story to which he listened. "It is the strangest thing I ever heard," he said. But we will not anticipate.
               The next morning Rizpah failed to appear at the usual time, and Nat was sent to learn the cause of her absence. He returned with the news that her mother was sick, and she would like to have Mrs. Powers come over. It was no more than the old lady expected, and she obeyed the summons quickly.
               She found Aunt Sally delirious, talking of persons and events connected with a life entirely different from that passed in the humble cottage. At times she pleaded with one she called husband not to leave her, and then she would start back with horror, as though some dreadful sight was presented to her view. "Oh, the wine, the wine!" she said. "Touch it not. You will drive me mad. Look! It is like blood."
               Then she would seem listening to ravishing music, and gazing upon exquisite pictures. She murmured snatches of old songs, and lavished pet names upon the friends of long ago.
               "She will die," said Rizpah, hopelessly, "and I shall be left alone."
               "You must send for a physician now," said their kind neighbor. "It will be wrong not to do so. She may be saved with skilful treatment and good nursing."
               All the daughter's objections were overruled, and Nat, who had been waiting, was sent for good Dr. Thomas.
               "Do tell him," said Rizpah; and enough was told to give him a clew to the wanderings of the sick woman.
               "You can trust me," he said, knowing how carefully the secret had been guarded. A slight examination revealed the fact that Mrs. Hughes—so he called her that day—was attacked with brain fever.
               "The chances are against her," he said, "but there is a possibility that she may recover. You will need assistance, and I think Fanny Barnes will come and stay with you a few days. Her cousin is very much needed in another direction."
               The doctor understood her nervous dread of having any one hear her mother's incoherent revelations, and hastened to assure her that she might place certain confidence in Fanny. "She has suffered herself; you could not have a better friend."
               So it was settled that Fanny should come, if her services could be obtained, and Dr. Thomas undertook to make the necessary arrangements.
               "The boys will be glad to do any errands for you," said Grandmother Powers, "and we will all have a care for you."
               "There is a letter to be sent away, in case mother should be thought in immediate danger of dying," said Rizpah.
               "I can judge better about that tomorrow," said the doctor; "but if I might be allowed to give my advice, I think the letter had better be sent soon."
               "Not if there is any prospect that she will recover," was the decided reply. "Mother has charged me about it many times in the last twenty years, and her wishes are sacred."
               Before night, Fanny Barnes was sitting by Aunt Sally's bedside, glad to render assistance to those who had always given her words of encouragement. But good nursing seemed lost upon the patient. Dr. Thomas exerted his skill in vain, and Rizpah was kindly told that she must be prepared to lose her mother. The letter, which had been the object of so much solicitude was mailed, and she then waited anxiously for what might follow.
               Three days after an elegantly-dressed man, who seemed scarcely past the prime of life, astonished the keeper of the hotel in the town where our country scenes are laid by inquiring for the residence of Mrs. Hughes. He replied that a woman by the name of Huse, whom everybody called Aunt Sally, lived not far from there.
               Dr. Thomas, who had an eye on all new-comers at this time, came forward and told him he was going to Mrs. Hughes', and would be happy to carry him. The proffered kindness was accepted cepted, and in a few minutes the stranger was standing before Aunt Sally's cottage.
               "Is this the place?" he asked.
               "This is where Mrs. Hughes lives," was the reply.
               "There must be some mistake," said the gentleman. "The lady I wish to see can't live in such a house as this."
               "Do you come in answer to a letter?" asked the doctor.
               "I do," replied the stranger, while his eyes looked the astonishment his lips refused to express.
               "I mailed the letter," said his companion. "The woman who wrote it is in this house, sick unto death, and her daughter gave the letter into my charge."
               "What is the daughter's name?"
               "Rizpah," was the reply.
               "It must be the same. And do you say that her mother is dying?"
               
               "She can live but a few hours," said the doctor.
               The man before him was one evidently accustomed to control and conceal his feelings, but this intelligence startled him from his usual self-possession.
               "I will see the daughter," he said.
               Rizpah was bending over her mother, and had not noticed the arrival. Motioning her from the bed, Dr. Thomas told her that some one wished to see her in the east room. "It is the man to whom the letter was addressed," he said.
               Every particle of color fled from her face at this announcement, and she leaned against the door for support; but a glance at her mother seemed to give her strength, and she crossed the narrow hall and presented herself before her father.
               It was a strange meeting. When he had seen her last, she was a child five years of age, now she was a woman of thirty-four. The interview between them was short. Rizpah had no pleasant memories of the man who had so embittered her mother's life that labor and poverty had been a pleasure compared with ease and affluence at his side.
               Mrs. Hughes, in full possession of her faculties, as she neared the gates of death, had inquired in regard to "the letter," and knew that it had been sent on its errand. Upon being told that her husband had arrived, she desired to see him at once, while she was able to converse.
               Alone he entered the room. No human being witnessed the meeting between those who had been separated so many years. There was short space for reproach or confession. Not of herself thought the dying woman, but of her child,—their child, the only link between them. The door soon opened, and Rizpah was summoned.
               "Mother," said the daughter, in a voice of agony, as she laid her head upon the pillow,—"my mother," she repeated, "how can I live without you?"
               A look of unutterable affection was the only reply to this. "Let them be called," she whispered to her husband. "I can't talk."
               Dr. Thomas, with Mr. and Mrs. Powers, who had just come to the cottage, were called in. Mr. Hughes then formally acknowledged the dying woman to be his wife. "I was married to her thirty-seven years ago," he said; "and it was no fault of hers that she left me at the expiration of eight years. She was a good, true-hearted wife, but the wine-cup maddened me, and I made her wretched."
               This was said with many interruptions, for tears were streaming down the cheeks of the husband and father, and only with the greatest effort could he command his voice.
               "This is my daughter," he said, turning to Rizpah. "She has little cause to love me, but I may yet perform some part of a father's duty. I pledge myself to put her in possession of ten thousand dollars within one month from this time, and I will provide her a home with myself, or wherever she may desire."
               The wife and mother had listened eagerly to each word, but when the pledge was made that provided for her daughter, the rigid features relaxed, a smile settled upon her lips, and before her husband had ceased speaking, the weary spirit was at rest. Her work on earth was done.
               It was an hour never to be forgotten by any one of the group gathered around that bed of death. Rizpah, accustomed to look only to her mother for sympathy and support, felt that every earthly dependence was now cut off. Her father was nothing to her; money could never bridge the gulf that lay between them. She imprinted a kiss upon the face of the dead, and left all further care to others. Grandmother Powers found her upon her knees, with the Bible open before her. She had sought help from Him who once dwelt among men, and who, now that he had gone up on high, still pities his children.
               "Your father wishes to see you," said her kind friend.
               "I cannot see him," was the reply. "How can I ever call him father?"
               "Your mother forgave him all, even as she hoped her own sins were forgiven. Can you not follow her example? 'If ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither ther will your Father forgive your trespasses.'"
               A moment of indecision, a silent prayer, and she rose from her knees.
               "You need not go with him, unless you choose," said her companion. "You can always have a home with us."
               "Thank you," was the half-inaudible reply.
               Her father was pacing the floor of the little room when she entered. He motioned her to a seat, and soon took one beside her. It was not easy for him to commence a conversation with his daughter. He had sinned deeply and without excuse. He had outraged the love and forbearance of his wife, until she became a voluntary exile from the friends of her youth, that she might be relieved from his presence. He had thought for many months that she would return, but as time went on, it brought no tidings of the absent ones. All his inquiries in regard to them proved fruitless. His wife had not lightly made her decision, and in leaving her home, she took care to leave no clew to her intended destination. Her only confidant was a woman who had lived with her through her whole married life, and who understood something of the suffering and indignities that had been heaped upon her. Through this woman, she had continued to hear from her husband until he removed to another part of the country and commenced life anew. There, he contracted a second marriage. Until then, she had cherished the hope of a reconciliation with him, but this placed an impassable barrier between them, and nothing but love for her daughter would have induced her to summon him, even in the hour of death.
               Some may blame Mrs. Hughes for this desertion of her home; but Grandmother Powers, with her strict notions of a wife's duties, considered her fully justified. Rizpah knew something of her father's history,—not all, for her mother had no desire to prejudice her against him, and as her Christian character had been developed by years of discipline and self-denial, her own resentment had given place to a feeling of pity for the man who was without God in the world.
               "What arrangements do you wish to have made for your mother's funeral?" was the question that broke the silence between father and daughter.
               "I had not thought," was the reply. "I think our neighbors will attend to all that is necessary."
               "I will, of course, defray all the expenses," he said. "You may wish to obtain some articles of dress;" and he took out his pocket-book, as though he would have given her money.
               "There is enough in the house to meet all necessary expenses," she said, a little proudly, "and I have need of nothing more."
               "I deserve all this," replied her father, "but it is hard to bear; I have done wrong, miserably wrong, but my punishment is enough. Rizpah, I loved your mother, even when I wronged her, and there has not been a day since she left me, when I have not thought of her."
               "Then how could you treat her so cruelly?" She repented of this as soon as it was spoken.
               "No wonder you ask me; I have asked myself that question a thousand times. I was selfish and passionate; but I cannot think of it. You will let me provide for you now?"
               "I have always worked," was the reply ply. "It will be no harder now than it has been."
               "It is not charity I offer you," he said; "it is your right; your legal claim upon my property would be double what I propose to give you."
               Little cared she for legal claims and property then. It was affection and sympathy she craved, and the man before her offered neither. She concluded the interview by calling Mr. Powers and Dr. Thomas to listen to his proposals in regard to the funeral. "Do just as you please," she said.
               Mr. Hughes went away with the doctor, and the next morning started for his home, but he left money to defray every possible expense connected with the sickness and death of his wife.
               The neighbors came in to proffer assistance, some with the kindest of motives, and others to gratify an idle curiosity in regard to the stranger who had been seen there. No mystery was made of it.
               "It was Rizpah's father," said Fanny Barnes. "Her mother left him when she came here."
               The funeral of Mrs. Hughes took place on the second day after her death, and the general attendance testified to the respect in which she had been held by the community. Mr. Howard conducted the exercises, and paid an earnest tribute to the consistent Christian character of the deceased.
               Rizpah was the only relative present. The few connected to her by the ties of kindred were strangers, and far away. But she missed none of the attentions usually bestowed at such times. Bouquets of flowers filled the rooms with their fragrance. A beautiful and appropriate wreath, the gift of "the Powers children," rested upon the coffin. Not a day had passed during her mother's sickness without some of these children coming to the cottage. Even Arthur and Burnie had mingled their tears with hers.
               Many years had Aunt Sally been called an old woman, yet she was but fifty-five when she died. This record was read with surprise. She had been thought to be, at least, ten years older. After the body had been consigned to its last resting-place, a few returned to the cottage, where ample preparation had been made for their comfort.
               Rizpah was invited to go directly to Mr. Powers'. Arthur and Nat came down, just at evening, to urge this.
               "You'll be so lonely here," said Arthur.
               "I know it," was the reply, "I shall be lonely everywhere."
               "But you will be alone here."
               
               "No, Fanny is to stay with me. Perhaps I will come in a few days."
               They were forced to be satisfied with this.
               In a week, Rizpah had got everything in order, so that she could leave the cottage. Windows were closed, curtains dropped, and the stillness of death rested upon her home; but, even in her sorrow, she acknowledged the kindness of her heavenly Father, who had raised up friends for this hour of need.
               "Make yourself at home," said Grandfather Powers, as he welcomed her. "There is room enough for all."
               The children would gladly have shared everything with her. They all loved her, and the incidents connected with the last weeks of her mother's life had given her a new interest with them.
               Burnie, usually selfish and exacting, lavished upon her the most affectionate attentions, and regretted that it would so soon be time for her to go home. She studied diligently, and made a great effort to have perfect recitations. Nat and Gustave had such a world of pity for "our Rizpah," that their silent sympathy often unsealed the fountain of her tears. Arthur treated her as though she had been a "born lady." Mrs. Douglass said it did not seem right for her to be working in the kitchen, when she had such a rich father, able and willing to support her. Dilla no longer asked any service from her.
               When all bills were settled, with the money left by Mr. Hughes, there were thirty dollars in the hands of Dr. Thomas. This he brought to Rizpah, but she declined receiving it.
               "I was told to pay it over to you," said the doctor.
               "I never wish for a cent of his money," was the reply. "I am as able to work now as I ever have been."
               The money was left notwithstanding, and Grandfather Powers took it into his own keeping.
               Much curiosity was felt as to whether Mr. Hughes would redeem his pledge. At the expiration of three weeks, he returned, prepared to make good his word. The trouble was not with him, but the daughter. She at first refused to accept anything from him. Her friends remonstrated. Her father entreated that he might be allowed to make this reparation for the wrong he had done. He had grown old rapidly during the three weeks intervening between his two visits. This appealed to her sympathy, and after many struggles, she cast aside her pride and resentment. She received titles to the amount of property promised, and accorded her father full forgiveness. He consulted her in regard to her future home.
               "I can assure you a welcome in my own home," he said. "My present wife is aware of your claims upon me."
               "Does she know?" asked Rizpah.
               "She knows all," was the reply. "I have been base enough, but I did not marry without my position being fully understood."
               Rizpah preferred remaining among old friends, and her father agreed with her that it might be best. They went together to the churchyard to visit the grave of the mother, and there they separated, he carrying away an almost overpowering burden of guilt and remorse.
               Mr. Powers came in a few days for his children, and was more than satisfied with all that had been done for them. Gustave was looking nearly as robust as his brother Nat, and begged to be allowed to stay until Christmas. "I don't wish to go home," he said.
               "But your mother is impatient to see you. You must go now, and next year perhaps you can stay."
               "You are going to let me stay; aren't you, father?" asked Nat.
               "I suppose I shall, if they are not all tired of you now."
               "I wish he could stay all the time," said his grandfather. "We shall hardly know how to get along without some of the children."
               "They have all been very good," he said to his son, when the younger portion of the family had retired, "but you have a great responsibility."
               "I know it, father, and I sometimes shrink from it."
               "That is not right," said the old man. "Ask God for strength. I believe you will be forced to that yet. Adversity often teaches us lessons which we refuse to learn in prosperity."
               Rizpah's strange history was rehearsed. "It is a pity she couldn't have had the money when she was younger. It would have insured her a fine education."
               "She is a good scholar now," said the father, "better than many who have had great advantages."
               "I know all that," replied the son, "but with her talents, she might have been a brilliant woman."
               "She is a good woman," was the reply, "and that is better than being brilliant."
               "I wish you could have heard Aunt Sally play the piano the afternoon before she was taken sick," said his mother.
               "The children told me about it. It was very singular she should have retained her skill so many years without practice."
               "It was singular," replied his mother; "but she said she felt forced to sit down to the piano, and after the first few sounds, she played without the slightest effort. She knew it was the last time."
               "Rizpah ought to inherit some of her mother's musical talent," said the son.
               "Perhaps she does, but she has never had any opportunity for cultivating it. I overheard Burnie trying to teach her something about playing, but she said she was too old to learn."
               "She isn't too old to learn anything she wants to," said Grandfather Powers. "We are going to keep her here with us as long as she'll stay, and she'll have time enough to learn. She has begun to talk about paying her board, but I told her never to let me hear another word about that."
               "I think she will pay her board if she teaches Nat, and he seems perfectly satisfied with her."
               "Satisfied!" repeated his mother. "The children all think everything she does is just right, and Aunt Sally was one of their best friends."
               "I judged so when they wrote me to send them a wreath for her coffin. How hard her life of self-denial must have been to one accustomed to luxury!"
               "She said it was happiness, compared with the life she endured with her husband."
               "Yet she forgave him all at last."
               "Certainly. It was no time to cherish feelings of anger, and she was a Christian. Our heavenly Father offers full pardon to all who seek it, and no human being was ever treated with the contempt that is manifested for Him."
               "It does not seem so to me, mother."
               "That is because you are blinded to the guilt of your own heart."
               "But, mother," said the son, anxious to turn the conversation in a new direction, "do you think, if you were in Rizpah's place, you could love that man as your father?"
               "No, indeed, I don't," she said, decidedly; "but I should try to forgive him."
               "You acknowledge it would be pretty hard work then?"
               "I suppose it would, but I should ask God to give me right feelings, and help me to forgive him, even as I hope to be forgiven."
               The next day, Mr. Powers spent in transacting some necessary business, and making calls. Mr. Howard invited him to go into the church, and see the improvements that had been made.
               "It really looks finely," he said. "It must be more agreeable to preach here now."
               "I presume my hearers think more of it than I do," was the reply; "I forget everything but my subject and my audience; yet I think the house of God should be made attractive."
               From the church, Mr. Powers went to the house of Mr. Bartlett. He had been failing through the summer, and was now seldom able to go out of doors. It was at Arthur's suggestion that his father made this call. Mr. Bartlett had often invited him and his brothers into his library, where were many objects of interest, and these visits had given mutual pleasure. They had also been profitable, for their host had never allowed his young friends to go from his presence without some moral truth being illustrated, or some word of warning uttered.
               "I shall miss them very much when they go away," he said to their father. "You have some noble boys, and I earnestly pray you may not be disappointed in them. They have done well this summer mer, and I judge that Arthur has made great progress."
               "He has, indeed; Mr. Howard is an admirable teacher, and were it not for my wife, I should be tempted to leave him here through the year. Nat will remain. He has had the promise of staying until Christmas, and he is anticipating a great deal."
               "That boy will be happy anywhere," said Mr. Bartlett, "and he will be good under almost any circumstances. Temptation will not move him much."
               "I have often thought that myself. He never seems to have any trouble, and is always ready to help everybody else."
               "He is a conscientious boy," said his friend. "There is a great deal of grandfather about him. I always like to see his honest, happy face."
               "I've no doubt you will see it very often during the next three months."
               "We shall probably never meet again in this world," said Mr. Bartlett, as his guest rose to take his leave. "The snows of the coming winter will rest upon my grave. Standing on the confines of eternity, I entreat you not to make the mistake that I have made. Christ is the only hope of lost man. I have learned that truth with tears. May God bless you and yours!" he added, after a short pause.
               Farewells were exchanged, and Mr. Powers passed out as Dr. Thomas was entering to visit his patient, then homeward, where so much was to be said and done to prepare for departure on the morrow. The children visited their favorite haunts, picked apples from the choice trees of the orchard, and walked with Rizpah to her mother's cottage. Arthur recited his last lesson to Mr. Howard, and bade him good-by. He had become strongly attached to his teacher, and was almost ready to echo the wish of Gustave that he "might be just such a man."
               It had been a busy summer; hearts and hands had been fully occupied, yet on this last day many things seemed to have been left undone.
               "I haven't had time to go to half the places I wanted to," said Gustave, and no one seemed quite ready to return to the home in the city. But at noon the next day, Nat found himself the only child in the family.
               "We must be careful not to spoil you now," said his grandfather, laughing. "It wont do to let you have your own way too much."
               "I guess there isn't much danger of Nat," said grandmother. "His way is generally pretty near right. But whom are you going to have to play with?" she asked, addressing the boy.
               "Rizpah and Rover," he replied, seriously. "Rizpah has promised to go nutting with me, and Rover is always ready. But I've something to do besides play. I'm going to study and astonish father when I go home. Then, you know, I must help pick the apples."
               "And don't you expect to be lonesome?"
               "No, sir, not a bit."
               This was not mere talk with Nat. He accomplished what he proposed, making himself generally useful and agreeable. To Rizpah, he was an invaluable companion, drawing her thoughts away from the sorrows that haunted her. He enticed her into long walks over the hills. They made several nutting excursions, in which "Nat did all the work." He only wanted her for company. "I'd a great deal rather have Rizpah go with me than any of the boys round here," he said, and his devotion came to be a standing joke in the family. With all this, his studies were not neglected, and there was no doubt that he would be able to astonish his father.
               "He is a real comfort," said his grandmother. And so he was, not only to her, but to all who were interested in him.
               When Mr. Bartlett became so weak that it was difficult for him to read, Nat volunteered to read for him. Most boys of his age would have felt and seemed out of place in the sick-room, but he was never out of place anywhere. He carried all sorts of niceties from his grandmother's kitchen to tempt the appetite of his friend, and whatever might be the weather, rarely failed to make his daily visit.
               Reading, as he always did, from the Bible, he heard many comments and much counsel that he would not be likely soon to forget. These were reported to Rizpah, who was his universal confidant.
               "I mean to be just such a Bible man as grandfather is," he said, after one of these communications. "Mr. Bartlett says it is the right way, and you think so, too; don't you, Rizpah?"
               "I know so," was the reply.
               "And so do I," said the boy, emphatically. "I shall read the Bible every day, whether any one else at home does or not."
               A glorious pledge! Would that it might be made and redeemed by every boy in our land.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               RIZPAH AND NAT.
               
                  
                     
                        The lights are gleaming brightly
                        On this the festal eve;
                        Young hearts are beating lightly,—
                        Young hearts so soon to grieve.
                     
                  
               
               HOW pleasant it is to have the children at home again!" said Mrs. Powers to her husband, the evening after the family were reunited. "It seems a long time since we were separated. They have all changed, but Arthur more than the others. He is getting to be quite a young man."
               "He has changed," was the reply. "And he has improved wonderfully, both in his manners and studies. I thought of keeping him under Mr. Howard's tuition a few months longer, and am not quite sure, now, but I shall send him back. He is better trained there than here. There is no one there to foster his pride."
               Mrs. Powers frowned at this remark. She knew to whom allusion was made. Too much had before been said on the subject to leave any room for doubt, and it had always annoyed her without producing any further result. She considered herself capable of judging what was best for her children. This was her own version of the matter, but we think it would be nearer the truth to say she seldom thought of what was best. It was what might be pleasant, agreeable, or fashionable, not what was best. She had spent the summer in a round of gayeties at a fashionable watering-place, and had less patience than usual with her husband's old-fashioned notions. She was inclined to think him unreasonable, and mentally reproached him for his unkindness. Yet no man less deserved such reproach. It was his greatest pleasure to make her happy, and he never opposed her wishes except where the interests of their children were concerned. He enjoyed society, she gayety. His sense of responsibility as a father was beginning to press heavily upon him, while his wife had no thought beyond the present. She had welcomed her children with affection; the house had been lonely without them, and she was glad to have them back. As for Nat, she "never did know what to make of him," and his absence was less regretted than that of any other one would have been.
               Grandmother Deans praised them all indiscriminately, and congratulated them upon being through with their "country exile."
               "But we liked it," said Burnie. "I wished I could stay longer."
               "I should have been glad to stay," said Arthur. "It was all very pleasant, and I had so good a teacher that I am far in advance of my class."
               "Who was your teacher?"
               "Mr. Howard, the minister. Burnie recited to Rizpah."
               An inquiry in regard to Rizpah led to a long recital of her story and her virtues.
               "Nat recites to her now," said Burnie, "and I wish I could. She is going to live at grandfather's all the time."
               Gustave's improved health reflected credit upon the treatment he had received, and, thanks to the summer in the country, he had acquired "a great many of Nat's habits."
               Mr. Powers trusted that the last four months had wrought a radical change in Arthur, and for a time it seemed that he was not to be disappointed. The work had been well begun, and it needed only that it should be carried on in the same spirit, to insure complete success.
               "In the old home," in Mr. Howard's study, and in Mr. Bartlett's library, the Bible had been the Book of books, and under such influences, he had learned to look upon it with reverence. But in his city home he breathed a different atmosphere. The Bible was seldom read, even by his father; dependence upon God was never acknowledged, and under old influences, he resumed old habits. His mother was proud of her eldest son, and took no pains to conceal the fact. Despite her husband's remonstrances, she continued her injudicious flattery, and took care that no wish of his should be ungratified.
               "You will spoil him utterly," said his father; and there was danger.
               Mr. Powers overheard a conversation between his two sons, a few weeks after their return, which gave him a clew to the true state of things.
               Gustave was reading in a Bible given him by Rizpah, when Arthur, coming into the room in no pleasant humor, asked him what he was doing.
               "Reading my Bible," was the reply.
               "There's no need of that," said his brother, with an expression of disrespect.
               "Yes, there is," said Gustave. "Grandfather says so, and you used to read it when you were there. Mr. Howard says we ought to read it too, and you think he knows everything."
               Arthur's conscience condemned him for the hasty speech. "I ought not to have spoken so, Gustave," he said; "but you know father and mother don't read it, and they are good enough."
               "Can't help it," said Gustave. "Grandfather is the oldest, and I think he knows best. Besides that, I promised Rizpah I would read it, and I shall."
               If ever a man felt himself condemned, that father did. His first impulse prompted him to reprove Arthur and commend Gustave. But how could he do this? More than ever did he wish he could throw the responsibility upon his parents. He would have been astonished to be told that he had no respect for the Bible, but it was evident that Arthur so understood it. He wished to act consistently, and he certainly desired to act wisely for his children. How should he do this?
               Unable to solve the problem to his satisfaction, and unwilling to do his duty, he laid it aside for future consideration, while he resolved to keep closer watch over Arthur. How much easier it would have been to come forward and say, "I have been wrong in the past, and now we will study the Bible together!" But "the wicked heart," as his mother would have said, was in the way.
               Mr. Powers had been grieved to notice a change in Burnie's appearance, as great as in that of her brother. Having thought of others, and consulted the wishes and happiness of those about her, she had come home with very modest ideas of herself. The two hours' confinement in her room in the early part of summer had taught her an excellent lesson, and Rizpah's influence, which had been very great, had restrained her vanity. But again with her mother, she heard so much of dress, style, and beauty she forgot her grandmother's oft-repeated proverb: "Handsome is that handsome does." Her father made an effort to counteract the natural effect of her surroundings, but he made little progress.
               In his business, Mr. Powers was prospering, the present promising to yield a larger profit than any previous year, yet he was far from being happy. Many things troubled him. He could see little in his outward life to correct, but for some reason he was not satisfied with himself.
               "What makes your husband so serious?" asked Mrs. Deans of her daughter, a few days before the Christmas holidays.
               "I am sure I don't know," was the reply. "He seems very anxious about the children lately, and says a great deal about their being well trained. I don't know of anything else."
               "I am glad it is nothing more," said her mother. "I was afraid he had some trouble in his business, since he has some one in company."
               "I never inquire anything about business," said Mrs. Powers, "but I heard him say, a short time ago, that he was very glad he had Mr. Dunbar for partner instead of clerk."
               Her mother was quite relieved at hearing this. If money matters were all right, she saw no reason for anxiety. "I suppose it is his way to talk about the children," she said.
               "But I wish he wouldn't. It really troubles me. He says our children are just as likely to disgrace themselves as others."
               "Well, well, Burnie," said Mrs. Deans, "don't find fault with him. He is a good husband, and one of the wealthiest merchants in the city. You have a lovely family of children, and there will be money enough for them all. You ought to be a very happy woman."
               "And I am," replied the daughter. "But I don't like to hear so much about duty and responsibility as I have lately. My husband told me yesterday that he had a great mind to send Arthur back to finish fitting for college, with Mr. Howard. He says he is under better influences there than here. Anybody would think, to hear him talk, that Arthur is in some dreadful danger."
               "I don't see any reason for being troubled about him, replied his grandmother. "He is a fine scholar, and I've no doubt we shall all be proud of him; but so many of our young men become dissipated and dishonest that I suppose his father thinks it best to guard him against temptation."
               Mrs. Deans looked a little below the surface of things, and she was inclined to trust the judgment of her son-in-law, even when it conflicted with her own ideas.
               Burnie coming in, the subject was dropped, and the conversation turned upon the coming holidays. Grandmother Deans was to give a Christmas party, and it was expected to be a delightful affair. Her two sons, with their families, were to be present, and about fifty invitations had been sent out to other relatives and particular friends. It was called a "family party," and it was whispered among the younger members of this numerous family that there was to be "a very large tree, loaded with very handsome presents." There was great curiosity to know what these presents might be, but the older people kept their own counsel, and helped to guard the secrets of the children.
               Nat had been expected in season for "the party;" but, a week before Christmas, his father received a letter asking that he might be allowed to remain in the country for a month or two longer.
               Mr. Powers was inclined to grant the request at once, but his wife remonstrated, urging that he would be quite behind other boys of his age in his studies.
               "There is no danger of that," was the reply. "He has an excellent teacher, and is a good scholar. Rizpah will look after his lessons."
               "Indeed, she will," said Burnie to her mother, after her father had gone out. "Rizpah knows more than our teachers here, and she is just as good as she can be. We all loved her."
               Mrs. Powers had heard the story of Mrs. Hughes, and was really interested in the daughter, whom she had looked upon as "only a servant." But she thought it time that Nat should come home. She wished to have all her children with her on Christmas.
               "We must make Rizpah a Christmas present," said Burnie, starting up as the thought, for the first time, flashed across her mind.
               Not long after, she was in close conference with Arthur.
               "We had better wait till father comes," he said. "He will know what is best to give her. I wonder we didn't think of it before."
               "It is strange," replied his sister. "I know what I should like to give her."
               "What is it?" asked Arthur.
               "Just such a gold watch as mother has. But we sha'n't have money enough for that."
               "No," said Arthur, laughing, "that is quite beyond our means."
               But the idea having once taken possession session of Burnie's brain, it was not easily dislodged, and she introduced the subject to her mother before her father returned.
               "That would be a pretty expensive present," said Mrs. Powers.
               "We ought to give her something expensive," was the reply. "She took all the care of Gustave, and Grandmother Powers said he would not have improved half so much, if it had not been for Rizpah and her mother."
               Mrs. Powers was perfectly willing the children should make their friend a present, but she thought they would do better to consult their father.
               "What is it now?" asked Mr. Powers, as his two oldest children presented themselves in his library, where he was indulging himself in reading a new book.
               "Why, father," said Burnie, seating herself in his lap, "we have just thought that we ought to make Rizpah a present."
               "I agree with you," was the reply. "What do you propose to give her?"
               Burnie looked at her brother, waiting for him to speak, but he preferred that she should do the talking.
               "We don't know what we can give her," she said at length; "but I know what I should like for her better than anything else."
               "What is it?" asked her father, laughing. "I suppose I shall be expected to furnish the funds. I find that is the usual result of such consultations."
               "No, sir," said Arthur. "We only wish you to tell us what would be proper, and we are going to buy it ourselves."
               This did not satisfy Burnie. She had set her heart upon a watch, her mother had promised to assist in the purchase of it, and nothing else would do so well.
               
               "Let me hear what you would like to give," said her father.
               "I should like to give her a watch, like mother's," she replied, watching her father's face to see how the announcement was received.
               "That would be a handsome present," said Mr. Powers.
               "I don't think it would be any too handsome for Rizpah," said Arthur; "but I didn't expect we could give her anything like that."
               "Have you decided about your other presents?"
               "Yes, sir. This is the last one, and we almost forgot it. But what shall we do with Nat's presents?"
               "Send them with Rizpah's, if he does not come home."
               "Are you going to let him stay?" said Arthur.
               "I think so," was the reply. "I must decide and write this evening. How should you like to go and stay with him, Arthur?"
               "I should rather remain here, but I am willing to go, if you think best. It would be splendid to recite to Mr. Howard again. I should like to make him a present too."
               "Your wants increase rapidly," said his father. "It would be well for you to be a little more careful in your own expenses; then you would have money for extra occasions. Books would be the most suitable present you could make Mr. Howard, and you can give him those, at any time."
               "But what about Rizpah?" asked Burnie, returning to the subject in which she was most interested.
               "I must think about that a while," said her father. "I will tell you to-morrow evening. That isn't long to wait," he added, seeing the look of disappointment on his daughter's face.
               After Arthur and Burnie went out, he wrote to Nat, giving him permission to remain at his grandfather's through the winter, if he chose to stay. When this was written, he took up a sealed envelope that had been enclosed in Nat's letter. It was not to be opened if he was coming home, and Mr. Powers had some curiosity in regard to its contents. It contained a request that whatever his father proposed to give him at Christmas might be in money. "I hope you wont think me begging," he wrote, "for I shall not feel wronged, if I receive nothing. I have saved more than half of my weekly allowance, and can do a great deal with that.
               "Please don't forget my old man. I want him to have a grand Christmas dinner."
               "And so he shall," said Mr. Powers to himself.
               We had almost forgotten that "old man." But Nat remembered him, and had made arrangements with his father, before he left home, to have a certain sum paid to him each week, which sum was deducted from his pocket-money.
               Mr. Powers had carried this himself, as a gift from his son, and recently Gustave had added something to the amount. "I believe father gives him money, too," wrote Gustave to his brother; "for he seems a great deal better off."
               As for Pat and Burns and Dennis, they were quite lost sight of by the Powers family. Herbert Long had taken them up, and stood their friend as manfully as Nat had ever done.
               Mr. Powers had not decided what he should give Nat for a Christmas present, when he received the request that it might be in money. His eyes grew moist as he read that little note. He knew that whatever he sent would be bestowed upon others, and that this would give his son infinitely more pleasure than the most costly gift which he must enjoy alone. He read the note to his wife in the hearing of the children. "I shall send him money," he said; "you can do as you please."
               "What do you suppose he will do with the money?" asked his mother.
               "Give away every cent of it," was the reply. "If there are any poor people there, they will be sure to get their share."
               The next day, Nat received a letter, containing fifteen dollars with the announcement that he might expect a package, by express, on Christmas-day. The closing sentence of the letter, marked to be read only by himself, was as follows:—
               "I should send you twenty dollars, but Arthur and Burnie wish to have Rizpah receive a present from all the children. Gustave joins with them, and Mabel and Maud will contribute their mites. So I retain five dollars, to be paid for you, towards Rizpah's present. If you are not satisfied with this, I will buy out your share at any time."
               "I guess I sha'n't sell out my share at present," said Nat to himself. "I wonder what the present will be!"
               He was in a state of great excitement. He had thought his father might send him five dollars, and he had calculated how he could spend it to the best advantage. If he sent ten dollars, which was just possible, he could carry out a project which he thought would be "splendid for Christmas," and if he sent nothing, he could still "do a great deal." But he hardly knew how to dispose of fifteen dollars, and Rizpah was not quite sure about the best way to spend it.
               "Why don't you keep some of it for yourself?" asked Mrs. Douglass.
               "I don't need it," said Nat. "I have everything I wish for now."
               He had provided presents for the family, feeling quite sure he should be allowed to stay. He had a book for Mr. Howard. Mr. Bartlett had advised him in regard to that. A large collection of juvenile books and toys was spread out upon the table in his room. These were to be distributed among the children of the neighborhood. He had managed all this with his pocket-money, and though none of the presents were expensive, they were tokens of good-will, and as such would be acceptable to the recipients.
               If he returned to the city, Rizpah was to take charge of the distribution, and he felt sure he should be furnished with money to provide presents for the home circle.
               "It is of no use for me to try to send anything from here," he said to Rizpah. "They will all have enough, and I can make my presents next year. I can write some letters and wish them a merry Christmas."
               "Shouldn't you like to be at your grandmother's?" she asked.
               "I guess I should," was the reply. "It will be just like the stories you read in fairy books. The whole house will be lighted from top to bottom, every single corner of it. Then there will be wreaths of evergreen and branches of holly, besides a host of flowers. I can't tell so well about the tree, for Gustave says it is to be the largest one we have ever had, but I know it will be hung full of beautiful things. And—"
               Nat was going on with his description, but Rizpah interrupted him by saying, "I'm afraid you'll be sorry you are not at home, when Christmas comes."
               "I don't think I shall," said Nat. "I've thought all about it. I can be there another year, and we can have a Christmas-tree here, in the vestry."
               That was what he thought would be "so splendid," and for which he proposed to spend ten dollars. He had said nothing about it to any one except Rizpah, but now the money had come, he was ready to talk about it.
               "I don't suppose many of the children ever saw a Christmas-tree," said his grandmother. "It would be a wonderful treat to them. But you must ask Mr. Howard what he thinks about it. It will be something new here."
               "I can go over and see Mr. Howard, in the morning, before I read to Mr. Bartlett," said Nat. "Then, if he likes the plan, he can tell the children next Sabbath, and they can all come to the vestry Wednesday evening. I have counted all the children, and know just how many presents it will take."
               "But you were not sure you should be here yourself," said his grandfather.
               "I felt pretty certain I could stay. I should have written to father a week or two ago, if I hadn't thought so much about Grandmother Deans' party. But I knew all the time I should wish myself back here as soon as that was over, and I am very glad I concluded to stay."
               "Have you calculated what your presents will be?" asked Mrs. Douglass.
               "Some of them," replied Nat, laughing "I suppose that is what grandmother calls 'counting your chickens before they are hatched,' but it is a way I have of doing things. It is well I did count, this time, for there isn't a very long time to get ready."
               "We will all take hold and help about it, if Mr. Howard thinks best," said Mrs. Douglass.
               Nat was sure of "the minister," so the affair was as good as settled with him, and he went to bed to dream of Christmas trees and presents. He made an early call upon Mr. Howard, the next morning, and found that he had already thought of inviting the children to meet in the vestry Christmas evening. It had not entered into his calculations to have a tree, but he liked the idea, and was sufficiently enthusiastic in regard to it to satisfy his young friend.
               Mr. Bartlett was glad to see Nat that morning,—glad, too, that he was not going home the next week.
               "You will stay now until I go," he said; "that cannot be long. Read to me of the heavenly city, the New Jerusalem." And Nat read the last chapters of Revelation.
               It was one of Mr. Bartlett's comfortable mornings, and after the reading, Nat ventured to tell him of the proposed "Christmas gathering," and his plans for the presents.
               "I think you'll need some help in that matter, before you get through," said the sick man. "The teachers ought to be remembered, and, first of all, the minister. You speak to Rizpah about it, and ask your grandfather to call here some time to-day, if he can do so conveniently."
               Mr. Powers made the desired call, Rizpah was spoken to, and the result was that Mr. Howard received a generous donation in money from his people.
               
               The whole affair was a decided success. Nat had only counted on presents for the children, but others came to his assistance, and no member of the Sabbath-school failed to receive some gift, while abundant refreshments were provided for every one present.
               If Nat had before been glad that he concluded to stay, he was still more so when he saw the happy faces of all around him. He was so happy himself that he quite forgot his disappointment in regard to the expected package. "This is a great deal better than going to Grandmother Deans'," he whispered to Rizpah.
               Yet going to Grandmother Deans' Christmas party of that year was something quite out of the common course of things. The house was as brilliantly illuminated as Nat had predicted, and in its decorations the holly and evergreen occupied conspicuous places. A band, concealed in a miniature grove discoursed sweet music, to which merry hearts and lightly-beating pulses kept time.
               The supper-room offered a general feast to the senses. The air was heavy with the perfume of flowers. Jets of light were flashed back from silver plate, which loaded the table, and upon which were placed costly viands and rich confections. It was one of the rarest of Mrs. Deans' rare entertainments. The great attraction of the evening was invisible until, at a signal, given by the musicians, the wide doors were thrown open, and the Christmas-tree stood revealed in all its glory. The imagination of the children had magnified neither its size nor the beauty and profusion of its fruit. An incrustation like silver frost-work added to the effect produced by the wax tapers that gleamed among its branches. Clapping of hands and ejaculations testified to the delight of the juvenile part of the company, while their older friends, more accustomed to brilliant sights, were scarcely less enthusiastic in their admiration. Fairy-land, indeed, wanting not even the music of tiny bells, or the soft rippling of water, to make the illusion complete. "It is perfect,—perfect!" said one and another, as still the water rippled and the tiny bells chimed.
               Mrs. Deans distributed the presents with her own hands, and close inspection proved that distance had not lent enchantment. The cost of these gifts would have seemed quite a fortune to some people, yet I doubt if their bestowal gave any more pleasure than was enjoyed in the unpretending festival in which Nat had so great an interest. The sparkling tree bore fruit for him, which was carefully packed the following morning, and reached him in the evening. "One day late, Nat," said the accompanying note, "but we gathered all from the tree. I wish you could have been with us to receive it for yourself. Your letters all reached here in season."
               When the package arrived, Nat was more anxious to see Rizpah's present than his own, and not until the box directed to her was opened, and its contents examined, could he think of anything else.
               "That's just the thing," he said, "I always knew you ought to have a watch and chain."
               The names of Mr. Powers' six children were engraved upon the inside of the case. Seeing this, the tears, which had been gathering in Rizpah's eyes, coursed down her cheeks. She had shed many tears during the last few months, in view of her lonely situation, but these were tears of joy at having been remembered.
               Nat, with his quick perceptions, understood her feelings, and forebore to make any remark.
               Mr. and Mrs. Powers, with Mrs. Douglass, found that they had not been forgotten, and it was some time before Nat had an opportunity to display all that had been sent to him.
               There was a watch from Grandmother Deans, like that she had presented to Arthur three years before. Nothing could have been more acceptable, yet he manifested less pleasure than at the sight of Rizpah's. Besides this, there were several expensive articles, with quite a profusion of those of less value.
               "See, Rizpah," he said, "I might set up shop, if I wished to turn all these presents into money. One thing, I guess you and I can keep time now."
               The whole evening was spent in examining and commenting upon the contents of the Christmas package. After a time, Rizpah's tears were turned to smiles, and she was able to express the pleasure she felt.
               "Did you know about the watch?" she asked Nat.
               "I knew you were going to have a present," he replied, "but I didn't know what it would be. I should rather you would have that than anything else. Don't you like it?"
               "I think it is an elegant present," said Rizpah, "but I shouldn't have thought of anything so expensive. It seems altogether too good for me, yet I care more for the feeling which prompted the gift than for the gift itself. It is so pleasant to be remembered."
               
               "Of course you are remembered. You know we all love you," said Nat, enforcing the assertion in his usual expressive manner.
               Thus passed Christmas in the city and in the country home, and even after Arthur and Burnie had written glowing descriptions of their holidays, Nat was satisfied with his decision.
               About the middle of January, an event occurred, which, though long expected, seemed at last to come suddenly. This was the death of Mr. Bartlett. Nat was reading to him one morning as usual, when he thought he saw a change in the countenance of the sick man, and hastened to call the nurse, but before he came, the quick pulse had stopped.
               This was the first time the boy had ever witnessed the death of any one, and it made a deep impression upon him. He was unusually thoughtful for several days, and the Bible given him by his friend was his frequent companion. In the next letter to his father, he narrated the particulars of Mr. Bartlett's death, and, absorbed as was the merchant in business, he could not but ask himself that question, "Am I, too, mistaken?" He rarely made a mistake in his business calculations. He took time to consider the reasons for or against any particular course of action, never allowing the wish to be parent of the thought. Yet where the soul was concerned, prejudice usurped the place of reason, and the ghost of Deacon Sims continued to stand between him and the prayer-meeting. The interest his elder children had felt in presenting Rizpah with some token of their remembrance had drawn them away from thoughts of their own selfish gratification. The watch was bought upon the condition that each of them should contribute five dollars towards its purchase. Having exhausted their present supplies of money, a certain sum was to be deducted from their weekly allowance, until this was paid. This was almost the first time they had ever been called upon to practise any self-denial, and the fact that they were obliged to curtail their own expenses was a great benefit to them. Their mother and grandmother would gladly have given them the amount, but this was contrary to the agreement, and not to be thought of. Encouraged by the cheerfulness with which this requirement was met, and satisfied with their conduct and progress in school, Mr. Powers thought that perhaps he had been too anxious.
               Meanwhile, Nat said nothing in regard to coming home. His letters were filled with descriptions of his duties and his pleasures, and he seemed to have no thought of leaving the country.
               "Are you going to have Nat remain permanently with your father?" asked Mrs. Powers of her husband, after they had received one of his longest letters.
               "I have no such plans," was the reply, "I think he had better come home, for a few weeks, at least."
               "I think so too," said his mother; "I have thought a great deal about him lately, and I am afraid he will get to be awkward and countryfied."
               "I have no fears of that," replied Mr. Powers. "The ladies and gentlemen are not all in the cities. If I never have anything to trouble me except Nat's manners, I shall be a happy man."
               Two days after this, Nat received a letter, desiring him to come home. "You can return in season for sugar-making, if you wish," wrote his father.
               
               "That will give you four or five weeks away," said his grandfather. "We shall all be sorry to have you go, but I'm sure they must want to see you at home."
               They were all sorry, and Nat would have been sorry too, if he had not been sure of soon coming back.
               Mrs. Powers was prepared to see a great change in her son, and in this she was not disappointed. But the change was the reverse of what she had expected. There was the same merry twinkle in his eye, the dimple in his right cheek was just as conspicuous as ever, but he had grown taller, more manly in his looks, and handsomer. His face and hands were browned by exposure, but this detracted nothing from his good looks, even in his mother's eyes. His manners were more subdued than they had been when he left home, but they were far from being awkward. Altogether, his looks and appearance gave satisfaction. His presence was most welcome in the family circle, and he was quite the centre of attraction. He answered a host of questions, asked by Gustave and Mabel, the replies to which usually elicited the exclamation, "I do wish I had been there!"
               "Now tell us all about Rizpah," said Burnie, when the other children were in bed, giving Arthur and herself an opportunity to make some inquiries.
               "She is just as good as ever," was the reply.
               "Of course she is," replied Burnie, a little impatiently, "but what does she do this winter? I suppose she don't work now she has so much money."
               "She don't work in the kitchen so much as she used to," said Nat, "but she sews just the same. She reads and studies, and takes lessons on the piano."
               "There, I told you she would!" said Arthur, delighted that for once he had proved a true prophet.
               "But she said she was too old to learn, when I wanted her to try," replied Burnie.
               "So she told grandfather and grandmother, but they said they knew she could learn, and asked Mr. Rouse to come there. She did not want to begin, then, but they all talked to her, and I heard Mr. Rouse tell Dr. Thomas that he never had a scholar improve so fast."
               "I am glad," said Arthur; "but she never can play as Aunt Sally did that afternoon."
               "Perhaps she can," said Burnie, unwilling to acknowledge there was anything Rizpah could not do.
               After this, the three talked in a subdued tone of Mr. Bartlett. "Wasn't he afraid to die?" asked the sister.
               "No," replied Nat, "he said he knew God had forgiven his sins for Christ's sake, and he could trust him."
               "And did you read to him every day?"
               "Almost every day when he was able to hear me. Sometimes he was so sick he couldn't listen."
               "And who has all his books?"
               "He gave some to Mr. Howard; I don't know about the rest. He gave me a Bible at Christmas, and I read in that now."
               Neither Arthur nor Burnie made any reply to this. Their Bibles had not been opened for several weeks.
               The next morning, Nat went to visit his Grandmother Deans, thanking her again for the beautiful present she had sent him. She was as well pleased with him as they had been at home, and was both sorry and surprised to hear that he preferred going back to remaining where he could have so many more advantages.
               "I should like to go to school while I am at home," said Nat to his father that evening.
               "I wish to have you," was the reply. "You have no time to lose."
               "Don't you expect to be entirely behind your class?" asked his mother.
               "I hope not," was the modest reply; but after he had been reinstated in school, and his qualifications tested, he had the pleasure of telling his parents that he was two classes in advance of the one he had left. "I intended to be," he said, "but I wasn't quite sure until I was examined. The credit of it belongs to Rizpah."
               That day in school had been a pleasant one to Nat. His schoolmates were glad to see him, and none more so than Herbert bert Long, unless I except his Irish friends.
               "You have been growing handsome every day since I went away," he said to Owen Murphy, as he shook his hand heartily.
               "I can return the compliment," was the laughing reply, as he made way for Pat, Burns, and Dennis. "You must have had a wonderful teacher," he said to Nat, after he had passed on to the second class above him.
               "You have come back for good now; haven't you?" asked Dennis.
               "I hope it is not for bad," was Nat's reply; "but I don't expect to stay long; I am going back to help make sugar."
               This news was received with expressions of sorrow. Herbert Long walking home with Nat, the Irish boys fell back, that they might not intrude.
               "I must see about that," at length said Nat, in reply to some information given by his companion, and calling to Owen, he inquired for his father.
               "He is no better," said the boy.
               "Who takes care of you now?" asked Nat.
               "Mother washes, that's all. But they wont let me stay at home. They think perhaps I may get a place in a store, if I'm a good scholar, but it's not much use for such as me to try."
               "Yes, it is," said Nat. "You may be a rich man yet, and you can certainly be a good one. Grandfather Powers says goodness is worth more than money. I guess I'll go home with you now. Herbert, you can come over this evening and finish up our talk."
               "I'll do that," was the cheerful reply, as Nat and Owen walked off together.
               Very fortunately, Nat had in his pocket one dollar, left from his father's Christmas present, and of which he thought he could make no better investment than by giving it to Owen. Just then a bright idea entered his head, making it seem very necessary that he should make an immediate call upon Mr. Dunbar, and leaving his companion to go home alone, he hastened to the store. The clerks all had a smile for him, and some tried to engage him in conversation, but he was "bound for head-quarters."
               Mr. Dunbar was at leisure, and able to devote a few minutes to his favorite.
               "An errand-boy!" he said, in a tone of surprise, replying to Nat's question. "I think we may want one in a few weeks. Do you think of applying for the situation?"
               "Not for myself," replied Nat, "but I wish you would give it to one of my friends."
               
               "Who is he?"
               "Owen Murphy, an Irish boy who goes to our school."
               "So you have an Irish boy for a friend. How came that about?" asked Mr. Dunbar.
               Nat went over the same story he had told his father the year before, adding, as a reason why Owen should be employed, the fact that his father had been severely injured, and the family were in a state of extreme destitution.
               "I suppose he is a Catholic; isn't he?"
               "He must be," said Nat. "I never heard him say anything about it, but I saw a crucifix in the room where he lives, and some pictures of saints, such as father says Catholics always have."
               "Father" coming in, the case was referred to him. "I think we should want some security for the honesty of such a boy," he said.
               "I will be security for him," said Nat. "He is as honest as any boy in school. You can ask the teacher about him."
               "That would be a good plan," said Mr. Powers. "I guess Mr. Dunbar will think about it, and let you know in a few days. I believe he intends to promote our present errand-boy."
               Nat, always sanguine of success in a good cause, considered his purpose nearly accomplished, and left the store with a light heart. Then he went to see his old man, whom he found in a very comfortable condition. "This must be some of father's work," he thought, as he looked around. "I must thank him for it."
               "I have wanted for nothing, Master Nat," said the occupant of the humble room. "Your father has been here every week since you went away. I can only pray for him in return for all his kindness, and no day passes without my doing that."
               Nat needed nothing more to make him happy for that evening. With the news he had to tell his parents in regard to himself, the comfort of one humble friend, and the anticipated good fortune of another, his heart was filled with gladness.
               Agreeably to appointment, Herbert Long came over, and, Mr. Powers being engaged with his family, the boys occupied the library. Later, he asked Herbert about Owen Murphy. He confirmed all that had been said by Nat, and expressed his hearty liking for the boy.
               Mr. Dunbar took an early opportunity to call upon the teacher, and inquire in regard to this same boy.
               Testimony to his good character was cheerfully given. "I have never known him to disobey one of the rules of school since he came here, and I would as soon recommend him for the place you wish to fill as any boy I know."
               The next thing desired was to see Owen, and Nat went down to the counting-room with him. His clothing seemed hardly suitable for a boy with his face and manners, but this was not considered by the gentlemen who had sent for him. All questions were answered satisfactorily. Mr. Dunbar was prepossessed in his favor, and he was engaged as errand-boy, at what seemed to him a munificent compensation.
               "You must remember that Nat is security for your honesty," said Mr. Dunbar, as the boys went out together.
               "I shall not forget it, sir," said Owen, as he raised his eyes to the face of the speaker, with a look that added emphasis to his words.
               It would be pleasant to follow this boy to his home, and witness the joy and pride of his parents. Knowing neither how to read nor write themselves, they had made every sacrifice to give Owen an education, with the hope that he might sometime be "a great man." His life is worthy a separate history, but we have introduced him here only the better to exemplify the character of his friend, Nat Powers. Established in his new employment, where there was every prospect that he would give entire satisfaction, we must now leave him, trusting that, as time goes on, we may occasionally catch further glimpses of him.
               Nat had been at home about six weeks, when a letter from Rizpah informed him that the trees were all tapped, and the first gathering of sap over the fire. "Your grandfather says 'the sooner you come, the better.' A great run is predicted, and the fires will probably be kept up day and night."
               "Can I go to-morrow?" he asked, when his father had read the letter.
               "Are you so anxious to leave us that you can't stay another day?"
               "I should like to be here and there too," was the ingenuous reply. "Grandfather expects me now, and I am the only boy he has."
               "Then he has really adopted you," said his father. "I hope you will be as good a man as he is."
               "I hope I shall," replied Nat. "At any rate, I intend to be a Bible man."
               "What do you mean by a Bible man?"
               "One who studies the Bible and obeys its precepts. Grandfather says it doesn't do any good to read the Bible and then go away and forget all about it, and so Mr. Bartlett used to tell me when I read to him."
               
               Mr. Powers, to gratify his curiosity, asked Nat how often he read the Bible.
               "Every night and morning," was the reply, "and I read aloud for grandfather besides."
               His father did not care to carry this conversation any further, and sent him to read his letter to his brother and sisters. "They will all wish to hear from Rizpah," he said. He knew that Nat had attended the prayer-meetings with Herbert Long, for he had heard it incidentally mentioned in the store, and once he had overheard him asking Mr. Dunbar if Owen could be spared to go with him. "Uncle Nat over again," he said to himself, and to divest his thoughts from an unwelcome subject, he joined the children, who were discussing the contents of Rizpah's letter with great animation.
               "Oh, father, please do let me go with Nat," said Gustave. "I don't think it's fair for him to have all the good times; I want some sugar too."
               "You shall have plenty of sugar," was the reply, "but I can hardly spare you this spring, and I am sure your mother will wish you to stay with her."
               "I wish we could all go for a week," said Burnie; "don't you, Arthur?"
               "I should like to go for a few days," was the reply, "but I hardly think I should like to stay through the season. There are more attractions here for me."
               "I have half a mind to go with you myself, Nat, if only for the sake of sitting by the blazing fires once more. But it wouldn't seem much as it did when I was a boy, for then we had only a bark shanty, and sometimes not even that to protect us from the wind and storms."
               "I wish you would go, father; they would all be glad to see you."
               
               "I will see about it; but I can't leave your mother unless she is better," was the reply.
               Mrs. Powers had taken a severe cold at a party, a few evenings before, and was then quite ill,—so much so that the family physician had been in. She was slightly feverish, but he trusted that the usual simple remedies would prove efficacious, and no further treatment be necessary. The next morning, she was better, but her husband had concluded to postpone his visit to the old home, and Nat finally went alone. His expectations of pleasure were fully realized. He enjoyed it all, from drinking the sap to eating the sugar. He spent a part of several nights in watching the boiling syrup, and when he grew tired of that, rolled himself in a blanket and went to sleep on a fragrant bed of hemlock boughs. Those nights were something to write about and remember, and Nat was sure he never slept so soundly anywhere else as he did then in "one corner of the sugar-house."
               "It wont hurt him a bit," said grandfather, in reply to "the women folks," who were unwilling that Nat should spend his nights in the woods.
               An abundant supply of syrup was sent to the family in the city, and the sugaring-off was superintended by Mr. Powers himself. This was not quite so nice as it would have been to go into the woods, but the children enjoyed it very much. The sugar season was soon over, and Nat settled himself to his studies. His letters from home came regularly, as usual, but not one word did he receive from his mother. She was always mentioned,—sometimes "a little better," then "not quite so well," a slight exposure had increased her cough, or she did not seem to be quite so strong.
               These messages troubled Grandmother Powers. "Arthur's wife has always had good health," she said to Mrs. Douglass, "but I'm afraid now she never'll be well again."
               This fear was not shared by Mrs. Deans. "She will gain strength when it comes warm weather," she said. "It often takes several months to get rid of such colds. Going to the ocean will cure her. She is always better there than anywhere else."
               Her husband did not feel so sure of the healing effects of warm weather and sea air, but the physician assured him there was nothing to fear, her lungs were not diseased. There were days when she seemed almost well. Then she went out in the carriage, and sometimes made a few calls, but these efforts were usually ally followed by great prostration, and consequent confinement to the house. Sometimes the noise of the children fatigued her so much that they were banished entirely from her presence, and the conversation of those friends who called upon her often quite exhausted her. Thus the spring went by, bringing with it no improvement in her health, and she looked anxiously forward to the long, sunny days of midsummer. "I shall be stronger then," she often said.
               The first week in June, the children went again to the old home, without any remonstrance from their mother.
               "Bring your wife here, Arthur, and we will take care of her," said his mother.
               "That is what I wish to do," was the reply, "but she and Mother Deans insist upon going to their usual summer resort, and I shall consent to it, though I have many fears for the result."
               
               "I am afraid you will lose your wife, Arthur."
               "I trust not, mother. She has a good constitution, her cough is less severe than it has been, and she rarely suffers any pain. Her great trouble is want of strength."
               Mr. Powers spent but one night, and then took his leave, after enjoining upon his children obedience and diligence in their studies. He accompanied his wife to the sea-side as soon as the weather was sufficiently warm, but here she grew rapidly worse, and they remained but a few days. He then proposed going into the country, and about the middle of July the family were again united.
               After recovering from the fatigue of her journey, Mrs. Powers seemed much better, and her husband fancied that with country air, and a country physician, she would soon regain her strength. But his mother shook her head doubtingly. She had seen too much sickness to be easily deceived. Dr. Thomas, who was called to attend her, was more sanguine, and under his treatment she really improved. "I shall soon agree with Nat in the opinion that the country is the only place to live," she said, as she returned from a long drive with her husband, that had in no way fatigued her.
               In the short visits previously made, Mrs. Powers had little opportunity to judge of the beauties of the old home or the character of its inmates. But she now looked with admiration upon the broad fields and fertile meadows, while, in her hours of weakness and dependence, she learned to love the parents to whom she had before yielded only a cold respect. She began to appreciate the sterling goodness and unwearying kindness of those who ministered to her comfort.
               As the summer days passed, the progress of disease seemed stayed, and there was the appearance of positive and permanent amendment. The children, rejoicing in the improved health of their mother, found new pleasures in country life,—pleasures which were shared by the father, who, leaving all care of business, devoted himself entirely to his family.
               Rizpah retained her hold upon the affection of these children, who still appealed to her for assistance in their studies, and craved her companionship. To Mrs. Powers she manifested a tenderness and consideration that banished all thought of her former position, and made her an invaluable friend. Her voice, modulated to the soft, low tones so grateful to the suffering, never failed to soothe and cheer.
               Under the influence of these new surroundings, visions of a better and higher life rose before this worldly woman; but habit was strong, and with returning health, came a longing for accustomed gayeties.
               Mrs. Deans received flattering reports of her daughter's health, and even Grandmother Powers felt that she might have been premature in her decision. There were a few days of buoyant hope, in which Dr. Thomas spoke confidently of the issue, and then the autumn, with its chilling winds, came on apace.
               As the weather grew cooler, the invalid suffered from a return of the wearing cough, and with the first frosty nights, there was so decided a change for the worse as to alarm her friends, and cause her own heart to tremble with fear. Her physician, disappointed in his expectations tions, was forced to acknowledge that he could do no more.
               "Then it will be best that we go to our home so soon as may be," said the husband, after listening to a plain statement of the fact.
               Mrs. Powers had anticipated this, and was anxious to leave the country, now that she no longer derived any benefit from its strong, bracing air. "I am sure I shall be better again when once more at home," she said, with an effort at cheerfulness. "But I must have Rizpah with me, if possible. Her presence always gives me strength."
               "We may induce her to accompany us," replied Mr. Powers. "I will talk with her myself in regard to it, and if I fail, the children must use their influence."
               A cordial invitation to accompany the family was extended to Rizpah Hughes; but, after some hesitation, she declined its acceptance.
               Mr. Powers reported the result to his wife, who, unwilling to leave her friend, addressed her upon the subject, as she entered the room.
               "I think it will be best for me to remain here," was the reply. "Dilla is able to attend to the children, in their journey, and—"
               "I did not wish you to go as a servant," said Mrs. Powers, interrupting her. "I should like to have you with me. The children will be in school, and you will have plenty of time for reading and study."
               "But I should feel out of place," said Rizpah. "You will have friends enough about you. If you were sick, and I could really be of service to you, I should be happy to do so, but as things are, my place seems to be here."
               
               Mrs. Powers condescended to urge her, but it was useless, and even the entreaties of the children produced no effect.
               "Rizpah is wise," said Grandfather Powers. "She is every bit as much of a lady as Arthur's wife, and to my mind a great deal more; but Mrs. Deans would not think so, and I'm afraid the children would look down upon her after a while."
               "Nat would never do that."
               "He would never look down upon any one," said his grandfather. "But Arthur and Burnie have a good deal of false pride about them, and they came by it honestly."
               "Arthur's wife seems different to me, this summer, from what she ever has before," said grandmother.
               "She has laid aside some of her pride," said the old gentleman, "and well she may; for if I read her face aright, she has little more to do with earthly things. It's time she thought of something besides money and show. She is illy fitted to die, and I presume she has never given it a serious thought."
               It being decided to return to the city, preparations were made as rapidly as possible; and with many regrets and some tears, the family of Mr. Arthur Powers left the old home. Nat made no objection to going with the others. He was too anxious for his mother to wish to remain away from her. She was so weak the morning they started that her husband was obliged to lift her in and out of the carriage that conveyed them to the station, and the ride in the cars was a great tax upon her strength. It was such a relief when it was over, and she was once more at home!
               Her physician, who was called, saw at a glance that her health had not improved during her absence. "Everything thing depends upon keeping up her spirits," he said to Mr. Powers. "Let her once get the idea that she is going to die, and she will sink rapidly."
               "But is there no hope?" asked her husband. "Is there nothing more you can do for her?"
               "While there is life, there is hope," was the reply; "but I have nearly exhausted my skill."
               Mrs. Deans refused to believe that her daughter was in any danger. "She is exhausted now with the long ride," she said. "She will soon rally from this. If Dr. George thinks he can do nothing more for her, let us try another physician, and don't, upon any consideration, let her know that you consider her seriously ill."
               "But, mother," remonstrated the husband, "if I was going to die, I should wish to be told of it, and she may wish to make some preparation."
               "She has nothing to do," was the reply. "Let the event be what it may, I hope you don't think Burnie has been a wicked woman. But there, we wont talk in this strain. I have no doubt she will be well again."
               Mr. Powers, though unconvinced, allowed his better judgment to be blinded. The next day a different physician was summoned, who encouraged him to hope for a speedy and thorough cure. He, too, insisted that nothing should be said to his patient that would have a tendency to discourage her. The effect of his treatment was a temporary exhilaration, which was mistaken for actual improvement, and the family were only too willing to be deceived. This continued but a few days, and then it was apparent, even to herself, that she was more prostrated than ever. Her mother assured her that it was nothing serious, but, for the first time, she seemed to lose hope and courage.
               "I wish Rizpah was here," she said to her husband, after a day of unusual lassitude. "I believe it would do me good to see her. Please write and tell her I am sick, and ask her to come soon."
               The letter was despatched, and reached its destination the following evening. No one in the old home was surprised to hear that "Arthur's wife" was failing, but the assurance saddened them.
               "You must go, Rizpah," said the old lady. "If you can do her any good, it is your duty. The poor body wont need care much longer, but some one should help her get ready to die. Poor child! I'm afraid there is no one there who knows anything about it."
               Rizpah held the letter in her hand, seemingly undecided what to do, but, in reality, thinking of the great responsibility then thrown upon her.
               "Wont you go, Rizpy?" asked Grandfather Powers.
               "Yes, sir," was the reply; "I promised her I would go if she was sick, and I could do her any good."
               "The letter says she wants you soon. Can you go to-morrow?"
               "I think I can. It will not be necessary for me to make any great preparation."
               Mrs. Douglass offered her assistance, and everything was made ready for Rizpah's departure.
               That night, at the family altar, earnest prayer was made for her who was "fast going down to the grave." After this, Mr. Powers wrote a letter to his son, in which he strongly and faithfully represented his duty. "We are all praying for you and yours. God grant you may pray for yourselves."
               The letter completed, which was no easy task for one so unaccustomed to writing, the next hour was spent in imploring a blessing upon the family "living without God, and without hope in the world."
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               DEATH OF MRS. POWERS.
               
                  
                     
                        Not knowing how to die,
                        When death must come so soon;
                        Not fitted for the sky,
                        And life so nearly done.
                     
                     
                        No wonder that the tear
                        Bedews the pallid cheek,
                        No marvel that the fear
                        Forbids the tongue to speak.
                     
                  
               
               MR. POWERS waited at the station the evening of the next day after the letter was sent, summoning Rizpah Hughes to the bedside of his wife. He scarcely expected her so soon, but Mrs. Powers was sure she would come.
               Nat first caught sight of her, and was at her side in a moment. "I am so glad to see you!" he said. "Mother is sick, and she wants you."
               
               "I hardly dared hope you would come to-day, but I am very glad to see you," said Mr. Powers, after the first greetings had been exchanged. Without any delay, he helped Rizpah into the carriage, and leaving Nat, with checks in hand, to look after the baggage, they were driven rapidly through the streets. Few words were exchanged beyond the commonplace inquiries in regard to the respective families.
               "Here we are," said Mr. Powers, as they stopped before his elegant home. Arthur met her at the hall-door, and welcomed her with his usual grace of manner.
               Dilla appeared to show her to the room which had been prepared for her; but before she reached it, she had received most demonstrative proofs of welcome and affection from the younger members of the family.
               "Can't I go with you?" asked Burnie. "You used to let me go into your room at grandfather's, and now it is so long since I've seen you."
               The request was granted, which accounted for the length of time that elapsed before Rizpah was ready to be presented to Mrs. Deans. Mr. Powers was with his mother, waiting to see that this presentation was made with all proper consideration for his guest.
               Mrs. Deans received her with politeness, but without the slightest mark of cordiality, and took the liberty to scrutinize her face closely, which scrutiny was returned with the utmost self-possession. Rizpah saw, at a glance, in what light she was to be regarded by the aristocratic woman before her, but having come there at the solicitation of others, and not for her own gratification, she considered this of little importance.
               
               Mr. Powers and his children made ample amends for any want of attention on the part of Mrs. Deans, the former cordially expressing his gratitude for the kindness with which his request had been granted.
               After dinner, Mrs. Deans took occasion to remark that her daughter would not be able to see company that evening. "She has complained of a headache all day, and needs to be perfectly quiet."
               "But she knows Rizpah has come, and she wants to see her; she told me so."
               This was said by Nat before any one else had time to reply, and of course prevented any discussion on that subject.
               "You are very kind to come so soon," said Mrs. Powers, as Rizpah entered her room; "Arthur did not expect you before to-morrow, but I told him you would not wait. I am sure I shall be better now."
               The exertion of saying this brought on a severe fit of coughing.
               "You must let me do all the talking," said her friend, as the nurse came forward to offer a soothing cordial.
               When she was somewhat relieved, Rizpah told her of the family she had left, anticipating the questions that would naturally be asked. At the same time, she placed her disengaged hand upon the hot, throbbing head of the sufferer.
               "Will you stay with me for an hour, and let Mrs. Lane go down?" she asked.
               "I shall be very glad to do so," was the reply. "I came to stay with you, and to do you good."
               The nurse went out, and Mrs. Powers, in a voice scarcely above a whisper, said, "You see I am no better, Rizpah. Mother says I am nervous and inclined to magnify my sufferings, but I am almost discouraged, and sometimes think I shall never go out again."
               Rizpah noticed that the closing eyelids were wet with tears.
               "How long can you stay here?" she asked, after a pause.
               "As long as you wish to have me," was the reply. "But now you must try to sleep; I shall be considered a poor nurse, if I allow you to tire yourself with talking. Your head seems cooler, and you must rest."
               How refreshing was the rest that followed! Two hours Rizpah watched by the sleeper, forbidding, by a warning motion, the entrance of any one. Mrs. Deans once stepped noiselessly into the room, but, satisfied with a hasty observation, was content to leave her daughter to the care of "Miss Hughes."
               "Mother is fast asleep now," said Nat as he entered the library, where his father ther had been engaged in reading the letter that so faithfully reminded him of his duty. "I just opened the door enough to see her, but Rizpah put her finger on her lip and shook her head, so I did not go in."
               "I am very glad to hear it," said Mr. Powers, rousing himself from the solemn thoughts suggested by his father's letter. "We must keep Rizpah, now, until your mother gets well."
               "When will she get well?" asked Nat.
               "I can't tell," replied his father, absently.
               "It seems to me she is going to die," said the boy. "She grows weaker every day."
               "I hope not," was the only reply to this observation; and Nat, unable to get any comfort or satisfaction from his father, went out, resolving to ask Rizpah about it the first opportunity. He found Arthur thur and Burnie busily engaged in looking over some new books; but he had no heart to join them.
               "See here, Nat," said Arthur; "father has just bought these books, and they are very interesting. What makes you so sober?" he asked, after a pause, as he looked up to his brother.
               "I was thinking of mother," said Nat.
               "What of her?" asked Burnie. "She will get well, now Rizpah has come."
               "I am afraid not."
               "It is strange she doesn't improve at all," said Arthur, laying aside his book.
               "I believe she is going to die," said Nat, sadly.
               "Why, Nat Powers!" exclaimed Burnie; "I never thought of such a thing. It can't be. Grandmother Deans says she is only nervous and weak. I'll ask Rizpah about it when she comes down."
               "What does father say?" asked Arthur.
               "He says, 'I hope not.'"
               "Of course he does," said Burnie. "It is a dreadful thing to die."
               "It wasn't dreadful for Mr. Bartlett to die," said Nat. "He used to talk to me about it, with a smile on his face."
               "He was old, and mother isn't; that makes a difference."
               "But you remember Ellen Green. You know we went to her funeral with Grandfather Powers. She wasn't any older than you are, but she was very happy when they told her she was going to die. She said the angels were waiting for her. Don't you remember what Mr. Howard said about her the next Sabbath, Arthur?"
               "I believe so," replied Arthur.
               "I remember about Ellen Green," said Burnie. "She kept a Bible under her pillow all the time she was sick. There isn't any Bible in mother's room, and I never saw her read it. But Grandmother Deans says she ought not to hear anything serious, and I suppose that is serious. I always read the Bible when I am at Grandfather Powers'. It seems wicked not to; but here, father, and mother don't read it, and I forget. Gustave reads it just the same. Do you, Arthur?" she asked.
               Nat waited to hear his brother's reply, but as he said nothing, repeated Burnie's question.
               Arthur, like many grown people, when reminded of neglected duty, took refuge in pretended anger. "You had better take care of your own reading," he said.
               "I do," promptly replied Nat, "and you had better remember what Mr. Howard says."
               "There is nobody like Nat for insisting ing upon his own way of doing things," said Arthur, after his brother had left the room. "He thinks a fellow is dreadful wicked, if he don't go to prayer-meetings and read the Bible."
               "Well, any way," replied Burnie, who was beginning to have a good deal of respect for Nat, "he is always ready to help everybody, and he doesn't think any more of such things than Rizpah and Mr. Howard do."
               By this time, Arthur had resumed his reading; and Burnie, after a few moments' thought, followed his example.
               It might have been well, had Mr. Powers overheard this conversation. Arthur could talk of prayer-meetings nearly as contemptuously as himself, although he had never seen or heard Deacon Sims. He was going to college another year, and had something of more importance to engross his attention.
               
               "How well I have slept!" said Mrs Powers, as she woke to find her friend still beside her.
               "It is more than two hours," said Rizpah. "I hope you are nicely rested."
               "I am," was the reply. "I don't think I've slept so quietly for three weeks But I am afraid you are very tired," she added, noticing that Rizpah sat in the same position she had occupied before she went to sleep.
               "I don't think I am very tired," was the reply, "and if I am, I shall soon be rested."
               "Just please to pull the bell, and Mrs. Lane will come. It is quite time you were relieved."
               Rizpah spent a short time in conversing with the children, and then went to her room, where every provision had been made for her comfort. She sat down to think what was her duty. Could she, should she flatter Mrs. Powers with the hope of recovery, when it was so apparent that she had but a short time to live? She judged that Mrs. Deans would be opposed to having anything said to her daughter that would lead her to think of death. She knew there was one young heart anxious for his mother, and who only waited for a favorable opportunity to read to her that Word whereby we are made wise unto salvation.
               It was late that night before Rizpah Hughes slept, and the morning found her unrefreshed. She appeared at the breakfast-table with so little appetite that her host feared she had incurred too much fatigue the day before.
               "It is nothing to be anxious about,' she said; "I lay awake thinking of your wife and the events of my journey."
               Mr. Powers took an opportunity, before going to the store, to inquire of Rizpah her opinion in regard to his wife.
               "She certainly is not so well as when she left the country," was the reply
               "I think not," said Mr. Powers. "We have already called in several physicians, and I should have a consultation, if it were not for alarming her. I am unwilling to have her think herself dangerously ill."
               "And yet it seems to me you can have no reasonable expectation that she will recover," said Rizpah.
               "I hope she will," he said, his face blanching at the idea that his wife could be separated from him by the hand of death. "Do you think her in any immediate danger?" he asked, after a pause.
               Rizpah must tell the truth, however painful it might be to the listener. "It seems to me she can live but a few weeks at the longest. But I may be mistaken in this opinion; I sincerely hope I am."
               "How can it be so?" said her companion. "Poor Burnie! she knows nothing of dying, and I cannot tell her."
               Rizpah looked at him with deep pity, and for a moment half regretted that she had spoken so plainly. "I hope you will not think I have been too presuming in thus expressing my opinion," she said.
               "By no means," was the reply. "It is time I was reminded of my duty, but how can I tell her? I must make one more effort to save her life," he said, pacing the floor with hurried tread. "Will you prepare her to see another physician? But, no! I will not be such a coward as to impose a task upon you I lack the courage to perform myself."
               It was an hour before Mr. Powers was again seen by any one except his wife. "Mrs. Powers would like to see you," he said to Rizpah, at the end of that time.
               With a beating heart, she obeyed the summons, and found her friend bathed in tears. "Oh, Rizpah! I knew it all before, but I tried not to believe it," she said, extending her hand. "Arthur did not mean to tell me, but I was sure when he said he wished me to see other physicians. It is hard to die now, and I am not ready. Tell me what to do."
               "There is but one way," was the reply: "look to Christ. But now you must rest."
               "How can I rest?" she asked.
               "Because God cares for you," said Rizpah.
               "Then sing to me, and perhaps I shall sleep."
               Very soft and low was the voice that hushed the sufferer to rest, and a quiet sleep followed.
               "I believe there is magic in your fingers, Rizpah," she said, when she awoke. "I dreamed I was resting by a murmuring brook, and some one bathed my head with its cool waters. It was a pleasant dream;—I know what we were talking of before I slept. I will try to see the physicians now, whenever my husband wishes, and if they can do nothing for me, I must prepare—" She did not finish the sentence, but added, after a pause, "Please ring the bell for my husband. I think he has not left the house."
               When Mr. Powers came, his looks told plainly that he had passed through a severe struggle, and that only by a great effort was he able to control his emotions. He seemed much relieved at seeing his wife calm and even cheerful.
               
               "I will see the physicians whenever you wish," she said. "I am very glad we have talked about this, and please tell mother before I see her."
               Mr. Powers hastened arrangements for the consultation, and it was decided that it should take place the next morning. Mrs. Deans demurred at this, for the same reason that her son-in-law had delayed it, but upon being told that it offered the only hope, she made no further objection.
               "Does Burnie know about it?" she asked.
               "She does," replied Mr. Powers, "and she knows further that it is the last hope, and but a slight one at best."
               This roused the mother. "She never ought to know it," she said. "I suppose Miss Hughes, in her wisdom, saw fit to tell her."
               "Miss Hughes said nothing to her about it. Burnie knew herself that she was failing, and when I mentioned having several physicians called in consultation, she told me that she had been thinking, for some time, that she could not live long. It is right she should know it. She ought not to die without making some preparation."
               "What would you have her do?" asked Mrs. Deans. "She has never wronged anybody. I hope you'll not try to make her believe she has been a great sinner. If she must die, let her die in peace."
               Here she was forced to stop. The thought of losing her only daughter overpowered her. "We must save her," she said. "I cannot let her die."
               From this interview, she went to her daughter's room, where Rizpah was reading aloud from the Bible. A slight nod was the only token of recognition vouchsafed safed the reader, who immediately left the room.
               "You are looking better this morning, Burnie," said her mother. "We shall soon have you well again."
               "I am not sure of that, but I have had a delightful sleep; I always rest when Rizpah is with me. She lays her hand on my head, and it seems to take away all the pain. She has promised to stay with me as long as I want her, and that will be always, or as long as I live." she added, somewhat sadly.
               "Now, don't get the vapors," said her mother, with forced gayety. "You know we are to have a wonderful assemblage of learning and skill here to-morrow."
               "I know it," was the reply. "You are all very good to me. I wonder what made Rizpah go out when you came in," she said, as she seemed first to notice her absence. But perhaps she hasn't been introduced to you. I am getting very negligent. Please ring the bell for her."
               "I have been introduced to her," said Mrs. Deans. "There is no need of calling her; I can see her when I go down. You talk better this morning."
               "I haven't coughed so much since Rizpah gave me some drink she prepared herself."
               "She was reading the Bible to you, when I came in."
               "Yes, mother; I asked her to read to me."
               "Better hear something a little more cheerful. There are plenty of new books."
               "But I prefer to hear the Bible. What she read was very comforting."
               The husky voice and flushed cheeks of the invalid warned her mother that she was talking too much. "I will go and leave you to rest now," she said, "and come up again."
               "Then please ring for Rizpah;" and the judicious friend, with light step and cheerful face, soon appeared.
               "Mrs. Lane's office will be a sinecure," said Mr. Powers, as he came and found Rizpah still in the sick-room. "This will never do. We shall have you sick if we are not careful. Now go and see if you can rest," he said, as he rang the bell for the nurse.
               That evening, Nat was able to have the talk he had so long desired, and great was his joy to find that his mother was willing to listen to the Bible.
               "Let me go and call Gustave now," he said, "so we can read together, just as we used to at Grandfather Powers'."
               Burnie found her brothers were in Rizpah's room, and she joined them with her Bible
               "How pleasant this is!" said Nat. "I wish father would read and pray just as grandfather does. I wonder why he doesn't."
               "May we come here every evening, and read?" asked Gustave.
               "I shall be glad to have you," was the reply. "That will make it seem quite like home."
               "Have I told you anything about Owen?" asked Nat, when he found time to talk of any one but his mother.
               "Not a word," replied Rizpah. "I should like to hear how he prospers. You know I am interested in all your friends."
               "Well, Mr. Dunbar says he is perfectly satisfied with him, and father says the only fault he has to find with him is that he is too handsome. He goes to the noon prayer-meeting sometimes, but he says his father wouldn't allow him to go at all, if he wasn't afraid of displeasing Mr. Dunbar. He gave Owen a Bible, and he keeps it at the store. His parents are Catholics, and the priest doesn't allow any one to read our Bible. I do wish you could see him."
               "I think I should recognize him if I did," said Rizpah; "you have told me so much about him, I can fancy just how he looks."
               Nat had more to say of his friend, of whose success he was justly proud. "He lives in a better house, now, and his clothes are always nice, without any patches. His mother is very proud of him, and thinks he will be a great merchant. Father says it wouldn't be strange if he was, and I hope he will."
               The next day, agreeably to appointment, six physicians met in consultation upon the case of Mrs. Powers. Only two of these gave her friends any encouragement couragement to hope that her health might improve. They thought there was still a slight ground for hope, and together assumed the charge of her. The elder of these, a good, conscientious man, talked with her plainly, and advised her to be prepared for the worst. "We will do everything in our power to prolong your life," he said, "but the event rests with God. I think I can promise that we will, at least, make you more comfortable."
               All took courage at this, and the new treatment was commenced. At the end of two weeks, physicians and friends pronounced her better. Rizpah thought the improvement was very great, and wrote thus to Grandmother Powers. It sometimes seemed that the invalid was less sanguine than those about her.
               "You are really very much stronger, Burnie," said Mrs. Deans to her daughter "Yes, mother, I am," was the reply "and I suffer but little pain. I rest better than I have for several months, and altogether, I am very comfortable."
               "What you need, now, is to be in better spirits. I don't think it does you any good to hear so much of the Bible and such things. I blame Miss Hughes very much," said Mrs. Deans, who never looked upon Rizpah as any more than a servant.
               "Blame her, mother!" replied Mrs. Powers, with surprise. "She has done more for me than all the physicians. I grow stronger the moment she comes in sight."
               Mrs. Powers never wanted for care and attention. Nat often sat with her, and she complimented him by saying he was nearly as good a nurse as Rizpah. The children all came in every day to see their mother, but the younger ones were permitted to stay only a short time.
               "I wish I could read to you once, mother," said Gustave, as he stood beside her with a sorrowful face.
               "You may, darling," she replied; "I shall be glad to hear you at any time."
               After this, it was one of his greatest pleasures to read a few verses to his mother nearly every day. Arthur and Burnie were not wanting in affection, but they seemed to feel out of place in the sick-room, and their visits were never prolonged beyond a few minutes.
               It was now the last of November. Thanksgiving was just at hand, and Mrs. Powers was so much better, it was expected she would celebrate the national festival by appearing again in the dining-room. Her husband's sisters had been invited, and preparations for the feast had already commenced.
               
               Rizpah looked back longingly to her country home. She wished she could again enter the old church, and take her accustomed seat. She had visited some places of interest in the city, the house was filled with objects of beauty, and she was treated with the utmost consideration and kindness. But she felt too much alone, and nothing but the absolute certainty that her presence was essential to the comfort of her hostess, could have induced her to remain.
               Time sped on. Thanksgiving morning dawned, the expected guests had arrived, and everything promised a joyous holiday. But, to the disappointment of all, Mrs. Powers declared herself unable to join the family.
               Rizpah was appealed to, as authority in the matter.
               "She seems weaker than usual this morning," was the reply; "but she complains plains of no pain. I presume it is nothing serious, yet it might not be best for her to make any extra exertion, particularly as she seems disinclined to do so."
               Mrs. Powers received the brothers and sisters in her room, where she talked with them cheerfully. She was looking tolerably well, and they saw no reason for any great anxiety. Yet her husband was troubled. He had been so often deceived by temporary improvement that he was quick to take alarm, and the nurse, though always inclined to be hopeful, shared his fears. The next morning, when the physicians made their usual visit, it was evident that they were surprised at the change in their patient. She did not seem to suffer pain; it was only weariness. She was "so tired." Stimulants were resorted to, but with little effect. Day by day she grew weaker.
               The children came in only to kiss their mother, and then go out with sad, tearful faces. Mrs. Deans gave up all hope, and her only desire then seemed to be that her daughter might "die in peace."
               The evening readings in Rizpah's room were continued, and there the full hearts found some comfort. Nat was the one who sorrowed most deeply. He had prayed for his mother, and this made her dearer. "Can't you tell her that she must ask God to forgive her sins? Tell her that is the only way to be happy," he said, in one of his confidential talks with Rizpah.
               "I have done so," was the reply. "I can say nothing more. We must trust her, now, in His hands."
               About this time, the clergyman who ministered to the society of which Mr. Powers was a member called upon his sick parishioner. In all previous visits, he had endeavored to raise her spirits by speaking of her recovery as certain, but he could not then be guilty of this mockery. Mrs. Deans cautioned him against saying anything to her daughter that would have a tendency to excite her, and he was more than willing to accede to her wishes. He remained but a few minutes in the sick-room, where he spoke of the happiness it always afforded, to look back upon a pure, unclouded life; said something of an All Merciful Father, and the beauty of Christian faith and trust.
               This was little to sustain a human soul in its passage through the dark valley, but it was all offered by this pastor and teacher, and to Mrs. Deans it seemed all that was necessary.
               "It was very comforting," she said to a friend, "and I am sure my daughter felt it so."
               To Rizpah it was but the sound of idle words. She had said all that was proper to Mrs. Powers, and, as she told Nat, she must leave her in God's hands.
               Mr. Powers sometimes trembled for his wife, as he looked forward. "No fears for the future!" How often he had said that, yet his heart palpitated wildly as he thought of that future. His accustomed reasoning failed to assure him; his hope had not rested on a firm foundation, and now that sorrow threatened him, he was weak and fearful. He had thought himself wiser than his fathers, his views were broader and more liberal, but they had not been broad enough to embrace a preparation for eternity.
               Two weeks of gradual sinking, and the daughter of wealth, the mistress of an elegant home, and the mother of a lovely family closed her eyes upon all earthly things. Young hearts throbbed with anguish, the husband was almost stunned by the blow, and Mrs. Deans felt that her idol was broken, and refused to be comforted in her sorrow.
               The three days intervening between the death and burial of Mrs. Powers were spent by the family in utter seclusion. The store was closed, and the usual symbols testified to the presence of death in the proud dwelling. Mr. Dunbar came and went without ceremony, making all needful preparations for the last sad rites, while the chief mourner sat in his library with bowed head, or nervously paced the floor. He seemed to have no interest even in his children, dearly as he loved them. They clung to Rizpah in this their hour of need. She, worn by watching, and the heavy draft upon her sympathy, wished to go directly home, but their entreaties had prevailed.
               When the day for the funeral arrived, a large concourse of relatives and friends came to do honor to the deceased. Nothing was omitted that could testify to the respect and affection with which she was regarded. The officiating clergyman read a touching service, offered an eloquent prayer, and the long procession moved slowly to the beautiful cemetery, where the body was consigned to the tomb.
               It was over,—all over. Another soul had solved the mystery of death, and the mourners went about the streets. Business was again resumed, the usual routine of family life went on, but the wife and mother came not back. There were no more sounds of ringing laughter and merry voices; the hush of a great sorrow had fallen upon the house. Two weeks passed, every day bringing a visit from Mrs. Deans. She questioned her son-in-law as to what arrangement he proposed making. He had hardly thought. The children depended so entirely upon Rizpah that he had not thought it necessary for him to interfere.
               "Will you let Burnie come to live with me permanently?" asked her grandmother.
               "I should prefer not to have my children separated, but I cannot answer now decidedly."
               This reply was not satisfactory. The children had been before separated, Nat remaining in the country for several months. Mrs. Deans was very anxious to have Burnie with her. Her presence would, in some measure, compensate for the loss of her daughter, and, moreover, she was unwilling to have her sent again into the country.
               This question in regard to his daughter led Mr. Powers to think more of the interests of his children, and another circumstance soon rendered this imperative. Rizpah decided to go home. She needed rest, it was impossible for her to obtain it where she was, and no entreaty could induce her to change the decision.
               The father could not allow his children to be left there, with no one to have a special care of them. He could send them all to his father, but it seemed impossible for him to remain there alone. He thought of Burnie and her grandmother's request. He knew what influences would surround his daughter, should he grant this request, and he could imagine how vain and haughty she would become.
               Burdened with these thoughts, he sat down with his children, taking Maud in his lap, who, with childish tenderness, wiped the fast-coming tears from his eyes.
               "What are you going to do with us all now?" asked Gustave of his father.
               "I was trying to think," he replied, with great effort.
               "Please have Rizpah stay here and take care of us," said Mabel.
               "But she thinks she can't stay any longer."
               "She is almost sick herself," said Nat. "I think she needs to go home and have Grandmother Powers take care of her."
               "Then let us all go with her," said Gustave; "that will be the best way."
               "What do you say, Burnie?" asked her father.
               "Grandmother Deans wishes me to live with her."
               "And do you wish to do so?"
               "I would rather stay with Rizpah," she said.
               "I must think more about this," said Mr. Powers. "It would be a great advantage to Arthur to recite to Mr. Howard for six months. Perhaps I shall conclude to send you all home with Rizpah."
               The next day, a letter was received from Grandfather Powers. A sudden illness had prevented the aged couple from being present at the funeral of their daughter-in-law.
               "You can bring your children all here, if you desire it," said the letter. "We will try to do our duty by them."
               He knew his father and mother would do their duty, and in that, he feared, he had failed. He allowed Burnie to remain with Mrs. Deans for the winter. Arthur, subdued with grief at the death of his mother, and influenced by regard for Rizpah, cheerfully acquiesced in his father's arrangements.
               Dilla was easily induced to go with her charge, who almost forgot their grief in the anticipation of living with Grandmother Powers.
               The old home was again opened to receive the children, this time accompanied by an anxious, sorrowing father. The meeting lacked nothing of cordiality, but there was little of cheerfulness.
               "You must tell me all about it sometime, Rispy," said her old friend, the death of her daughter-in-law being uppermost in her mind. Then, stopping to look at her the second time, she added, "I do believe you are sick yourself."
               "I am tired," was the reply. "I have come home to rest."
               "And you shall rest," said Mrs. Douglass. "Your room is warm, and the best thing you can do is to go there. We don't want a particle of your help; Bridget is in the kitchen, and we are fully able to take care of the children and you, too."
               Rizpah yielded to this advice, and for the next week was a close prisoner in her room. She suffered from mental as well as physical exhaustion. She had so wished to do her duty, and she had been so anxious for her who was now gone.
               "Mrs. Powers talked but little the last weeks of her life," she said, in answer to a question asked by the mother. "She seemed to feel differently, however. She was always glad to hear the Bible read, and I hope she made some preparation for death."
               "We may all hope that," replied the old lady, "but a sick-bed is no place to do the work that has been neglected in health. There is nothing more we can do for her. She is in the hands of a just God."
               Lonely, indeed, was the home to which Mr. Powers returned. Everywhere, he was reminded of her he had lost. Even his counting-room seemed desolate, and he sometimes found himself pausing in the perusal of a most important letter to review the events of the past months. Mingled with this review, was many a thought of his mother's teachings and his father's prayers. The warnings, too, of that father sounded in his ears.
               "What do you think in regard to this business?" asked Mr. Dunbar.
               "I had entirely forgotten it," replied Mr. Powers. "I have not even read the letter; sit down, and I will read it now."
               The letter to which allusion was made had been placed in his hands more than half an hour before, and such occurrences were not unusual. Yet all things moved on prosperously under the care of his partner, whose worth he appreciated more than ever.
               All his friends sympathized with him in his affliction, and none more deeply than Mr. Long. One so long prayed for was not likely to be forgotten in sorrow. "If I could only point him to a heavenly Comforter, only make him see the fulness of consolation there is in Christ, I should feel that I offered him sympathy to some purpose," said this friend.
               "Have you made the effort to do this?" asked Mr. Dunbar, in reply to this remark.
               "I confess that I have not," said Mr. Long. "I have looked in vain for an opportunity when I thought such an effort would be attended with success. It is now nearly two years since I urged him to attend our noon prayer-meeting, and I then endeavored to reason with him and combat his prejudices, but I found it perfectly useless. He is trusting to an upright life for salvation, and nothing but the power of God can convince him of his error."
               "Yet I have strong faith that he will yet be a Christian," said Mr. Dunbar. "I know he says that the discipline of his childhood was too strict, and the surroundings of his home too solemn, but his own children are being trained in the same way by his parents, and he insists upon their implicit obedience. Only yesterday, he said that the old home was their only safe refuge."
               Mr. Long had felt it a great privation to keep silence before his friend upon the most important of all subjects. He was ever about his Master's business, but judicious in his selections of times and seasons. Many could testify to his faithfulness, and it seemed, as Mr. Tilton had once said, that saving souls was the business of his life.
               Well might he say so; for, through the blessing of God, Mr. Long had been instrumental in bringing him to the foot of the cross.
               "I can pray for William now," he said, "and that is a great comfort." It was a still greater comfort when the father knew that his son was praying for himself, and that in penitence and deep humility he sought the forgiveness of his sins.
               Mr. Long had never relaxed his efforts in behalf of this young man. "God helping us, we will save him yet," he had said to his father, when the first letter was received from the fugitive.
               It was not easy to reach and influence him with the Atlantic rolling between, but the earnest spirit had surmounted all obstacles, and William Tilton had obtained lucrative employment through the recommendation of his friends.
               Worldly wisdom would have suggested that this was assuming too much responsibility, but the event proved the contrary. The foundation for reform was laid by repentance, deep in the heart, and the superstructure was reared by patient tient, prayerful continuance in well-doing.
               Mr. Powers heard from Mr. Tilton the report of his son's improved prospects, and congratulated him. "I told you he would come out all right; I knew he had the elements of a noble character, and if he had once wandered from the right path, would soon return."
               "Yes," said the father, seriously, "he had the elements of a noble character, but he fell, and God's grace alone has enabled him to rise."
               At the end of six weeks, Mr. Powers went to visit his children, whom he found in perfect health. Rizpah had recovered from her fatigue and everything moved on harmoniously. Lessons were learned and recited at appointed hours, recreation, in doors and out, supplied needed exercise, and but for their recent bereavement, all would have been happy.
               
               "Life looks very dark to me," said Arthur Powers to his mother, the evening after his arrival.
               "If you will only heed the lesson God is teaching you, my son, your affliction may prove a blessing for which you will have reason to be thankful," was the reply.
               "That can never be," he said; "I can never be thankful for suffering."
               "And have you ever been thankful for prosperity, Arthur?"
               The son was silent, and she continued, "You have been a very prosperous man. It has seemed to me that every wish of your heart has been granted. Is it not so?"
               "I have been prospered," he replied.
               "Yet you have never acknowledged the hand of God in all this; you have been ungrateful."
               This seemed severe to the afflicted man, but he could not deny its truth. Yet he would not make this acknowledgment to his mother, but replied, "You know we don't think alike about these things."
               "I know we don't," she said; "but all the thinking in the world will never make falsehood to be truth."
               This mother may seem, to some of our readers, to have been wanting in tenderness. "How could she offer reproof instead of sympathy?" it may be asked. "How, if she loved her son, could she, by any word of hers, have added to his sorrow?" It was because of her love, her great love that looked far beyond the present, that she thus reminded him of his ingratitude to his Maker. She had hoped and prayed that this affliction might soften his heart, but he wrapped closer about him the mantle of his self-righteousness, and turned from the only Comforter.
               
               The mother saw that it was useless to attempt to continue the conversation. She must wait still longer.
               This visit had little of incident. Mr. Powers remained but two days, and the time was spent quietly, sadly, with his children. Nat had inquiries to make in regard to Owen, all of which were answered to his satisfaction, and the credit of the errand-boy.
               "Mr. Dunbar told me, a few days ago, that he was attending an evening-school, to learn bookkeeping. He is already a good writer, and will probably make rapid progress."
               Nat was delighted to hear this news of his friend, and after discussing his merits for some time, he remembered his old man.
               "He is doing well," said Mr. Powers. "He says he has everything he needs."
               "I am so glad I found him," replied Nat. "He was dreadful hungry then. He might have starved before now."
               The finding was fortunate for both parties, certainly for the old man, whose wants had been relieved. Nat, too, had learned many valuable lessons in the humble room, and it is ever more blessed to give than to receive.
               About two weeks after this visit, it occurred to Nat, who was always thinking of others rather than himself, that his father might be less lonely if he should go back and stay with him. Rizpah was consulted, and she advised that a letter be written, asking his father's consent to his plan.
               This was done, and an answer soon received that Nat's presence would be most welcome. Preparations were made for his immediate return home. Arthur was somewhat displeased that his younger brother could go while he remained, and Gustave openly rebelled. He was sure he couldn't get along without Brother Nat, and it required considerable reasoning and persuasion to reconcile him to the arrangement.
               In less than a week from the time his proposal was made to his father, Nat was once more established at home, where he was warmly welcomed. Burnie came to spend the next day with him, and it passed pleasantly, although a chill fell upon their hearts as they entered their mother's room. There was much to tell, for Burnie had not forgotten her country friends, and Nat had a faculty of making very prosy news attractive.
               "We must not look sad when father comes in," said the thoughtful boy. "I have come home to cheer him up, and I intend to succeed."
               At the dinner-table, there was more of cheerfulness than there had been for several eral months, and for a little while, Mr. Powers forgot his sorrow.
               In the evening Nat accompanied Burnie to Mrs. Deans', where he made but a short call, so anxious was he to return to his father.
               "Can you spend your evenings here?" he asked Nat, as he entered the library. "It seems less lonely to me here than in the other rooms."
               "I can stay wherever you do," was the reply. "I came home to stay with you."
               Sometimes reading, sometimes talking, the evening went by, and Mr. Powers was surprised to find it had passed so quickly.
               "Are you willing I should read a chapter from the Bible?" asked Nat, just before they were ready to separate for the night.
               "Yes," replied his father, without looking ing up from the paper he held in his hand, but when Nat commenced reading, the paper was laid aside.
               Nat went to bed that night with a comparatively light heart, and found, in the morning, to use his own expression, that it was time he came home; Owen Murphy needed him sadly.
               The priest, who had paid but little heed to the Murphy family when destitute and suffering, began to think it quite time to look after them, when they were in a more prosperous condition. Owen was becoming an object of interest. The priest shared the opinion of his parents that he was an uncommonly fine boy, and it was necessary that he should be kept fast to the Mother Church.
               Mr. and Mrs. Murphy were good Catholics, and when Father McDermott told them that Owen must have nothing to do with heretic meetings, notwithstanding their fears of displeasing his employers, they laid their commands upon him.
               This was about a week before Nat came home, and the very day of his arrival the priest made another call upon the Murphys, this time when Owen was at home. He informed the boy that he had found another place for him, and desired him to be ready to enter upon his new duties the following week.
               "But I don't wish to leave where I am," said Owen, decidedly. "There is no reason why I should do so. I have just engaged for another year at increased wages."
               The priest scowled and the mother trembled. Mr. Murphy was disposed to yield all due respect and reverence to spiritual powers, but this demand was a little too much. Owen was the very pride of his heart. He had made every sacrifice to give him a respectable education tion, and he was in just the place he desired for him. To be told now that he must leave, roused all the Irishman's temper, and but for his wife he would have ordered Father McDermott out of the house.
               As it was, this visit produced great excitement in the family, but Owen protested that he could not leave the store. "I go into that little dirty grocery!" he said. "No, mother, I'll not do it."
               "But the priest?"
               "I don't care for him," was the reply.
               In the year that had passed, the boy had learned something of a more excellent way, and had no reverence and little of respect for the priest. He occasionally accompanied his parents to church, though oftener making an excuse to remain at home.
               The next day the priest made a visit to Mrs. Murphy in the absence of her husband, and so wrought upon her superstitious fears that she was ready to sacrifice the worldly prospects of her son in order that his soul might be saved. Poor Owen passed a sleepless night. He had no idea of yielding to this unreasonable demand, but it troubled him, and the more since his father, under the combined influence of his wife and the priest, began to waver.
               Nothing could have been more welcome to the persecuted boy, on the morning in question, than the sight of his friend Nat. He could tell him the whole story. He was sure of Mr. Dunbar's sympathy and assistance, but Nat was his dependence.
               "I will tell father," he said, when he had heard the particulars of the case; "but you wont go away; will you, Owen?"
               "I will not," replied the boy.
               Nat, satisfied with this reply, went in search of his father, whom, fortunately, he found at leisure. Mr. Powers was as much interested in the case as his son could desire. "I must look to this," he said at length. "You may send Owen here."
               "Well, Owen, are you going to leave us?" he asked, as the boy answered the summons.
               "No, sir, not unless you send me away," was the reply.
               "I guess there is no danger of that, so we shall be likely to keep you for the present, unless Father McDermott has too much influence."
               Mr. Dunbar then came in, and, for the first time, heard of the priest's interference.
               "You can't wish to leave us, Owen?" said his employer.
               "No, sir, and neither would father and mother wish that I should, if the priest hadn't frightened them. They think he can punish us all forever, but I know better."
               Nat was waiting anxiously to see what would be done, and had quite made up his mind to visit Mrs. Murphy, when his father expressed his intention of doing so. "I should like to go when I shall be sure of seeing your father," he said to Owen.
               "He goes home to dinner at the same time I do," replied the boy.
               "Then come into the counting-room when you are ready, and I will go home with you," said Mr. Powers.
               Owen went about his work, feeling very happy. Nat started for school with a light heart. Agreeably to his intention, Mr. Powers walked home with Owen, and was introduced to his parents. He knew just what to say to such people, and before he had been in their room ten minutes, he had overcome all their scruples, and they had promised that then son should be allowed to remain in his store.
               At this juncture of affairs, Father McDermott himself entered. Mr. Powers recognized him at once, and was "very happy" to see him. Politeness dictated a cordial reply, though the priest wished the merchant a thousand miles away.
               Mr. Powers did not hesitate to continue his conversation in regard to Owen, and asked the parents to repeat the promise they had previously made. This was done, despite the commands of the priest.
               "Now, Mr. McDermott," said the merchant, "you understand that Owen Murphy is to remain with us, unless he chooses to leave."
               "I sha'n't do that!" said the excited
                     Owen and the Priest. "Deacon Sims," page 347.
                  
                   boy, delighted that the business was settled.
               "I hope not," said Mr. Powers. Then turning to Mr. McDermott, he added, "We propose to make a merchant of him."
               At this, the parents looked proudly at their son, without deigning to notice the muttered maledictions of the priest as he left the room.
               "I am glad he has gone," said Owen, "and I just hope he will stay away for the future."
               "I hope so, too," said the father, with a strong Irish brogue; "we've had enough of him for the present."
               Mr. Powers laughed heartily when relating the particulars of this interview to his partner. This interest he had felt for Owen had greatly benefited him, for it had drawn his thoughts away from himself and his sorrow.
               
               He grew more cheerful. Burnie came home often, now Nat was there, and the library was the scene of much quiet though chastened enjoyment. The Bible was read there every evening, and the bond between father and son grew stronger and more enduring.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               CONVERSION OF MR. POWERS.
               
                  
                     
                        Christ all in all,—no other name
                        To sinful man is given;
                        No other refuge here below,
                        No other hope of heaven.
                     
                  
               
               PASSING over an interval of two years, we again present to you the family of Arthur Powers. He is looking older than when we last saw him, and the lines of his face are more strongly marked. He has continued to prosper in his business, wealth has flowed in upon him, and so far as worldly possessions are concerned, he has nothing to desire.
               His father and mother are still living, keeping open doors at the old home for children and children's children. They are reaping the reward that old age always brings to those who spend the strength of their days in the service of their Lord. Mrs. Douglass retains her place in the household, and Rizpah Hughes, whom the old lady fondly called her youngest daughter, had found no other home.
               "We couldn't keep house without her," said Grandfather Powers. "She makes music for the whole family."
               Mabel and Maud had come to look upon Grandmother Powers' house as their permanent home, and there they grew strong and beautiful.
               Arthur had entered college the year after his mother's death, and at the time I resume my story, was in his sophomore year. He was eighteen years of age, and, as had been predicted, was a brilliant scholar. So long under the influence of Mr. Howard, he had acquired some of his ways of thinking, and previous to his entering college, nothing worthy of severe reprimand had come under the observation of his father. He had, of course, yielded deference to Mr. Howard's religious opinions, although his father's want of religion had far the greater power over him.
               Nat was fifteen, a noble boy, with more real manly beauty than his older brother, and infinitely more true moral principle. He was ready for college. His father had no fears in regard to his conduct there, but he had a great dread of being left without him. He had been his almost constant companion since he voluntarily returned to the desolate home, and, as he said, he depended upon Nat to keep him in good spirits.
               Burnie was a young lady, not quite so vain as her father had expected, although she spent most of the time with her Grandmother Deans. Her intercourse with Nat, whom she greatly respected, and occasional visits to the old home, served to keep her vanity in check.
               Gustave was as nearly like Nat as it was possible for him to be, and this is the best description we can give of him. He liked the country as well as ever, but could stay in the city if Nat was with him. What he should do when this brother went to college, he had not been able to decide.
               Two years had brought some changes to the friends of the family. Mr. Dunbar had married, and, with his amiable Christian wife, occupied a house not far from that of his partner. Nat and Gustave were their frequent guests, and Mr. Powers sometimes made one of the company.
               He had not entered general society since the death of his wife, only visiting occasionally at the houses of some particular ular friends, among whom Mr. Long held a prominent position. This good man still prayed for Mr. Powers, and sometimes reminded him of the fact; but he found no opportunity for further reasoning. "I cannot think as you do," was the constant reply.
               The noon prayer-meetings were well attended, yet Mr. Powers had never once been present. Nat and Gustave had urged him to go with them, but he refused, much as he disliked to deny Nat anything he desired.
               "I cannot do that," he said. "I am perfectly willing you should go in, if you choose, but don't ask me again."
               "What is the reason?" asked Gustave, when they had left their father. "I do believe he is afraid he shall pray himself."
               It may be that he was.
               These brothers, with Owen Murphy, were often seen in the prayer-meeting together, where their earnest, handsome faces could not fail to attract attention.
               "Powers' sons are likely to begin right, if he doesn't lead the way," said one merchant to another.
               "Two of them," replied his companion; "but the oldest, who is in college, is pretty sure to go astray. At least, I hear it remarked that he associates with a set of young men who, like himself, have more money than principle. His father kept a close watch over him when with him, but I am afraid he will yet disgrace his family."
               "He is considered a brilliant scholar," said the first speaker.
               "Remarkably so," was the reply, "and that is what has sustained him in a creditable position so far."
               The father knew enough of this to feel greatly troubled, and was revolving the best method for reforming his son. He had gone so far that reform was the word to be used when speaking of him. Reports of midnight suppers, where the wine flowed freely, and of many things contrary to college rules, had reached his ears.
               Some fathers would have looked upon these irregularities as only the natural overflow of youthful spirits, and although to be deprecated, yet not deserving severe censure. But Mr. Powers saw them in a different light. He called vice and dissipation by their true names, and it was apparent to him that Arthur was in danger of adding another name to the long list of dissipated young men.
               Letters full of reproof and advice were sent, and promises of amendment received in return. Arthur Powers had still the fear of his father before his eyes, and away from the influence of his companions, often resolved to lay aside his bad habits. During the spring vacation, which he spent in the city, he was so closely guarded from temptation that he managed to conduct himself with something like propriety. Grandmother Deans had been somewhat annoyed by the reports she had heard of his "wildness," but when she saw him so gentlemanly and respectful, she was inclined to think that he had been misrepresented.
               Arthur was not careful to conceal his faults from his brothers, and they, consequently, understood his character better even than their father. He sometimes allowed an oath to escape him, and then laughed scornfully at the reproofs he received. Burnie, who had formerly sympathized with him, was now shocked at his want of reverence, and consulted with her brothers as to the propriety of "letting father know just how Arthur talked." Gustave thought this was just what ought to be done, but Nat opposed it. "I am afraid it wont do any good," he said, "and it will only prejudice Arthur against us. He needs Grandfather Powers to deal with him."
               The first evening Arthur was at home, he rose to leave the room when Nat commenced reading the Bible, but a command from his father caused him to resume his seat. After this, he usually absented himself, when it could be done without exciting remark. He tried ridiculing his brothers and sister, but the shafts aimed at them rebounded against himself. Nat was "firm as the hills."
               Mr. Powers hesitated somewhat about allowing Arthur to return to college, but finally yielded to his persuasions. The evening before his son left, he was alone with him for several hours, and every argument that could be used by one who has no love of God in his heart was brought to bear upon him. Moved to tears, he promised all that his father desired.
               "Words are worth little," replied the father. "Show me by your conduct that you mean what you say, and I shall be satisfied."
               Time alone could show this, and the next morning Arthur returned to the scenes of his former temptations fully resolved not to yield.
               The great event of the coming summer was the proposed visit of Mr. Powers to the old home. Burnie, Nat, and Gustave were to accompany him, and he was to remain two or three months. June was the usual time for going into the country, Mr. Powers always saying that half the beauty of the summer was lost by waiting until July.
               It seemed to Maud and Mabel that the time would never come. They were impatient patient to see "father and Nat and Gustave and Burnie." Maud told her sister she was glad Arthur wasn't coming. "He thinks I am so little," she said, standing on tiptoe to make herself as tall as possible.
               I hardly think any one was sorry; for rumors of what seemed dreadful things to the dwellers in the old home had reached their ears.
               The long-looked-for day came at last; the distant whistle of the cars was heard, and in due time, the family wagon appeared in sight.
               "There they come, there they come!" shouted Maud and Mabel, while their feet kept time to their words.
               For the next ten minutes, everybody asked questions without waiting to have them answered. When order was restored, and the younger travellers had laid aside their dusty garments, supper was ready. Burnie came in with her arms around Rizpah, the boys following and complaining that they had hardly been able to speak to her.
               "And I have not even seen her," said Mr. Powers, advancing to offer the customary greetings.
               "We sha'n't be jealous of you, Rispy, if the children do think more of you than of us old folks," said Grandmother Powers.
               Then followed eager assurances that grandfather and grandmother were not overlooked. "Of course, we love you," said Nat.
               "Did you ever see anybody you didn't love?" asked his father.
               "Yes, sir," replied the boy.
               "I should really like to know who it is."
               "Old Peter Jones," was the prompt reply.
               This called forth a shout of laughter, in which all joined, for old Peter Jones was the most disagreeable man within twenty miles. He was rich, owned a large farm, and a good house, but he was too stingy to live comfortably or dress decently. People used to say, "if he was obliged to pay a dollar a year for the air he breathed, he would die to save expense."
               Supper had been waiting during this conversation, and when the laughter had subsided, the family gathered around the table. Ample justice having been done to the good things provided, Rizpah and the older children adjourned to the parlor.
               "Hear Rispy play," said Grandmother Powers to her son.
               "I was just listening," he replied.
               "I am learning to play too," said Mabel. She was obliged to repeat this piece of information several times before her father made any reply.
               He was "just listening" to other music.
               The next morning the family rose early. "It is of no use to think of sleeping here after daylight," said Mr. Powers, entering the kitchen.
               "It is no time to sleep," said his father.
               It was time to talk, as was evident to all who could afford to listen, and the kitchen seemed to be the place chosen to unloose all tongues. Mrs. Douglass rebelled, and with a flourish of her broom, dispersed the crowd.
               In the afternoon, a walk by the brook was proposed. "Who lives in your house, Rizpah?" asked Nat, as they came in sight of the brown cottage.
               "A poor woman, with two little girls," was the reply. "Would you like to go in?"
               "We should like to go very much," said Burnie, "if she is willing."
               At this moment the little girls appeared at the door, and then ran in to tell their mother that "the lady" had come. The lady was no stranger to them, and she soon introduced her companions.
               Mrs. Jameson, for such was the name of the woman who occupied the cottage, looked sad and dejected. Her dress and that of the children bespoke poverty. The furniture belonged to the owner of the house.
               Nat managed to get up quite an acquaintance with the little girls, and when he left, promised to see them again. Burnie wondered if this woman, like the former occupant, had left a rich husband because he was ugly.
               Mr Powers met the returning party, and inquired why he had been left uninvited.
               "You were fast asleep when we came out," said Burnie; "I looked in the parlor to see."
               "Well, you can wake me next time," he replied.
               "Who is this Mrs. Jameson that lives in Rizpah's cottage?" he asked of his mother, when they entered the house.
               "Deacon Sims' youngest daughter," she replied. "Her husband died last fall, and left her without anything to support her children. She sold off what little furniture she had, and raised money enough to get back here. She came to your father to ask some advice about what she should do, and Rizpah was very glad to have her go into the cottage. She wanted to work, but everybody could see she wasn't fit for it, so the neighbors and members of the church contributed enough to give her a pretty good stock of provisions, and she is very comfortable."
               "I thought Deacon Sims left something for his children," said the son.
               "So he did," was the reply, "but Jameson was shiftless and spent it all. The other daughter and the sons are all out West, and Emily had nobody to look to for anything."
               "She never ought to want in this town," said Grandfather Powers, who had just come in. "Her father gave away enough here to have his daughter well cared for. Have I ever told you, Arthur, that there was once a heavy mortgage on this farm?"
               "I think I have known it," replied the son.
               "Then no matter how you found it out, but I never should have got rid of that mortgage in the world, if it hadn't been for Deacon Sims. When I lacked money to pay the interest, he always let me have it, and he advised me about paying the principal. He was a shrewd business man, and understood the value of property better than I did. Finally, he let me have the money to clear off the whole incumbrance, and took his pay in stock and produce. He never wanted anything said about it, for he wasn't one to parade his good deeds."
               "He was a friend worth having, father. There are few so disinterested as that," said the son.
               "Now, father, I'm going to tell Arthur about that other money," said the old lady, pushing back her spectacles. "It's time he knew it, and it can't make any difference with the deacon."
               "Perhaps you may as well," said her husband.
               "Well," she commenced, "when you wanted to go to the Academy to learn to be a clerk, we hadn't a great deal beforehand, and your father thought he couldn't send you. One day, when the deacon was here, he talked with him about it, and told him he guessed you'd have to give it up. 'It will take a hundred dollars,' said your father, 'and I haven't got it to spare.' The deacon didn't say much, then, only hoped there would be some way for the boy to go. The next day, he came over and gave your father a hundred dollars, and told him to spend it for you. 'I always thought a good deal of Arthur,' he said, 'and I shall be glad to help give him a start in the world.'"
               Here, the mother was forced to stop, and, for a few minutes, there was an unbroken silence. At length, the old man took up the story.
               "That hundred dollars was the money I gave you the night before you went away to school."
               "Why didn't you tell me of this before?" asked the son, with streaming eyes.
               "Because the deacon didn't wish to have you know it."
               "And was that hundred dollars ever paid?"
               "I paid it with the first hundred dollars you sent me," replied the father. "He never would take any note for it, and he wasn't willing to receive the money, but I insisted. He said he should give it to the first person that needed it, and I presume he did."
               "I ought to have known this before," said the son. "I have often thought of that hundred dollars, and wondered how it came to you, just as I had made up my mind that I must give up my plans."
               "It came from Deacon Sims, Arthur, the man whose prayers were so tiresome to you."
               Never was rebuke more severely felt than this. Arthur Powers bowed his head-and wept like a child. How he had wronged that good man!
               But the father had not quite finished his recital. "A few days before the deacon died, he told me he had prayed for you every day since he gave me that hundred dollars. 'I know Arthur thinks now that our religion is old-fashioned, but he will see, sometime, that it is the religion of heaven,'" he said.
               So he owed his first start in life to this same Deacon Sims, whose prayers and exhortations he had so often quoted as dull and tiresome.
               "I presume the prayers he offered for you were long ones, Arthur," said Grandfather Powers, laying his hand upon the head of his son, just as he used to do when he was a boy.
               It needed but this to subdue the heart of the proud man, and, rising, he went directly to his room, where he remained through the evening. He offered as an excuse for not appearing at supper, that he had a severe headache. This was true, but he had a heartache which troubled him far more. The children were afraid father was going to be sick, but the parents understood the case better.
               The next morning, he looked somewhat paler than usual, but no allusion was made to the conversation of the preceding day. After breakfast, he went to Rizpah and asked her if she was willing to sell her cottage. "I will give you a good price for it," he said.
               "But I don't wish to sell it at any price," she replied, "and I can't imagine what you should want of it."
               "I want it to give to Mrs. Jameson," he said. "I learned yesterday that I was indebted to her father for a great kindness, and I wish to repay it by benefiting the daughter."
               "That is the case with me," said Rizpah. "Deacon Sims was the first friend my mother had here. She told him her history, and he helped her with his advice. He would have given her money, but she was too proud to receive it. I am very glad, now, to give the use of the cottage and the furniture to Mrs. Jameson, but that will neither feed nor clothe her and her children."
               "I understand that," said Mr. Powers, and he went to find his father.
               "I am glad you have thought of that," replied the old man. "I will see that she has enough to eat, and you had better speak to Rizpah about the dress part."
               
               This was also attended to, and if Mrs. Jameson was not well dressed afterwards, it was from no lack of means. Mr. Powers never imagined that he was thus cancelling his obligation to the good old deacon, but it was a pleasure to do even so much.
               There was little to mark the passing of the days, but they were full of enjoyment. There were riding, walking, and fishing always at hand. Mr. Howard found his young friends inclined to be more social than ever, now that he was established in the parsonage with "such a pretty wife." Gustave and Nat were the same good boys they had always been, but the minister was anxious in regard to Arthur. He had seen some things in his conduct that had not pleased him, and he had heard of his course in college.
               Vacation brought Arthur Powers to meet his father in the old home. He had been more guarded in his behavior during the last term, and consequently, a better report was received of him.
               There was a great difference between his appearance and that of his Brother Nat, but even Burnie allowed that he was not half so bad as he had been in the spring. Only once did he swear in the hearing of his brothers, and then. Gustave assured him that if he said "such wicked words" again, he would certainly tell his father.
               Arthur's remark that this would be very mean only elicited the reply that nothing could be meaner than swearing.
               "What do you think Mr. Howard and Rizpah would say, if they should hear you?"
               This was a question Arthur, did not care to consider or answer, but he inwardly wardly resolved that they should never hear him.
               Nat, who had passed his examination with honor, entered college upon Arthur's return, and the father hoped much from the influence of the younger brother. They occupied rooms together, and Arthur's friends welcomed his brother cordially. Nat, who was a good judge of character, saw at a glance that they were no associates for him.
               "That brother of Powers is a splendid young fellow," said one student to another after having made a call at their rooms.
               "He is fine looking," said his companion, "and I hear he is a tip-top scholar, but he isn't one of our sort."
               "How do you know that?"
               "Oh, Powers has told me all about him. He reads the Bible and prays like a parson."
               "He'll get over that pretty soon here," said the first speaker.
               "Don't flatter yourself," said his companion. "If you had taken the trouble to look at him closely, you would have a different opinion from that. No more wine-suppers in that room, unless I am mistaken."
               "We can put him out of the way," said student number one.
               "I reckon you'll find him a pretty stubborn fact when you undertake that Better just let him alone."
               "Perhaps so, but I guess not exactly. Powers was altogether too quiet last term, and he must pay for it now."
               Meeting some of their boon companions, they reported the new-comer, and judging from their conversation, they promised themselves rare sport.
               After reading the Bible and offering his evening prayer, Nat lay down, thinking ing of the friends he had left, and knowing little of the temptations he was likely to meet.
               One thing, he was no coward. He was not afraid to do right, and he had a supreme contempt for ridicule. The first and second week passed off tolerably, but Nat soon found there would be nothing like peace and quietness in their rooms, unless there was some change. Arthur studied when left to himself, and his lessons were always well prepared, but his brother desired more than this. He determined that there should be no rowdyism in any room that he occupied.
               We cannot tell the reader how much this resolution cost him, but he never gave up. He persevered until it was generally understood that there could be no drinking or swearing in the rooms occupied by the Powers brothers, and not one of the students but honored Nat for his decision.
               Everything was in his favor. He had money, position as a scholar, an agreeable address, and a resolute will.
               But how did home seem without this boy? He was sadly missed. Gustave was trying to fill his place, and his father told him he was "next to Nat, for company."
               This satisfied him. He never dreamed of being quite equal to his favorite brother. Burnie was away at school, while Maud and Mabel were in the country.
               At this time the thoughts of Mr. Powers were much occupied with the memory of the good deacon who was early introduced to our readers. He remembered how earnestly he had desired the education necessary to fit him for a business life; how long he had hesitated before making known this desire, and how anxiously he waited for his father's decision.
               "I am willing to work hard for you, Arthur, but I can't see my way clear to do this. I'll talk with your mother, and see what she thinks."
               Such was the reply he received, and but for Deacon Sims, his hopes might never have been realized. More than thirty years had passed since then, but that last evening at home was not forgotten. Again he heard his mother's words of counsel and his father's prayers.
               "O Lord of hosts, make him strong in the day of temptation. Preserve him from open vice and secret sins. Bless him for time and for eternity. Forgive his transgressions, and save him at last in heaven."
               Standing under the old elm the morning of his departure, his father had uttered this prayer. He had sent forth his sons with no such petition. No memories of holy counsels clustered around their elegant home.
               He numbered the days Deacon Sims had lived after he had been the recipient of his bounty. Twenty years! Seven thousand prayers! He was overwhelmed at the thought. His views of religion had entirely changed since his first conversation with Mr. Long in regard to the noon prayer-meeting. He no longer prided himself upon his good works. His robe of self-righteousness seemed but filthy rags. He wished he was a Christian, even such a one as Deacon Sims had been. Not such a man, with no great intelligence and little general culture, but such a devoted, earnest Christian. "I ought to be," he would say to himself, "and I must be." But it was humiliating to acknowledge publicly that he had been so long in error, and he delayed layed. Letters from his sons were frequently received, and he had hopes of Arthur's improvement, until startled by the announcement that he had been a participant in a mock prayer-meeting. For this, and other general misconduct, he would be obliged to leave college for several months.
               A letter from Nat, by the same mail, gave the particulars of the disgraceful affair, and closed by saying that Arthur waited for his father's commands.
               When Mr. Powers was able to think and decide what should be done, he wrote to Arthur to go directly to the old home, and there remain until he should join him. "Be sure you obey me in this," was the closing injunction. He then despatched a letter to his father, saying that Arthur would be at his house in a few days, to remain for the present.
               This done, he sat down to reckon with himself. The conversation between Arthur and Gustave, more than two years before, recurred to him. Was he not responsible for the conduct of his son? Neglecting the Bible, why should his children reverence its teachings? Why should they deem words of prayer too sacred to be uttered lightly, when their father knelt only in the presence of his earthly parents? If Arthur thought prayer-meetings dull and tiresome, had he not good authority for his opinion?
               As these and many more like questions were suggested, the upright merchant trembled in view of the guilt which rested upon his soul.
               Three days later he received another letter from Nat, saying that Arthur had gone to Grandfather Powers'. "The only excuse he makes for his conduct is that you don't believe in prayer-meetings He says this because you never attend them. Forgive me for writing this," said the boy, in closing, "but I wished you to know all about it."
               "It is time for me to know all about it," said the father to himself.
               The next day, at noon, Mr. Powers went out of the store, and walked in the direction of the building where the prayer-meeting was held, but, before reaching it, turned and retraced his steps. This did not satisfy him; he walked again to the very door, hesitated, returned the salutations of two or three gentlemen who were entering, and then, as if suddenly recalling some neglected business, went back.
               He entered his counting-room, but there was no rest for him there. He thought of Arthur, of what Nat had written, of the prayers which had been offered for him during so many years, and again he went out. His decision was made. The prayer-meeting was attended. Each word that he heard increased his sense of guilt. Only the assurance of mercy for the chief of sinners gave him hope of pardon.
               Mr. Long grasped his hand warmly when the exercises were concluded. "I am glad to see you here," he said; but his friend made no reply. The fountains of his heart were too deeply stirred.
               Mr. Powers was seen no more that day in his place of business. There was a misspent life to review. He had been deceived by the pride and wickedness of his own heart. He acknowledged this with the deepest humility, praying God, for Christ's sake, to forgive his sins.
               He was then ready to see Arthur; and the next morning, taking Gustave with him, he started on his journey.
               Never had the old home seemed so dear. Never had he crossed its threshold with a feeling of such thankfulness.
               Maud and Mabel welcomed him with outstretched arms. His parents met him cordially, but sadly. There was a troubled, anxious look in their faces, such as he remembered to have seen years before, when one of their children had been unusually perverse.
               "Where is Arthur?" he asked.
               "In his room," replied Grandfather Powers, "where he has been most of the time since he came here. He chooses to remain there," he added, in reply to a questioning glance. "Rizpah is with him."
               "I must go to him," said the father.
               "I wish to talk with you a little before you see your boy."
               This was said in just the same grave tone the merchant had so often heard in his boyhood. It was then a sure harbinger ger of reproof; but he followed his father into the parlor, and waited respectfully for what he might say.
               "You blame your boy for what he has done?"
               "Indeed, I do, father."
               "Rizpah has told me all I know about this trouble. Arthur has been guilty of great wickedness, but you are not guiltless in the affair. He says you don't believe in prayer-meetings and reading the Bible."
               "But I do," was the reply.
               "What reason have your children for thinking so? They judge by what they see and hear. How long is it since you were in a prayer-meeting?"
               "I was in a prayer-meeting yesterday," replied the son, in broken accents. "Oh, father, pray for me that my sins may be forgiven!"
               "Arthur, Arthur, do you believe that you are a sinner?" cried the old man, with streaming eyes.
               "Yes, father, a sinner justly condemned. Pray that my sins may be forgiven."
               There was little need for this entreaty. Such emotions as filled the aged father's heart could find utterance only in prayer. Thanking God that he had, in his merciful providence, brought this son to see his lost and perishing condition, he prayed that his guilt might be washed away in the blood of the Lamb.
               It was a long prayer, but the listener was not weary,—an earnest prayer, but it expressed not half the wants of his guilty soul.
               "I have expected to see this day, my son," said the suppliant, after rising from his knees.
               "Would it had come sooner!" was the reply.
               "It has been long to wait," said the old man. "But go, now," he added. "I must see your mother."
               Mr. Powers mounted the stairs slowly, and, stopping at the door of Arthur's room, heard him say, "I cannot see father; I have disgraced him forever."
               He waited no longer. As he opened the door, Rizpah glided from the room. "Oh, father, can you ever forgive me?" exclaimed Arthur. "I would give all the world to recall that dreadful night."
               "We have both been guilty, my son," was the reply. "Let us ask God's forgiveness."
               More eloquent than many sermons, and more effective than the severest punishment, was the petition which followed.
               Making no effort to extenuate his guilt, the son confessed his misdoings. They had been greater than his father supposed. It was time that some new influence ence should be brought to bear upon this young life.
               "Now, father, can you forgive me?" he asked, when the recital was closed.
               "I can, my son," was the reply.
               "Then you never, never shall have cause to blush for me again."
               "Please God, I will be a better father to you than I have yet been," said the penitent man. "We will take the Bible for our guide in the future."
               The call to supper was unheeded, until Maud intruded her bright face, and saw, with wonder, that "father and Brother Arthur were both crying." Nestling in her father's lap, she wiped away his tears. Then he carried her out, leaving his son to the rest he so much needed. His mother met him in the hall.
               "Tell me, Arthur, are you a Christian? Oh, tell me, are my prayers answered?" she asked, with faltering tongue.
               "I wish to be a Christian, but I still need your prayers, mother," he replied, allowing Maud to escape from his arms.
               Supper waited, for no one cared to summon the occupants of the parlor. Half an hour passed, and Grandmother Powers appeared with her son; but, seated at the table, she seemed unmindful of the food before her.
               Gustave attributed all manifestations of emotion to grief for Arthur's misconduct; but when, at family worship, his grandfather said, "Let us hear your voice in prayer, my son," he remembered there were tears of joy as well as of sorrow.
               Unexpected as was this request, there was no hesitation on the part of the son. Short and simple was his plea for forgiveness, and at its close another voice was heard, saying, "For this crowning mercy of our lives, O God, we thank thee."
               At the first movement Gustave sprang, sobbing, to his father. Mabel, who was old enough to understand that something very strange had happened, mingled her tears with those of her brother, while Maud wept for sympathy.
               Arthur was absent, but not forgotten. He had begged the privilege of remaining in his room through the evening. Rizpah found an opportunity to see him, when he described the interview with his father, adding, "After he left me, I tried to pray for myself."
               The next day was a bright one in the history of the Powers family. Arthur gave proofs of such sincere repentance for his course in college, and was so anxious to resume his studies, that even Grandfather Powers had confidence in the boy. Gustave was in a state of delight, while Maud and Mabel, always happy, were in more exuberant spirits than usual.
               Three letters were despatched to Nat, all containing the same intelligence. As for Rizpah, her face was full of quiet happiness.
               Mr. Powers, at Arthur's urgent request, called upon Mr. Howard, and asked him to receive his son again, as a pupil, making no secret of the circumstances under which he had been suspended from college. "I purpose to keep him here until the close of the year," he said. "He needs to have his principles more firmly established, and I shall hope much from your influence."
               Arthur acquiesced cheerfully in this decision, firmly resolved that in the future he would make amends for the past.
               Mr. Powers seemed in no haste to leave the old home. The visit must have been more pleasant than he had anticipated. Nearly a week was spent there, during which time he attended a prayer-meeting meeting, and made glad the heart of his father by speaking a word for Jesus.
               Henceforth he was no stranger to the prayer-meeting in country or city. He labored faithfully, redeeming the time; but his best efforts were devoted to the religious training of his children.
               When Arthur returned to college, he was strong to resist temptation, and finished his course with honor, as a scholar and a Christian. Then, after much deliberation and many prayers, he decided to spend his life in preaching "the religion of his fathers."
               Nat is in the store, side by side with Owen Murphy. Both are professing Christians, and Owen bids fair to realize the most ambitious hopes of his mother. Gustave, too, proposes to be a merchant, like Brother Nat.
               Grandmother Deans no longer claims Burnie. Maud and Mabel have been recalled called from the old home; and, with them, came one whom we have known as Rizpah Hughes, but who is now the honored wife of Arthur Powers.
            
         
      
   
