
    ----CITATION----
        Edwards, Henry, (1824-1891). Fashion and Famine .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6370
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            PRICE 25 CENTS. COMPLETE. 
            ADVANCE PRIZE ROMANCES 
             
               FASHION AND FAMINE. 
             
          
          
             
             
               FASHION and FAMINE. 
               Life in New York. 
             
            BY HENRY EDWARDS, ESQ.,
             
            
               NEW YORK. 
               ADVANCE PUBLISHING COMPANY.
             
          
       
      
         
            Fashion and famine 
             
             
            FASHION and FAMINE. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               AN EVENT IN A QUIET FAMILY. 
               "SISSY! SISSY! dear heart alive! that child's no more use than my old shoe. Where's she got to now, I wonder?" 
               And the motherly-looking old woman who made the foregoing observation toddled quietly out of her cottage in search of her disobedient daughter. 
               The cottage in question, I may as well state, was not at all the sort of cottage that is generally associated with the course of true love; it was, in fact, the habitation of a hard-working man, who got his bread by the sweat of his brow. Such is the lot of mortals, and such was his in particular. It fronted the highway, and as is customary with most of the abodes of the rustic poor, it was adorned with certain parasitical jasmines and honeysuckle, which gave it a cheerful, if not a picturesque appearance. 
               Sissy was a girl just turned sixteen, and at the time her mother was waking the echoes in a vain attempt to let her know she was wanted within doors, she was standing on a three-legged stool under a cherry-tree plucking the richly-colored fruit which clustered thickly on the branches. The cherry-tree was situated in a bit of garden-ground to be found in the rear of the house which boasted a few fruit trees scattered about in various directions. The peregrinations of the old woman in search of her daughter at length brought her in sight of the tree, when the robbery and devastation which was going on stood revealed in all its naked hideousness, although the delinquent, owing to the old woman's defective eyesight, was not at once recognized. 
               "Drat it!" she exclaimed; "there's some one at my cherries. See if I don't set the dog at them." 
               Hastening back, she untied a fierce-looking mastiff, who was usually a prisoner in chains, and had a kennel placed near the back door of the cottage. He was supposed to prevent thieves from breaking through and stealing, as is the wont of such nocturnal gentry, provided no canine watchman is kept on the premises to warn the intruders that a blunder buss hangs over the mantel, and will be brought down by the good man to give them a warm reception. 
               "Hie at 'em, Jip!" cried his mistress, when they reached the neighborhood of the cherry-tree; "worry 'em!" 
               Great was her astonishment, however, when Jip ran submissively up to the thief, and began making great demonstrations of delight, respect, and esteem. 
               Then a light seemed to dawn on the old woman, who with every evidence of great and excessive wrath, said- 
               "Oh, it's you, you hossey! I'll give it you! I'll let you know, you brimstone! Come here this instant! 
               But with a laugh, the girl, after putting her arms round Jip's neck, and giving that fortunate dog a kiss, ran quickly pact her mother, eluding the grasp that was to have arrested her progress, and entering the house, sat down on a chair and leisurely finished eating some cherries she had held in her hand when disturbed by her irate maternal relative, who, having followed her daughter as fast as she was able, discovered her while engaged in that interesting occupation. 
               "Oh, you bad girl!" she ejaculated, as well as a shortness of breath consequent upon her exertions would allow her, "only let me catch you, I'll-" 
               "No you won't," said Sissy, anticipating the remainder of the sentence; "I'm a big girl now, and I won't be beaten and ill-used any longer; I've had enough of it." 
               This conversation might have been prolonged for some time to come, and would in all probability have been productive of unpleasant, if not serious results, had not the attention of the disputants been arrested by the sound of wheels going rapidly over the high road, which was immediately succeeded by a noise, as if some fragile substance had been suddenly precipitated against an antagonistic body. 
               That some accident had happened, neither the mother nor daughter had the slightest doubt, and both ran speedily to the front of the house. 
               Lying on its side was a light and elegant dog-cart, constructed more for speed than safety and durability; one wheel was badly smashed, and the ruins lay in different directions. A beautiful gray mare stood not far from the scene of the disaster, trembling with fear, and white with foam, the remains of the broken shafts still adhering to the harness. 
               Stretched on the ground near a milestone, which had evidently been the cause of the disaster, was a human body. It might have been a corpse for any indicatious of vitality that it gave, so quiet and motionless was it. The dust of the road too was here and there permeated by little tiny scarlet streams. 
               After a few seconds spent in almost natural astonishment, the old woman-who had all that presence of mind which good nerves, rendered more than usually strong by a country life, and regular habits, imparts-followed by Sissy, went to offer what assistance she might have it in her power to bestow upon the sufferer, whose sad condition so strongly claimed their sympathy and attention. With Sissy's help he was transported from the road to the front parlor of the cottage, where the blood, which had matted his hair together, and stained the purity of his linen, was carefully washed away, and the wound bound up as well as the surgical knowledge of the old woman would permit, which, if it did nothing more, had the effect of stopping the effusion of blood. 
               While this was going on, Sissy had been dispatched to the village for Dr. Ward. The village of Yonkers was not above a mile from the scene of the catastrophe, and Dr. Ward being at home, that excellent disciple of the healing art soon had his gig brought round to the door, and telling the messenger to jump in, he drove at a trifle beyond his usual pace, which rarely exceeded four miles an hour, and in due time arrived at the cottage. 
               Dr. Ward was ushered into the parlor, where the body had been taken, and where it was still lying, on the old-fashioned sofa, relic of a by gone age. No sooner had he seen the features, however, than he seemed to recognize their possessor, for he said rather hurriedly. 
               "God bless my soul! Bad job, bad job!" and, proceeding to examine him, he continued, "Skull fractured, left arm broken, two places, can't be moved; must have rest. Bad business, very!" 
               The patient was by the doctor's orders taken to the best of the two bed-rooms the house contained, where his wounds were dressed and his broken arm set, and giving strict orders that on no account was he to be disturbed, Dr. Ward took his departure, promising to return in the evening with some of his friends, as the sufferer's family was not wholly unknown to him. 
               Sissy was told to watch by the bedside to attend to any want that the injured man might express, for although he had returned to consciousness, he was yet too weak and too much shaken to be able to do more than moan faintly. 
               Although the room was darkened, and the bandages round his head concealed the hair of the patient, yet sufficient escaped from the envious folds to show that it was fair and wavy. Indeed, Sissy had now an opportunity of scrutinizing the stranger closely, for up to the present time the poverty of the scene had prevented her from bestowing more than a cursory glance upon him, and butting down the stocking that her mother had given her to darn, she fixed her eyes on his face, which possessed those delicate features that only good breeding can bestow. A silky moustache of the lightest brown relieved his face from an approach to femininity; the eyes were grey, the cars small and well made. His age was probably one-and-twenty, and Sissy, who had just arrived at an age at which girls begin to take an interest in the opposite sex, could not help thinking him, wounded as he was, as beautiful as Adonis. Indeed, that classic my h could not have found more favor in the sight of Venus, or have been more pathetically bewailed, when the tusk of the boar did such irreparable damage, than would the beautiful stranger have been by Sissy, if the injuries he had received had proved fatal. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               LOVE AND ITS VICTIM. 
               THE convalescence of the young stranger was necessarily slow; so slow, indeed, that he had already been an inmate of the cottage for six weeks. He had been recognized by the doctor as the nephew of a rich man in the neighborhood, and at the time the accident on a visit to his uncle. Dr. Ward had immediately informed his friends, who had wished to remove him, but this the doctor would not hear of, and the consequence was that Mr. Percy Amherst, although visited by his friends every day, remained in this humble and unpretending abode during the time that his illness lasted. When he was sufficiently recovered to walk about a little, he strolled slowly across the fields in the rear of the cottage, leaning on Sissy's shoulder, listening to her childish stories about the people in the neighborhood, sometimes amused at a village tradition, at others stimulating an interest in the ale-house gossip that her father, his good and attentive host, brought home from work and retailed to his wife in the presence of his daughter, who, having a retentive memory, treasured up everything that she thought could interest the companion of her daily walks. 
               One sunny afternoon they had wandered forth as usual, and having seated themselves under the protecting shelter of a baycock, watched the men who were at work some distance from them. 
               Percy's arm was still in a sling, but the bandages had been removed from his head, which was protected from the sun by a straw hat encircled by a blue ribbon, the ends of which fluttered lazily in the soft and balmy westerly wind which just agitated the atmosphere. 
               Sissy was dressed in one of those cotton fabrics which the looms of Lowell so ingeniously put together, while a pretty shepherd's hat, the gift of her friend, protected her face from the scorching effects of the sun, and almost tended to recall the times of shepherds' pipes and peace, when Saturn reigned supreme. Sissy was a blonde, but she was exquisitely proportioned. Her features were purely Saxon, and beautifully moulded; her mouth was small, and her lips full and prettily colored; her eyes were large, blue, liquid, and fascinating, the lashes were long and drooping, and the brows were faultless. Her face, as I have said, was not of that Grecian east that some people affect to admire so much, but which is in reality sad and stately like a statue, but thoroughly English, round and merry, with a healthy complexion, such as a duchess might have envied. In her domestic relations Sissy was not happy. Her mother, whose temper was anything but angelie, was always finding fault with her, and had been threatening for some time past to send her out to service-a way of gaining one's livelihood singularly distasteful to Sissy, who, although poorly educated, had an unconquerable aversion to any menial occupation. She would have preferred being a dairy-maid on a farm, where she would be on an equality with her mistress, and be treated in all probability as one of her own children. Sissy had been taught to read and write in the village school, and had read a few of those books that the peddlers find it so lucrative to carry about the country, all more or less touching upon that subject so interesting to the young and susceptible, all dilating upon love, but never breathing anything prurient or unhealthy, such as may not be poured into young ears. Love to her was something indefinite, but charming-a mighty hallucination floating before her like heat clouds in summer, attractive and gauzy. Although she had been Percy's companion for some weeks she was not aware that he had made any impression upon her, although she felt that she should be sorry when he left her father's roof-a contingency which had suggested itself to her, for she knew very well that he could not reside with them forever; but when the thought obtruded itself it was dismissed as something disagreeable, and she gave herself up more than ever to the charm of his manner and the captivating effect of his conversation. 
               Strictly speaking, it was very wrong of her parents to allow these two to have the enjoyment of each other's society in such an unfettered and unrestricted manner; but they had always been accustomed to regard her as a child, and they quite forgot that she was fast developing into a young woman of no ordinary attractions. Her father used sometimes in the evening when he returned from work, to look at her over the bowl of his pipe, and say with some complacency, "The gal will do;" but as he was not a man of many words, his oracular sentences were short and to the point. 
               Percy, who had been reading some poetical work to his fair and interesting companion, put down the book and said, "I am going to leave you to-morrow, Sissy. I have not told you before, because I flattered myself you would miss me." 
               The anouncement, abrupt and sudden as it was, took Sissy by surprise, and the paleness of her cheeks showed as plainly as words her sorrow and consternation. 
               "Are you then going away for ever!" she faltered, "or will you stay at your uncle's, as you did before that day when--" 
               "When I smashed up my trap," he said, interrupting her. "By Jove!" he added, as if carried away by the recollection, "that was a spill I wouldn't like to have every day; and old Ward even thought I was going to make a die of it; and so I believe I should, Sissy, if your pretty face had not been constantly at my bedside, and your fairy hands smoothed my pillow, and all that." 
               There was a touch of tenderness in his voice which Sissy had been accustomed to, because it was always present when he spoke to her, but to-day there was something more than tenderness. There was that enthusiastic vehemence that real genuine feeling always creates. 
               "Oh! I shall miss you so much," cried the poor girl. 'Why, why did I not think of this before? I never thought much about your going away." 
               Turning round Sissy covered her face with her hands and buried both face and hands in the sweet smelling hay; a smothered sob escaped every now and then which, like the lava issuing from the crater, showed the fire raging beneath. 
               "Dear, dear Sissy!" said the young man, seizing her arm and trying to draw her to him. 
               Yielding softly to his embrace she allowed herself to be drawn towards him, and letting her head fall upon his breast, she sobbed as if her heart would break. 
               In point of fact, a new feeling had been awakened in her-at last she found that she loved him very passionately, and that she would rather die and sacrifice everything, even her earthly being, than leave him. And the love of a young, untried, innocent, unsophisticated heart is quite as fierce as, if not fiercer than, the love of a more matured age. 
               "Sissy! Sissy darling! My own Sissy!" he whispered. "If I do leave your father's house, it does not follow that we shall be separated forever." 
                
               Sissy still sobbed. 
               "Dear Sissy!" he continued, in a low seductive tone; "there is something I have long wished to tell you." 
               Roused for a moment, she raised her tear-stained face to his, but her eyes soon fell beneath his eager gaze. 
               "Oh, Sissy!" he exclaimed passionately, "I love you, and if I could only think that I am not wholly indifferent to you--" 
               Again Sissy looked up, and every feature beaming with animation and delight, with all the fervor of youth, replied, "Percy, I think you are rich, I have heard people say so; but if you are not, I will work for you like a slave and follow you when you call me like a dog, if you will let me always live with you. May I? Only say you will not go away and leave me." 
               "Sissy! my own Sissy!" he murmured, catching her to his breast and pressing her to his heart, "you do not know how dear you are to me." 
               The sun was just falling behind the trees, steeping the surrounding country in glorious tints. The haymakers were returning to their homes, and still the lovers remained clasped in each other's arms, their hearts too full of joy to break the silence that surrounded them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               WAKING FROM A DREAM. 
               PERCY AMHERST took his departure from the cottage the next day, as he had determined, but although be had left the hospitable roof of Daddy Gale, as the cottager was called in these parts, he did not directly leave the vicinity, for he returned so his uncle's mansion, and, in a letter to his friends, expressed his resolve of staying there for a few weeks until his strength was recruited, and his energies a little more repaired after the terrible injuries he had so lately received. 
               Although he was by no means so strong as his friends could have wished, still there was no little exaggeration in this account of his physical debility. He could have very well traveled from New York to Chicago without any detriment to his constitution, but there was a superlative attraction at Yonkers, which Mr. Percy Amherst had not the power, or at any rate, the inclination to resist, and many and frequent were the clandestine interviews which took place between himself and Sissy, who, with all the ardor and impetuosity of youth; had given herself up blindly to the promptings of her untutered heart, and the dictates of that passion which was destined to have such an influence over her future career. 
               Brought up, as she had been, in a secluded district, having little intercourse with people of superior attainments to her own, it was little wonder that she should have been struck and charmed with the person and accomplishments of Percy Amherst. Undoubtedly, she was dear to her parents, but they were more unsophisticated than their daughter, and although they were attached to her, they had for some time been looking forward to a separation which they knew must inevitably take place. Their slender funds were totally inadequate to meet the requirements of a young woman entailed upon them, and it had been settled by all parties, that Sissy was to go to service, either as a housemaid or a milliner's apprentice. 
               Up to the present time, Sissy's life had been quiet and uneventful enough, but a day was drawing near when the surface of the placid sea was to become ruffled and stormy. 
               The poor child, victim of her very innocence, destroyed more by her ignorance and unconsciousness of right and wrong, had, in the delirium of the moment, become totally oblivious of the future, and the consequences of her indiscretion. It was enough for her that Percy loved her, and was never tired of whispering his love-tale into her ear, which drank the intoxicating potion only too greedily. It was sufficient for her that he was with her at present. It never for an instant occurred to her simple nature that a time would come when he would leave her, when he must leave her. She knew that his connexions, his success, his advancement in life, all precluded the probability of his linking his fate with hers for more than a brief season, yet she did not consider these things, nor would she have entertained the idea if it had occurred to her. 
               Two months had elapsed, and still his uncle's residence was favored by Percy's presence, until at length the unusual prolongation of his stay excited the suspicions of Mr. Wykeham Amherst who, one morning seeing his nephew puffing lazily at a cigar, slowly saunteridg in his favorite direction, put on his hat, and following the road he had chosen, soon overtook him, and saying. 
               "Percy, my boy, I want a word or two with you, if you can spare me the time," turned with him into the shady and spacious shrubberies that skirted the rear of the house. 
               "I am going to speak to you, Percy, ou a delicate subject," said Mr. Amherst; "but you must be aware that you are neglecting everything by the extraordinary length of your stay at my house." 
               "I had imagined," interrupted Percy, in a bitter and somewhat sarcastic tone, "that from our family connexion, and the intimacy subsisting between us, I might safely consider your house my home; and if I have somewhat overstepped the bounds of hospitality, I beg to state that it is a fault I have never been guilty of, and one which I will take very good care shall not be repeated." 
               "You mistake me altogether, my dear boy!" replied Mr. Amherst, who had listened very impatiently to this lengthy exculpation. "You might stay with me for ever, if that was all; but your sick leave has already been extended beyond the usual limits, and your employer, only the other day, your father tells me in a letter I received this morning, gently hinted that he should very much like to see you attending to your duty again." 
               Percy carelessly threw away the end of the cigar he had been smoking, and lighted another before he answered his uncle, who stood regarding him steadfastly, anxiously awaiting his reply. 
               The fact was, Percy was in a dilemma and hardly knew which way to turn; he still loved Sissy warmly, although from the first his love had not been nearly as passionate, self-denying, and devoted as her own. He had given himself up to it partly from a feeling of weariness at having nothing particular to do, and partly from that licentiousness which is innate, or which at all events is artificially created in the majority of young men of the present day. He was fully aware that he could not marry her, although in the early progress of their attachment he had vaguely hinted at the possibility of such a consummation of their amour. He judged, also, and correctly, that she would not, when she began to comprehend her position in all its terrible reality, consent to live with him openly as his mistress, nor did he wish her to do so when he consulted his own interests, yet he could not make up his mind to leave her; libertine as he was, he was not yet accomplished in vice, and his heart was too young and fresh to leave the flower he had blighted to wither and die when deprived of the sun from which alone it derived sustenance and support. His feelings and his interest were at war. There was little doubt which would conquer in the end, but at present the former were in the ascendant. 
               Not venturing to look his uncle in the face, and meet the earnest gaze which he felt was fixed upon him, he broke off a branch from a shrub, and turned over the gravel at his feet with it, as if to conceal the agitation of his thoughts. At length he said- 
               "I think I would rather give up the idea of merchandizing, uncle, and resign my situation. The fact is, I am sick and tired of the metropolis, and I infinitely prefer a country life to the excitement and continued dissipation of a great city." 
               Mr. Amherst smiled as he heard this; is was just what he had expected; but the smile was unnoticed by Percy, who was too much pre-occupied by his own thoughts to notice the demeanor of his uncle. 
               "To tell you the truth," he continued, after a slight pause, "I think of taking a little shooting-box down here, and going in for sporting in the season, and game preserving and agriculture afterwards. You know I'm independent of father; so that if he were to cut up, it wouldn't much matter, as far as the money part of the project goes." 
               "Now, look here, Percy," said Mr. Amherst, slowly and emphatically, "you don't take me for a fool?" 
               "Why, not exactly," answered Percy, who having unburdened his mind, ventured to look up again, pleased with himself for having successfully gone through so much exertion. "Why, not exactly; I have always thought you a cev'lish clever fellow." 
               "At any rate, my dear boy," Mr. Amherst went on, "you shall not accuse me of being blind to your interests. I have carefully watched you for some time past, and I feel convinced from my knowledge, not only of human nature, but of your own character, that you have-excuse me-become enamoured of some rustic beauty." 
               Percy was by no means prepared for this result of his uncle's perspicacity, and, not a little taken aback, he replied, unguardedly. 
               "And admitting such to be the case, I do not recognise your right to interfere in my private affairs." 
               "Perhaps not," said his uncle; "but we will discuss that afterwards. You have admitted what I have long suspected, and I can only think of the daughter of the cottager-one of my own laborers, by the by, and a highly respectable man." 
               Percy winced at this, and inwardly wished he had been the reverse. 
               "When you were laid up so long after that ugly fall of yours, last June, I remember her perfectly, a very nice-looking young person, with whom I trust you have not involved yourself in any unpleasant manner, for she is calculated to make a very good marriage for a girl in her station of life, and might, if she played her card well marry one of my tenant farmers-an event which I intended to encourage, as I always like to see my tenantry well married at an early age." 
               Percy's face flushed, and he felt very uncomfortable. He was sure that Sissy would become a mother, although she had not hinted the certainty of such an occurrence to him as yet, perhaps from her ignorance of such matters, or from a delicacy she found difficult to overcome even in his presence. 
               "Your silence," exclaimed Mr. Amherst, rather harshly, "makes me dread the worst. Yet I wish you had chosen some one else for your victim. The old people will feel it terribly. But as the dilemma exists, and we are impaled upon its horns, we must endeavor without further delay to look the situation in the face, and extricate ourselves as well as we may be able. Recollect, I am not actuated by any mawkish sentimentality in any of the remarks I make to you; I am a man of the world, but twenty odd years older than you are, therefore my judgment and experience lead me to pronounce the course you have been pursuing extremely ill-advised and thoughtless. The parson of the village might call you a villain, and denounce you as one of the ungodly, over his muffins and toast; but I simply confine myself to the 'situation,' and leave all that to your conscience, if, as I presume, you are encumbered with that somewhat noisy M tor." 
               During these remarks of his uncle, Percy was a little moved. But he exclaimed at their conclusion- 
               "Well, I have got myself into a mess, I suppose, and-" 
               "And the question is," supplied Mr. Amherst, "the question is how to get out of it. Precisely so. Leave that to me. In the first place, you must leave Yonkers this afternoon." 
               "What!" cried Percy, "so soon, and without seeing her once more?" 
               "Certainly," answered his uncle; "if you were to see her again all your resolutions would vanish, and you would exhibit the weakness of a child. Your sudden de parture must be explained to her in writing. I will presently suggest a letter to you. You can plead the sudden and unexpected illness of your mother; by this means the shock will not be so great, and a trying interview will be spared both of you." 
               Percy felt the force of this method of arguing; but he would almost have given his life to press her once more in his arms, and imprint a parting kiss upon these lips which had often told him how truly and how well she loved him. 
               "You know, Percy," persisted Mr. Amherst, "That what I am now urging must take place sooner or later, and you had better take the bull by the horns, and overcome a difficulty which it will be infinitely more difficult to grapple with every day. As to the girl herself-" 
               "Oh! don't-don't talk to me any more." said Percy as the tears started to his eyes; leave me alone for half an hour." 
               "I leave you only on one condition-and that is, you give me your word to come direct to my library without seeking an interview with any living being." 
               Percy complied with this requisition, and his uncle left him. 
               Throwing himself upon the ground, he gave himself up to excessive grief. He cursed himself for the unbridled license he had given to his passions; and he cursed his position in the world which prevented the chance of his being happy with the woman upon whom he had bestowed his affections. Although he felt her position acutely, he had sufficient common sense to know that he was powerless to alter the course of events. 
               When Percy sought the presence of his uncle he was calmer, though his face was still the least bit flushed, and wore an anxious expression, as if he had some unpleasant business to get through and wished it ever. 
               "I have told your man, Percy,' said Mr. Amherst, looking up at his entrance, "to prepare your traps, and the carriage will be here at half-past one, so that you will be able to leave Yonkers by the two-fifteen train; by the way just look over this. I will send it when you are gone, if you approve of it." 
               Mr. Amherst handed a sheet of note paper to Percy, upon which he had written some ten or a dozen lines. Percy ran his eyes over it, and making one or two erasures, supplied their place with interlineations of his own suggestion. Then looking up he nodded his head. 
               "Very well," said his uncle; "just copy it, will you, and put it on the table, while I go and see after lunch." 
               Taking some writing paper. Percy wrote, after making use of the epithets of endearment usual in such cases- 
               "I am very, very sorry I cannot come and see you before I go, but I have barely time to write this, as my mother is-" 
               "Hang it all," be soliloquized, "what's the good of telling her a lie? It must all come out sooner or later; but I suppose my old uncle knows best, and as I have begun. I must go through with it. Let's see: 'As my mother is dangerously ill, and I must leave Yonkers by the 2.15 train; so you perceive that, much as I wish it, it is clearly impossible for me to come to you before I start. I hope I may not be long away from you, but of course that depends very much upon my dear mother's health. You may expect, dear Sissy, to hear from me soon after my arrival in town. With fond wish for your welfare, dearest, In great haste, adieu." 
               Mr. Amherst accompanied his nephew to the station, to prevent the occurrence of anything that might tend to destroy the web he had so skilfully woven to extricate his nephew from the pit into which he had fallen. 
               It was necessary, in order to get to the station, that the carriage should pass by the cottage of Daddy Gale. Mr. Amherst was perfectly well aware of this fact, and as it could not be avoided, he tried to interest his nephew in every way in his power, and only breathed freely when the dangerous locality was safely passed; but Percy had seen her, reading a book he had given her, and pleased, apparently, with some passage, a happy, contented smile played around her lips, as she sat there in the porch, which was profusely covered with jasmine, now in full bloom, with her hair slightly disheveled. He thought he had never seen her look so beautiful, and sinking back upon the luxurious cushions of the carriage, his lips moved, and he muttered to himself "By Jove, I must be a beast! but what can a fellow do? I wish to God I was well out of it all, and in New York." 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE WORLD'S MERCY. 
               SISSY was surprised, and even felt a slight tremor of alarm, when she received Percy's letter, but she soon dismissed her fears, and loved him all the more for his noble disinterestedness in leaving the woman he loved to fly to the bedside of his sick mother. 
               Day after day glided by, and not a line came from Percy, until Sissy almost hoped against hope. Perhaps, she surmised, his mother is worse-she may be dead-and he is too harassed and worried to write to me. Never mind, I will wait patiently, although he might have written just one line. God knows how it would have pleased and comforted me! 
               After a while she made up her mind to write to him, and she indited an epistle full of the fondest wishes for his welfare, but not breathing one word of reproach for his remissness or, to use plain language, his cruelty. This she sent to his uncle, who opened it, and having glanced over its contents carelessly, threw it into the fire. Days multiplied themselves into weeks, and Sissy grew pale. She became conscious of her situation, and though she hoped that the man for whom she had sacrificed everything-father, mother, friends respectability-would not forsake her utterly, she began to dread the worst, and when she contemplated that worst, she almost lost all heart, she could not confide in her mother, for she knew she could expect no sympathy from her; and though her father would most likely treat her with greater kindness, she wished to spare him the humiliation with which her confession would cover him. At all events, she said to herself, he need not know it before the time. She was left utterly alone; she had not a single friend to whom she could apply in her hour of trouble. Her scanty knowledge of religion was not sufficient to prompt her to go to her spiritual Pastor, and she kept all her heavy-weight of sin and shame to herself. 
               After two months had clapsed, and she had received no tidings of him, her condition became serious; she could not hope to conceal it much longer from the eyes of the neighbors or from the gaze of her parents. In this emergency she became desperate, and resolved to call upon Mr. Wykeham Amherst to ask tidings of his nephew; not that she intended to betray him, but because she could live no longer in suspense, because she would know the worst, and act accordingly. 
               This resolve cost her a severe struggle, but it was almost the only course open to her. She knew that she had given up a great deal for Percy's sake, but she did not yet know the magnitude of the sacrifice, nor the way in which sins such as hers are punished by the world. 
               Mr. Wykeham Amherst was at breakfast with his wife when Sissy called at the Hall, but the servant to whom she had addressed her inquiries consented to announce her arrival. When Mr. Amherst was told that a young yerson wished to speak to him, he said, rather testily. "Well, let her wait; how often am I to tell you I do not like being disturbed at breakfast?" 
               The domestic, who was too well trained to answer or attempt to argue himself right with his master, bowed and was about to retire, when Mr. Amherst called after him- 
               "William, what did she say her name was?" 
               "Sale or Gale I think sir. I'll go and inquire," replied William; and he was about to go back and interrogate Sissy as to her patronymic, when Mr. Amherst, who now thoroughly comprehended the "situation," as he was fond of calling an emergency, id- 
               "That will do. Ask the young person be good enough to wait a little while, d when I ring, show her into the library." 
               "Precisely what I expected," he cogitated; "only she's been longer about it than I thought she would be." 
               "Did he say Gale, dear?" said Mrs. Amherst, who had not been an unobservant spectator of this scene. 
               "Yes, I think so," replied her husband. 
               "Oh, indeed! I only asked because I thought the name was familiar to me in some way or other. Dear me! where could I have heard it?" 
               Mr. Amherst might easily have solved the problem, but he had his own reasons for concealing the facts of the "delicate little business," as he called his nephew's villainy; and he knew the detective qualities possessed by his wife would easily enable her to unravel the whole plot if she could only obtain a clue to it. Therefore he contented himself with asking for another cup of tea. 
               Suddenly Mrs. Amherst exclaimed, with great satisfaction. "Oh! I have it-of course, how stupid of me! It is the name of the people who were so kind to Percy early in the summer, when the horse ran away with him, and he was so dangerously hurt. And this must be the interesting young woman I used to see there. What can she want with you, Wykeham?" 
               "Perhaps her father's out of work," replied Mr. Amherst, "and wants a little assistance-some trifle or other. And now that I've finished my breakfast, I'll just go and see." 
               Getting up from the table, he rang the bell and went towards the library, inwardly glad to escape from his wife's cross-examination and embarassing inquiries. Mrs. Amherst was a very good-hearted woman, and munificent in her presents of money and donations of creature comforts to the poor of the parish, but she was slightly bigoted and, like all bigoted people, excessively intolerant. She now occupied herself in putting two and two together with her accustomed ingenuity, and the chances were she was on the eve of some grand discovery which boded no good to Sissy. 
               When Sissy entered the library, and found herself in the presence of Mr Amherst, she began to repent her temerity in seeking an interview with him; but rising when she entered, and politely offering her a chair, Mr. Amherst in a great measure dissipated her nervousness, which every moment grew less before the courtesy of his manner. 
               "Miss Gale, I think?" he said, when she had seated herself. 
               "Yes," replied Sissy, timidly-the addition of "Miss," an unaccustomed title rather startling her; but, feeling that she was expected to speak, she endeavored to explain the motive of her visit, but she became so confused, and her remarks so incoherent, that Mr. Amherst said- 
               "Pardon me for interrupting you; but I think, if you will allow me, I can save you a great deal of embarassment." 
               How thankful Sissy felt when he said this. 
               "You wish, do you not, to hear some tidings of Mr. Percy Amherst, my nephew, who was so long an inmate of your father's house?" 
               Sissy bowed her head in token of assent. She could not trust herself to speak; her heart had almost risen into her mouth with anxiety. 
               "He left here suddenly-as I believe you are aware, Miss Gale-as his mother's health was in a very precarious state; and when she became convalescent he accompanied her to Florida. 
               Sissy turned white and rod by turns; then he might still come back. And, very likely, this dear good uncle was going to tell her so; or she could-yes, she could-follow him to Florida. 
               "Is-is he still in Florida, sir?" she faltered. 
               "No," answered Mr. Amherst, slowly and distinctly, for he felt he was dealing the decisive blow. "No; I regret to say he has gone to Europe. But, what the devil's this?" he cried, as Sissy all at once turned deadly pale, and, bending forward, fell like a log upon the carpet. 
               "Deuced awkward, this," muttered Mr. Amherst. "Pon my word, I don't know what to do. I can't call my wife, because that will let the cat out of the bag; and the servants, if I ring, won't know what to make of it. I am afraid I have involved myself in endless perplexities." 
               There was some cold water on the table, and pouring out a tumbler full, he dipped his handkerchief in it and bathed the temples of the insensible girl. 
               After some time had elapsed, and the girl did not open her eyes. Mr. Amherst thought the swoon threatened to be of such long duration that he had better risk anything than an inquest; accordingly, he carefully placed her head upon an antimacassar, and sought his wife in the dining-room, where she was still occupied in trying to unravel what she began to think was a mystery, which was elucidated in a fortuitous manner. 
               "My dear," began Mr. Amherst, "have you got any salts, or sal-volatile?" 
               "Upstairs, yes;" replied his wife. "But what has happened? You look quite excited." 
               "Why, the fact is," he said, "the young person we were talking about at breakfast, overcome by the heat, I suppose, has fainted." 
               "Oh!" exclaimed Mrs. Amherst, her womanly instincts for the time extinguishing her curiosity; "wait a minute, and I will bring you down something." 
               Mr. Amherst returned to the library, where he found Sissy in the state in which he had left her; and now he almost began to regret his precipitancy. Poor child; it was very sad to see her lying there, insensible for a short space, but soon to awake to the consciousness of intense misery, with all her affections blighted, her feelings withered and destroyed, and she herself a blot upon her sex, a thing to point at, bearing contaminations about with her like a leper. The lessons of the world are hard to learn, but when they are learned, why then comes callousness. 
               Mrs. Amherst soon descended from the bed-room loaded with restoratives, which were applied with such success that she recovered her senses, though the truth did not burst upon her all at once. 
               "Where am I?" she asked, "and who is that?" pointing to Mrs. Amherst. "Oh! I see-I see it all now!" she cried passionately, with such an agonized expression of countenance, that Mr. Amherst turned away involuntarily, and looking out of the window, gazed vacantly at a little robin redbreast perched on the sill. Letting her head fall upon her hands, she sobbed in a paroxysm of irrepressible grief. 
               Mrs. Amherst stood confounded. Then, taking two strides towards her husband, she laid her hand heavily upon his shoulder and sternly demanded an explanation of this remarkable scene. 
               He drew her to the window, and husband and wife conversed together in a low voice. 
               "Then you mean to say," said Mrs. Amherst, after a while, "that this is Percy's work?" 
               "Yes," replied her husband, laconically. 
               "I suspected as much. Really these things are very sad! Why are not children brought up in a more God-fearing manner? This child, I am afraid, is little better than one of the heathen." 
               "We must not blame her so severely," he interposed. "God knows the sin will fall heavily enough upon her." 
               "Nonsense, Mr. Amherst," said his wife. "I dare say she is as bad as Percy, if not worse. Some women are so designing now-a-days, that it is dangerous for a man to venture into their society. However, this is to be regretted for many reasons. What do you propose to do?" 
               "That must depend a great deal upon the girl herself. Wait a while, and I will tell you." 
               Mr. Amherst opened a drawer in a chiffonier fonier, and took from it a bottle of wine. Pouring some into a glass, he approached Sissy, and gently touching her, said, "Drink this, child; it will revive you." 
               But Sissy did not hear him, her body gradually inclined on one side, and she would have fallen a second time to the floor, had he not caught her in his arms. 
               "This is very unpleasant, indeed," said Mrs. Amherst. "I think you had better carry her into my boudoir, where it is cooler, and she will have more air; besides, there is a sofa, upon which she can lie until she recovers herself." 
               Mr. Amherst, following his wife's directions, carried the poor girl through a passage and across the hall, until he arrived at the door of the boudoir, which his wife opened. Depositing his insensible burden upon the sofa, he raised the window to allow the cool morning air to fan her cheeks, from which the accustomed roses had fled. 
               "Wykeham," said Mrs. Amherst, "I have been reflecting and I think we had better send for the father and mother at once. You should have told me of this before. You see, if the parents come, we can possibly concert some plan which will be beneficial to all parties mixed up in this disagreeable affair." 
               "I don't want it to get about much," he replied, "and that was one reason I did not tell you; but as the parents must know it sooner or later, I don't see why they should not be told at once." 
               "I do hope though," said Mrs. Amherst, that they do not make a scene." 
               "I believe it is customary in such cases." 
               "Well, if it is, it can't be helped. You certainly managed things very well in getting Percy away from here. I think you said you told him in one of your letters that she soon got over his absence, and had married one of your grooms?" 
               "Yes, and he appeared very well satisfied at such a happy termination to a disastrous adventure." 
               "Well, let us see what we can do now in this quarter. Suppose-suppose you ride over to the Gales', and tell them their daughter is ill at our house, and they had better come up." 
               Mr. Amherst made no objection to this arrangement, and during his absence his wife applied herself to the task of reviving her patient from her swoon. 
               Sissy was slow in recovering. For weeks she had been in a low and desponding state, and the shock which her nervous system had received was one calculated to prostrate her already debilitated frame. 
               "Dear me!" exclaimed Mrs. Amherst, as she poured some eau-de-cologne into a saucer, and dipping her handkerchief into it, bathed the girl's face; "dear me! I wonder if she is strong enough to be talked to? I really do not think I shall be doing my duty if I neglect to point out the error of her ways to this misguided young woman. Perhaps she may be reclaimed if I can only awaken in her the shame which appears to be dormant at present." 
               With a view of effecting this praiseworthy object, the worthy lady took advantage of the opening of the young woman's eyelids to commence an harangue which, if it had not savored quite so much of tea and toast, and the midnight meeting movement, might possibly have produced more effect than it did. 
               "Young woman," began Mrs. Amherst, in a sententious tone-"for I must call you so, since I am unacquainted with the name you commonly go by-I have some reason to believe that this is your first fault, not that that makes the crime you have committed one bit the less hideous, one jot or one iota the less to be lamented; you have fallen, I regret, I am sure, as much as you or your unhappy friends can, from a high estate; you were immaculate once, now you are stained as to your fair fame and your virgin purity. Still you have not absolutely embarked in a vicious career; and I do trust, young woman, that I, under Heaven, may be the humble instrument of your reclamation. Of course you can never hope to hold up your head again as if you had never sinned; but by long years of repentance and holy living, you may yet be brought back to the fold, and be washed clean of your offence. The doors of respectable houses are, I need scarcely tell you, closed against you. I might have been induced to offer you a situation in my own household, but as the matter at present stands, it would be monstrous for you to expect such a concession on my part. Why, the Bishop himself dare not do such a thing, therefore it is clearly impossible for so insignificant a person, in comparison, as I am, to think of it; besides, your presence would compromise everybody. I can, however, through my interest in certain quarters, procure you admission to a 'Home,' where you will be well taken care of, and where holy doctrines will be inculcated in your mind. A sum of money shall be given to your parents, wherewith they may support themselves in your absence. When your father and mother arrive we will discuss the question; in the meantime, I suppose I may leave you here while I go upstairs, where I believe my presence is needed." 
               When Mr. Amherst returned, he told his wife to expect the Gales in a short time, as Sissy's mother had promised to go and fetch her husband from his work, and bring him with her across the fields, in as brief a space as the journey could be accomplished. 
               As Sissy was still weak and prostrated, she was told to remain upon the sofa, and Mrs. Amherst somewhat officiously placed in the girl's hands a handsomely bound Bible, which might possibly have afforded her some consolation if she had perused its sacred pages; an occupation, however, which did not seem over and above congenial in the present state of her mind, for after restlessly turning over a few pages, she closed the volume and placed it on a chair by her side, which little episode appeared to create considerable disgust and dissatisfaction in Mrs. Amherst, who viewed it as a proof of the mastery Satan had acquired over the fallen angel before her, and an indication of hardness of heart only to be rivalled by Pharaoh when that mighty potentate evinced a peculiar fondness for the Israelites and would not let them go. 
               "Mornin', master; your servant, mum," exclaimed Daddy Gale on his arrival. 
               A request was made that he and his good lady would be seated; compliance with which on the part of Mrs. Gale brought that excellent female's elaborate courtesying to an abrupt termination. 
               "Why, Sissy, wench, what ails thee?" cried her father, catching sight of his daughter, whom he had, omitted to notice on entering the room, so great was his admiration of and astonishment at the luxurious Paradise in which he found himself. 
               "The fact is, Mr. Gale," began Mr. Amherst, "I have sent for you to break some painful news to you. I will be as brief as I can; just give me your attention for a minute. You remember sheltering my nephew. Well, he has ill repaid your hospitality; your daughter-" 
               "Why, thee doant mean to say-" exclaimed Daddy Gale. "No, dang it! ain't going to believe it now, so I tell ye. 
               "Nevertheless," replied Mr. Amhers "distressing as it is to me to make the communication, and for you to heart it, your child is about to become a mother, and my nephew, will be the father of the infant." 
               "He be a villain, and if oi get hold on un," said the father, his face flushing with anger, then turning to his wife, he added, "this be sore news for us, missus; this be sore news, any-way." 
               Sissy's mother had begun to weep, and rocking herself to and fro on her chair, she uttered low means at intervals. 
               Daddy Gale was a fine stalwart man, the type of an English laborer, dressed in cord breeches and a rusty velvet jacket-a red handkerchief tied round his neck gave him a handsome appearance; now, his face were a harassed, anxious, disappointed expression. 
               Mrs. Amherst though this a good opportunity of saying what she had been contemplating for some time. 
               "You see, my good man," she began, "as our nephew-" 
               "The curse o' God light on 'un," interrupted the father 
                
               "Allow me one moment," said Mrs. Amherst, a good deal shocked; "I won't detain you longer than I can help; I was going to say that Percy being the primary cause of all this unpleasantness, it is our duty to do all we can to lighten the unfortunate girl's position, and to make you and your wife as comfortable as you can expect to be under the circumstances. You will of course remove your daughter from a part where she is so well known, and-" 
               "Remove Sissy!" ejaculated Daddy Gale, with honest indignation; "axing your pardon, mum, why blow me if I see what's amiss wi' the girl. Noa. I'll stick to her. Coom to your feather, wench, coom." 
               He turned to where Sissy was lying, she had risen into a sitting posture on her father's entry, and had listened with less apathy than she had bitherto displayed, to the conversation, especially when her father joined in it; and now, when he hold out his brawny arms, and bade her come to him, she flew to their shelter, a faint smile of delight and affection playing round her lips. 
               He placed her gently upon his knee, and with the utmost carefulness wiped away the moisture from her cheeks with the end of his neckerchief. Then with his arm round her waist, and while her head drooped upon his shoulder, he turned to his landlord, and said. 
               "Look 'ee here, Muster Amherst! Your nevvy's as big a scoundrel as th' Almighty ever put breath in; but we woant talk about that; I moight say summut as you wouldn't loike. Mibbe a day'll come when I'll have to give me an account; but that aint what oi be a drivin' at. Your good lady, sir"-here he bowed to Mrs. Amherst-"seems to think the girl ain't good enough for her company. Very good; she doan't want it. The man is at the bottom of it-your nevvy, sir; he's the one as ain't fit company for no one. Oi doan't blame the girl, and as oi said, oi'll stick to her; and that's what it is, Muster Amherst." 
               "Very well," replied Mr. Amherst, "I am happy, for all your sakes, that such a perfectly satisfactory arrangement can be arrived at." 
               "I think, nevertheless," said Mrs. Amherst, "I can do no harm if I mention an idea which occurred to me during your absence, Wykeham, and which would most likely have been of some service to the young woman, had not this arrangement been come to. There are, you know, places in New York, distinct from penititiaries and those sort of things, where a girl who has sullied her maiden fame, is carefully looked after, boarded and clothed, with the additional advantage of the ministration of, in some cases, a resident chaplain. After a residence-the length of which I believe depends upon the state of the girl's mind-a situation is obtained for the penitent in a pions family, where the effects of the errors of youth may be obliterated by a good and virtuous way of living." 
               "Certainly," said Mr. Amherst, "it is a good suggestion, and worthy of the consideration of our friend here. It might be stated in the neighborhood that the girl had gone on a visit to some friends, and everything might be concealed which would occasion pain or annoyance to her relations. She could, of course, be visited by her father and mother, and might atter a while even return to them." 
               Daddy Gale paid this hint all the attention it merited, but it did not seem to make that impression upon him which the Amhersts evidently wished. 
               "Well," continued Mr. Amherst, "you can think it over, and let me know in a day or so. In whatever you resolve upon doing, though, you may rely upon my good offices, and I really do hope you will have no false delicacy about applying to me. By the way. Gale, I need hardly caution you against mentioning this matter for the present. Let me see you the day after to-morrow, and you can tell me whether you accept my wife's proposal." 
               Daddy Gale agreed to do as Mr. Amherst advised him, and prepared to take his leave. Sissy put on her hat-the hat she wore in the hay-field when Percy told her how much he loved her. Poor child! she now knew the value of a man's vows and a man's protestations. 
               Mr. Amherst threw up the window as far as it would go, and told the family to go out at the shrubberry gate, kindly showing them the way across the lawn. 
               It was a silent journey, and all parties were glad when home was reached. 
               Daddy Gale, who was in reality a sensible old man, was much impressed by the tone of Mr. Amherst, and the arguments he made use of; and though he was exceedingly unwilling to part with his daughter, he came to the conclusion that he could not do better than adopt the advice which had been gives him, and accept the offer which had been made respecting his child. Therefore it was arranged between the parties that Sissy should for a short time take up her abode in one of those domestic institutions which are familiarly known as "Homes." How far they are deserving of that appellalation we shall soon endeavor to show. Her parents thought that they could easily explain the absence of their child to the neighbors, by replying to any inquisitive inquiry that Sissy had gone to service, and would not be back for a twelvemonth. 
               Sissy, who was almost stupefied with grief at the dashing to pieces of the Dagon she had set up, the idol she had foolishly worshipped, and terrified with apprehension for the future, did not much care what became of herself, and indeed rather wished for any change which promised, by giving her occupation, to alienate her from her thoughts, which were none of the sweetest. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Amherst were extremely kind. They supplied her with a wardrobe at once, plain and serviceable, and gave her a small sum of money, amply sufficient for any sudden emergency, while they promised to see after the welfare of her parents-a promise which somewhat lightened the load poor Sissy had to bear. Yet, as the train left the homestead behind, and the well known forms receded in the distance, the young girl, who was going into the world, bowed down and afflicted, to do battle amongst strangers, and to learn many a bitter lesson, leaned back in the corner of the second-class carriage, whose hard pannelling offered little inducement for such a proceeding; and, unmindful of her fellow-passengers, burst into a bitter flood of tears, refusing to be comforted. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               TWO BUSY-BODIES. 
               IT was all very well for Percy to think the woman he had amused himself with weak, silly, and automatical. Probably under the enthralment and the fascination of his presence and his supposed affection she was a little mechanical, and easily moved by the master hand which held the key to open the machine, and compel that puppet, the heart, to best and throb as he wished it. 
               Percy had been guilty of great wrong he had consigned Sissy to a gehenna that only women who have committed the great fault which knows but little redemption can fully comprehend. The normal state of society is to marry and be given in marriage, and everything which wars against that much-to-be-desired consummation, on the part of every woman who moves in respectable society, it is that woman's interest to put down and subdue. Therefore, all the disgust which can be condensed into a single epithet, all the abhorrence which an incipient virgin can compress into the compass of a sucer, all the contumely which can be heaped on the head of a fallen sister, who, from the fact of her fall, lies like a dog and an obstruction in the road, is freely lavished upon the unfortunate child of gaiety who forms one of those who are humanely placed without the pale. 
               There was no vice about Sissy; she had been purely the victim of circumstances; no ambitions mother guided her footsteps, and dwarfed her young affections until they badded into heartlessness. She was essentially a child of nature, and as such endowed with a thousand engaging qualities; for Asture is a kind parent and gives her children frames and constitutions that Apollo or Venus might be proud of, together with a mind Minerva herself could find no fault with, and at which the most fastidious owl that ever attended upon that super-eminently learned goddess could scarcely find the shape of an excuse to hoot at. 
               Sissy had only two companions in the carriage which was to convey her to New York; one was apparently, by his dress, a clergyman. The other was a lady, neither young nor old; one of those incomprehensible females whose age defies detection. Perhaps, if we were to split the difference between thirty and forty, we should hit the precise amount of years that the ambiguous lady had numbered; but it would require considerable penetration on the part of the man who ventured upon this abstruse calculation. However, there was little difficulty in perceiving that she was the wife of the austere personage before alluded to. 
               When the gentleman perceived the grief in which Sissy was plunged, he, with the brusquerie peculiar to well-intentioned but badly educated people endeavored to ascertain the cause of her unhappiness, in order, as he said, that he might console her. 
               "Nothing-nothing," sobbed Sissy, in answer to the reverend gentleman's inquiry as to what was the matter with her. 
               "But, dear daughter," he replied, "if nothing agitated you, you would not cry so grievously; impart unto me thy sorrow." 
               Sissy only renewed her tears. 
               "You may confide in me, my child," he continued. "I will endeavor to help thee with spiritual advice." 
               Still Sissy made no answer. 
               "Come, come, child," he added, "my name is Silas Barnstable; I am well known in Peekskill, where the good cause is-thanks be to Him to whom all thanks are due-in a flourishing way. Speak to me, child-speak to me." 
               Sissy dared not say, "I have done a deed of shame for which your wife would shrink from me," so she remained silent. 
               "Daughter," persevered Mr. Silas Barnstable, "why will you not confide in me?" 
               "Oh, do let me alone!" exclaimed Sissy. "I am only leaving my friends, and I am miserable." 
               "Then let me present thee with this, sister," said Mr. Barnstable, taking from his pocket a greasy, well-worn tract, entitled 'New Year's Eve; or, The Last and Final Parting;' "but," added he, "let me impress upon thee the importance of handing it back to me, child, when we arrive at the termination of our journey." 
               When Mrs. Barnstable saw the ill success that the ministrations of her husband were attended with, and a little moved as the vehement grief to which the young girl before her was a prey, she endeavored to open a conversation with her, and with some success. There is a mannerism about women which amongst one another almost amounts to freemasonry. 
               "You are going to town for the first time, dear?" queried Mrs. Silas, in a voice which had not escaped the contamination of the conventicle, for the twang was painfully evident, but still the tone was kind, and Sissy responded in the affirmative. 
               "Perhaps you are going on a journey of pleasure, and will soon return," insinuated the good lady, not putting a direct question, but having recourse to genteel pumping. 
               "No, ma'am, I am going for a long time, and I have no friends where I am going to, which makes my leaving home more painful," answered Sissy. 
               "That's true," said Mrs. Silas. "So you have no friends there? New York is a large place to be alone in-a den of infamy-in fact, a sink of iniquity, a modern Babylon." 
               The good lady's husband, who was attentively listening to these remarks, nodded his head approvingly as the sweeping epithets rolled forth in quick succession. 
               "Those with whom you will reside have a great responsibility upon their shoulders," continued Mrs. Barnstable: "one frightful to think of when we consider the depravity of human nature. Tell me, child, where you are destined to live; I may be of service to you, and perform an acceptable duty as well." 
               This question, direct and abrupt as it was, brought a blush to Sissy's face. If she had been bound for any other place than a reformatory-and such a reformatory, too!-she would have replied instantly, without hesitation, and with pleasure. Even had she been going as a servant of all work, or a kitchenmaid, obliged to fill the most menial occupation, she would have been spared that painful feeling which made her blood start in her veins, and rush wildly into her face, trying to burst through the tell-tale skin, as if it was ashamed of the arterial bondage, and tired of the task of pulse-beating to which it was condemned, and in doing which it was ceaselessly occupied. 
               Sissy was beginning to find that the Dead Sea apples which she had plucked so largely, and which had looked so rosy and so enticing, were nothing but ashes, and those of the most bitter description. 
               Mrs. Silas Barnstable was looking her steadfastly in the face; there was no escape from that inquiring, penetrating gaze: Sissy had not yet learned to equivocate, and was ignorant of all those polite arts which society cultivates to avoid the necessity of making a direct reply to an unpleasant question; in fact, she was unacquainted with the dictum of the astute Frenchman who declared that "language was given us to conceal our thoughts." 
               Such being the case she had no alternative but to reply. Casting down her eyes, she said, in a low voice, "I am going, ma'am, to a house in the Bowery." She added the number. 
               Mrs. Barnstable repeated the address to herself, as if trying to remember some circumstance connected with it in some way or other; then she whispered to Silas, and packering up her lips looked demure and cogitated. Presently she observed, "I suppose, young woman, that you are going in the capacity of a domestic?" 
               
                  "No, ma'am I'm not." faltered Sissy, poor little bird that she was, almost driven to distraction by the torture of being so closely questioned and examined by the antiquated boa-constrictor before her, who seemed to have thrown her coils so cleverly around her that every fresh hug crushed another bone. 
               "No!" exclaimed Mr. and Mrs. Siles Barnstable in a breath. 
               "Why! really," said the reverend gentleman, "this is-" 
               "Leave her to me, Silas," cried his better-half, with some asperity, "leave her to me;" and she pronounced the last four words slowly, as if she was about to enjoy a task very congenial to her virtuous nature. 
               "Do you know that the house in the Bowery-the house you are going to, young woman, is a refuge for fallen women?" 
               Sissy wrung her hands, and sobbed forth, 
               "What have I done? Oh! what have I done?" 
               What had she done? By her own set she had excommunicated herself as fully as if the bau of the holy father had fallen spon her, and the thunders of the Vatican been hurled at her head. The anathema of society was upon her; and, like Cain of old, go where she would her fate pursued her. I have been talking like a stern moralist. I have been graduating in the school of Mrs. Silas Barnstable; but there is also another side to the question, one which speaks of mercy and forgiveness and remission of sins, and recalls the memory of Mary, who was named Magdalene, and Him of Nazareth, who spoke kindly to her who was taken in adultery. 
               But this was a doctrine which Mrs. Silas Barnstable had, practically, very little idea of. Her charity began at home, and traveled very little further; in fact, it seldom went out of doors, and when it did it became very cold, so it soon went back again; and this was the sort of charity she was prepared to mete out to Sissy. 
               It never for an instant occurred to the virtuous indignation of Mrs. Barnstable to pity rather than condemn, she thought it her duty to condemn and if the weeping, humiliated girl before her had been her own daughter, I believe she would have been treated in a manner precisely similar; and, in point of fact, I have always remarked that people who set themselves up for something better than other people, "for a perfect thing in clay," and endeavor, by their righteous way of living, to set an example to the Gentiles, are very cruel. 
               "Really, Silas," exclaimed Mrs. Barnstable, "one does not know who one travels with in these days. Only think of this child, in whom I began to take so much interest, turning out as she has done! Is it not shocking!" 
               The reverend gentleman fully acquiesced in this proposition, and suggested that if a few more inquiries were put to the young person, the whole particulars might be elicited, and perhaps, after all, he charitably added, "She may not be so bad as we think her at present." 
               But Sissy shook her head, and steadily refused to answer any questions that were addressed to her. Young and timid as she was, she intuitively felt that her interrogators were impertinent, ill-bred people; and she knew that they could not compel her to answer, whilst she judged, and rightly, that they wanted to gratify their somewhat prurient curiosity. At last she said, boldly- 
               "Will you let me alone, please? I don't want to talk to you." 
               "Oh!, the hardened little hussey!" exclaimed Mrs. Barnstable. "She is the most impudent thing, Silas, I ever met with in the whole course of my life." 
               Sissy took no notice of these insulting remarks; she was engrossed with her own thoughts, and began now to comprehend her situation a little more clearly than she had hitherto done. 
               In time the journey came to an end, and Sissy, getting out of the railway carriage, secured her solitary box, and calling to a porter, asked how she could get to the Bowery. The functionary alluded to, having an eye to some prospective advantage, thought it worth his while to be tolerably civil, and Sissy fared better at his hanes than most unprotected females do when on their travels. A cab was called and told where to go; the porter, with a smile on his lips, demanded two shillings, and as a matter of course, obtained it. 
               Sissy was all alone in New York, without a friend, and without a home. Certainly she had a shelter, but every American men and woman attaches a peculiar significance to the word home, and it was clear that if Sissy wanted one she must make it for herself. The noise of the traffic, of cabs, and of carriages, and of omnibusses, all united to make a din which nearly stunned her. It was about four oclock in the afternoon when she arrived, so that she was spared the bewilderment of seeing the mighty city lit up with gas, which would have made it appear like a galaxy of sickly stars. Sissy's heart beat when the cab pulled up at the door of what was to be her future home. The rat-a-tat of the cabman was replied to by a voice which emanated from a bead hastily thrust out of the centre drawing-room window, which was immediately over the doorway. The voice said- 
               "There, that will do, cabman; you need not knock as if you were a government messenger come all the way from Amsterdam to tell us the Dutch have taken Holland." 
               Sissy got a glimpse of this head through the cab window, and was a little impressed with its appearance. It was the head of a woman of from forty to five-and-forty years of age, surmounted by a cap tastefully but primly adorned with blue ribbon. It was a good-natured face, and the eyes were rather large, denoting the great loquacious power of their owner. I have always found that large, Juno-like eyes showed a propensity for talking. 
               Presently the door was opened, Sissy alighted, her box was deposited in the hall, the cabman was paid his fare, the door shut behind her, and she found herself an inmate of the "Home," face to face with the matron, to whom she presented her credentials, in the shape of a letter from Mrs. Amherst and another from a celebrated clergyman in New York, who had at Mrs. Amherst's request, interested himself in Sissy's behalf. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               "HOME," BUT NOT "SWEET HOME." 
               IT never occurred to the chaste mind and virtuous imagination of Mrs. Amherst, who was, if I may be allowed the expression, both pure and puerile, that her erring protege, Miss Cecilia Gale,
                     Our heroine having entered the "Home" under the assumed name of Fanny White, we shall henceforth designate her as Fanny, instead of by the simple and innocent appellation of Sissy.
                   would suffer rather than be benefitted by the proposed sojourn amongst the fallen, and that her already lax moral principles would gain an increase of elasticity by contact with natures which had dropped like stars from the firmament of society. Not for an instant had such a surmise intruded itself upon her, whose fondest wish was to effect a reclamation, but the means by which that change of spirit was to be effected were little considered. Yet it stands to reason, that without the silent system be put in force, habits will be communicated, and lessons in the book of worldly wisdom learnt by heart by the novlee who commences her noviciate in the seminary of evil under such flattering auspices. 
               In obedience to the command of Mrs. Pilkington, the matron of the establishment, Fanny entered a small parlor, which was unquestionably her sanctum sanctorum that is the holy of holies, or a little classic spot set apart for the especial use of the worthy lady, who so ably presided over the destinies of fifteen of those interesting beings who were fair but frail! 
               Everything in this diminutive apartment, only on account of its fashionable and mignonne size, but also from its elegance and its recherche ornamentation, so characteristic of the owner of the cap with the blue ribbons, gave it a fair claim to the appellation of boudoir.
                
               Certainly the canary in a cage, whose color generally vies with that of the prisoner it seems to take a pride in possessing, was absent from the window, but then a cobweb made of the softest and most silky gossamer usurped its place, and who could complain of the change? The most fastidious blue or green-bottle might have died happy in those silvery meshes, and might have expired before the vampire-like propensities of the ruthless spider, like a swan in his last moments, with a pan on his lips. Over the mantelpiece these was a glass; need I say a cheval glass? Such, however, was the case, and although its reflective properties would have been considerably improved by the use of some soap-powder, dissolved in a given number of ounces of aqua pure from some purling stream, still, who could look upon that glass and wish it other than it was? Suspended from a nail, driven with remarkable precision into the wall of the apartment, was a string of onions of surpassing beauty; the finest specimens brought with infinite care from the sunny clime of Spain would have paled before them. Not only did these magnificent specimens of horticultural genius claim the admiration of the fortunate beholder, on account of their not-to-be-questioned native excellence as a condiment, but from the crispness of their lovely skins, and the matchless contour of their peerless forms. I am prepared to admit that hyacinths are pretty, and when placed in those vases which so well adorn a chimney-piece, delight the eye that gazes on them, but after all, what are hyacinths in comparison with onions? Besides, why turn your room into a flower-garden or fernery? Better far live in a green-house and sleep in a hot-bed, with a vegetable marrow for a pillow. Opposite the mirror was an effort of the painter's art. The subject-matter was ambiguous; it might have been a naval combat or a pitched battle; but the execution was grand, there was the hand of a master. The grace of a Guido was rivalled by the dreamy softness of a Claude, while the hazy indistinctness of a Turner was visible in every line. Had the footsteps of the late lamented Mr. Sheepshank ever been directed towards the boudoir of the excellent Mrs. Pilkington, this gem would now have been in his valuable collection; but fate ordained it otherwise. The table-for there was a table-was made of the finest deal; probably brought to this country from Honduras at a vast price. Its legs were square and symmetrical, its shape was circular, and the happy visitor could not fail to call to mind King Arthur and his knights; round such a table did they gather in days of old, and quaff the ruby brine and pass the brimming bowl and foaming goblet. New York had done its best to produce a fabric worthy of such a piece of furniture, and to the mind of a partial judge, cotton was never better employed or with more success. Two chairs, whose seats were made of the finest cane, invited repose. A parti-colored felt concealed the beauty of the flooring, and imparted a tone to the whole which was considerably heightened by some artistically-cut shavings, tastefully displayed in the fire grate. 
               Fanny, when requested by Mrs. Pilkington to do so, took a seat, and sat quietly therein, while her future governess delivered herself of a short speech, which was generally inflicted on every new comer. 
               "My dear," she began, "I must beg you, in the first place, to excuse a little abruptness; but have you any money about you?" 
               Fanny replied that she had the sum of eighteen dollars and a quarter. 
               Mrs. Pilkington indulged in a smile of peculiar significance when this gratifying announcement fell upon the sensitive tympanums of her listening ears. 
               "That will do, dear," she said; "that will do very well. You will have to give me ten dollars, which, I need scarcely tell you, is the entrance fee to this Happy Home. The rest you may keep for yourself, as you may require it, but still, now I think of it, you may as well give me five dollars more, as I shall have to buy several little things for you which you will want. Then you see, my dear, you will have amply sufficient for your own private purse, for we live very simply here; we have renounced the pomps and vanities of this world, and learn how to dely the devil and all his works." 
               Fanny handed over the money to Mrs. Pilkington, who safely concealed it about her person. 
               Now, the rules and regulations of the place did not authorize the matron to levy any such tax upon its inmates, but such was the cupidity of that highly respectable lady, that the temptation was irresistible, and Fanny feld a victim to her affection for filthy lucre. 
               If she had been expostulated with for perpetrating so barefaced a robbery, she would have strenuously denied it in the first instance, and in the next have argued that it proceeded from her internal organization, over which she could possibly has so control, for she was a little bit of a philosopher. 
               But Mrs. Pilkington, like the rest of us, was what the world had made her. 
               As the worthy female may yet be in the flesh, I refrain from giving publicity to her early history, in which determination I am further strongly confirmed by another secret, which is-I happen to be totally ignorant of it. 
               "Our discipline is rather strict, my dear," said Mrs. Pilkington, again addressing Fanny, "and you will do well to pay attention to my commands, as disobedience will undoubtedly be followed by unpleasant consequences which no one is more desirous of averting than Keziah Pilkington, which Christian name, I would have you know, child, is what my godfathers and godmothers-good, honest souls! I wonder if they were?" (this by way of parenthesis,) "were pleased to give me, though I've nothing to say against it or them. God forbid I should abuse the dear departed, which they are, from this life! Well, we must all go to the land of milk and honey some day, although I must say I don't care about being hurried in performing that long journey from which no traveller returns except as an unholy ghost, you know. 
               "Well, well, that's neither here nor there. We get up at six o'clock in the morning, and some sweep the house and clean up, and that; this is a duty that devolves on each in turn. Then we have prayers, which are read by me, and we sing hymns and things for an hour or so; when we have breakfast; after which we work at sewing and needlework,-we've got two beautiful sewing-machines,-and at one o'clock we have dinner. After dinner we work again till tea, and then we read a bit, till ten; when we put out the lights, and go to bed. I have two persons to assist me, and one sleeps in each of the dormitories to keep order. No one can get out more than once a month, and then only with me or one of my assistants. We are visited every now and then by clergymen, who see that everything is going on satisfactorily: and now you know all about it. So if you'll follow me, I'll introduce you." 
               Fanny listened with some attention to this discourse, and getting up, followed Mrs. Pilkington through the passage, and into a large room with a sanded floor, and adorned with lain paper. Several long, narrow tables were placed together in the middle of the room, upon which were placed cups and saucers, bread and butter, together with the ordinary paraphernalia of the tea-table, while some benches and a few chairs completed the furniture of the apartment. Fifteen women, besides the assistants, were standing in groups about the room talking together; some were old women, or, to be more exact, they had become prematurely old through their excesses, while others were young and still pretty. Perhaps, out of all that number, not three, or certainly not more than three, were there from a conviction that they had been leading a life of sin, and animated with a sincere wish to alter their way of living, had placed themselves under the guidance of the church and her ministers. Of the others, some were old and worn out, possibly in bad health, and wished for an asylum, where they would be well treated and cared for, for nothing; and most likely, if they conducted themselves well, be provided with a good situation when their time of probation was over. Some, again, had been out of luck, and also suffered from weak health and shattered nerves, which they thought would be benefitted by living quietly for some time, which they could not do in their own homes, as they would have been unable to obtain money to live upon, unless they pursued the course from which they wished to escape, until they were better able to undergo it; and every one of these meant most decidedly, when they had made sufficient use of the "Home," to return to their old avocation, always provided that nothing better turned up. 
               The girls looked up when Fanny entered, although they still continued to laugh and talk among themselves. 
               Mrs. Pilkington beckoned to a tall, fair-haired girl, who was certainly very pretty, and said to her- 
               "Lilla, here's a new comer; I think she is very innocent, not one of your sort at all; she's from the country. You must look after her, and don't let her be teased or tormented." 
               Lilla promised acquiescence, and Mrs. Pilkington, leaving Fanny with her, went to the head of the table and proceeded to make the tea. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               A LIVING PLEDGE. 
               FANNY soon became accustomed to the ways and habits of the people into whose society she had been cast. Lilla had taken her under her special protection, and initiated her, with a frankness which disarmed criticism, into all the mysteries of the Bowery Eleusis. The little money that Fanny had left from the rapacity of Mrs. Pilkington, was very soon disposed of in a way congenial to the mind and taste of her newly-acquired friend, Lilla, who said to her as soon as an opportunity offered- 
                
               "I say, have you any tin?" 
               "No," replied Fanny, without the slightest assumption of innocence, "I have not. Do you want some?" 
               "Oh! you little fool," laughed Lilla. "I see you don't take. I mean, how much money have you?" 
               "I had nearly twenty dollars, but Mrs. Pilkington made me give her fifteen, and I have only some change loft." 
               Lilla looked disgusted, and said to a friend of here-"Look here, Rose, Old Gooseberry bagged fifteen dollars from this girl just now." 
               "What a greedy thing!" replied Rose, with genuine indignation. 
               "Who is Old Gooseberry?" asked Fanny. 
               "Old Gooseberry! why, old Mother Pilkington; have you never noticed that red spot on the end of her nose?-a sort of lamp which she takes care to keep well supplied with spirits, and which, in return, shows up in the most awfully glowing colers-in fact, in the dark, it is like a colony of glow-worms. But what I meant by asking you if you were flush, was to get you to stand some liquor." 
               "Oh! if you mean money," said Fanny, "I have some change." 
               "Let's look; here, give it to me!" cried Lilla. 
               Fanny took out the money Mrs. Pilkington had left her, and gave it to Lilla without the least hesitation. 
               "Why, you've over three dollars," said Lilla. "Now, I'll tell you what we'll do-Sally shall get us some white satin." 
               "Who is Sally?" asked Fanny, innocently. 
               Sally's our chorewoman, and comes for an hour or so, every day," replied Lilla. 
               "Oh! I see. Then Mrs. Pilkington allows her to go out shopping for you?" 
               "What a fool you must be," said Lilla, raising her eyes; "you don't suppose we're flat enough to ask her?" 
               "You won't get much satin, I'm afraid, for three dollars," remarked Fanny. "I wish I had some more money, for your sake." 
               "Not much'" exclaimed Lilla. "Well, I don't know what you mean by much, but I should say we can get a gallon." 
               "A gallon!" laughed Fanny. "How very odd. Do you measure dresses by gallons in New York?" 
               "Dresses! Who's talking about dresses?" 
               "Why, you are; are you not?" replied Fanny, still more astonished. 
               "Well, you are green," at last said Lilla, after she had indulged in a hearty laugh at her expense. 
               After a while this young lady condescended to explain that white satin was an appellation bestowed upon a certain alcoholic distillation vulgarly known as gin; but the conversation was soon after put an end to by the approach of one of the matrons, who seemed to have a private conviction that Miss Lilla and her companion were not performing that amount of work which would justify her bestowing upon them the distinguishing word diligent, when she made her next report to the visiting clergymen connected with the home. 
               Time passed on, and the autumn became winter, and winter gave place to spring, until Fanny became the mother of a little baby-boy, upon which she lavished all the affection a young mother feels for her first child; and she loved it all the more on account of a latent fear which had taken possession of her mind, that she might some how or other lose it. Nor was this apprehension without foundation, for Mrs. Amherst wrote to say that she was exerting all her interest to get the child admitted into the Foundling Hospital. Certainly Fanny felt that the child would be a burden upon her all through life, and would tend to disgrace and lower her wherever she went; but then she loved it so fondly, so tenderly, and she wrote a touching letter to Mrs. Amherst, saying, "Do let me have my child, it is the only thing I have to live for, and you do no, know how fondly I love it. I never let it out of my sight, and it reminds me of him, a recollection which is still sadly pleasing, for I fear I shall never succeed in tearing his image from my heart. Oh! do, dear Mrs. Amherst, give me my baby. Do not efface all the gratitude I owe you for your kindness by this one act of cruelty, for it is cruelty. I know that people will ask if I am married when they see the baby, for I will undergo any shame and degradation for the sake of having my boy. He shall never know, I swear it to you, who his father is; not a syllable on that point shall under any consideration escape my lips. If that is what you fear, let my assurance satisfy you. I think if I had not indulged in the happiness of anticipation, and dwelt incessantly upon the delight of having a living pledge to show me that Percy once cared for me, my poor heart must have broken, when he-so, so-I can cannot use a harsh epithet even now-when he deserted me. It is so like him, dear Mrs. Amherst; you will be astonished when you see the little fellow. He has Percy's eyes to perfection, and the same small month. I am not talking with the partiality of a mother only, for his beauty is acknowledged by everybody here, even Mrs. Pilkington says he is a duck. You must not take him from me. Let me work for him. I will let you put him to school when he is eight or nine years old; but now he is so tiny and so young to go amongst strangers, who won't care a bit about him for his own dear self. Why, I believe it would kill him as well as me. Already I must tell you he can lisp something like 'mama!' Mrs. Pilkington says it isn't, and it isn't to be expected a child of his age could; but I am positive I am right, and if he begins so early, he is sure to be a clever man when he grows up. I feel confident that I could work hard with him, and that I could be so good and virtuous, and lead quite a model life, if I had him; but if you deprive me of him, there is no saying what I may do. I am afraid you must forgive me for saying so, because I don't wish for a moment to use anything which may seem like a threat; but I am afraid that if you wither up our affections, my heart will be hardened, and I shall never do any good. In short, that you will drive me to a bad life, because I should have no peace of mind and nothing to love, and if I did not plunge into some excitement or other, I should go mad. I feel this, and I only mention it to show that if you do take an interest in me, you must let me have my own way in this matter, and I end this letter as I began it, asking you, with all the earnestness I possess, to let me have my child." 
               What Fanny said was true enough. Her child tended to keep her innocent and good, and with it she might have become a paragon of virtue. Without it, as she said, there was every probability of her becoming hard-hearted and reckless. She had hither to resisted the advice of Lilla, who had repeatedly said to her, "Oh! never mind the kid; let the kid go where they like to take it, and you come with me. I shall cut this hole noon, and then you can have lodgings with me." 
               But Fanny invariably refused. 
               Mrs. Amherst was determined to have her own way, and the consequences was that Fanny's child-for it was Fanny's, and here alone, since its father had deserted it-was torn from her arms, and then indeed Lilla's advice was most dangerous, was most pernicious. Poor Fanny ran about the house in a half frantic state, crying as if her heart would break. To this succeeded a sullen despair, which Lilla took advantage of, and eventually Fanny agreed to leave the home, and start, as Lilla elegantly expressed it, "on her own hook," in conjunction with her fair but somewhat demoralized companion. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               MAKING A BEGINNING. 
               THE pastorals of Virgil are charming in their simplicity, except that horrid one beginning with "Formosus pastor Corydon," which Lord Byron apostrophizes in some emphatic lines. Yet the Mantuan Bard has not been accused by posterity of indelicacy, which may, indeed, with more propriety ety, be laid to the charge of his contemporary, Flaccus. Anacreon who, when in his cups, allowed his amatory muse to wander unchecked about Parnassus, and penetrate into those shady groves and flowery dells where Venus held her court, and where Cupid indulged in the pleasant sport of dear stalking, by wounding hearts, and Tommy Moore himself, under the pseudonym of Little, published poems which, though all admired, few laid on their drawing-room tables. However, I hope I may not be taxed with levity, if I am compelled to allude to a career which bestows upon those who embrace it a notoriety somewhat undesirable, and a popularity which is more lucrative than enviable. By the force of circumstances, and the injudicious conduct of mistaken friends, Fanny had become one of those pretty butterflies who revel in the delights of love, without being fettered by the chains of wedlock. 
               Juvenal, with that satirical power for which he is so famous, has spoken of Messalina and Phryne. And Lais and Aspasia were as celebrated for their easy virtue as for their beauty. Fanny was hardly the arbiter of her own destiny. Her protectors had made her what she was, and their last act had deprived her of the little feeling she had left. She certainly began under favorable auspices. She had no heart of her own-that was crushed long ago; therefore she could more easily break or attach, as she thought best the hearts of others. She was very charming and very beautiful, and she knew it. On that account she was more dangerous and more to be feared. She had learned to lie, and to deceive, through which arts she would be able to throw dust in the eyes of those whom it was her interest to blind. Being thrown upon her own resources had quickened her perceptions, and developed faculties which she did not know existed in her, because they had hitherto been dormant. 
               Lilla's first act was to introduce Fanny to a well-known riding-master, who, with a liberality for which he is so deservedly distinguished, agreed to supply the two friends with horses and a barouche for the trifling consideration of two hundred dollars a month, which, however, he consented to give credit for, until the fickle goddess ventured to smile upon the fair adventuresses. 
               As Fanny was destitute of the necessary skill in horsemanship, she took lessons, at first twice a day; and when it was thought that she was sufficiently proficient, she essayed the park one lovely morning in May, accompanied by Lilla, who had a sort of nodding acquaintance with half the young men of the day, who were fonder of wine and women than chastity and cheesecakes. 
               There was nothing remarkable in Lilla's having disappeared during the winter. Frost and cold are not favorable to the hatching of the chrysalis which contains the butterfly which flutters about the haunts of fashion in the summer time; and it is no uncommon thing for people of all denominations and ranks to nestle down in some little "enbby-house," until the ice and snow have melted, and Phbus shows his ruddy countenance once more. 
               Lilla and her friend were lodging with a lady who let a part of the house at a rate a little exorbitant, but which, perhaps, was justly so, when all the circumstances are considered, for besides being a lady of very amiable qualities, she was the kindest soul that ever lived-as long as you were useful to her. Then she had an extensive acquaintance among men of money and position, who were fond of dropping in at Mrs. Liveley's and having a bottle or two of her champagne, which if it was not worth quite the money they paid for it, was certainly not a bad vintage. Mrs. Lively and become very popular of late years, and her house was the constant resort of fellows who knew they could do as they liked, and who felt sure they should meet some one they knew. In fact, it was a sort of club, possessing the charm of independence and of freedom, Mrs. Lively had some years ago been intimately acquainted, so report said, with a certain distinguished government official; and when he erratic character of that gentleman is thought of, perhaps there may have been some truth in the story. At any rate she knew a gentleman when she saw aim, and those who went to her house knew they would only meet their own set. 
               It is not to be supposed that Fanny was entirely successful in the career she had chosen without undergoing a sort of apprenticeship; but owing to the kindness and experience of her friend Lilla, and, more than all, from the fact of her being an inmate of Mrs. Liveley's house, and the natural talent for conversation and repartee she possessed, she succeeded better than she otherwise would have done. Mrs. Lively had no idea that Lilla had passed the time during her absence from the gay world in a "Home." She knew that her great enemy was consumption, and Lilla stated that she had been living under the protection of a gentleman at Philadelphia; so that when she again turned up she was greeted with great cordiality, and Fanny, owing to Lilla's introduction, was received with kindness, and the smile of welcome was held out to her. 
               As a matter of course visits were paid to the various nocturnal resorts of the "fast" portions of the community. And those inviting supper-rooms in the neighborhood of Fifth Avenue were duly patronized. 
               Fanny plunged eagerly into the dissipation of the little village, as New York is sometimes facetiously called, and made a sensation in certain circles. She had already had an offer made her by a concert-saloon proprietor, but Mrs. Liveley advised her to wait a little longer. 
               "The man's got money," she said, "but I think you can do better, dear; I don't think much of his family; but still, you know, if you like to have him at any time you can easily do it. There certainly is one thing in his favor, and that is, he is in a good business, and where you will come in contact with a lot of jolly fellows, who will give you an air and tone you are rather deficient in at present. However, think it over; don't be too hasty, and something better may turn up in the meanwhile." 
               Fanny took this advice, and acted upon it; she had gone to the park one day for a canter after breakfast, which she found was as beneficial to health as the process of matutinal "tubbing." 
               Lilla's chief employment was pointing out different men to Fanny, and as she had as excellent memory, she never forgot either a man or a face. 
               "There! do you see that fellow?" she exclaimed. 
               "Which?" asked Fanny, "the tall thin one in a black frock-coat, with rather a pensive kind of face?" 
               "No, not him; that's lawyer Brown; I hate him. You see how I'll cut him; he's sure to bow to me. I mean the other one; there, that fellow on the roan mare." 
               "Yes, I see," replied Fanny. 
               "Well," continued Lilla, "that fellow's run through a mint of money; his name's Beeklam-funny name, isn't it? He's awfully in debt, and the bill-brokers have got hold of him so tightly he can't extricate himself. By the way, Fanny, I'm going to dine with Little Blair, in the Bowery, next Sunday: will you come? It's awful fun." 
               "Yes, I'll come like a bird," answered Fanny. 
               "There are a lot of jolly fellows in the Bowery, too, just now," said Lilla. "Look there; that's Gussy Malvern. He's got no money, but he's always about somewhere. If we go to Kate's to-night I'll bet anything you see him pitching into somebody else's Moselle cup. He hardly ever stands any himself. I have great fun with him about it." 
               "I say, Lilla," cried Fanny, "here's my admirer. What shall I do?" 
               "Don't take any notice of him: pretend not to see him, and when we pass him again just give him a slight nod." 
               "All right!" said Fanny, who followed her friend's instructions to the letter. "Poor little fellow, how out up he looks! I don't care a straw for him, you know; but I believe he's over head and ears in love with me. What'll you bet, Lilla, he doesn't go off at once to Ryder's, and send me a lot of jewelry?" 
                
               
                   should think it was extremely probable," replied Lilla. "By the way, what did you do with that necklace Charley Hos- sent you!" 
               "Pretty thing, wasn't it?" said Fanny, "I drove up in the barouche yesterday to Hunt and Roskell's, where it came from, and asked what they would make me one like it for, and they said a thousand dollars, and as I wanted some tin to pay Alleyne. I sent to Vincent's and pawned it for a hundred." 
               "Well, I'm tired of this fun," exclaimed Lilla. "Suppose we go home and change our things and order the barouche?" 
               "Let's go to Verrey's and got some ices; it's beastly hot," said Fanny. 
               "Very well, dear," answered Lilla; "that will do jollily for me; as I want to meet a fellow near there at two." 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THINGS NOT GENERALLY KNOWN. 
               THINGS went on with Fanny very much in the same way for some time. A restless longing for excitement possessed her, which she was compelled to gratify at the sacrifice of all those habits that conduce to longevity and respectability. Orgie succeeded orgie, and stimulating drinks were perpetually employed to drown thought and smother care, that dull phantom which lay like an incubus and a wet blanket upon her in her quieter moments. She was not in want of money, although her extravaganes was boundless, because she was provided by numerous friends and acquaintances; and if the supply was exhausted before quarter-day came round again, or dividend-day at the bank approached, she knew very well how to fill up the void and obtain fresh fuel to feed the waning fire. I do not intend by any means to assert that she was absolutely and painfully unhappy; parties and balls, and nocturnal dissipation of the most varied kinds precluded the possibility of that; but there was a restless longing for something unattainable, a fierce burning desire for those things which are always objects of most passionate love to the lost and abandoned of womankind. The home-a thing, a pent-house, a shed, a barn, rather than none at all-its surroundings, the  to look up to and regard with fond and tender affection, and possibly those pledges of lasting and mutual attachment, the  wee things to nestle to her bosom  the name of mother. But fate was inexorable. These things were not to be, and as Fanny longed and wept and burned with feverish anxiety which, although it was  outwardly suppressed, raged not a whit less intensely within her heart. The fuous, it must be confessed, have a monoply of blessings and the truly good things in life, and their beauty was enhanced to Fanny's mind by the exaggerated lens through whose medium she viewed them. She had pursued her career long enough now for gilding and the tinsel to wear off, and sickened for rest. It was so hollow, so vile, so objectless, and its mortifications were incessant. And she fell back for consolation upon a false and lying comforter, and sacrificed afresh upon the altars of the Prince Evil. The legions whose home is in darkness of Tophet ministered to her pleasures, and sang pans from the bottomlesspit, while she continued to burn incense whose fumes were wafted downwards to gratify the senses of the infernal. 
               Imagine her in the evening, listlessly lying upon a couch to prepare herself for fatigues of the night, when, with her marvellous beauty heightened by all the art of the milliner and the skill of the jeweller, she would pass the hateful hours which elapsed between midnight and morning some of her nocturnal resorts. 
               Let us follow her as she is swiftly carried along in her barouche to the scene of splendid dissipation, in which it is her delight to mingle. The door is reached and the visitant, who had no occasion to demand admittance, so well known is she to burly Cerberus who guards the entrance, is permitted ingress with all  haste and facility. 
                
               
                  And a word or two about Cerberus: a  hulking, low-looking ruffian is he,  a golden sop, or even an argent one, fers him into a grinning, smiling demon something like Caliban in his cups; after making every allowance for him, impossible to come to any other conclusion than that he is a very indifferent ter-perhaps the perpetrator of some less atrocity, and perhaps not, though imagination is justified in running riot at his expense. There he stands, the minister of vice and the slave of harlotry; his  and shaggy eyebrows close and coned, his nose an almost indistinguishable re, which speaks unmistakably of ruffianly combat, so flat and swollen in its proportions. His back a little bent, eyes bloodshot, and his face red, the result of years of excess and the unbridled  of the passions. Yet his frame was Herculean, and his broad chest is sug of present strength, which would him an ugly customer in the event of . He rings a bell as he lets you in, is to give notice of your approach to a companion who guards another door some  fifteen yards up a long subterranean  passage. The tinkling of the bell  that all in right-a very necessary tion, it may be observed, as the myr of the law are sometimes in the habit  themselves into this haunt of  and of wine. There seems to be  little difficulty on the part of the pro on the score of spirit licenses, which commissioners, it is rumored, are annu obdurate enough not to grant. At all , if this should be a fictitious report, ing of a malicious slander, it is certain whenever the satellites of Messrs. ink and Doolittle so far honor the laneous company as to pay them a  all the more graceful on their part they have not waited for a special ion, well knowing that at all times  are sure to be welcome-the brandy es, and the cups of various denomination together with the solds-without and ts-within, are hastly stowed away in remote corners, and hidden under coat-tails, or disguised beneath the folds of capacious crinolines; such pantomimes causing much hilarity and elevation of spirit amongst the frequenters of the place, who indulge in quiet chaff, to the evident disgust of the baffled police whose raid, for this time atleast, has proved abortive; and the said police, after making a cursory inspection, execute a strategic movement and skedaddle, having imbibed a different idea of a police cell from that which is generally current on the subject. But ill-natured people do say that all police serve Baal a little, but these police serve Baal a great deal, and that their palms, like gipsies', are crossed with--. But why repeat such idle shatter? which only goes to throw an evidently groundless suspicion on the chaste and spotless characters of the intrepid defenders of the public peace. 
               The second door hath an equally pliable hinge, and admits the neophyte into another corridor, tripping over the floor of which we find ourselves in a long and somewhat narrow room in comparison with its length, brilliantly lighted with gas and adorned with mirrors, the dazzling properties of which add much to the glory of the scene. In round numbers, perhaps seventy or eighty representatives of frail femininity are gathered together, carelessly holding converse with a score less of the opposite sex. This is the true Agapemone, or Abode of Love, where each individual fairy deserves the apple of Paris. Turning sharply to the right as we enter, we come upon a counter covered with flowers and vases and bottles of various descriptions, also garnished with glasses filled with the foaming vintage of Champagne; behind this pretty and effective barricade, seated upon a high and gorgeous throne, arrayed in robes of richest cashmere and the finest silk of Lyons adorned with more than regal splendor, with stones of price glittering on her wrists, her hands, and her neck, sitteth the queen of the festivities-Katherine the First. Her subjects, dutiful and obedient, have grouped themselves around her, while in frequent and copious libations they do her homage, and strive to excel in the meritorious occupation. A minister of state is reclining on a divan by her side, with all the abandonment of an oriental favorite. Somewhat given to embon-point is her majesty, but this, of course, brings her more weight with her people; a little florid, too, but possessing the most gracious smile that ever dimpled regal cheeks. Her voice is sweet, and its cadences beautiful and varied, sounding soft and mellifluous as it encourages you when swearing allegiance in the brimming goblet. This is the sovereign of the Elysian fields in which Fanny revels and exists, and where her majesty holds her nightly drawing-rooms, in order that new subjects may kiss the white if not pretty hand extended for the caress. 
               The footmen next demand attention, dressed as they are with great care and nicety. The leader of this servile band is of the clock and well-fed order of menials, and performs his duty as if he were conscious of the magnitude of the task confided to him. He orders the subordinate domestics with the air of one having brief authority, and smiles blandly, not to say vacantly, when receiving payment of certain fees from the numerous visitors to his royal mistress's court. 
               If there is an absence of that strict decorum which obtains in more select assemblies, it is in the early part of the night scarcely perceptible to the superficial observer. The gentler sex are a little noisy, perhaps; but then they are naturally fresh and vivacious, jocular and facetious. How could it be otherwise, transplanted as they have been from the rural and virgin ground which gave them birth, without passing through an intermediate state, untrammeled by the bands of an artificial education? Therefore much allowance must be made for the primitive daughters of the soil, set down as they are in a sphere for which their early training has not prepared them. The men, with few exceptions, are gentlemen, who are able to converse with more freedom than they can at home, or in the polite society in which they are generally compelled to move. The army, the civil service, the bar, the hospitals, and the universities, all send their contingents to the revel. When a lady is presented, the hospitality of the queen is extended to her, and sundry beverages of a fiery and potent nature pressed upon her. Not so with the lords of the creation, who have to cement the introduction in wine of a costly description, and from the sale of this is the revenue of the queen derived; she takes a percentage upon all the bottles emptied, but delivers up the rest to an Israelite, to whom the palace really appertaineth. This offspring of a persecuted race but seldom appears upon the festive scene, as the word "Christkiller" and "crucifier" do not sound harmoniously in his ears; and certain insinuations anent manslaughter, reflecting upon the worthy man's antecedents, appear harsh unto him. So he delegates the sacred trust to the mighty monarch he has set up on high, and the people who are victimised become the spoil of Israel through his deputy. Thus it will be perceived the prince himself remains in the background, fondly hoping to escape the odium which certain acts have brought against him; but this hope is fondly vain-a Nemesis hangs like a cloud over his domicile, and the sword of Damocles is suspended by a single thread. 
               The gay and giddy throng laugh, and drink, and talk, and drink again; and the hectic flush grows brighter and stronger until it glows very brightly on the otherwise pale cheek, and the hacking cough dyes the white cambric with a crimson stain; but still the merriment increases, and the shouts are loud and long. The tired head and the overwearied brain are renovated and inspired afresh, until the senses are steeped in oblivion: but the wine flows faster, and Circe weaves her spells. Battle are waged, and lost, and won by combatents inspired with vinous courage, and loses its distinctive character, and the crowd disperses in twos and threes, and one by one, lonely and sad, and when the cold, grey morning light streams in through the cracks of the shutters, how like a charnel-house it all looks! 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               SHOWING HER METTLE. 
               ULTIMATELY Fanny accepted the offer made her by the saloon-keeper, and changed her name to Mrs. Saunders. She wished he had a more aristocratic occupation, but as he had plenty of money that objection was not held as a very weighty one. Although he bought a very pretty little cottage for her on the outskirts of Brooklyn, she refused to inhabit it except at intervals, and he soon found that expostulation was of little if any use with her. 
               Soon after the alliance had been contracted, Fanny said, one morning, after breakfast- 
               "I must have a pony-carriage of my own, Herbert; you can pick up a couple of ponies at Tattersall's for an old song." 
               "I don't know what you call an old song; but I know I can't get anything that will do for you under five hundred dollars," he replied. 
               "Well, what of it!" exclaimed Fanny. "Suppose it coats twice that? If you can't afford to keep me properly why didn't you tell me so at once, instead of making a fool of me like this?" 
               "Well, darling," said Herbert, "I'll drop in at the corner; I want to put some money on Black Hawk-" 
               "Oh, yes! I dare say you can spend any amount of money in bets; and I can't have the slightest thing I want." 
               "Hang it!" he rejoined, "I'm going to do what you want; you needn't pitch into a fellow so infernally." 
               "Well, look here, old fellow," said Fanny; "be a brick, and go to New York with me this morning, and see what sort of traps Laurie and Marner have, and I'll leave the horse-flesh to you, only get something ." 
               When Fanny got, her pony-carriage she as happy, as she attracted a good deal of attention, which pleased her exceedingly. Herbert grumbled at the price the coach-maker charged for the carriage; but that was nothing to Fanny. If he said a word to her she sulked for two or three days, and started off to New York, where she had plenty of friends, both male and female, whose society was agreeable to her. 
               Fanny had written a letter to her father and mother to inform them that she had obtained a place in a family on Brooklyn Heights, but as she omitted to put any address in her letter the old people could not write or cummunicate with her. They, however, thought it mere carelessness on her part, and conjectured that the mistake would be remedied when they next heard from her. 
               Fanny had told the same tale to Mrs. Pilkington, who had written to Mrs. Amherst. Now, the latter lady had her own suspicions, but as they were at present nothing more, she kept her own counsel, and soon Fanny was almost forgotten at the hall, although her memory was still cherished by the inmates of the cottage, who were little anxious about their daughter, as she favored them with an epistle occasionally. 
               "Tell us your history, Fanny." said Herbert, one day, as he was driving her in a phaeton along the Astoria road. 
               "I sha'n't," answered Fanny, rather sharply; "what's my history to you?" 
               "I don't know that it's much, certainly," said he, a little annoyed at her tone and manner. 
               "Well, then, another time; be a good boy, and look after your own business," replied Fanny, smiling. 
               But he wasn't to be so easily put off, and he worried her until she said, 
               "Well, if you won't badger a fellow as horribly, I'll tell you." 
               And she proceeded to inform him, with all the gravity in the world, that she was the only child of a clergyman in Albany; that she had fallen a victim to the fascinating deceptions of a young lawyer in that city; and, to avoid the scandal of the affair produced in the neighborhood, ran away to New York, and began a career which brought her in contact with him. 
               "Why didn't you make him marry you?" asked her companion. "I suppose he would have done it rather than have been shown up?" 
               "Oh! I believe you; but I didn't really care for him, and I didn't like the idea of being tied to him for ever." 
               "Well, he was an unlucky dog to lose such a little angel," remarked Herbert, looking at her with admiration. 
               "Was he, now?" said Fanny. "Do you think so!" 
               "Gad! I've no doubt of it." 
               "Then why don't you marry the little angel!" she asked, gazing up in his face. 
               His glance fell before her large earnest eyes, and fixing his own on the cattle before him, he answered- 
               "I'm afraid you'd be too expensive a luxury to enjoy for life." 
               "Go before the Registrar; it's no end of a hedge," said Fanny. "Get a special license, and you can have me cheap. It'll only cost you something like forty shillings, and you can keep it dark." 
               At this moment they overtook a man who was riding a flue handsome horse, which cost him five hundred dollars, if he paid a penny for it. 
               "Hallo! Gordon, old fellow!" exclaimed Saunders, "where are you off to?" 
               "What's your game, old boy?" replied Gordon, reining in his horse, and bowing with great and marked politeness to Fanny, who seemed delighted at the rencontre. 
               "How are you, Charley?" she said, holding out her hand, when Herbert had pulled up by the side of the road. 
               That hand was always bien gante, and it was a delight to look at it. 
               "Oh! jolly enough; how are you? Going to Astoria, I suppose?" 
               "Will you come and dine at the Constellation with us?" 
               "I'm sure I shall be delighted," replied Gordon in answer to Fanny's invitation, "if Saunders will have me; only I'm afraid I shall bore you." 
               "Oh! never mind him; everybody knows he's an old spoon." 
               Saunders, seeing there was no help for it, submitted with a bad grace. 
               "You drive on, then," said Gordon, "and I'll do the out-rider." 
               And, falling behind, he cantered gently along the soft turf that lined the road-way. 
               "What the devil," exclaimed Saunders, "do you want to ask a lot of beastly follows to dine with us for?" 
               "Do you want to know particularly?" asked Fanny, quietly. 
               "Of course I do," he angrily responded, or I shouldn't ask you. 
               "Well, then, you may find out. I shall do as I choose, without asking you permission." 
               "Will you, though? I don't think you will," he rejoined, angrily. 
               "Who are you?" said Fanny, provokingly; "I'm sure I don't know how I ever contrived to pick you up; you're the only mistake I ever made." 
               "What did you do it for, then?" 
               "That's just what I want to know," replied Fanny; "because I was a fool, I suppose." 
               "It's not too late now, you know," said Herbert, rather savagely. 
               "Yes; you're sure to say that," cried Fanny; "just what I might have expected from a low brute like you." 
               "Well, shut up, there's a pot," said he, quietly, seeing that he had raised a storm that might have unpleasant results. 
               "You're not the only man in the world, my dear fellow," continued Fanny. 
               "Well, I don't suppose I am," said Herbert, whipping up his horses. 
               "And I can tell you another thing," added Fanny. "If Charley Gordon is poor in comparison with you, he's a much nice fellow." 
               "I say, Fanny," exclaimed Herbert, "If you don't chain up, I'll drive back to town; upon my word, I will." 
                
               "You may drive to blazes for what I care," answered Fanny, "but I'm going to Astoria, and I dare say I can manage to walk the rest of the way, and I shall have Charley Gordon to talk to; he's good chaff, you know." 
               "Damn Charley Gordon," cried Herbert, between his teeth. 
               "Now, if you're going to be sulky and disagreeable," said Fanny, "I will get out, and you may go where you like, and do what you like; I'm not going to be bullied by you, you great beast." 
               "I'm not bullying you," expostulated Herbert. 
               "You think you have me in your power, don't you?" Fanny went on; "but I'll show you to-morrow what I can do." 
               "You may do what you like to-morrow, for what I care," said Herbert. 
               "Now, look here, old fellow! I'm not going to be cheeked by you," cried Fanny, and she bit him a blow on the face with her little gloved hand that cut his lip and knocked his hat off. 
               "Hang it all, Fanny!" said Herbert, "don't hit so cursed hard; your paw's as strong as a coal-heaver's fist." 
               "Well, then, don't you cheek me again, that's all." 
               "Before that fellow, too!" said Saunders; "you make me look such a fool." 
               "You shouldn't do it, then," persisted Fanny. "Here, I say, old fellow," she cried, addressing Gordon, "pick up that hat will, will you?" 
               Gordon had perceived there was a row going on, though he was not near enough to hear what it was about; and he was vastly pleased when he saw Herbert's hat rolling in the dust. 
               "Isn't she a little devil, by jove!" muttered he to himself, and stooping down over his saddle, he skilfully inserted the end of his riding-whip into the hat, and raising it in the air, cantered up with it to Fanny, who took it in her hand and said- 
               "Now, if you'll promise to be good, Herbert, you shall have it; if you don't I'll throw it over the fence." 
               Herbert thought to himself he never had been so infernally set upon, but he wouldn't give in at once, so he said- 
               "Well, I suppose I can get another at Astoria; they sell hats there, don't they, Charley?" 
               "Well, I don't think they do," replied Gordon. "I'm afraid you'll have to wait till you get back to town." 
               "Promise," said Fanny, holding the hat up threateningly; "if you don't, the chimney-pot isn't worth a minute's purchase." 
               "You'd better knock under, I think," laughed Gordon. 
               "Well, I promise," replied Herbert, getting into a good humor again. 
               Fanny gave him his hat, and they soon after entered the town, and drove up to the public house where they intended to dine. 
               "You little fairy," said Herbert to her before they alighted, "you know how spooney I am on you, or you wouldn't go on as you do with me." 
               "You're not the first fool I've met," replied Fanny, coolly. 
               "I wish I were," muttered Herbert, as if he was thinking that in that case he would have made her his own forever. 
               "Herbert, dear!" said Fanny, presently, "will you get me that Indian shawl at Farmer and Rogers' to-morrow?" And she looked up at him in her peculiar fascinating manner. 
               "The one they asked three hundred dollars for?" inquired Herbert. 
               "Now, how stupid you are," answered Fanny, "I mean the five hundred dollar one." 
               "All I have you shall have if you'll only be jolly, and not kick up any more shindies," said Herbert, tenderly pressing her hand, and regarding her with a look of intense affection. 
               "Charley and I'll have a run in the garden, Herbert," exclaimed Fanny, returning his look, "while you brew some Baddington, like a good old bird as you are." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               AN UNEXPECTED MEETING. 
               THE constancy of women has been considered in all ages and in all countries extremely problematical; but the constancy of a woman who is not bound by any ties of a legal nature is so questionable as to be hardly worth the trouble of debate, and generally the more devoted a man is, the more cavalierly he is treated by the woman on whom he has bestowed those affections which might have been more worthily disposed of. To say that Fanny cared for Herbert Saunders would be to utter a fiction of the grossest description; yet he was good-looking and possessed all those attributes that go to constitute a man an Apollo in feminine eyes. If she had a penchant for him it was as much as could be said of the extremely slender amount of genuine passion she occasionally lavished upon him. Therefore there was nothing extraordinary is her liking to flirt with Gordon, who was a man of about eight-and-twenty, and much more amusing to talk to than Saunders, who was rather slow and profoundly ignorant of the difficult art of talking to women. Besides, Gordon had been to Mexico; not that that was anything extraordinary, but is enabled him to tell amusing anecdotes, and what happened to him under fire. Gordon, too, liked to enter into conversation with Fanny, because she always had a superabundant flow of good spirits, never seemed to get tired, and was ever ready to rattle away about something. So they left the unsuspecting Saunders to concoct the mysterious beverage, to which Fanny gave the name of Baddington, while they went into the delightful grounds attached to the hotel, and throwing themselves into a seat, indulged in a long tete-a-tete. 
               Gordon was a gentleman and a man of honor, but he thought nothing of trying to alienate the affections of his friend's mistress, while he would not have spoken a disrespectful word to his friend's wife for the world. Such is the code of morality which passes current in the present day; but I cannot allow the subject to pass without entering a protest against a moral code that makes friendship almost a dead letter, and imparts treachery into the most sacred relations of social life. Those who prefer freedom to thraldom, and independence to marriage, assert that the latter is merely an artificial creation of a jealous civilization, which enacts certain rules and regulations in order to assure its own preservation. But the man who is unmarried may be as virtuous, as good, and as affectionate as the one who has committed himself for life, or until death steps in to his relief; and I contend that the man who robs his friend of his mistress is guilty of an infamous act, and one almost as unjustifiable as if he glided into the sin of adultery. Certainly he does not dishonor the children, nor does he plunge his friend into the vortex of the Divorce Court, or entail as much social misery upon him as he would do in the other case; yet he does not know how profoundly his friend may feel a separation from one to whom he has allied himself by ties which, although they are from their very nature insecure, he does not intend to be altogether transitory. 
               Fanny's beauty, and the easy and natural grace of her manner, was sufficient to captivate any man less susceptible than Charley Gordon. No doubt he had a good deal of experience amongst women to boast of, but he was only a child in the hands of the woman by his side. Fanny had been well tutored by Mrs. Liveley and by Lilla, from whom she had acquired many valuable hints and received much useful advice. She intended to make her career a success, and there was every probability of her doing so. She knew that although Gordon might be a very nice fellow with whom to amuse herself now and then, that he was not well enough off for her to think for a moment of perpetrating anything more serious. 
               "What a lucky fellow Saunders is!" said Charley looking on the ground, and endeavoring to strike a fusee on his stick. 
               "Lucky!" exclaimed Fanny. "Why, I should think you were arguing on the lucus a non principle." 
                
               "Can't you guess?" asked Gordon. 
               "No," replied Fanny. "I suppose I'm rather dense to-day. You know I never did set up for anything particularly brilliant." 
               "Well, I think he's a devilish lucky fellow-I do, by Jove!" said Gordon, coming back to his original proposition, after having made a complete verbal circle without having hit upon the path he wished to find. 
               Fanny took compassion upon him, and observed, "If you mean on my account, I'm quite ready to agree with you, although that may be a matter of opinion. How long do you think it will take me to finish him off?" 
               "He may last a year, I think," replied Gordon, laughing at the audacity with which Fanny spoke and reasoned. 
               "A year!" she exclaimed. "Don't be such an idiot, Charley." 
               "I wish to God you were a chattel, as the lawyers say, and I could purchase the reversion of you!" remarked Gordon, smiling. 
               "I've too much regard for you, old fellow," said Fanny, "to wish any such thing. You'd be in hot water in a month, if you had anything to do with me." 
               At this moment Herbert came into the garden with a silver-plated tankard in his hand. 
               "Hallo there!" he cried. "I think I've let you two have a very reasonable spoon together." 
               "Have you brought the liquor?" asked Gordon. 
               Herbert handed his friend the tankard, which he presented to Fanny, who said, with a caprice that did her infinite credit- 
               "I won't have this stuff; I want some bear." 
               "You told me to make it," replied Herbert. 
               "Well suppose I did; can't I change my mind?" observed Fanny, in that tyrannical  which she always assumed when talking to her liege lord and master. 
               "Taste it. Fanny," said Herbert; "it's a stunning brew, I know you'll like it." 
               "Oh, don't bother!" replied Fanny, in a languid tone, playing with a bracelet on her arm, which she clasped and unclasped with an angry snap. 
               "Then I'll drink it myself," said Herbert, with characteristic composure, seating himself upon the grass a few paces distant from the imperious idol he had set up to govern him. 
               "Perhaps you'll get me some beer," cried the idol, angrily, "before you make a beast of yourself." 
               "Send that fellow there," replied Herbert pointing to Gordon; "I'm so awfully comfortable." 
               "All the more reason why you should be disturbed," responded Fanny. "Now then off you go. Off with you!" 
               "Send him-send that lazy beast," persisted Herbert. 
               "There will be something uncommonly rotten in the state of Denmark before long if you don't book it off after the beer cried Fanny. 
               Herbert got up with a yawn, and said "Upon my soul, that little woman worries my life out, Gordon." 
               But it was the opinion of Gordon that he rather liked his delicate bondage, and took a delight in being ordered about. 
               "Poor boy," laughed Fanny; "don't I lead him a life?" 
               "Any man might consider himself happy," answered Gordon, "in bringing ambrosia to Venus." 
               The waiter now came out to tell them that dinner was on the table. 
               After dinner Fanny proposed that they should walk through the town, which Herbert immediately agreed to, saying- 
               "If you like, we will go down to the dock and get a boat; I'll send you up the river. You know I am au fait at that kind of business." 
               Fanny said she had no objection, and they wound their way down to the river, and procured a handsome bateau. Herbert took off his coat, turned up his shirt-sleeves, and prepared himself for action. Gordon seated himself by Farmy's side. When they got into the middle of the stream, Fanny said- 
               "Go down the river, Herbert; the scenery is prettier down that way." 
               Herbert said he would rather go upstream; but Fanny insisted upon having her own way, and the boat glided softly down towards Ravenswood. 
               The evening was unexceptionable, and the party were in excellent spirits, and their laughter and badinage attracted the attention of the other people who on that evening were disporting themselves on the placid bosom of the river. One man, in particular, in a diminutive skiff, seemed much struck with Fanny's appearance and beauty; his evident admiration, however, was totally lost upon Fanny, who was too much accustomed to exact adoration from everybody she met, to feel it anything strange or out of the way for a man to fix his regards upon her. Herbert thought he had never been so happy in his life. Fanny smiled upon him in the most benignant manner, and hardly spoke to Gordon, upon whom devolved the easy and pleasant task of steering. Herbert was passionately attached to boating, and was always happy when engaged in his favorite pursuit. 
               They had quickly reached Ravenswood, when a river steam-boat was seen and heard approaching. Gordon turned round the bow of the boat so that the waves accustomed by the paddles of the leviathan of the river might splash over the side of the boat, and wet the party inside with the rather odorous spray. Herbert rested upon his sculls, and they were all watching the progress of the steam-boat, when they perceived the man in the skiff who had regarded Fanny with such interest when they were near Astoria. He was still occupied in gazing at her, and so intently that he was completely ignorant of his close proximity to the steam-boat, and so rapt did he seem that neither the shouts of the passengers, nor the wirring sound of the paddles, and the steady movement of the engine, were sufficient to arouse him. Steadily the huge monster swept down upon her prey and although the order to stop the machinery was given by the skipper, it could not be executed before the unfortunate man was under the side of the steamer; the paddle-wheels caught the bow of the boat, which was instantly capsized, and both man and skiff disappeared under the water. 
               "My God, he'll be drowned!" exclaimed Herbert, "if he isn't already killed by the paddle. What's to be done, Charley!" 
               "Pon my soul, I don't know," replied Gordon; "I'm afraid he's a gone soon!" 
               Just then a shout from the passengers on board the boat announced that the body had come to the surface. 
               "There he is!" cried Fanny. Jump is, one of you; I suppose you can swim!" 
               "Stop a bit," said Herbert, greatly excited. "We'll have him!" and he sculled swiftly to where the unlucky individual was slowly floating down the river. 
               "You take the sculls, Gordon, exclaimed Herbert, "while I go to the bow and had him in." 
               Gordon took the sculls as his friend requested him, and Herbert leaned over the side and grasped the body by the arm, and with some difficulty pulled him in over the side without upsetting his own somewhat fragile craft. 
               A crowd by this time lined the banks of the river; and its component parts united in cheering the inmates of the boat who had succeeded in rescuing the drowning man. 
               Herbert landed and, assisted by Gordon, carried the body to the inn, followed closely by Fanny, who appeared to be greatly agitated. 
               She had obtained one glance, essentially a casual one, at the palid countenance of the man who was borne along on the shoulders of the two friends. In this hasty look, something-some friend, some foe, some acquaintance-had evidently been recognized, or else the sight and spectacle of apparent death had overcome her womanly nature. 
               A bed-room was readily supplied by the landlord of the inn, into which the man had been taken. Herbert laid him upon the bed, and a physician was instantly sent for. Fanny stood pale and hesitating in the doorway. 
               Gordon, observing her agitation, said, in a low tone to Herbert. "Take her away; it is not a fit scene for her to witness." 
               Herbert, acting on his friend's suggestion, told Fanny that it would be better for her to remain in a private room down stairs, until the arrival of the physician, when they would be able to re-embark and go back to Astoria. 
               Fanny offered no resistance to his advice, and passively allowed herself to be led downstairs. Her cheeks were blanched and pale as a lily, and so gentle was her breathing that her statuesque form appeared scarcely to be endowed with vitality. Her bosom heaved and swelled so slowly that her respiration seemed as impalpable as the very solt pulsation of her heart. Herbert attributed all these indications of weakness to an extremely natural and feminine horror at the dreadful spectacle they had just witnessed. Ringing the bell for some brandy, he administered some of the stimulant to her; and placing her in a seat, went upstairs to see after the condition of the stranger he had rescued, promising to return speedily. 
               The physician, for whom a messenger had been dispatched, was not long in arriving. The nature of the melancholy accident was described to him, and he proceeded to make a minute examination of the wounded man, with a view to the discovery of the injuries he had received. It was soon found that his skull was fractured, but not badly, and that one of his arms was broken, while a few bruises more or less serious on various parts of his person, completed the list of casualties; and the doctor declared that there was no immediate danger, provided the patient could enjoy quiet and repose for a week or so. The landlord had searched the stranger's clothes, and taken possession of his private papers, telling Gordon that he had made a discovery of the name and the address of his friends, to whom he had despatched a telegram requesting their immediate presence. Having arranged everything to their entire satisfaction, Herbert and Gordon descended to Fanny, who still seemed much agitated; not was her agitation to be wondered at when, in the wound and mangled body in the room upstairs, she had recognized the lineaments of Percy Amherst. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               COALS OF FIRE 
               FANNY had passed through the fire to that Moloch to whom she was now sacrificing, and the flames, like searing-irons, bad cicatrized her wounds; but when the identical weapon, the very two-edged sword, through whose instrumentality the heart-gashes had been primarily inflicted, was once more suddenly presented at her bosom, her wounds burst open and began to bleed again, while her whole soul became a prey to conflicting emotions. Her thoughts irresistibly traveled back to the Arcadian scenes of innocence and joy where her infancy and her childhood had been passed though she had not the heart to recall them. Plunged in a sort of sweet melancholy, she dwelt on every incident of her past career with which the memory of Percy was associated, from the first moment when the snake whose scales were so very pretty to look at, whose glittering colors concealed all suspicion of the poison fangs whose juice was of so deadly a nature, had been cast upon her father's threshold, until it had insinuated itself into the inmost recesses of her too confiding heart, and enveloped even the vital spark itself in one huge coil from whose embrace no skill could suffice to escape. What she might have been had he never met her, was a reflection only equalled in its painful intensity by the thought of the happiness she would have enjoyed as his wife, as the partner of his existence, his comforter and consoler in the hour of his adversity and his sympathizing companion in the brighter moments of his destiny. It was cruel of fate to bring them thus is contact. So much had Fanny developed since Percy had basely deserted her, that he had some difficulty in bringing himself to believe that the magnificent woman he saw in the boat before him was the pretty little cottage girl he had cast aside as a child does a plaything when it no longer possesses charms of novelty to rivet its attention. Deprived of her lover, and bereft on her child when its presence was most essential to her happiness, Fanny had gone through a depth of suffering that had made her heart as hard as granite; yet she found that there was a soft spot in its hidden chambers. She suffered acutely for a short time but after a while a leaden apathy succeeded as she felt that she could not resist her fate. Her naturally volatile disposition, too, assisted her in throwing off the incubus which the unanticipated meeting with one she had never expected to see again had cast upon her; and by the time the party returned to the hotel, after imbibing several glasses of wine, she began to talk with her accustomed gaiety. Herbert did not suspect the truth for a moment, but, on the contrary, gave her credit for possessing qualities he had not before perceived in her, and which were in reality very foreign to her actual nature. 
               One of the weaknesses of the charming Fanny was an over affection for spirituous distillations on certain occasions, and her gentle spirit being somewhat oppressed on this particular evening, it occurred to her fair and reckless self that a little excessive indulgence in that which a good Mahometan shudders only to beheld would not only be excusable but was absolutely justified and warranted by the sad and untoward occurrence which had taken place. Therefore her pretty lips pressed the side of the tankard with unaccustomed affection until her eyes sparkled and dilated, and the time had arrived when, in the words of Horace- 
                      
                        "Nuno pede libero 
                        Pulsanda tellus," 
                     
                   or. In her own unaffected and purely Saxonic interpetration. she was "game for anything." The natural playfulness of her disposition resulted in her taking possession of the reins on her road home, and, with a marvelous skill all her own, upsetting the phaeton and spilling herself and her lord in as scientific a manner as the most accomplished whip on the road. Fortunately no harm was done, as the ground was of an accommodating and elastic description, which received its unaccustomed burden with great "empressment." The fair Fanny was, however, not quite so fortunate as her companion, for being thrown with an additional impetus, she glided into a neighboring ditch, which welcomed her with all the well-bred suavity that might have been expected from a ditch of the first water. Gordon, who was not far behind, assisted to put the vehicle to rights, and after indulging in a little merriment, at the plight Fanny was in, helped that young and efforvescent lady into the curricle, which was this time directed by the more powerful arm of Herbert, and the party arrived in town without further misadventure, in time to dress for the play. 
               A few days afterwards, about one o'clock, Fanny, who had just risen, was sitting in the breakfast room of the little villa, and carelessly turning over a bundle of papers and letters, mixed with a few cards which were lying upon the table. She was dressed in a loose, flowing robe, contined about her waist by a rich Indian scarf of the finest texture; her hair had been hastily gathered into a net made of silk, and so fine as to be only just perceptible. Herbert was at his place of business in New York, and Fanny had no fear of being interrupted by his presence. After reading the names on the cards, she tore them into pieces and threw them into the grate, and the letters were served in the same way. She was far too clever and too discreet to allow her secrets to be betrayed by a stupid scrawl on a still more uninteresting piece of paper. One letter arrested her attention more than the others. She knew the handwriting well; it was signed by the single word "Smithson." This was the wealthy and notorious gambler, whose partiality for the fair sex was well known. Fanny had some time age attracted his attention, and he had frequently written to her, making her the most liberal propositions. Fanny had determined that she would accept his proposals, but she wished to tantalize him by the semblance of indifference for a time. After smiling at the impassioned tone of the amatory epistle, she tore it in pieces and consigned it to obscurity with the other fragments that had previously found a resting place in the fender. After breakfast she ordered her barouche, and in a pure spirit of recklessness, and love of adventure, with perhaps the least dash of rovenge mixed up with it, determined upon making a singular visit. She told the coachman to drive to Ravenswood, having resolved upon visiting Percy. She wished him to see that she was not now the poor ignorant country girl whose confidence he had so grossly abused and whose innocence he had so foully wronged. She thought there would be something inexplicably delightful in witnessing his confusion and astonishment, and there might be a possibility of arousing some remorse in his mind when he found that he had consigned the girl he once professed to love to a career at all times of a very precarious nature, and generally productive of sad and disastrous results. 
               Percy's wounds were attended to, and were found not to be of so serious a nature as the village sculapius had at first anticipated. The doctor who had been sent for from New York, soon reduced the fractures and set the arm which had been broken, pronouncing the wound on the head to be little more than an injury to the scalp. Therefore, by the time of Fanny's visit he was sufficiently recovered to be propped up on a sofa, and to be allowed the luxury of devouring fruit and novels; and when a lady was announced by the man in a dirty white tie and threadbare frock-coat who officiated as waiter at the hostelry at which Percy was obliged to remain a prisoner, he imagined it to be his mother or some female relative, who, hearing of his accident, had come to condole with him thereon. So without demanding his visitor's name, he ordered her to be shown in to his apartment; and his astonishment and confusion were indescribable when he beheld in the fashionably attired and lovely woman before him, the same mysterious and fascinating being who had been the innocent cause of his misadventure on the river some few nights back. 
               Fanny's heart palpitated a little at first, but she had become amalgamated with that iceberg called the world, which had imparted some of its native frigidity to her, so that she knew how to school her feelings, and her impulses were well under control. 
               She had prepared herself for a great triumph, and advancing into the centre of the room with a smile upon her lips, she took a chair and seated herself as close to Percy as she could with propriety, saying- 
               "I always make myself at home with old friends." 
               Percy was made perfectly aware of the fact by the free-and-easy manner and degagee air she had assumed. 
               "You are better. I see," she continued, "so I need not inquire after your health." 
               "My God! Sissy," he exclaimed, "this is indeed a surprise!" 
               "So it seems," she replied. "You look as dull and inanimate as a Chinese Jose; I think you might be a little more agreeable when I come to see you. It is so long since we met, too, that I think you ought to be glad to see me." 
               Poor Percy was completely floored-if I may use one of his own emphatic and comprehensive expressions; he did not know which way to turn; he was in a dilemma the most unpleasant into which he could have fallen, and he stammered out something which was unintelligible. 
               "You ran away, if you remember, from your rustic Phillis without even wishing her good-bye!" continued Fanny, with cruel and crushing levity. 
               Percy was utterly incapable of making any reply. 
               "Come, sheer up, old fellow," said Fanny ny; "you needn't look so awfully down in the mouth. I am not going to make a row; it isn't my little game on the present occasion." 
               "'Pon my word I never was so astonished-so astounded in my life," said Percy, at last. 
               "Don't be afraid to look at me, man alive!" cried Fanny. "I was very young when I met you. Don't you think I've improved?" 
               Still Percy averted his face. Who shall say what thoughts were coursing through his mind, and to what emotions he was a prey? 
               "Well, I shall go if you're not a little more lively," she went on. "You did nothing to be ashamed of, my dear fellow! I was only a poor, simple, ignorant, trusting country girl, when you did-let me see-what's the fashionable word for it?-ruined-yes, ruined-when you ruined me." 
               Percy's face turned scarlet under her badinage. 
               "It was just the sort of thing for a young man to do, you know-quite compatible with the honor of a gentleman; and you are too much a man of the world, I'm sure, to feel any remorse." 
               "Don't for Heaven's sake, Sissy," groaned Percy, "don't be so heartless." 
               "Heartless!" she repeated, "Heartless-that's a good joke. You talk of heartlessness. Don't you set up for an apostle. But come, let us talk about something more pleasant. Have you seen your child lately?" 
               "Child!" exclaimed Percy, "what child? I never knew-" 
               "You never knew," said Fanny, sternly, with the aspect of Nemesis; "well, you know now, then." 
               Percy cowered upon the pillows which constituted his couch as the revelation was made to him. 
               "Have you a little time to spare?" asked Fanny. Percy replied in the affirmative. 
               "Then just listen to me for a few minutes, will you? I will tell you what they have, for their own purposes, kept you in ignorance of. I don't at all see why you should not be enlightened on the subject. I have no particular reason, I think, to cherish any very great affection for you; and if I can tell you anything which will make you suffer a tenth part of what I have, why I shall be very well satisfied, that's all. They placed me, after your desertion, in a den in New York, where I was confined. They left the infant with me until I had had just time enough to learn to love it when they took it from me-" 
               "You shall have it again," said Percy, eagerly. 
               "Thank you," she replied coldly; "you are very kind, upon my word you are, but now it would be an encumbrance. I don't want it, for I have been taught to do without it." 
               Percy, in whose mind an idea had apparently sprung up, looked disappointed. 
               "No," she ran on, "that proposition comes a little too late. But what I was about to say was simply this: they tore my child away from me in the most unfeeling manner, and with a refinement of cruelty, gave orders that I was on no account to behold it again. Give it me back now, indeed! You might as well offer me yourself." 
               "So I would, Sissy," said Percy, in a low voice, "if I thought you were not too much incensed with me." 
               Fanny regarded him with ineffable and supreme disgust. 
               "I always did love you, Sissy," he added. 
               "I can readily believe that," she replied "everything you have done proves it doesn't it?" 
               "I was forced away from you against my will," he said, "and I have never, I swear to God, forgotten you." 
               "No-really!" she laughed, "you don't mean that. I see you can lie now as well as you used to." 
               "Will you listen to me?" he demanded. 
               "What do you mean?" she asked; "will you marry me?" 
               The answer he gave was clear and decisive. 
               "No." 
                
               "You will not," she cried, her eyes flashing and her whole frame trembling with rage, "you will not. And you dare to make any other proposal to me?" 
               "You don't understand," he expostulated; "allow-" 
               "Don't speak to me," she said quickly "If you do, I shall tear you to pieces. I shall kill you." 
               When Percy perceived the angry state in which his proposition had placed Fanny, he said in a tone of deprecation- 
               "Really, when you see the state of health I am in, I think you might have a little more consideration." 
               After her burst of rage, Fanny composed herself by an effort, and exclaimed, "You must be a low brute to talk to me in the way you have done; but that is not to the purpose. You were going to explain, you said, when I interrupted you; pray do, for an explanation is a little necessary." 
               "I cannot," he began, "go to the length you wish me, although I would do a great deal to save you; yet, on this occasion you demand too much." 
               "Why?" she asked, hurriedly. 
               "Because-you have given me leave to speak-and I can see you are too much a woman of the world to take offence at what I am going to say-because you are what you are." 
               While he made this speech he gazed out of the window, at the ceiling, upon the book which he held in his hand, anywhere but in Fanny's direction. 
               His victim looked at him with a steady unwavering glance, and replied in a freezing tone, "And if I am so, upon whose head does the blame rest: who is the real offender?" 
               Percy made no answer, but his former ereous air was again painfully visible. 
               "I ask you," said Fanny, distinctly, "who made me what I am?" 
               The abstraction of the young man who was being questioned by the woman before him with all the energy of a nisi prius lawyer, increased rather than diminished. 
               "But," she continued, "It is folly for me to waste my breath in putting such an idle question to you, for to you it carries its own answer." 
               At this crisis the noise of wheels was heard outside, and the sudden stoppage of a carriage followed, when a voice which was well known to Fanny, exclaimed "Jove, sir! that's my little woman's turn-out; what the devil does that mean?" 
               In another moment Herbert Saunders' hand was on the lock of the door, and his demand for admission being granted, he stepped into the room. 
               At first he did not see Fanny, but exclaimed. "Ah, my boy, glad to see you about again; didn't think you'd be on your legs so soon." 
               Then he turned round and perceived Fanny. 
               "Hallo! is that you, Fan? What in the world are you doing here?" 
               Fanny was in an unpleasant position, but with the utmost composure, she replied, "I had something to say to Mr. Amherst, and as I was driving in the neighborhood, I gave him a look up." 
               "In-deed!" slowly ejaculated Herbert, as the impropriety of the whole thing occurred to him. Her agitation and her subsequent abstraction on the night of the accident suddenly flashed across his mind. 
               "He is an old friend of yours, I suppose," he said, after a bit. 
               "Very old," replied Fanny; an acquaintance of long standing, whom I had not seen for years until the other night." 
               "Oh!" exclaimed Herbert, who did not know exactly what to do. 
               "Anything else you want to know?" asked Fanny with a smile. 
               "Not much," answered Herbert, drily; "only this," and turning to Percy he said, "If you have any claim upon this lady's kindness, I am perfectly willing to resign my pretensions in your favor." 
               "Allow me to explain," replied Amherst, in a tone of considerable annoyance. 
               "Pray don't trouble yourself, my dear sir," said Herbert; "no explanation is necessary, the affair speaks for itself." 
                
               "Perhaps," exclaimed Fanny, with the utmost indifference, "you'll make yourself scarce from a room where you're not wanted. You're not everybody, my dear fellow, if your name is Saunders. You're not the only man in the world, and you have only anticipated me by a few days, for I fully intended to out you when I had made sufficient use of you; I always throw oranges away when I have squeezed them dry." 
               Considerably disconcerted by this address, which he had hardly anticipated. Saunders made a slight inclination of the head, and left the room. Presently his trap was heard going quickly over the stones in the direction of Brooklyn. 
               When they were alone together once more, Percy exclaimed, "I'm really very sorry indeed; I'll go after him." 
               "You will do nothing of the sort; stay where you are," cried Fanny, in a peremptory voice. 
               "But I must. See what you've lost," he persisted. 
               "For God's sake, my good man, don't be such a consummate ass," said Fanny, losing her patience; "don't you know that half the men in New York are after me; I shall improve on Herbert Saunders considerably when I get back to town." 
               Percy was silent, but a very deep sigh issued from his lips, as if he was far from happy. 
               Fanny rose, and drawing her dress together, walked towards the bell-rope and rang it. When the servant appeared she said, "Order my carriage." 
               "And you are going like this?" pleaded Percy. 
               "Have I made you miserable?" she asked abruptly. 
               Percy sighed in a manner that said unmistakably, "I am not so happy as I was before you came here. 
               "Very well," said Fanny, "then I have done what I wished to do." 
               And without bestowing another look upon him she swept out of the room 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               A STRANGE FATS. 
               ANDY SMITHSON was a man of about live-and-twenty, of a singularly graceful manner, and a fine fellow to look at. Women called him handsome, and there is little doubt that he was. He dressed to perfection, but gave himself up to the various acts of dissipation, and led a life which threatened speedilly to end his career. 
               Fanny had removed from Brooklyn, and now had a magnificent establishment at Yorkville. She was one afternoon in the month of October seated in her drawing room, which was cheerily illuminated by a blazing fire. Her attention was occupied by a very diminutive dog, a must rare and expensive species of toy terrior. The little animal was scarcely bigger than a moderate sized rat, and shivered as if its tiny carcase would fall to pieces. Fanny nursed it tenderly, and said-"Poor mannikins is in cold? Its missis shall make it a nice little cubby-house," and she folded her dress into the shape of a kennel or a fox-earth and placing Dot within its shelter, covered him over with her hand, and carefully rocked him to sleep. After a while the door opened, and Smithson entered. He was elaborately got up as usual, and on seeing him, Fanny exclaimed- 
               "Of course you must be dressed to death, Andy." 
               "Shall I do?" said that personage, surveying himself in a beautiful glass that hung over the fire-place. 
               "You know you are all the same to me," replied Fanny: "I can never had a fault in you." 
               "Do you know what I have done for you, Fanny!" he asked. 
               Fanny looked up inquiringly. 
               "Don't be angry with me if I tell you," said he 
               "I promise," she replied; "what is it!" 
               "Why, you know I was in Wall street today, and I know how jolly it is to be independent of every one, so I bought as annuity ity of three thousand a year for you for year life." 
               Fanny, instead of bursting into a torrent of thanks, as any woman ignorant of the savoir-faire necessary for the occasion would have done, although she could scarcely contain her joy, buried her face in her hands and simulated great grief. 
               Smithson fell on his knees by her side, and with great concern asked in what way he had offended her. 
               "Oh!" sobbed Fanny, "that shows me you want to leave me; you are tired of me already. Oh! how wretched I am. You are the only man I ever cared about; and you want to get rid of me." 
               "'Pon my soul, Fanny, you mistake me altogether." he replied. But it was some time before the weeping beauty would be pacified; at length she condescended to receive his protestations, and having succeeded in binding him closer than ever to her, she began to dress for dinner, when she did her best to entertain three of her paramour's friends, appearing more lovely than usual on the occasion, and as one of his guests said to him sotto voce, looked a splendid creature. 
               Smithson felt supereminently proud of Fanny and her charms. His guests wore the Hon. Mr. Lawson Mr. Bramley Manners and Mr. Edmond Lisson, who had just come home after doing Europe, in which occupation he had been engaged since he left New York two years ago. Fanny was now called Mrs. Smithson by those who were introduced to her. Her lover was fond of relating her exploits and he exclaimed at dinner- 
               "That was a cool thing the other day at Hoboken. Did I tell any of you fellows about it?" 
               "Who was the hero?" asked Lisson. 
               "It was a heroine, my dear fellow," replied Smithson; "of course, madam over  he added, indicating Fanny by an  of the head, "was at the bottom 
                
               
                   have it by all means," said  thing respecting Mrs. Smithson cannot fail to be interesting. A glass of wine with you, Manners," he added. 
               "With pleasure," replied Mr. Bramley Manners, filling his glass. 
               "Well," said Smithson, "we were going to a ball or something of the kind got up by the club, and just about a hundred yards from the place our carriage most annoyingly broke down, and we had to walk along the wet pavement, for it had been raining all day. Well, of course, our feet were slightly wet, and when we got there Mrs. Smithson was so terribly afraid of catching cold, so she sat down on a chair near one of the large fires burning in the grates, and with the most perfect sang-froid, pulled off her satin shoes, one after the other, and dried them, much to the disgust of the sedate portion of the community. By Jove! I think I never was so much amused in my life." 
               "Certainly a most sensible thing to do," said Lisson. 
               "I should have thought so formidable an array of old maids as must have been gathered together on the occasion," observed Manners, "would have acted as a slight detriment." 
               "Oh! I was not afraid of them," laughed Fanny; "I did it on purpose to disgust them." 
               "By the way," asked the Hon. Mr. Lawson, "was that true about your chaffing General Somers in the Park a little while ago?" 
               "Very likely," replied Fanny; "I'm not ever particular in what I say generally. What was it!" 
               "Well, the General pointed you out to his friend, and remarked. There goes Lady Smithson; to which you replied, 'Look here, old boy, whoever you are, if Lady Smithson wasn't a lady she'd get off hor horse and give you the sweetest hiding you ever had in your life.'" 
               The conversation of the distinguished party I have endeavored to describe was, it will be perceived, not of the most elevated, and their remarks none of the most instructive; but one little episode occurred which was of some moment to the principal characters in this story. The Hon. Mr. Lawson, with some skill, threw a very diminutive three cornered note into Fanny's lap without his sleight of hand being detected. Fanny carefully concealed the votive tablet in the folds of her dress, intending to read it at her leisure. After dinner Fanny did not go away almost as soon as the dessort was put upon the table, such rigorous banishment of the female portion of the community not being the fashion or the custom in Smithson's house, but she stayed until the men had finished their wine, and then went upstairs to look after the tea. Smithson was fond of high play, and his friends, who were also of the same inclination on that particular evening, offered no obstacle to the indulgence of his favorite vice. Tables were placed, and hazard was played at high stakes, and the Hon Mr. Lawson lost five thousand dollars before the party broke up. 
               Fanny was up early the next morning, and, orderering her horse, rode to the Park, which was, at that time of the year, next to deserted. By a singular coincidence, as she neared Fifth Avenue, she met the Hon. Mr. Lawson, who was riding a powerful black mare. It was a lovely morning for the time of year. The sun, which was within two hours of meridian, was successfully engaged in dissipating the misty vapors and scattering abroad the rather chilly atmosphere that prevailed. At perceiving Lawson Fanny appeared to be very much astonished, but checking her horse she smilingly held out her hand and wished him good morning. After returning her compliment he said, in a voice that vibrated with deep feeling. "This is really very kind of you. I hardly dared hope-" 
               "What do you mean?" exclaimed Fanny. 
               "Can it be possible you don't understand me?" he replied. 
               "I can assure you," said Fanny, decidedly, "I have not the remotest suspicion of your meaning." 
               Lawson smiled incredulously, and answered, "Well, if you like to chaff it off, all right; only I do not think you need use so much caution with me." 
               Fanny began to lose her temper. 
               "I assure you," she cried, "that my meeting you here was the most accidental thing in the world. We were going down town in the afternoon, and I thought I would have a blow in the park before I went." 
               It was now Lawson's turn to be astonished. "My note!" he exclaimed. 
               "Your note!" Fanny repeated, as a now light began to dawn upon her. 
               "You must have forgotten it," he exclaimed; "for strangely enough I asked you to meet me at this very spot at eleven o'clock this morning. I mentioned Fifth Avenue and East 83rd Street in my note, so you must forgive me if-" 
               "Yes, I see," replied Fanny; "it certainly is strange. But,"-and a look of uncertainty crossed her features-" what have I done with your note?" 
               "Perhaps you left it in the pocket of year dress," suggested Lawson. 
               "Possibly," she replied; but it was evident that she was ill at her ease. 
               "There won't be any row I hope, if it should have fallen into the hands of the Philistines," said Lawson. 
               "I don't care if there is," laughed Fanny. 
               "If there is a possibility of such an occurrence, observed Lawson, "will you anticipate the storm?" 
               "Anticipate what storm?" said Fanny, affecting to misunderstand him. 
               "I know I have very little to offer you as an inducement," he continued, with some anxiety in his voice. 
               "Oh! if that is your little game, my dead fellow," exclaimed Fanny, "it won't pay; when I want you I'll come to you-at present I can do without you." 
               Fanny's persiflage did not seem to be particularly agreeable to the recipient of it who answered. 
               "I wish you'd leave off chaffing for a few minutes." 
               "Couldn't think of it," replied Fanny. And turning her horse's head, she prepared to leave the spot where they had been standing. 
               "Good bye!" she said, waving her hand to Lawson, as a parting valediction. 
               But as she turned to canter up the Avenue, she was confronted by Smithson, who had quietly ridden up unperceived. 
               He bowed coldly to Lawson, and nodding to Fanny, said, 
               "I had some suspicion of this." 
               "Of what?" asked Fanny; "perhaps you will condescend to be a little more lucid." 
               "Oh, yes!" replied Smithson; "I will be as lucid as you like." 
               "Well, what is it?" said Fanny; "out with it. I suppose I'm in for a scolding, but if you mean to keep me here all day, why, I shall rebel and run away." 
               Fanny touched her horse with the riding-whip as if to put her threat into execution, but the knight of the taro bank laid his hand upon the rein, exclaiming. 
               "Pardon me, one minute, I will not keep you long." 
               Fanny now perceived that something serious had taken place, but the displeasure of her paramour would not inconvenience her in any material way; she remembered with some satisfaction the magnificent provision he had made for her only the day before, and she felt that, do what she might, she was independent of every one. 
               "I found this note on your dressing-table," said Smithson calmly, "and I resolved to assist you in keeping your appointment; I trust I am not looked upon as an intruder." 
               "You seem to attach a great deal of importance to that note," replied Fanny, smiling. 
               "It seems to me worthy of some consideration," remarked Smithson. 
               All this time Lawson remained immovable as a statue. 
               "What if I tell you, Andy," said Fanny, with some energy, "that I never read that note?" 
               "Why, simply this," answered Smithson, "that seeing you here, as I do, in the society of Mr. Lawson, I shall not believe you." 
               "You may please yourself about that," said Fanny; "but nevertheless, such is the plain and simple truth. Besides, is it likely that I should have left anything that I wished to keep secret lying about on my dressing-table?" 
               "Yes," replied Smithson, "it is extremely probable; I know how careless you naturally are, and it does not surprise me." 
               Smithson now addressed Lawson, saying. "You remember giving me a cheque last night on your bankers for five thousand dollars you had lost to me at play?" 
               "Perfectly," replied Lawson. 
               "Now, you write rather a remarkable fist, and when I read this note I could not help thinking that I had seen the writing somewhere before, and when I compared your cheque with this note my doubts were at an end." 
               Lawson laughed a still, small laugh. He had made up his mind, and determined to act boldly. 
               "There only remained one little thing." continued Smithson, "to confirm my suspicions, and that was to ask you point blank if you wrote this note?" 
               Lawson gave Fanny a look which said plainly enough, "Be at your case. I would rather bite out my tongue than betray you." Then he looked Smithson unflinchingly in the face and replied. 
               "And I answer your somewhat impertinent inquiry-but I pass it over under the circumstances-with the utmost caudor in the negative." 
               "Then, sir, I tell you plainly," cried Smithson, "that I don't believe you!" 
               The Hon. Mr. Lawson made a threatening movement with his riding-whip, but Smithson said to him coolly,- 
               "That is unnecessary: the affair cannot end here. I shall be at home all day, and most happy to receive any friend you may delegate to mediate between us." 
               Lawson bowed and said, "Before I go, you must permit me to do this lady all the justice that lies in my power. I give you my word that her meeting with me this morning was purely accidental." 
               "The lady has a right to expect such a declaration from you," replied Smithson in a frigid voice. 
               Lawson made a low obeisance to Fanny, and without noticing Smithson, cantered off down the Avenue. 
               When Smithson was alone with Fanny, he said, "You will only laugh at me if I tell you you have almost broken my heart. I did think that after all I have done for you, you would have behaved towards me with some show of fidelity. However, I have only to tell you that we part for ever. What I should eventually have done for you in excess of what I have already accomplished, God and myself only know." 
               Fanny made a movement as if she was going to speak, but Smithson prevented her, saying- 
               "Don't interrupt me: I mean to be very brief. I shall give my attorney instructions to carry out my promises respecting the annuity I spoke of to you yesterday. The house at York ville is already yours, and the furniture, although I had not told you so." 
               "I swear to you, Andy, I am innocent," protested Fanny. 
               "I might have known, muttered Smithson bitterly, "that a woman who had betrayed one man, would never be true to another." 
               "God bless you, Fanny!" said Smithson. "You little know how much I loved you, and, unfortunately for myself, love you still." 
               "Whatever I may have done before I met you. I have always been true to you since," said Fanny, who felt for the anguish he was evidently suffering. 
               But he mournfully shook his head, and putting spurs to his horse, started off at a pace that defied pursuit. 
               "Well," soliloquized Fanny, "if men will be such d-- infernal fools, it's their own lookout if they are miserable. He certainly has been a brick to me, and I have got out of him all that I could have hoped for, if I had lived with him twenty years. In fact, I begin to think the whole affair a good thing for me. I wonder if those two fools intend to fight? I should think not; people don't fight in these days, and I believe they imprison men for it. I remember hearing about some gentlemen being put in limbo some time ago for being concerned in a challenge simply." 
               We must leave Fanny to her meditations while we follow Mr. Smithson to his hotel in Fift Avenue, where he had not long so wait before Mr. Gordon was announced-our old friend Charley Gordon. 
               "Pray be seated," said Smithson as Gordon entered the room. 
               "I have come, as you may have already surmised," began Gordon, "from the Honorable Mr. Lawson, to see if any arrangement can be arrived at respecting an unpleasant affair which happened at the Park this morning." 
               "Of course. It is very kind of you, Mr. Gordon," replied Smithson, "to suggest such a thing; but I beg to state in limine that there is not the remotest possibility of it." 
               "In that case I find myself in a bit of a hobble," said Gordon. "You know one doesn't fight duels now-a-days." 
               "Yes, you are right; but I have an idea, which, if it fails in with your views, will help us out of the mess." 
               The porter again entered the room announcing Mr. Bramley Manners. 
               "Oh! here you are, Manners," exclaimed Smithson. "I am just arranging the preliminaries of the affair I mentioned to you in my note. You can assist very much, if you will sit down. Mr. Gordon, Mr. Manners," he added by way of introducing the seconds to one another. 
               "Now, my idea is simply this," continued Smithson: "we cannot fight a duel, that would only expose us to ridicule, and perhaps something worse; well, let's draw lots, or throw dice-which you will-to see which of us shall blow out his brains, and the secret being confined to ourselves, it will appear as if a suicide had been committed." 
               Bramley Manners and Gordon looked astonished, but the latter said, "I will repeat your proposition to my principal, and you shall hear from me in an hour." 
               "If he consents," exclaimed Smithson, "you had better bring him here, and the affair can be settled off-hand. By the way, I think I ought to stipulate for a week's grace, to put my affairs in order, if I am--" 
               "Certainly," replied Gordon. "I should have suggested the same thing myself." 
               When Gordon had left the apartment, Manners could not restrain his astonishment. 
               "You cannot be in your senses," said he, "to stake your life on the cast of the dice." 
               "Why not," replied Smithson; "we can but die once, and that man has most cruelly wronged me." 
               "But is it not folly to fight about a woman? If she were your wife, now--" 
               "I know what you mean; but I loved her quite as much as if she had been. My affection for her was a sort of adoration. She was my first love, and you know how ardent that generally in." 
               "It is such a cold blooded idea, though, altogether, said Manners; "I cannot understand how you could propose such a thing; I tell you frankly, I hope he won't agree to it." 
               "If he doesn't, I'll insult him so grossly, that he will not be able to help himself," replied Smithson a little hotly. 
               Certainly there was something extremely romantic and chivalrous about this determination of Smithson's, but it cannot be denied that Bramley Manners took the common-sense view of the subject. 
               "The whole matter lies in a nutshell, Manners," said Smithson, "if you knew all. I feel this affair so acutely, because-I tell you in the strictest confidence-I had intended to make the woman my wife. I would have sacrificed everything for her; and now, I am about to hazard my life for her, because I am tired of it. I could have, and would have forgiven her everything; all her mistakes before she met me should have been passed over; but I suppose I am a fool like many a man has been before me." 
               "Well, you are not the only man," replied Manners, "who has had his head turned by a petticoat." 
               "You can have no idea how charming and simple her manner is and how different she is from the starched and painfully proper people, who form what they call society. I would have married her, I tell you, Manners, and carried her abroad somewhere. I would have passed my whole existence in proving my devotion to her." 
               "Your love and devotion," said Mr. Bramley Manners, "rather contradict something I wrote for a magazine the other day. Shall I give it you?" 
               His companion made a sign in the affirmative, and Manners recited the following verses, in that satisfied tone of voice a man always adopts when reciting his own compositions:- 
                      
                        "Love and devotion are words little used now, 
                        Only heard in the echoes of stories twice told, 
                        All things ungilded are cursed and abused now, 
                        The world is so heartless, deceitful, and cold. 
                        "For damsels oppressed by the proud and the haughty. 
                        No longer knights-errant ride into the lists; 
                        Women may wait till they're thirty and forty 
                        For men who are valiant, except with their fists. 
                        "Cupid is only a god when his hands are 
                        Full of the metal which buys bread and cheese; 
                        Love's but a fanciful extravaganza. 
                        Which doesn't now bring a man down on his knees." 
                     
                  
                
               "Jove, though," added Manners, without waiting to hear his friend's opinion on his poetical effort, "it seems to me that Cupid has it all his own way with you." 
               In a short time, Mr. Gordon returned with his principal. Lawson shook hands with Bramley Manners, and bowed stiffly to Smithson, who returned his salutation in an equally frigid manner. 
               Addressing Manners, Lawson said, "I have heard the extraordinary proposition of Mr. Smithson, Mr. Manners, and I am afraid there is no alternative. Your friend seems determined that one of us shall die, sad although it does seem ridiculous that so silly an affair should have such a disastrous and tragic result, I see no help for it, without your ingenuity can devise some means whereby a less final result may be avoided." 
               "The women," exclaimed Manners, "are at the bottom of all mischief; I have used my utmost endeavors with Smithson, but to no purpose, I am sorry to say." 
               "Then I place myself in your hands, gentlemen," said Lawson. 
               Gordon walked to the window with Manners, and tore a sheet of writing-paper in half; on one piece he wrote the word "Death," and gave it to Manners to fold up; the other he folded himself. Then the papers were thrown into the hat which was handed to Smithson, who plunged his hand into it, and drew out one of the pieces of paper which he laid upon the table; the remaining one was taken out by Lawson, who handed it so Gordon; the seconds opened the billets amidst the most profound silence. 
               Gordon advanced to Lawson, and said in a tone of profound grief. "You have but a week to live." 
               The unfortunate man shrugged his shoulders, and putting his arm through Gordon's they left the room together without a word. 
               "I congratulate you," exclaimed Manners, when he was alone with Smithson. 
               "To you it is a matter for congratulation," he replied; "to me-well, I would rather have been the victim." 
               "Abaurd!" said Manners; "but come out, will you? a breath of fresh air will do you good, and to tell, you the truth, this murderous business has made me quite ill. I never saw anything so cool or so-well come along, let us got out of this!" 
               Smithson mechanically obeyed his instructions, and they sallied forth to the Park. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               DOOM. 
               THE Honorable Edward Lawson returned from Fifth Avenue to his room near Union Square, where his friend Gordon left him. Both had during their short walk been much pre-occupied, and consequently rather inclined to silence than loquaciousness. The unhappy man, who, by one of those strange accidents or freaks of fate, was to be cut off in the prime of early manhood, was alarmed more by the suddenness of the event than the actual doom itself. After a while he became more inured and accustomed to the terrible prospect before him; and the 
                     con-contemplation
                     contemplation
                   of an honorable death by his life own hand was not so appalling as it had at first appeared. He did not, strange to say, begin to set his worldly affairs in order, to make a will, or to write codicils to one already made; but he came to a philosophic determination which did him infinite credit. He had exactly seven days to live. He had left Smithson's rooms, at half-past three o'clock on Tuesday; consequently, by a very easy arithmetical calculation, he computed that at the same hour on the following Tuesday he must die: and as it was now five o'clock, he had exactly one hundred and sixty-six hours and a half wherein to enjoy a sublunary existence in the flesh. Having, much to his satisfaction, ascertained this to be the fact, he made up his mind to compress as much enjoyment into that brief and flecting space as it was capable of holding. He was wealthy, and he would squander his riches in the thirst for excitement. He was to die for a woman; and he thought that she, of all others, ought to smooth his passage from our earth to the land of spirits Fanny had told him that she was that very afternoon about to start for Coney Island. He would follow her there; he would make proposals to her which he had little doubt would be accepted, for his knowledge of the world was sufficient to tell him that she was by this time untrammelled, and her actions uncontrolled by any one. So, having told his man to pack up his portmanteau he left New York, and was quickly at the Island. He at once proceeded to the principal hotel, where he was well known, and having dined, asked who was staying there. Luckily there were some friends of his, to whom he sent his compliments and a wish for their society, which ultimately ended by his going with them to the billiard-table, and losing before one o'clock a large sum of money. He might have retrieved his fortunes by sitting up later; but, remembering what he proposed doing on the morrow, he retired to rest, in order that he might not appear worn and haggard, when he wished to preserve at least the semblance of health. He extinguished the light at half-past one, exclaiming, 
               "One hundred and fifty-nine hours still remain!" 
               Rising early in the morning, he proceeded to the ladies' sitting-room, where he found her of whom he was in search. 
               "Good morning, Mrs. Smithson!" he exclaimed, "you are an early riser, I see." 
               Fanny was not in the least surprised to see him: she had anticipated his following her, more especially as she had only yesterday told him her destination, so she replied, 
               "How are you? Jolly day, isn't it? I always try to practically exemplify the Irishman's way of greeting." 
               "What is that, may I ask?" said Lawson. 
               "Why, 'the top of the morning to ye!'" she replied, laughing. 
               It certainly was a beautiful morning, and the Island was just sluggishly awakening from the torpor that summer had plunged it and its inhabitants in. 
               For a minute both Fanny and her friend gazed around them, admiring a scene which really possessed charms to justify their admiration. Then Fanny said, with some feeling- 
               "I do so wish we could have the place all day like this, and keep it to ourselves, I hate the artificial crowd and the hubbub of a great city." 
               "Perhaps it might prove itself a little too quiet," replied Lawson, "and you would run away to New York, sighing for its gaieties and its dissipation." 
               "Oh, you don't know me," sighed Fanny. "You men always see me gay and animated; but you don't know how I wish for a country life sometimes. Did I ever tell you that I was originally a rustic?" 
               "What a charming shepherdess you would have made!" answered Lawson smiling. "You might have brought one back to the days of Saturn." 
               "Ah!" laughed Fanny, "what would you have said if you had seen me eating beans and bacon!" 
               "Certainly I should have considered butterflies' wings and dewdrops from the interior of a bluebell a fitter repast for so beautiful a little Bo-peep." 
               "Wasn't that the party who lost her sheep?" replied Fanny. "But let us have a canter," she added, without waiting for an answer; "I declare I am getting quite cold." 
               After an invigorating canter for a mile or so, they pulled up at the hotel, and Lawson said- 
               "I suppose I needn't ask permission to pay my respects to you in your room!" 
               "I'll tell you what," she answered, "you needn't be a fool." 
               The Honorable Mr. Lawson, in the most engaging tone he could assume, inquired how the stultifying process was to be avoided. 
               "Why, I know very well what you are driving at," said Fanny. "You are fishing for an invitation, which I've a good mind not to give you; but as you're not a bad sort, and got into a row about me yesterday, and, in addition to that, as I want to ask you about that old fool Smithson, you may come and breakfast with me." 
               Lawson expressed himself much gratified, and they proceeded to Fanny's room at a brisk pace. 
               In the midst of a social chat at the breakfast table, Fanny said- 
               "By the way, what is that old  Smithson going to do-is he going to cut you up?" 
                
               "Not quite," replied Lawson. 
               "Well, what's his little game?" persisted Fanny. "I won't have you fellows fighting about me, because I don't dislike Smithson, he always behaved so well to me, and I believe the poor fellow really does like me; and as for you, why, you would be quite a loss to polite society, like Byron's Corsair- 
               "Pity he liked adventurous life's variety, He was so great a loss to good society.'" 
               "Now you're chaffing," said Lawson. "No one cares about a poor devil like me." 
               "Don't talk so," exclaimed Fanny, "but tell me about old Stick-in-the-mud." 
               "I assure you it's all right in that quarter," he replied. "I saw him yesterday, and after a few explanations we were mutually satisfied." 
               "Is that all?" cried Fanny, with a look of disappointment. "Well, I did think somebody would have horsewhipped somebody else, and that it would have got about the clubs. But do you really mean to say it has all blown over between you and Smithson!" 
               "Pon my soul," replied Lawson, "Charley Gordon made it all square." 
               "I suppose you know," remarked Fanny, "that the old fool's cut me?" 
               "I did not exactly know it, but I guessed as much. It won't break your heart, I suppose?" said Lawson. 
               "Break my heart!" exclaimed Fanny, with a laugh. "Women, my dear fellow, who do what I do, oughtn't to have a heart. Why, it's one of those superfluous luxuries which I have not indulged in since I was a wee, wee thing that height!" 
               She placed her hand on a level with the table. 
               "Since you were quite a kid, eh?" he said. 
               "Smithson has done, though, what only one man in a hundred thousand would have done," she observed. 
               Lawson raised his eyes inquiringly. 
               "He has given me three thousand a year for life," she replied, with a gleam of triumph and satisfaction flashing from her eyes. 
               "Has he, by Jove?" exclaimed Lawson, with an air of astonishment; "that's very liberal of him; but he's a good fellow, and enormously wealthy." 
               Fanny looked abstracted, as if lost in deep thought. 
               "Were you ever at Newport?" asked Lawson. 
               "No, I never was," she replied. 
               "I have a jolly little erib down there and should be too happy if you'd come down for a week or two. What do you say!" 
               "I'll go like a bird," replied Fanny. "When will you start? You see there's no humbug about me; I say what I mean, and I never beat about the bush, like lots o' women I know." 
               "We will start to-day, if it's not too sudden for you." 
               "Not a bit," she answered. "My woman will soon put my few traps together, and we'll be off in a giffey." 
               For the first two days after their arrival at Newport, a wild delirium seemed to have taken possession of Lawson, he enjoyed excellent spirits, and appeared to be wildly happy; one would have thought that such being the case, his anguish at leaving so fair an earth would have been more bitter, his regrets more poignant, and his care redoubled. He might have avoided the fulfilment of so odious a compact. He might have appeared in society, and laughed at the sneers of those in whom the secret was confided; or in the Far West, the land of the setting sun, he might have found rest, or, if he had wished it, the wildest excitement arising from perilous adventure. Unhappily there was a code of honor to which he was a slave; while obeying the commands of this code he was no more the master of his own actions than the horse he drove. He had undertaken to murder himself in cold blood, and he had never shrank from carrying out his pledged word; yet the world was peculiarly inviting and pleasant to a young man in his position in life. The representative of a wealthy family, scarcely five-and-twenty, with every wish gratified as soon as it was made, it was an awful sacrifice to make simply to carry out to the letter a cruel, barbarous, and unwritten law; but with Spartan determination he resolved to put an end to an existence which he had forfeited. 
               The first, the second, the third days had passed, and the fourth was rapidly drawing to a close. The weather had been so warm and genial that Fanny had early in the day expressed a wish to have an "al fresco" entertainment somewhere on the hills. Accordingly, a pic-nic had been improvised, and amidst the blushing heather, undisturbed save by the occasional whirr of the wings of a solitary bird, they eat and drank, and laughed and joked, as only one can do under similar exhilarating circumstances. 
               The evening of the fourth day was warm and pleasant, so much so that the windows were left open after dinner to admit the fresh and balmy air which was wafted across the hills from the coast, gathering a volume of territorial sweets in its passage. Various kinds of wine were on the table, a large supply of ice-that indispensable luxury, almost as essential to one's comfort as a damask napkin-and fruit of every description. Fanny was listening to the music, which was now so soft and plaintive that the tears sprang to her eyes involuntarily. She had a bunch of grapes on her plate, from which she occasionally cut off one or two of the ripe and richly-tinted berries. 
               Lawson was leaning back in a chair; he had lighted a cigar, and was placidly smoking. The least tinge of sadness might have been perceived stealing gradually over his face, until its proportion growing larger, it hung over his features like an ominous cloud. 
               Suddenly the music ceased, and the silence roused Fanny from the lethargy into which it had been plunging her. She looked up, and perceived the pre-occupied condition of her companion. 
               "Edward!" she exclaimed. 
               He started at the sound of her voice, but when his eyes fell upon her lovely countenance the muscles of his face relaxed, and a smile played about the corners of his mouth. The admiration he so evidently felt and so openly expressed pleased her, and lighted up a corresponding feeling of pleasure in her own breast. 
               "Do you know," she continued, "I begin to like Newport better than any place I have ever been in?" 
               "There is nothing like traveling to enlarge the mind and dissipate one's prejudices," replied Lawson. 
               "Certainly," said Fanny, "but that's a truism and it is almost an insult to people who pride themselves on possessing common sense to chatter truisms to them." 
               Slowly the time glided on, and Lawson anticipated the approach of the fatal day with feverish impatience. At last it came, and dawned on a morning as fine as any in the year. Taking his gun, he told Fanny he should go after a brace of pheasants and would return in the afternoon; and he advised her to ride over to the beach, and bathe, which she agreed to do. Lawson wandered along, accompanied only by his favorite dog; be bagged a brace of pheasants, a partridge, and a woodcock, and having arrived at the verge of the wood he entered it, and sat down with his back resting against a tree. Pulling a flask of whisky from his pocket, he took a copious draught, and, looking at his watch, perceived that if he were not to forfeit all pretensions to the designation and title of a man of honor, his doom was approaching. It wanted only a quarter of an hour before he must become the phantom of his former self. 
               With an almost superhuman bravery he resolved finally upon death. "I will not," he said to himself, "disgrace and annoy my family by letting them suppose I have committed suicide. They shall have no excuse for saying that I ought to be buried where four roads meet, and have a stake driven through my body. Not when my carcase shall become carrion it shall be more tenderly cared for. The family vault shall receive it, and many shall mourn over my grave. Well, I have two brothers, and I never was a favorite with my father and mother. They shall think that my gun accidentally exploded whilst I was out shooting. Smithson and those other two fellows will know what it means, but it will be a secret to every one else besides. Poor Fanny. I wonder if she will be cut up? I should think not; she doesn't care for me. When she gets to New York she will find I have not forgotten her, though. I wrote to Harry Emmanuel yesterday, to send the meet beautiful diamonds he had in his place to her house, and to let her choose what she liked to the tune of ten thousand, and I in-closed him an order on Lubbucks and Robarts for the amount; so that will be all right. If I had made a will or anything it would have looked seedy and suspicious. I have one consolation in dying prematurely: I shall solve several problems that have hitherto defied solution, and many things that are now mysteries will be cleared up." 
               Whilst Lawson was reasoning in this way, Fanny was riding slowly along the road on the way home after her bath. 
               A singular and awful spectacle presented itself as she rode into the ring before the front door. Four men were carrying upon their shoulders a door which appeared to have been hastily torn down from its hinges. On this boarding was the body of a man, and that man was the Honorable Edward Lawson. The sad truth was soon made apparent to Fanny. He had, the men said, accidentally shot himself. The thought of passing a night under that roof was intolerable, and she must not be accused of a want of feeling if she ordered her things to be instantly got ready, and set out immediately for New York. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               AN ADVENTURE ON FIFTH AVENUE. 
               MANY months glided on, and brought few changes in the life of our heroine. She was beloved without loving, and found admirers without admiring. 
               She had unfailingly continued to send the annuity she allowed her parents; but had sedulously concealed her address from them. It must not be supposed, however that she did not think of them. Sometimes when the fumes of wine obscured her mental vision, they were absent from her sight but occasionally, even in the midst of her gaiety, in the height of her revelry, in the very fullness of her dissipation, she turned her thoughts almost involuntarily towards those by whom her infant steps were guided. 
               Her father, sitting by the fire-side, his eyes too dim to read, gazing vacantly at the wall, now and then directing a glance towards his wife, who, worthy woman, was most likely employed upon a stocking, which in spite of her care had obstinately fallen into decay. 
               But Fanny's feelings had been checked by a hard frost when they were most susceptible of its chilling influence. Her heart had been choked up with the weeds of the world, before the sunlight of reason could beam upon it: whether the blight was effectual is yet to be seen. 
               The fate of women, as well as of empires, sometimes hangs upon a slender thread. 
               The only vicissitude that Fanny had experienced was a change of name, since we last saw her chez lui.
                
               Morris Fulham was the only son of a Wall street broker of some repute in his time, and the means at his command were, as may he supposed, by no means contemptible. 
               Mr. Fulham plumed himself upon his conquest, and it was in reality a conquest, for there were scores of well-bred men, with money at their command, who would have given anything in the world to have achieved the victory that he congratulated himself upon. 
               He had caught the gilded meretricious butterfly in his net, or perhaps the butterfly had entrapped him in her gaudy web. 
               The Park is public property; it is not necessary to obtain a voucher to enter its sacred precinets. 
               And it was in the Park that Fanny shone. Her equipage was costly without being gorgeous, light and elegant. Laurie and Marner had done their best in its production. The ponies were not to be matched, for the greatest pains had been taken to obtain them. 
               Everything that money could procure, and good taste could select, was hers. 
               Yet she was not entirely happy; a longing would creep into-her heart, which all the gold in Wall street could not satisfy. 
               It is an axiom that there is no happiness comparable to domestic happiness, and this truth Fanny was beginning to comprehend. 
               It is impossible to achieve this without you love purely, fondly, devotedly. 
               Fanny did not love. 
               This void in her heart was filled up with perpetual excitement. 
               She had achieved a position; but her own good sense told her it was a transitory one. 
               Publicly acknowledged by all the men in New York who had any pretensions to a knowledge of the town and its various attractions, and who were sufficiently bien connu to be permitted the honor of an introduction to the most fascinating, the most exclusive, and the best-dressed woman that adorned the demi monde, no one could wonder that she was in a constant whirl of excitement. 
               One morning, about twelve o' clock, Fanny was taking an airing on the Avenue; Fulham had promised to join her an hour later, and accompany her home. 
               With almost every man she met she was acquainted, and each one carefully and politely raised his hat: if he happened to be in attendance upon his mother or his sisters his obeisance was the more elaborate. These who were by themselves stopped, for the most part to exchange a few words with the fair equestrian. 
               As she neared Central Park, she encountered a man mounted on a handsome black horse who was accompanying a couple of young ladies. 
               He was a man of about six-and-twenty years of age, with well-defined, though rather elongated features, dark, piercing eyes, and a thin figure. 
               Looking up, he perceived Fanny, and gave her a not which was rather of a supercilious nature. 
               This inclination of the head was not host upon Fanny. Gathering up the reins, and holding her horse well in hand, she cantered up to the man, who seemed rather embarrassed by her forward movement. He, however, continued his way without taking any decided notice. He even addressed a remark to the ladies who were with him, at which they smiled. 
               In less than a minute Fanny bad turned her horse's head, and overtaken the cavalcade, and pushed her horse until she was by the side of the man who had recognized her in so cavalier a manner. 
               She reversed her riding-whip in an instant, and without saying a word, knocked off his hat with the butt-end, exclaiming at the same time- 
               "Look here, old fellow; if you can't notice me in a proper manner, you had better not do it at all!" 
               His fair companions seemed very much alarmed, and not a little shocked at the proceeding they had just witnessed. 
               One of them said- 
               "Oh! come away, Mr. Maude do come away!" 
               But the gentleman called his groom, who rode up immediately, and told him to go in search of a policeman. 
               The groom galloped off, and, to prevent Fanny doing the same thing, Mr. Maude laid his hand upon the bridle of her horse. 
               Fanny raised her whip and would have renewed the assault, had not a young man at that moment ridden by, who slacked the pace of his horse a little in order to have a better look at what was going on before him. 
               Fanny caught sight of him, and perceiving that he was noticing the singular contest, she said- 
               "I don't know who you are, but I wish you would make thin man leave go of my horse," 
               The stranger walked his horse towards the contending parties, and replied- 
                
               "I shall be most happy to assist you in any way. What can I do for you?" 
               "Why, just make this brute let my horse go." 
               "Certainly, with the greatest pleasure," answered the stranger, with the utmost composure. 
               Then addressing himself to Maude, and looking sternly at him, he said- 
               "You hear what this lady says, sir; you annoy her, and she wishes you to let her horse alone." 
               Maude returned the stranger's glance with as much insolence as he could command, and rejoined- 
               "Perhaps you will mind your own business." 
               "This is my business, since I have made so," the stranger said; "and it will be better for you to comply with my request, which I framed as civilly as I could." 
               A small crowd of equestrians had now gathered round the party, and Maude wished he had not engaged in so unseemly a contest. 
               The young ladies who were with him had, without further parley, left him, and gone quickly in a southerly direction. 
               Maude recognized some acquaintances of his in the crowd, and the half-suppressed smile on the lips of some, and the indignant look on the faces of others, showed him that he had embarked in an enterprise which has not so easy or so facile of accomplishment as, in the heat of his anger, he had fondly imagined. 
               In fact, it was easy to perceive that Fancy had more partizans than enemies amongst the little knot of lookers-on. 
               A glance sufficed to put Maude in possession of the complexion the affair had assumed, and he hesitated a moment before be replied to the by no means temperate demand of the strarger, which was, however, justified by his conduct on the occasion. 
               The stranger grew impatient at the delay, which he attributed to studied impertinence on the part of Maude, and, without making say further request, he brought his hand down roughly upon the arm of the latter. 
               The blow compelled him to loose his hold of the reins, and Fanny gathered them up, whilst Maude turned his attention to another and more worthy antagonist. 
               Maude "took stock" of the stranger for a moment, surveying him from head to foot, but there was nothing in his appearance or in his bearing that the most fastidious courier could take exception at. 
               At last he exclaimed- 
               "You have grossly insulted me, sir! but before I chastise your insolence I should like to know whether you are, as I take you to be, some bully or poverty-stricken adventurer who makes his game by helping questionable females who appear to be in want of a little modern knight-errantry." 
               "Fanny had removed a few paces from her aggressor when the bridle of her horse had been released, but she was near enough to the disputants to overhear the sarcastic remarks of Maude, and the phrase "questionable females" was not lost upon her, for, striking her horse with her whip, she rode up to him, and before he could divine her intention or frustrate it, she dealt him a blow with her gloved hand which made him reel in his saddle, and another and another delivered in quick succession made him roll over nearly to the ground. 
               Frightened at this attack, his thorough bred horse picked up its ears and started forward, and threw Maude, whose foot being entangled in the stirrup, his peril was imminent. 
               To knock a man's hat off on Fifth Avenue was certainly an unusual proceeding, and the circumstances, together with the events which followed it, were sufficiently exciting to arouse some anxiety as to the fate of Mr. Maude, who was well known about town. 
               But though considerable curiosity was excited amongst the crowd of fashionable idlers, no one seemed for the moment to be possessed of sufficient presence of mind to go to he rescue. Some few seconds clapsed, when the stranger, spurring his horse, darted forward in pursuit of the fugitive horse upon whose movements the fate of the unfortunate fortunate rider depended. The animal was not going at a quick pace, and, although slightly frightened, it was not in that state of object terror which drives a horse to run a much with everything it comes in contact. This being the case, the stranger found little or no difficulty in heading the beast, and after some slight exertion he succeeded in stopping him. Having accomplished this, he seized the bridle, and instantly dismounted in order to discover whether the injuries received by Mr. Maude were of a serious nature. By this time he was joined by most of those who had witnessed the whole occurrence-Fanny amongst the number. She appeared to watch the proceedings with some interest, but the impassibility of her features was such that it would have been exceedingly difficult to tell whether she really cared if the young gentleman's life hung in the balance or no. With the assistance of some friends the stranger carried the wounded man, who was quite insensible, within the Park railings, and then laid him carefully on the grass, with a great coat for a pillow, while a man was despatched for a surgeon. The crowd already assembled was increased every moment, and people asked one another the cause of the excitement. In the midst of the confusion, Captain Dawson Finch and Mr. Fulham rode up. 
               "Hello! I say, Finch, what's the row?" exclaimed Fulham. 
               "Can't venture to say," replied the captain. "Perhaps some fellow's broke his neck!" 
               "Don't care if he has," said Fulham, "s' long as he's not one of 'ours.'" 
               By this time they had approached near enough to discover that a man was lying on his back on the grass, having his face sprinkled with water some considerate person had, with admirable self-negation, brought in his bat from the fountain. 
               "See the fellow's face, Finch!" asked Felham. 
               "Jove! yes," answered his companion; "yet it can't be-Jove! 'tis, though." 
               "Is who?" demanded Fulham, with the smallest possible amount of curiosity picted on his countenance. 
               "Why, Maude," replied Captain Finch. "Dined with him last night-poor fellah!" 
               "Get a little nearer, Finch, can you!" said Fulham. "Ought to do what we can-hang it!" 
               They pressed into the crowd, but did not make any very great progress, because the outsiders were waved back by those immediately around the sick man, in order that he might enjoy as much air as it was possible to obtain to him. 
               Seeing they were brought to a stand-still, they looked about them in order to notice the company amongst whom they were for the moment thrown. Suddenly Captain Finch exclaimed- 
               "Jove, sir! there's her ladyship." 
               "Eh!" demand Fulham, not comprehending exactly what lady was particularly alluded to by his friend, as there were several in the crowd, which now almost entirely blocked up the thoroughfare. 
               "Why, your chere amie, my boy," replied the captain: "and she don't look more than usually amiable, either. The chances are you'll get your hiding, old follow, for keeping her waiting. If I were you I'd hedge, and hook it!" 
               Fulham turned his eyes in the direction pointed out to him by his friend, and perceived Fanny, who was evidently displeased by something; perhaps by the delay in the equestrian traffic of the Avenue, or by some latent anxiety for the fate of Maude, of whose accident she was certainly, next to his own imperious and foolish conduct, the immediate cause. 
               Making a detour, Dawson Finch and Fulham contrived to approach Fanny, who seemed rather relieved by their presence. She nodded to Finch, who made an elaborate bow in return, not omitting-as Maude had, unfortunately for himself-to raise his hat. 
               Fulham immediately addressed Fanny, saying- 
               "I suppose you have been here longer than we have!" 
                
               "Yes," she replied, laconically. 
               "Well, what little game's going on over there?" 
               "Oh! nothing particular," she answered, "I can soon tell you." 
               "Pray do," said Captain Finch; we're dying to know." 
               "Why, Maude cheeked me," rejoined Fanny, "and I slipped into him." 
               "Naturally enough," said the captain. 
               "What did he do?" asked Fulham. 
               "Oh! never mind what he did. He annoyed me; and you know I am not over particular when I begin." 
               "He certainly is to be pitied for having made you angry," laughed Finch. 
               "What did you do to him?" said Fulham, who evinced some anxiety to know all about the affair. 
               "Why, I punched his head, I suppose," replied Fanny; "and he fell over the saddle, while his foot caught, I believe, in the stirrap, and the horse went on." 
               "I hope he is not hurt, though. I think you must have pitched into him enough, without anything else, Fanny," remarked Fulham. 
               "You've proved yourself quite a Lola Montez," observed Captain Finch. 
               "I think so," she replied, with an indifferent air. "Mind," she added, significantly, "I don't Lola Montez you. It wouldn't take me long to do it, old fellow." 
               "Jove!" muttered Finch to himself. "Sorry I spoke." 
               By this time Maude had opened his eyes; for, during the dialogue we have just noticed, those around him were unremitting in their efforts to restore him to consciousness, and their efforts had, during the last minute or two, been considerably assisted by a surgeon who had arrived on the ground. Maude proved to be rather severely bruised and knocked about, but no bones were broken, although his face and head were cut a little; and altogether he seemed to have escaped very well from the serious position in which he had been placed. A friend having offered his phaeton, and the surgeon having poured half a tumbler of brandy down his throat, he was lifted into the vehicle, and, accompanied by the man of physic, driven at a slow pace towards his house near Madison Square. The crowd began to disperse, and Fanny and her two companions were disposing themselves for a canter. The former had entirely recovered her vivacity, and was giving Fulham a detailed account of the fracas which had taken place between herself and Maude, when a gentleman rode by them at a hand gallop, and respectfully raised his hat to Fanny, who instantly recognized in him the stranger who had so opportunely interfered in her favor when Maude obstinately persisted in retaining his hold upon the rein of the horse. She graciously retained his salutation, and he was soon lost in the crowd. 
               This little episode was not lost upon Fulham, who rather sulkily asked his fair companion who her friend was. 
               "That's exactly what I want to know my dear fellow," she replied. 
               "Who do you mean?" said Finch. 
               "Why, that fellow who's just gone by," rejoined Fulham. 
               "Oh! I know the man's face well enough. What the deuce is his name, though?" 
               "What do you know of him, Fanny?" inquired Fulham, turning from Finch, who was engaged in a vain attempt to recollect the name of his former acquaintance. 
               "Would you like to know now?" said Fanny, with a provoking smile. 
               "Oh! if there's any mystery in it," he replied, "I don't care." 
               "Mystery!" she ejaculated. "Well suppose there is?" 
               "Don't chaff," said Fulham; who, is spite of his assumed indifference, appeared a little anxious for the information. 
               She fixed her eyes upon him, as if delighted at the idea of making him jealous. 
               "If you are going to tell a fellow. Fanny," he said, "why don't you do it?" 
               "I asked you if you would like to know," she replied; "and you have not answered my question." 
               "Of course I should. If I hadn't wished to know, it isn't likely I would have asked you." 
               "You would like to know, oh!" she replied, with provoking pertinacity. 
               He nodded his head. 
               "Very much?" she continued. 
               "Hang it, Fanny!" he cried, "what's the fun of badgering a fellow so infernally?" 
               "If you talk like that," she answered, "I won't tell you." 
               "All right-leave it alone then," said he, snappishly. 
               "Oh! I've got it," exclaimed Captain Dawson Finch, all at once; "I've got it. His name's Shamrock Waite, or something like it. He's beastly rich, I've heard." 
               "Are you satisfied?" asked Fanny of Fulham. 
               But the latter made no answer. 
               "Oh! I do believe he's discovered a new sensation," cried Fanny, addressing herself to Finch, and laughing immoderately. 
               "What's that?" asked the captain. 
               "Why, he is positively jealous, I declare, of your friend Shamrock something or other; what is it?" 
               "Waite?" suggested Finch. 
               "If that's what you mean," said Fulham, sulkily, "it's my no means a novel sensation; for, since I have known you, you have made me experience it pretty often." 
               "Oh! you mean that, do you?" she demanded, curtly. 
               Fulham did not answer. 
               "Why don't you answer me, when I speak to you?" she said. 
               "I suppose I am not obliged to speak unless I choose to." 
               "Well, a gentleman generally answers a lady when she speaks to him; but what can I expect from such a man as you?" 
               "I don't know what you mean by that," he replied; "I think I am generally jolly enough with you." 
               "Oh! as far as money goes, you answer my purpose well enough," said Fanny, carelessly. 
               "Is that all you care about me for?" he asked rather feelingly. 
               "Well," she said, "what regard can one have for such a man?" 
               "Such a man!" he repeated. "What do you mean?" 
               "Oh! I don't know, I suppose I mean what I say." 
               Suddenly Fulham seemed to remember that a third person was present, and he said in a low voice- 
               "Why can't you shut up while that fellow's with us?" 
               "I don't care about him," replied Fanny, "or a hundred men hearing what I have to say." 
               "But I do, though," said Fulham, nervously; "and I do wish, Fanny, you would put off your rows till we get home." 
               "It is not my fault; you should not get up rows if you don't like them." 
               It is rather probable that captain Dawson Finch overhead this altercation, or guessed that he was a little in the way; and much as he would have enjoyed the scene which was probably to ensue, his sense of politeness and good inceding induced him to touch his horse sharply with his riding-whip which made the animal start off as if by accident, and speedily place several yards between his master and his companions. 
               Although Fulham was a little riled as Fanny's refusing to tell him what she knew about the man who had bowed to her, yet he was a sensible fellow, and could stand chaff as well as most men, if not a little better. So that when Fanny returned to the charge, by saying- 
               "I like a gentleman: there is something about him, which a cad, however well off he may be, never can get hold of." 
               He replied quite coolly to her- 
               "Fanny, if I am a cad, you know I can't help it. It's my misfortune, not my fault. Only I don't know why I should be so objeetionable all at once." 
               "I suppose," she replied, "that because you're rich you think you're everybody?" 
               "I don't object to being considered a gentleman," he said quietly. 
               "Why, your father was only a broken and God knows what your grandfather was!" she continued, with intense irony. 
               "Oh! I dare say he wasn't a bad sort," answered Fulham. 
               Fanny began to lose her temper at his continued composure, and she exclaimed- 
               "Don't you sit there and cheek me now, or else you'll get it." 
               "My dear child," he rejoined, "I am as quiet as a lamb; and I think I'm taking it all like an infantine sheep." 
               "Oh, don't talk to me!" said Fanny, in a tone of deep disgust; "I hate the sight of you!" 
               "All right! there's some one else 'to look at. There's your Shamrock fellow coming this way." 
               And almost as he spoke, the stranger, whose name Captain Dawson Finch had declared to be Shamrock Waite, passed quickly by; this time without taking any decided notice of the cavalcade. 
               Fanny looked at him as he swept swiftly by, and varied as her experience had been, she could not help thinking how handsome he was, what a capital seat he had, and how graceful he looked as his horse bore him swiftly away in the distance. 
               His hair was light and cut close. His whiskers were of a moderate length, and tawny, and his moustache completely covered his upper lip. His height was not more than five feet eleven; and altogether, with his thin, rather than stout figure, his regular features, and his handsome, though rather subdued countenance, he was what would, in the days of the cavaliers, have been termed a pretty fellow. 
               Fanny was aroused from the reverie in which she had fallen, by Fulham saying to her- 
               "I really wish, dear Fanny, you would tell me what you know about that fellow, Shamrock Waite?" 
               Tired of teasing him, Fanny condescended to comply with his modest request, and told him how the stranger had interfered with Maudo in her behalf. 
               Of course Fulham was perfectly satisfied with her explanation, and was immediately more than over "her devoted." 
               Captain Finch had all this time maintained a respectable distance. This Fulham perceived, and called out to him- 
               "I say, old fellow, where are you cutting off to?" 
               "Why," he replied, "my horse was a little restive, and I thought I would give him his head, that's all." 
               "Where are you going now? I'm getting rather tired of the Park," he continued. 
               "I don't know: where shall we go, Fanny?" 
               "Anywhere you like," she replied. "I'm game for anything." 
               "Suppose we take a trot on the Bloomingdale," suggested Fulham. 
               This suggestion was acted upon, and the whole party with some agreeable additions, were soon on their way to Harlem. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               MR. FULHAM THINKS THAT HE HAS SEEN A FOOL LONG ENOUGH. 
               FULHAM, on their return to town, declared that he was "dead beat," and he should like to have a quiet dinner at home; but Fanny insisted that she was not at all tired, and she should like to go somewhere. 
               "Upon my word, Fanny," said her lover, "you are eternally going somewhere." 
               "Suppose I am?" she replied. "May I not do as I choose?" 
               "Oh! it is a matter of indifference to me." 
               "Very well; in that case, why don't you let me alone?" rejoined Fanny. 
               Fulham looked earnestly at her, but made no reply, while she opened her jewel-cases, for they were in her boudoir, and proceeded to select her ornaments for the evening. He regarded her movements for some little time; and thinking that be these preparations she had made up her mind to go whether he liked it or not, be said- 
               "Don't go, Fanny." 
               "Oh! how you bother one!" Fanny replied, without looking up. 
                
               "I don't know what you mean by bothering; but I think I have a right to speak to you when--" 
               "Do bully me!" she cried, interrupting him. 
               "I don't wan't to bully you, Fanny," he said, quietly; "only I wish to God you would study me a little." 
               "Oh, don't talk to me!" was the conciliatory rejoinder. 
               "Well, at least tell me where you wish to go?" 
               "Mind your own business; you will know soon enough." 
               Fulham was slightly choleric, and he got a little red in the face. 
               "Well, if that's the way you talk to me, I shall hook it off to the club." 
               "If you had not been an ass," she answered, "you would have seen half an hour ago I wanted you to make yourself scarce." 
               "Perhaps I shall not come back again!" he exclaimed, getting up and seizing his hat. 
               "I don't care, I'm sure," she replied: "you may please yourself about that." 
               Fulham put his hat on his head with a jerk, and said- 
               "I am not chaffing now, you must understand." 
               With most provoking coolness, Fanny went on examining her jewelry, clasping one bracelet on her snowy wrist, unclasping another, and thinking whether emeralds would look pretty with a brown moiree.
                
               Mr. Fulham paced up and down the room for a while without getting any reply, and at last he said, abruptly- 
               "Are you going to answer me?" 
               Fanny at this looked up and replied, 
               "What an ill-bred brute you must be. Why don't you go out of my room when I tell you?" 
               "As far as that goes, I believe it is as much mine as yours." 
               Although not a very amiable or polite remark for him to make, this was strictly true, for Fanny had sold her house and furiture at Yorkville, and Fulham had placed the suburban villa she now occupied at her service. 
               Fanny put down her jewel and looked fixedly at him. 
               "I see you want a row with me, old fellow," she said; "and you shall have it." 
               Fulham stood still without saying a word, although he seemed rather to anticipate a scene he would much rather have avoided. 
               "You think you can out me, don't you, whenever you like?" she went on. "So you imagine you can bully me as you like!" 
               "I don't see any particular reason for staying here against my will, I must say," he remarked. 
               "Oh, you don't? Then I do." 
               Fulham moved towards the door. 
               "Now, look here!" she exclaimed. "If you don't stay where you are, I'll give you something to remember me by." 
               Fulham took no notice of this threat, which Fanny perceiving, she took up a decanter half-full of wine, and threw it with all her force at his retreating figures. The shot told. The bottle hit him on the head; he staggered as if stunned, and then fell against the wall; here he remained a moment, and slid slowly down on the floor. 
               Without taking any notice of him further than to ring the bell, she went on with her occupation. 
               In answer to her summons, a servant made his appearance. 
               "Look to your master, John." 
               While the servant was attending to his master, Fanny completed her toilette, and getting into her carriage, drove to Wallack's and finding a stage-box vacant, she took it, and tried to let the play amuse her for an hour or so. 
               Fulham was not much hurt; the bottle had struck him, but he was not very hard hit. It had stunned him for a time, but by the application of a little vinegar to his temples, his man soon brought him round. 
               "I hope you're not much hurt, sir?" said John, as Fulham opened his eyes. 
               That gentleman, without replying, staggered to his legs, and allowed himself to be led towards an armchair. 
                
               "An ugly tumble!" exclaimed Fulham, turning to John. 
               "Yes, sir," said John. 
               "I slipped on the oilcloth, I think." 
               "Think you did, sir," replied John. 
               "All right now, though," said Mr. Fulham. 
               "Yes, sir; all right now, sir," echoed John. 
               "You may go," said Fulham. 
               And when the servant had gone, and the door had closed behind him, Mr. Fulham went to the table, and opening a blotting-book, began to write a note. This done, he went out into the passage, and opening the street-door, soon found himself in the open air. Hailing a cab, he told the man to drive to Long's. 
               When Fanny returned from the play, she went into her boudoir, and found a note lying on the table, directed to her. 
               "For Fanny," ran the superscription. 
               She hastily opened and read it, and then, with an exclamation of profound contempt, threw it into the fire. 
               It was the note Mr. Fulham wrote before he went out of the house. It was rather curt; but there was no mistaking its import. 
               "You have behaved so d-d badly to me, that I can't stand it any longer. I put up with it as long as I could, and now I intend to leave you altogether. If you want any money, you have only to go to Cox's; in Wall street, and they will supply you, as I shall give them instructions to place five thousand dollars to your credit. I hope the next follow you get hold of will be as kind to you as I have been." 
               "What a fool the man is!" exclaimed Fanny; "I hate a fool. I am glad he is gone. He thinks, I suppose, that he is the only man in the world! Why, there are dozens of fellows ever so much better than he is, who will only be too glad to take his place. As if I cared for his cutting me! I don't care a straw." 
               The next morning at breakfast, Fanny ruminated over her present position, and endeavored to decide upon her future course of conduct. 
               Suddenly an idea struck her; she had nothing particular to do in town just now. She could very well run down and see her mother and father. She would get away from town and recruit in the country for a week, on bread and milk, and such like rustic fare. 
               The idea was no sooner conceived than put in execution. Her luggage was soon ready, and an hour after breakfast she was en route for the railway station. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               MR. SHAMROCK WAITE AGAIN. 
               FANNY had not as yet faltered in her purpose, but having arrived at the railway station, and finding that she had anticipated the departure of the train by some few minutes, there remained a little time for contemplation, and if she were that way inclined, for repentance. Such was the state of her mind, however, that the latter course was at once placed out of court. Still she indulged in a little quiet cogitation, as she sat on the neat but net too comfortable seats that adorned the ladies' waiting-room. She thought of the days of her girlhood, and of Percy Amherst, and whether she should meet him again on her return to her native village. It would not much matter to her if they did come together, for they had seen one another since their first separation, and the encounter was one full of triumph for her. But what was her object in rusticating in this strange and sudden manner? She asked herself the question without obtaining anything like a satisfactory answer. One thing was certain: no one would know her again, altered as she was in every way. She felt that she might rival Mrs. Amherst herself now, not only in dress, but in manners and breeding, for while nothing but a miracle can make a Brummel or a Wilton of a badly bred, ill-educated, and loutish man, or to descend from so high a standard, transform him into a moderately gentlemanly fellow, yet a woman very soon learns the graces of department, the lady-like address, and the tact and finesse which are part and parcel of the more elegant and refined of womankind. Fanny could not cenceal from herself that she was tired of being what she was. She wanted repose. She wished to escape for a little while from that excitement which a short time before had been so agreeable to her. How the change had some about she did not know. Women are changeable creatures, and perhaps that is reason sufficient. She wished also, so she said to herself, to see her mother and father, for she had had alarming accounts of the former, not long, ago, and although her heart was a little "leathery," as she phrased it, she, nevertheless, had throughout all her dissipation and her success, preserved a feeling of affection for her parents, and more especially for her father, whenever she had been able to find time to bestow a thought upon them. As regarded her father, this feeling was extremely natural, because he had been so excessively kind to her when he first became aware of her disgrace. She was indulging in a sort of hazy dissolving-view of the people at home, when it was must effectually dissolved, and herself aroused by the ringing of the bell, which intimates to travelers that only five minutes will elapse before the iron steed rolls his curved legs over the polished iron. 
               Having secured her ticket. Fanny emerged from the office upon the platform. 
               Fanny showed her pasteboard passport, and the brakeman, opening the door with a key, put her into a car, which at first she believed to be unoccupied; but having seen her small traveller's portmanteau safely bestowed under the seat, she gave the man fifty cents to procure her Harper's and Frank Leslie's Illustrated Weeklies, for she was fond of pictures, and the Daily Herald, 
                  She was also fond of a little out-spoken,  although it might at times degenerate into grossness and vulgarity. 
               
                  In the brakesman's absence she surveyed the car, and her glance lighted upon  the corner opposite to, although  herself. The dark shadows cast ation prevented her from seeing this man's features very distinctly, but she felt annoyed at finding so close to her one of a sex she was flying away from. 
               The brakesman now arrived with the papers she had ordered, and she had just time to thank him and make him a present of the change, when a second bell clanked, the engine through its steam-pipe gave a shrill screech, and a perceptible sense of motion told her they were off. 
               When the train emerged from the station, the shadows that before enveloped the car and its inmates, lifted, and the golden gleams of burning sunlight streamed into the narrow compartment. 
               Her fellow-traveler took advantage of the change to reconnoitre Fanny, and as soon as she turned her eyes in his direction, he lifted his hat and bowed politely, but distantly. 
               Fanny acknowledged his salutation, without in the least knowing who he was. 
               "Oh! perhaps some man who knows me about town," she said. "How tiresome! He's a nice-looking fellow; evidently a gentleman. His face seems familiar to me. Where on earth have I seen him! Perhaps he'll speak presently." 
               The stranger remained silent-for a few minutes, when, turning to Fanny, he said- 
               "Had I not better draw these curtains? the sun is so confoundedly hot." 
               "I think you had," replied Fanny. 
               The stranger pulled the curtains together, and did not seem desirous of pushing the conversation further, or he was at a loss how to commence. At any rate it flagged. 
               Fanny was not in the mood to give him any encouragement, so she opened one of the picture papers, and began looking at the prints. She could not, however, concentrate her thoughts. Her curiosity was excited. She wished to know who this handsome man was, and where she had seen him before, for he was evidently acquainted with her, or he would not have noticed her in the way he had. 
               Reading under these circumstances, was out of the question, so she folded the paper and laid it down beside her. 
                
               At any other time she would have exclrimed-"I say, old fellow, who are you? I know I've seen you somewhere before,"-but somehow or other she could not have spoken in this flippant manner for the world. It could hardly be that his presence restrained her. For what influence could a man she never remembered seeing before, have over her?" 
               She looked up and caught his eye; it was fixed upon her. She turned away in some confusion, while he, without being embarrassed, took up a book which lay upon his knee, and said- 
               "I would offer you this book, only you might think me excessively impertinent." 
               "Not at all," she replied; "you are very kind." 
               "It is a novel which is making some sensation; it is called Salambo.'" 
               "I am extremely obliged," said Fanny; "but I am, as you may perceive, very well supplied with papers, already." 
               "Ah!" he answered, smiling. "You are not, I see, in such need of assistance as you were when we last met?" 
               Fanny raised her eyebrows and looked the question she did not ask. 
               "You surely remember; but you will think me very rude? Indeed, I am afraid to mention so trifling a circumstance." 
               "No, I shall not," said Fanny. "Pray tell me. I have such a wretched memory." 
               "You really wish me?" he asked. 
               "Upon my word." 
               "Well, then, I have only to mention the same of Mr. Maude to--" 
               As the sound of the name of Maude fell upon her ears, Fanny comprehended everything in an instant, and knew that the traveler who interested her so strangely was the man with the strange name of Shamrock Waite. 
               He had done her a signal service, and she had not forgotten it. 
               Fanny could not help feeling that this meeting was as strange an incident as had ever occurred to her in her life, although she was not easily surprised by anything; the sort of existence which fate and her own inclination in some degree condemned her to follow being so prolific of odd and startling scenes and changes, that astonishment was a sensation she was not in the habit of often indulging in. 
               How was it that she felt inclined to invest this Mr. Shamrock Waite with so sudden an interest? She was in the habit of meeting men by dozens every day, and their presence had no more effect upon her heart than so many genteel mushrooms. 
               Could it be possible that Cupid, with the attributes of a Phnix, was about to rise from the ashes of a burnt-out passion,-that passion which caused the torch to blaze so intensely, for the false and fickle Percy Amherst? 
               One thing was clear: Fanny was interested in this man. The society of Mr. Shamrock Waite was agreeable to her, and she esteemed their meeting in a railway carriage on the Hudson River one of those pleasant and gratifying accidents which the inhabitants of Olympus occasionally design to bestow on the children of men. 
               In the first place, it prevented her from indulging in abstract speculations as to this and that, and the other questions which arise in everybody's mind now and then, when we are solitary, idle, and splenetic. 
               So, turning to her companion, she, in reply to his explanation, said- 
               "Oh! now I recollect everything. How pleased I am to meet you so soon again. I have often wished to thank you." 
               "Have you, indeed?" he asked, as if pleased to think that he had at any time been thought of by the beautiful woman before him. 
               "And now to have you here all to myself; so unexpectedly, too! Why, I declare it's quite an adventure." 
               Mr. Waite placed a marker in his book and then laid it down by his side. He was evinently yielding to the force of circumstances. 
               "That is right. I like to see you do that," exclaimed Fanny, laughing. 
               "Do you; why?" he demanded. 
                
               "Because it shows me that you are resigned to your fate." 
               "What fate, then, may I ask, is in store for me?" 
               "Nothing very terrible, so you needn't alarm yourself about it," she said, smiling. 
               "You say that so prettily," he exclaimed, "that I breathe again. I thought at first that I had tumbled into the hands of some beautiful priestess who, like a tigress, is only lovely outside. Some Norma or Iphigenia." 
               "When you've done," interposed Fanny, "perhaps you will give me a chance." 
               "All right!" he replied; "you shall have the field all to yourself; only don't head the hounds." 
               "I'll tell you what I'll do," she exclaimed; "I'll light a weed if you have no objection." 
               "Do what?" he asked in astonishment. 
               "Light up! Why not?" 
               "Light up! You light up! Oh! by Jove, that's too fine." 
               Mr. Wate laughed a melodious laugh, as if the idea pleased him immensely. 
               "And to ask my permission, too," he said. "Oh, oh!" 
               Before he had got over his amazement, Fanny showed him that she was not chaffing, by pulling out a charming little cigar-case made of ivory, and profusely studded with emeralds and diamonds. 
               She opened it, and took out a fairy-like little cigarette made of pink tissue paper, enclosing the finest aromatic Turkey tobacco, such as the lights of the harem and the ladies of the Crescent City delight in when sailing on the silvery waters of the Bosphorus. 
               By a preparation at the tip she had only to rub the cigarette gently against the woodwork of the door of the car when it burst into a flame, and then putting it in her mouth, she pulled away gaily. 
               "Pretty case, isn't it?" she said, seeing that Mr. Waite was looking at it. 
               "Sweetly pretty," he replied, taking it in his hand. 
               "Will you have one?" she asked. 
               "Thanks: I am afraid they would be a little too strong for me," he said, laughing. 
               "Yes, so I should think," replied Fanny. 
               He went on laughing, and Fanny continued, 
               "Well, what are you going to do? a man never travels without smoking." 
               "You see I do," he replied. 
               "Yes, at present; but I don't think you will much longer. Now, I'll bet you wished me somewhere when you saw me get into this car, didn't you now?" she demanded, with one of her most winning smiles. 
               "I don't know that I shall tell you," he said. "It is not a fair question." 
               "I'll lay anything you thought you would have a quiet weed and read your Sambo-what is it?-book." 
               "And may I not?" he asked, innocently. 
               "I don't mind your smoking," she answered. "You may have a cigar-just one; but as for the book, why, if you dare to say such a thing again, I don't know which-you or the book-will go out of the window!" 
               Mr. Shamrock Waite drew his cigar-case out of his pocket, and very quickly lighted up, as Fanny phrased it. 
               They smoked for about the space of a minute in silence; but silence was not Fanny's forte. It might be golden, as the proverb has it, but she preferred speech, silver though it was. So she looked at her companion and then said, with that charming frankness so seldom met with, which is almost childishness of manner, 
               "How do you like me!" 
               Mr. Waite was a little surprised at so strange and so abrupt a question, but he replied, 
               "I like you very much. I think you are a brick." 
               "Well, then, tell me who and what you are. I always like to know who I am travelling with." 
               "How shall I begin?" he  rather a wicked smile in his 
                
               "Oh! tell me  they call you 
                
               "They 
                
                
               "Bad names?" she said, smiling. 
               "Well, I don't know: I ought not to say, I suppose. In fact, I'm rather proud of them." 
               "What are they?" 
               "Only two-Giles Jenkins," he answered very quietly, as if he were very serious indeed. 
               "And I suppose your mother's a washerwoman?" said Fanny, seeing that he was making fun of her, but entering into the spirit of the joke. 
               "Yes, you have hit it. She is; and I am glad to say she still retains that invaluable heir-loom, the family mangle." 
               "But what about the rollers?" asked Fanny. 
               "Well, there you touch one on the raw," he said. "In the language of our maternity, 'the rollers is pawned.'" 
               Fanny couldn't stand any more of this. She found that Waite could chaff as well as she could, and she showed how he amused her by laughing immensely. 
               She knew what his name was very well, and also that he was enormously wealthy, because she had been told so that day in the city; but she had asked him because she had nothing better to say; and it was a habit she had to ask people what they were. 
               "I wonder," thought Fanny to herself, "if this man knows who I am, or whether he takes me for a lady? He must know me, though; every man in New York knows me, knows my ponies, knows my turn-out, and everything. Oh! yes, he must know me. I wish he didn't, though; I should like to do the virtuous with him very much; I rather like him. What a strange name he has, too! Never mind, what does the name matter? Capulet's as good as Montague, any day; and I think I could like him if his name really was Giles Jenkins, as he wanted me to believe. Shamrock! A shamrock is an Irish affair, isn't it? I wonder if he is Irish. An Irish gentleman is always a good sort: I have known some very jolly Irishmen, indeed. They are not generally very rich, though. Fancy his being rich! I wonder if he is an rich as they say. What does it matter though, whether he is or not? I think he likes me: I know, anyhow, I like him. Fancy my getting spooney in this way on a fellow I have only seen twice!-isn't it odd? I thought I was past that sort of thing. Knocked about as I've been, I ought to know better. Shall I see him again? Where is he going? Oh! yes; when I go back to New York I shall meet him. Everybody goes to the Park. He is sure to go to the Park. Perhaps he will go to Wallack's. I shall be there too: I will go to meet him. But suppose he does not know who I am. I don't know what to do. I wish I knew where he is going: I think I'll ask him. Perhaps he won't tell me if I do. What a pity I have taken a fancy to him! See how it worries me already." 
               "Yonkers!" shouted the brakesman. Fanny had arrived at her destination. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE PRODIGAL'S RETURN. 
               TO Fanny's great surprise, her traveling companion alighted at the same station as herself, and in answer to her inquiry whether he was going to live in the immediate neighborhood of Yonkers, he replied that he was underweigh for his consin's house, which was about a mile from the railway station. Fanny was pleased with this intelligence, for there was a chance of their meeting now and then. Mr. Waite, in his turn, asked if he should have her for a neighbor; and Fanny said she was going to stay with some friends. They then parted Mr. Waite getting into a carriage which was in waiting for him, and Fanny walked to the recognised hostelry of the place. Here she engaged rooms and ordered lunch, after which she dressed herself in the most homely garments her wardrobe afforded, and saying she would be home to tea at six, she left the inn, and, walked towards her paternal cottage. 
               It was strange, but the sight of the town in which a great part of her life had been 
                   was extremely distasteful to her. She passed spots where, as a girl, she had romped and played with other children, and she derived no pleasure from the sight. At last she arrived at the cottage. It seemed to her that there was no change in its aspect. It might be a trifle more blackened by the wind and rain, whilst here and there the parasitical creepers were a little bit higher, and the clusters of flowers slightly thicker. Raising the latch, she entered. Her father was sitting in a chair by the side of the fire-place, endeavoring to decipher the print of some old newspaper. Her mother was employed in washing some water cresses. Roused by the noise of her daughter's entry, the good woman turned sharply round, with the intention of administering a sharp rebuke to the intruder for entering without knocking, but when she perceived a fine lady richly, though plainly dressed, she dropped a low curtsey, and in gentle accents asked her visitor to be seated. 
               Her father put down his paper and looked steadily at Fanny without recognising her, evidently under the impression that he owed the visit to the effect of some religious fervor on the part of the fair propagandist whom he imagined had paid him a visit with a view of distributing tracts, reading a chapter in the Bible, and finally presenting him with a screw of tobacco-the best old Virginia, of course-and sundry small packages of cheap grocery for his wife. 
               Fanny looked round her, and exclaimed. 
               "You are Mrs. Gale?" 
               "Yes, ma'am," replied her mother. 
               "I am a friend of your daughter's," continued Fanny, cautiously picking her way. 
               At this the old man pricked up his ears, and said- 
               "Sissy's a good girl, ma'am-a good girl. She have kept us from the 'house' for these many years. She be a good lass, she be." 
               "She is in service, I suppose you know?" said Fanny. 
               "Yes," answered her mother, "she be; leastways, so she have told us. We never have see her since she left home. We do wish she'd come afore the old man dies." 
               "Would you know her if you saw her?" asked Fanny. 
               "May be I should and maybe I shouldn't," replied the old woman, with that oracular manner so common amongst the peasantry. 
               "Well, look at me: they say I am like her." 
               Daddy Gale had never taken his eyes off his daughter. His suspicions were excited by his visitor's manner, and yet he could not bring himself to think that the well-dressed, beautiful, elegant creature before him was the poor girl who, some four or five years ago, had left the village in disgrace, by the help of charitable people, after her seduction by Percy Amherst. Suddenly, however, a strange light seemed to burst upon him, and he ejaculated, Missus it's her; it's the gal; it's Sissy; it's our gal. Missus, it's Sissy; it's our gal, I tell you." 
               Mrs. Gale looked shocked at her husband's vehemence, and said to Fanny, in an explanatory tone- 
               "Don't mind him, ma'am; he's got a slate loose now and then." 
               Fanny paid her mother no attention, but went to her father and said very gently- 
               "Are you glad to see me, father?" 
               The old man could no longer doubt it was really his daughter who stood before him. Whatever she had done, he felt proud of her. She was in dress a lady. He was glad now she had left home, as she could never have achieved her present position as an inmate of his cottage. 
               Daddy Gale sprang from his chair, and threw his arms round his daughter's neck. 
               "Glad to see you, wench! I be glad, and that's God's truth!" he exclaimed. 
               "And you coming in like that there!" said her mother. "But you was allus a artful hussey." 
               "I say, old lady," exclaimed Fanny, turning to her mother, "I should advice you to draw it mild, if only for the sake of peace and quietness. I'm not altogether made up of the milk of human kindness." 
               Fanny had not forgotten her mother's ill-treatment treatment when a child and she was not inclined for a repetition of it, in however modified degree it might come. 
               Her mother hastened to assure her that she was not in earnest; but Fanny took very little notice of her proffered explanation. The fact was she never liked her mother, and how she felt that she positively hated her. Certainly her reception of her daughter after so long an absence was anything but gratifying, and if Fanny's reply to her mother's exclamation was somewhat coarse, it must be borne in mind that she was not in the habit of weighing her language before she uttered it; and although the language might be sterling and national, still it was not always composed of the finest metal, and a little alloy will change the character of the whole piece. 
               On the other hand, Fanny loved her father: he had always been her friend, even in those dreadful days when the stately Mrs. Amherst was so cruel and relentless. A little kindness goes a long way with young hearts, and is remembered years and years after the event which gave the feeling birth. As a girl, she had never been ashamed of her parentage; but as a woman, she thought her mother incorrigibly vulgar and outre; yet, strange to say, although she knew that her father had no pretensions to gentility, she liked him a thousand times better than her mother. If he was not gently born, he was in his youth an honest, steady honry-handed yeoman, and, in Fanny's opinion, in these days of "shopkeepers and city cads there was something in that,"-and in his old age he was able to look back upon his life without recalling a single thing that could bring a blush to his face. 
               In short, such as he was, Fanny was proud of him. 
               And she was right. To be an honest man is not a negative advantage. Honest men are the real pillars of the State, and they flourish upon a secluded agricultural and virgin soil; but once come into a city where commerce prevails, and the light of a thousand lanterns will hardly suffice to show you an honest man. 
               "Sit thee down, lass; sit thee down," said Daddy Gale. 
               Fanny took the chair which he offered her, and entered into a conversation of an uninteresting nature with her parents. He pressed her to stay with them to tea, and she consented; but as it was a beautiful spring afternoon she said she would take a run in the fields while the meal was being prepared. The fact was, she wished once more to see the places in which, years back, occurred events which had in the first instance been productive of so much misery to her, but which in the end had turned out reach better than most prophets would have predicted. 
               Of course the virtuous indignation of only moderately religious mothers having marriageable daughters not too well endowed with those worldly appendages which men worth catching are exacting enough to require in these degenerate days, readily joins the exterminating cry which has a sword far its emblem and fire for its watchword. But there are those-and would they were more numerous-who have some pity upon an erring sister, who hesitate at stoning a woman who has only done what they would in all probability have done had they been placed in the same difficult position. No word in the English language is too bitter, too venomous, too soul-stinging, for one woman to throw at another who has gone wrong; all the contumely that can be compressed into a look, or a word, or a phrase, is hers at once as if by inheritance. Verily the woman who has fallen from her high estate has little or no chance of ever regaining her former position. Men suffer her; but women never. 
               Thinking of various things, Fanny had wandered some distance into the country, when her attention was arrested by a rusting, as of something forcing its way through some underwood in the vicinity. Looking up, she perceived a rabbit running swiftly towards her, but having once perceived her, the animal changed its course, and started off in an oblique direction. Hardly had it gone twenty yards before a man emerged from a grove, and raising his gun to his shoulder, brought down the rabbit in an instant. It gave a convulsive start forward, then threw out its legs spasmodically, whilst its whole frame quivered to the death throes, and it was dead. 
               Fanny looked up, and to her amazement perceived Mr. Shamrock Waite, her companion of the morning. 
               The recognition was mutual. 
               "Ah!" he exclaimed, raising his hat, "this is indeed an unexpected pleasure." 
               "I see," said Fanny, smiling, "you've lost as time since your arrival in the country." 
               "Yes," he replied, "I flatter myself I bowled ever the couey rather neatly." 
               "Since you are so enthusiastic," remarked Fanny, "perhaps you will say you prefer shooting to talking to me." 
               "If I did say so," said Mr. Waite, "I should tell a very big story." 
               Fanny smiled, and showed her pearly teeth, which were just visible through her small and rosy lips. 
               "So far from wishing to bag any more conies," he continued, "I look upon you as a treasure-trove; and I do not feel inclined to part with you so easily as you seem to suppose." 
               "You are I am in your power," said Fanny, with affected terror, "and if you are a wild man of the woods, I hope you will try and he amiable, as I have a knight within call." 
               "Have you, though?" he asked. "I thought you were alone." 
               "So I am, at present," said Fanny, pleased at having mystified him, "and you had better be on your best behavior until my knight returns." 
               Mr. Waite laughed, and observed. 
               "I, too, expected to meet a fellow out. It is so late, though, I don't think Amherst will come." 
               "Amherst!" cried Fanny. "Do you know the Amhersts?" 
               "Yes; do you?" he replied. "Percy is my cousin, you know. I am staying with his people now." 
               Here was an adventure for Fanny! This new acquaintance was staying with the man of all others for whom she had the greatest aversion. The scene at Ravenswood after the accident on the river came into her memory, and when she thought of Mrs. Amherst's behavior to her she felt a fierce hatred for the whole family. 
               Evidently she must not betray her knowledge of the locality, and of the Amhersts is particular. Her ardent hope was, and she hardly knew why, that Mr. Shamrock Waite was unacquainted with her history and career, and above all, with her present made of life. She was afraid to question her own heart, but it was clear that she felt a fondness, and entertained more than a weakness, for this handsome and captivating man. 
               In reply to Mr. Waite's questions as to whether she was acquainted with the Amhersts, she replied in the negative. She merely had heard of them as people living in the neighborhood. Now, it seems strange that a woman of Fanny's age and experience should suppose that Mr. Waite did not know what she really was, because the way in which she talked to him in the  about smoking, and other things, was not calculated to impress him very highly with her stability; but she did hope that he was unacquainted with her identity; for, among as she was in certain circles, it might have happened that she had never been pointed on to him in the Park; or be might have been out of town; or a thousand things might have happened to prevent his being acquainted with her features. Perhaps her wish was the parent of the thought that she was to him only a waif, a stray, a fair unknown. 
               Nor were these conjectures without foundation. Mr. Shamrock Waite did not know who Fanny was. He thought her wonderfully different from other woman. So sociable, so companionable, and so vivacious, with a comparative stranger like himself. In fact, he began rather to like the society of this syren, and he willingly relinquished his intended stroll, and gave the "conies" -as he called the rabits-a respite. He could not conceal from himself that Fanny piqued his curiosity. Who was she, and where did she come from? where was she staying now? were questions he repeatedly asked himself. She certainly was a lady, at least in manners and appearance; he really liked her frank way of speaking, but there was a mystery about her which he could not penetrate. 
               But although Mr. Waite had his suspicions, he did not suppose that she was anything more than eccentric, and that she owed her oddities possibly to education. Yet he wished very much to know who she was; and he laid a little plot to find out her name; so he said, 
               "Shall you stay here long, Miss--" Here he broke off, and went on, "Really our acquaintance is altogether so strange-we have never been introduced." 
               "My name is White," replied Fanny, for the first time in ever so long blushing deeply. 
               Mr. Waite bowed, and said, 
               "I thought-I hoped that if you were going to make a long stay about here, we might see a good deal of one another." 
               "My stay," she answered, "depends very much upon circumstances; but I shall, I think, stay at least a week; I have not been in very good health for some time past, and my doctor advises country air." 
               "Do you ride?" he asked. 
               "Yes," she replied, "I am very fond of riding." 
               During this conversation they had walked along the confines of the wood, and they were so intent, each with certain thoughts and speculations, that they did not perceive a man who, having just turned an angle, was bearing down upon them. 
               "I have been looking everywhere for you," exclaimed a loud, clear voice, "and wondering where on earth you had waulered to." 
               Both Fanny and Mr. Waite looked up at the voice. 
               For the first time in her modern life Fanny felt inclined so faint. A strange dizziness, almost amounting to vertigo, took possession of her brain. Her legs seemed to lose the power requisite to support her body. 
               She had recognised Percy Amherst. 
               "Oh!" she murmured to herself, "is this man to ruin me twice over? Is he not content with the harm he did me when he found me a loving, trusting girl?" 
               Mr. Waite walked up to Percy and said, 
               "I hardly thought you'd come now. I haven't had much sport." 
               "No, I suppose not," replied Percy Amherst, looking significantly at Fanny. 
               At that moment Fanny raised her face, and caught his glance point blank. 
               "Hallo! what the devil!" he muttered between his teeth. 
               Then instantly recovering his presence of mind, he lifted his hat and bowed to Fanny. 
               Fanny acknowledged his salutation with the slightest possible inclination of the head. 
               "Jove!" thought Mr. Waite, "Amherst seems to know her-that's jolly. I'll ask him all about her." 
               Fanny, by a great effort, got over her astonishment and chagrin, and thought the best thing she could do was to put a bold face on the matter; so she said to Waite, 
               "I am going back to the village. I shall take you out of your way." 
               "Not at all. Delighted!" replied Mr. Waite. 
               Percy was obliged to accompany the pair, as it would have seemed so odd had he run away immediately. 
               As they turned back towards the village, Shamrock Waite, with that blundering bonhommie of which some good-natured people are continually guilty, said- 
               "I suppose this lady and yourself are old friends. Amherst!" 
               "I was acquainted with her some years ago," replied Percy drily. 
               "Not much to be extracted in that quarter," thought Mr. Waite. 
               Seeing that Percy Amherst was palpably not at his ease, Fanny's impudence, native and acquired, was requisite to prevent a contre-temps, so she said- 
               "My acquaintance with Mr. Amherst, such as it is, began some time back in the hunting-field." 
               Percy did not know what to do or say, but the question was so straightforward, that he could do nothing but answer in the affirmative. 
               "You hunt then?" exclaimed Mr. Waite, "You do not know what pleasure it would give me to offer you a mount; but forgive me-you no doubt have your own horses up here?" 
               "No, I have not," replied Fanny; "but I could easily send for them." 
               "Indeed you must not do anything of the sort. I have a capital lady's horse, which I intended for my sister. It is at present in my cousin's stables. I shall be proud if you will let me place it at your service." 
               Annoyed as Fanny was at meeting Percy Amherst, she was determined that the fact of his knowing Waite should not spoil her plans with regard to the latter, and she exerted all her energies to prevent being checkmated by so unfortunate an occurrence. So, with a sweet smile, which had its effect upon her companions, she answered- 
               "Since you know my ci-devant acquaintance, Mr. Amherst, I shall be very happy." 
               "Hang it all," thought Percy, "that's too fine! Making me a stepping-stone to got hold of Waite! Oh!" 
               "May I call-" began Waite. 
               "At present," said Fanny, surmounting a new difficulty, "I am staying at the principal inn in the town-my friends live so far from here, that I hardly feel equal to continuing my journey to-day, especially as I have some old cronies in the village whom I wish to look up." 
               Mr. Waite said that he would send round the horses, and call upon her in the morning, about eleven. 
               Percy Amherst was perfectly mystified; so did not know what to make of so strange a meeting, and having walked some distance with them, he thought the best thing he could do would be to plead some engagement and leave them together, resolving to take another and a fitter time for an explanation with his cousin. 
               Acting upon this resolution, he said he wished to run up to Bath Cottage, as had something of importance to say to the overseer, and that he would meet his cousin at dinner. 
               Bowing to Fanny, he strode away, employed like Nebuchandnezzar's astrologers, trying to interpret their royal master's dream. 
               Rather relieved by his departure, Fanny and Mr. Waite walked on engaged in commonplace conversation, chiefly relating to riding, hunting, and other kindred pursuits, until they reached the confines of the village, when Fanny said- 
               "I am so nearly home now, I will not trouble you any more." 
               Thus dismissed, Mr. Waite could no longer obtrude his services, and repeating his promise to send the horses in the morning, made the best of his way to his cousin's, while Fanny walked on until he reached her father's cottage. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               EXCITING MOMENTS. 
               FANNY found her parents homely and genial, very glad to have found their child again, and although they had no calf to kill, either fat or lean, yet they carried out the metaphor as far as they were able. 
               The delight of Daddy Gale at once more having his girl in the same house with him knew no bounds. He asked her a thousand questions about as many things, and in his eagerness forgot to wait for an answer to his queries; and her mother bustled about and did the honors with all matronal dignity. 
               But at six o'clock Fanny left them to return to her inn, promising to come again the next day. 
               After she had made an end of the simple repast, which the landlord had provided for her, and seating herself in an arm-chair, she began to indulge in one of those charming after-diner reveries, which are so much liked by everybody. Nor was one of the fairy-like cigarettes we have already mentioned forgotten. Fanny had much to muse over. Here she was, the admired of all admirers, rusticating in a country town, without any one being aware of her existence, except two men, one of whom she hated and despised, and the other she almost fancied she loved. 
               Loved! She repeated the word to herself several times, to see if she were not dreaming. It was a word hitherto kept in her vocabulary simply to express a sort of insane feeling which innumerable men had felt for her. A feeling which in her breast she imagined to be dead for ever. It had perished, she believed, when she was so cruelly deserted by Percy Amherst. But contrary to her expectations, here it was cropping up again in favor of a stranger. It almost made her believe that love is a sort of electric communication between heart and heart. But reason as she might, she could not conceal from herself the fact, that she was really beginning to love Shamrock Waite. In fact that she did love him. 
               She endeavored to fight against the growing passion, but she might as well have endeavored to stem a tidal wave, or stop a whirlwind. 
               Fanny wondered very much whether Percy Amherst would tell his cousin all about her. She could hardly hope that he would not. It was extremely natural that he should do so. He saw his cousin, as he thought, being gradually meshed and involved by a clever and unscrupulous woman, against whom he was evidently not on his guard. If he didn't warn him, who should? 
               Yet supposing the worst that could happen, that Percy told his cousin all he knew, and perhaps a little more-for men are fond of exaggeration, especially whom women are the subject of their conversation; and suppose that Waite endeavored to take advantage of the information, as many men would, to their dishonor-still Fanny was not disposed to throw the sponge up. She was made of different stuff from that, and her experience told her that Heaven did not help people who refuse to help themselves. She was fond of fighting a thing out as well as she could, as long as she had a leg left to stand upon. 
               However, all she could do at present was to leave everything until to-morrow, which has always the chance, if nothing more, of being prolific of events. If Waite had been informed of her antecedents by his cousin, and did not keep his appointment-tant pis; but that she did not anticipate. With conflicting emotions she retired to rest. 
               The next morning was everything that could be wished. Fresh and balmy like all spring weather, the sun was just beginning to acquire strength and power, but was not able as yet to wield sufficient to be annoying: and as Fanny was standing at the window of her sitting-room, looking on the budding verdure in the little inn garden, she thought she had never had a more delightful day for a ride than the present. 
               But would he come? That was the question asked almost as eagerly by her, as was the chance of Blucher's coming in time, by Wellington, at Watordeo. Fortunately she had her habit with her. Indeed, it was one of those things she never traveled without. As the hour drew near at which she expected Mr. Waite, it must be confessed that she grew a little anxious, fretful, irritable. 
               At last she had the satisfaction of seeing a man ride up to the inn, followed by a groom with a led horse. There could be no doubt that this was Mr. Waite. 
               If she had entertained any suspicion of the fact, it was soon dissipated, as the waiter brought her a tiny bit of pasteboard with Mr. Waite's name on it- 
                     "ARTHUR SHAMROCK WAITE."
                  
                
               She told the waiter to show him upstairs and retired to her bedroom to equip herself for the ride. 
               When she was fully accontred, she descended, and was received with the greatest politeness and affability by Mr. Waite, which circumstance emboldened her to ask after Percy. 
               "Oh," he replied, "I did not bring Percy, for I have not seen him since I left you last night. He was summoned to attend tend an aunt, or some one, who was on the point of kicking the bucket, and he is not expected home till this evening." 
               Fanny breathed more freely; she had, at any rate, a respite. The game was in her own hands; she had a famous opportunity, and it was her own fault if she did not turn it to some advantage. 
               Once on horseback she felt herself in her element, and Mr. Waite found her a most accomplished equestrian. 
               Fanny perceived that she had made an impression upon Mr. Waite. She saw that he was interested in her, and she laid herself out to please him more than she had ever done before. To be the pet-the wife-of Shamrock Waite was her ideal. What happiness, what joy, what ecstasy, if only such an event could happen! And why not? Why should she not subdue him, and bring him to her feet? She was lovely, she was accomplished in the ways of the world, she was elegant, and, to a certain degree, refined. Why, with all these things in her favor, should she despair? On the contrary, she felt that the odds were in her favor, always provided that Percy Amherst did not interpose to spoil everything. 
               Fanny did not pause a moment in the indulgence of the new passion, to analyze it. She felt instinctively, and she knew instinctively, without questioning her heart too closely, that she really did love Shamrock Waite. It was odd enough, it was strange enough, it was hasty enough-but it was a fact. 
               So much for the theory of love at first sight, and so much for the fancy most blighted beings have that they can never love again. They may take a fancy, they may even marry, and strive ever so hard to fulfill their conjugal vow-an effort often indeed productive of a great deal of strife-but they can never love with the freshness and the feeling of their early years. 
               Even as they were in their infancy, as were their passions-at all events is was so with Fanny. She loved Shamrock Waite with an intensity and ardor exceeding her girlish fancy for Percy Amherst. She felt that she would go through fire and water-and, to be a little original, let us say through burning petroleum-to gain the love of Shamrock Waite. His love was necessary to her existence-without it she would be miserable; a blight would fall upon her; and her whole life henceforth would be objectless. 
               Mr. Waite himself, as he rode by the side of, and talked to the beautiful creature who was his companion on this fresh and balmy spring morning, felt himself more and more fascinated with her loveliness and her manner. He thought he had never met a more engaging woman, and an idea took possession of him that he would like to make her his own-one and indefeasible. 
               "How jolly the birds look. I like birds," exclaimed Fanny, after they had ridden a mile or two, pulling up her horse. 
               "Very jolly," replied Waite; "I should like to be a bird." 
               "Would you?" she inquired. 
               "Very much, indeed," he said, "If you could be a bird to, and would make nests with me!" 
               Fanny turned away her head, and made her horse curvet a little pretending to be so much engaged with it that she did not notice his remark. 
               After she had stilled her horse, he said- 
               "I think of all birds, I would rather be a love-bird." 
               "Why?" she asked. This time looking him so steadfastly in the face, with her large, loquacious eyes, that he turned his head away in some confusion. 
               "Because," he answered, "there seems to me something so nice in two amiable little birds, with beautiful plumage, being shut up together in a gilded cage, with nothing to do all their lives but kiss one another, and eat canary-seed and sponge-cake." 
               "Perhaps," said Fanny,' "you go in for love in a cottage, which, you know, is wofully old-fashioned." 
               "Suppose I do!" said he; in his turn looking at her till she turned away her eyes. 
                
               "But I won't suppose you half so stupid," she rejoined, laughing. 
               "You will admit, though," he persisted, "that love in a cottage, is better than no love at all." 
               "Yes," said Fanny, "I believe in love; but I think that love in a palace is better than love in a shanty." 
               "Fancy your being so mercenary!" he ejaculated. 
               "Come, let us have a canter," cried Fanny; "I am getting quite chilled." 
               They put their horses in motion, and at last reached the point they had fixed on as the limit of their excursion, and having taken a survey, turned their horses' heads towards home. 
               Fanny stopped her horse to admire something more than ordinarily beautiful, and remarked, 
               "This is really a place where I could live for ever without being tired." And turning to her companion, she asked, "Do you like this sort of thing?" 
               Mr. Waite said he was a great admirer of nature, and that he meant to take an early occasion to travel extensively, both in this country and Europe, to gratify this taste. And looking archly at Fanny, he added- 
               "I sometimes wish I had a companion-that I were not going alone." 
               "Do you?" 
               Fanny, after saying this, looked intently at her horse's mane, as if she admired it excessively. 
               "Yes, I do," he replied; "and may I say so! Since I have had the very great pleasure of knowing you I have lamented my solitary life more than ever." 
               "I suppose you have fixed on some delightful traveling companion?" 
               "No, that I have not," he cried, interrupting her, eagerly; "delightful companions are not so easily met with." 
               Fanny smiled incredulously. 
               "Oh! yes," she said; "men think any other man delightful who can smoke, and ride and drive, and play a good game at billiards." 
               "But I am not talking of men," said has "I-that is-I-I was thinking of a totally different sort of companion." 
               "I suppose you would hardly think of taking one of the gorillas with you," she said, laughing. 
               "What I meant was," answered Mr. Waite, "if I could only find some woman I could love, I would take her with me." 
               "You don't look like a marrying man, though," said Fanny. 
               "Don't I?" he asked, with a supplicating look. 
               "Not a bit; not an atom." 
               "I would marry a woman, though, if I loved her," he replied, "to-morrow." 
               Fanny made no answer; she flicked a fly off her horse's head with her whip, and hummed an opera air. 
               "Have you ever seen one you would like to place in so dignified a position?" at length asked Fanny. 
               "Yes," he answered slowly, looking at her. 
               "I should like to know who it is," she continued. "Tell me." 
               "Let my eyes speak for me," he answered, still looking steadfastly at her. 
               "But I do not understand the language of eyes. Is it like the language of flowers?" 
               "Are they not eloquent enough?" he asked, evading her question. 
               "No, they are not eloquent, or I am a bad interpreter." 
               "What do you think they say?" said he, piteously. 
               "Oh! a great deal of nonsense." 
               "Indeed, it is not nonsense. They are asking you to be my-" 
               "Oh!" suddenly screamed Fanny; "here is Mr. Amherst." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               AN EXPRESS TRAIN. 
               THE unfortunate appearance of Percy Amherst upon the scene put an end to conversation between Fanny and Mr. Waite. What the latter would have said had he not been interrupted in the manner we have detailed, it is easy to guess; but as the fatal words had not been spoken, Mr. Waite had not as yet committed himself to say formal declaration, although Fanny was at liberty to draw what conclusions she liked from his half-uttered protestation, and the conclusion she did draw was one  to her plans. It appeared to her that Mr. Waite had yielded to her attractions as hundreds of men had done before him, and she justly, as it appears to us, thought that had not Mr. Percy Amherst cantered up so inopportunely. Mr. Waite would have betrayed himself into an offer. It was doubly annoying to her that they should have been disturbed by Percy. He had surely done her enough injury, and it would, she thought, be unusually hard lines if he were to alienate his cousin's affections at so critical a juncture. 
               Mr. Waite greeted his cousin, but not so warmly as he would have done at any other time. The meeting was as displeasing to him as it was to Fanny, but he consoled himself with the idea that he would have plenty of opportunities of making his passion known to Fanny, even if, with her woman's instinct, she had not already divined it. 
               Percy explained that his aunt was better, and that he had accordingly ridden home to give his people news of her convalescence. 
               No conversation of any interest took place until their arrival at the village; Percy recognised Fanny, and spoke to and treated her with marked politeness, but this was not sufficient for her. She wished him at the other end of the world, or at the bottom of the sea. She knew that he could, whenever he liked, ruin her with his cousin, and she had a feeling that he would. 
               Fanny was greatly annoyed, greatly perplexed; men had sued her so openly heretofore, that she never had experienced the necessity of being an intriguante; but now, if ever diplomacy were to be used by her, surely this was the occasion. 
               If she could only got him away from Yonkers; if he would on I accompany her to town that night; it would be so grand! 
               She would defeat everybody, and be married in town by special license. But the question was, how could she accomplish so arduous a task, if she proposed going to town by the five o'clock express? Mr. Waite would be obliged to go to his cousin's to make his adieux; what could she do? 
               These speculations passed through Fanny's brain like mental lightning: they did not prevent her, however, from laughing and talking to her companions, who thought the time very short which elapsed until their arrival at the inn. 
               With the aid of Mr. Waite, Fanny dismounted, and standing on the steps of the inn, said- 
               "Will you come in, Mr. Waite, while your horse has his mouth washed out?" 
               "I shall be very happy to do so," replied Mr. Waite. 
               Then she turned to Percy, and said, with a smile not wholly devoid of sarcasm- 
               "I should be only too glad to ask you upstairs, Mr. Amherst, but as you carry news your family are, no doubt very anxious to hear, I think I may spare you this time." 
               "All Percy could do was to bow, and saying to his cousin, "Dinner at four sharp, Arthur," he raised his hat and cantered out of the yard. 
               So far Fanny had managed admirably; but her troubles were only commencing. 
               Fanny retired for a few minutes to change her riding-habit, and Mr. Waite remained looking out of the window. "I wonder," he thought to himself, "why Amherst does not invite Miss White to dinner. It is odd, too, her stopping here. What a lovely creature she is!-all the more lovely for there being a mystery about her. Perhaps though, after all, there's no mystery at all. I wonder if she would have me if I proposed. How provoking Amherst's coming up so unexpectedly was! But there will be lots of chances. I want it over, though, because she may be off somewhere, and leave me without being able to get at her." 
               When Fanny came down-stairs, her whole demeanor seemed changed; she had a troubled air, and her lovely auburn tresses were carelessly arranged. 
               "My dear Miss White, what is the matter?" asked Mr. Waite, who instantly saw that something had happened. 
               "I must return to town at once," she said; "I have received a telegram, saying any father is dangerously ill." 
               Mr. Waite expressed his surprise and regret in a few conventional phrases. 
               "It is now three o'clock and the express goes at five; I have but two hours." 
               "How very sudden!" said Mr. Waite. 
               "Yes," said Fanny; "but the distance is short, and we can soon be there." 
               The word "we" was not lost upon her listener, and he involuntarily began to feel the pangs of jealously. 
               "You said 'we.'" he remarked a little anxiously; "may I ask if you have secured a traveling companion?" 
               "And if I have?" said Fanny, raising her eyes. 
               "Oh! merely that you have probably deprived some one of an anticipated pleasure." 
               "You think so?" 
               "It was an idea, perhaps a stupid one. I am awfully like a parrot; I always say what comes into my head, when I am in a chattering humor." 
               "Who did you think?" asked Fanny, in a low, thrilling tone, "who did you think would trouble themselves to come here at a moment's notice in order to escort a nobody like myself?" 
               He was silent. 
               "I had thought of writing to my cousin, whom I was going to visit. He does not know I am here yet, or he would fly to me. 
               Mr. Waite mentally anathematized all cousins, and Fanny's in particular. 
               "I am going to send a man off on the swiftest horse they have here, to tell him to come to me. If he rides quickly, he can do the distance in about three-quarters of an hour." 
               This was a bold manuvre, but Fanny knew she had no alternative. Shamrock Waite must be taken away from the pernicious influence of Yonkers immediately. Percy Amherst and his mother, especially, were to be dreaded. The whole thing, she thought, would inevitably fall through if they were allowed to poison his mind against her. 
               "If I might be allowed," began Mr. Waite-he hesitated, and let off. 
               "What shall I say to put you at your case?" replied Fanny, laughing. Shall I say this is Liberty Hall, and that you may have carte blanche to say what you like?" 
               "I meant, if you would take me," be said, "I should be very glad." 
               "But my cousin?" interposed Fanny. Poor fellow! after traveling all this way to see him and my aunt, he will be so  disappointed." 
               "Oh! never mind," said Mr. Waite, "he will be in town, I dare say, soon." 
               "Well, I will do this, if you like," said Fanny; "I will send to my cousin, and if he cannot come in time to go with me by the train, I will take you." 
               Even this concession, partial as it was, was very gratifying to Mr. Waite. He only cared for existence when he was near Fanny. He wished to breathe the air that she breathed; and he actually felt a fondness for the earth her feet had pressed. 
               Fanny affected to send off one of the ostlers to her fictitious cousin, and then ordered some dinner, of which Mr. Waite partook. As the time drew near for her departure, she packed up her wardrobe, put on her traveling dress, wrote a short letter enclosing a bank-note for one hundred dollars to her father, saying she was obligated go back to town on important business, but she hoped to soon again have the happiness of visiting them. This she gave to the chambermaid to deliver. She then returned to Mr. Waite, who was in great expectation, and said that her messenger had been very unfortunate. Her cousin was out, and would not by any chance be in till six o'clock at the earliest. 
               Mr. Waite could not prevent his exultation from illuminating his countenance. His face was in a moment radiant with smiles. He could not conceal his satisfaction. 
               "So you are the man, after all," she exclaimed. 
               "I am only too glad" he replied. 
               "Had you not better write to your cousin?" observed Fanny. 
               "Yes, if you will allow me, I will scribble a few lines and tell my man to bring on my traps. 
               Having accomplished this, the train was soon engaged in whirling them to New York. 
               Much to Fanny's surprise, Mr. Waite did not endeavor to renew the conversation which Percy Amherst had disturbed. He was very amiable-even tender-but he seemed to wish to avoid treading on delicate ground; and all Fanny's blandishments were expended in vain. Her efforts to draw him out were uniformly unsuccessful. She was annoyed at his reticenes, because she had hoped that he would consider the present an occasion above all others to be chosen for the transaction of love affairs. 
               Mr. Waite, on the other hand, had cooled down a little from his enthusiasm of the morning, and thought that there was no occasion for his being precipitate. He would, without doubt, see her repeatedly in town, and he could then choose his own time and opportunity. Besides, he would have more chances of observing her character and disposition, how she spent her time, and in what directions her tastes lay. 
               Fanny guessed something of this sort, and endeavored with all her tact and cleverness to bring him to the point. 
               "I do so dread going back to town!" she said, in a plaintive voice. 
               "I thought you liked town," he replied. 
               "So I do. I like town well enough, but it doesn't follow, does it, that I am to like everybody in it?" 
               This a little petulantly. 
               "No, of course; I should hope not," said Mr. Waite, his curiosity a little piqued. 
               "But that is just what I am supposed to do. Every man persecutes me, and wants me to-to-(playing with the fringe of her shawl and looking at her dress)-to marry him, as if I could marry more than one man, and that I won't do without I like him." 
               "That is right; never marry without your heart is interested in the matter." 
               "But my governor (she didn't say papa) says I shall marry." 
               "Says what!" asked Mr. Waite, with unmistakable trepidation. 
               "Why, he says I shall marry, I am throwing away all my chances, and it is time I were settled; and he was fixed on a fellow, too." 
               "Oh! he has fixed on some one, has he?" Mr. Waite was bursting into a cold sweat all over. 
               "Why, yes; and that is the most provoking part of it. I shouldn't care a rap it he would let me choose for myself." 
               "I wish she would," he thought, "and choose me." 
               "And he has chosen," continued Fanny, "such a beast of a man! He's awfully rich, but that is his only recommendation." 
               She sighed and leaned her face on her hand. 
               "You sigh," he said; "are you, then, dissatisfied with your father's choice!" 
               He said this calmly enough, but how he hung upon her answer! 
               "Yes, I am; so much so, that I feel inclined to accept any descent follow who has enough to keep me." 
               "I am rather a blunt fellow, Miss White," exclaimed Mr. Waite, after a pause of a moment or two. "But-don't be offended-will you have me, such as I am." 
               The train was dashing along at the rate of forty miles an hour; rapidly the trees and fields disappeared from view, and the landscape faded; but the motion of the train and its effects upon the scenery were not so quick as Fanny's determination. 
               She put out her hand, which he eagerly grasped, and held between his; then, after a pause, she said- 
               "You know very little of me. Do you really love me dearly enough to take me as you find me!" 
               "God knows," he replied, very earnestly ly, "that I love you sufficiently to do all this. Yes, and much more." 
               With what joy, with what satisfaction Fanny registered this response! Oh! if he were only in earnest; if he would always be in earnest; if she could indeed rely upon his never changing his mind, even when he found out all which her common sense told her he must do sooner or later! 
               "Do you love me enough," he added, "to place your future in my hands-to love me-to go through life hand in hand with me-to be my friend and my companion? I have plenty of money. You needn't dread poverty; and I will settle estates upon you before we marry. Will you-will you have me?" 
               "Yes," murmured Fanny, softly-so softly that the word fell upon the car like summer rain on a budding rose. 
               "Bless you, darling! bless you a thousand times!" exclaimed Waite; "you have made me so happy, I cannot tell you how happy. Oh! I have not deserved so much happiness. Is it real? Say you love me once more, dearest." 
               "You must learn to call me Fanny," she replied, gently looking up in his face; "will you, Arthur? You see I know your name already." 
               "My own," he said, "my own Fanny!" 
               They continued in a state of dreamy happiness till the train slackened speed on approaching New York; but although Fanny was very, very happy, she knew that she was still environed with a thousand difficulties, and she was occupied in trying to find out the rocks ahead in order that she might steer clear of them. 
               But although she thought of and anticipated a great many, there was one rock lying directly in the ship's course which she had not put down in her chart, and on which her bark was destined to go to pieces. 
               "Where are you going to-night, dear Fanny?" he asked; "to your father's?" 
               "No, I cannot. He is attacked with typhus fever, and the doctor says-so I gathered from the  telegram they sent me-that I had better not go into his room until it is properly fumigated, and all that; so I shall, I think, go to the Clarendon to-night, and decide what next to do to-morrow morning. I shall send to my father's to-night, of course, and see how he is getting along; and if anything bad happens, why, I can go up directly, you know dearest." 
               He insisted upon seeing her to the Clarendon, and promised to come the first thing in the morning and take her out for a drive. 
               They were not long in reaching the Clarendon; and as they drove up, three men were standing on the steps. 
               As Fanny entered the hotel on Mr. Wait's arm, one of the trio stared at Fanny, and looked rather angrily at her companion. But Shamrock Waite, catching a sight of his features, exclaimed, as if pleased at the rencontre- 
               "Hallo! Fulham! glad to see you; back in a minute." 
               Fanny certainly had not expected this; and she cursed her stupidity in having gone into the haunts of men, instead of going into some quiet place. She might have known, she said to herself, that there would be some fellow at the Clarendon. But there was no help for it. The blunder had been committed, and all she could do was to get out of it as best she could. 
               The meeting between Fulham and Waite was inevitable. Fortunately, Waite was, to a certain extent, pledged; and she was in a better position than she had been in the country with Percy Amherst, as the man to apply the match to the mine. 
               Waite wished her good-night, pressed her hand, and, with a few loving speeches, took his departure, promising to return on the morning of the next day. 
               And between hope and fear, Fanny returned to her sitting room to think over the events of the day. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               BITTERLY DISAPPOINTED. 
               LET us follow Fanny in her meditation in that quiet little apartment in the Clarendon. She felt that to a certain extent she had been bowled out by the unfortunate meeting on the steps of the hotel. She had escaped one danger only to encounter another; although she felt better able to cope with this last one than the former. 
               "It is very provoking," she said, "very. Fate seems to be against me. When he meets that fellow Fulham, which he has done by this time, it must come out, and then what will he do? Will he cut me, give me up altogether, or make me some sort of proposal which it is not my little game to accept? I should think he might; in fact, I should think this is exactly what he will do. He will say to himself, "Now I know what she is I need not go and marry her. What's the good?'" 
               Whilst Fanny was thus soliloquizing, occurrences were taking place outside the Clarendon which did not anger well for the success of her ambitious projects. Mr. Waite had found Fulham alone waiting for him on the steps; the other two men had gone away. 
               Fulham was waiting to see Waite, because he wished to pick a quarrel with him if he could; for although he had thrown Fanny over, he now felt sorry for his hastiness, and indeed he had written a letter asking her forgiveness, which he was unable to deliver, as she was out of town; and meeting her so abruptly with Waite, who was as rich, if not better off than himself, rather riled him. 
               Of course Waite was entirely ignorant of this feeling on the part of his quondam friend, although Fulham of course gave him credit for knowing perfectly well whose woman he had picked up. "At all events," he said, "he'll sink thirty thousand a year with her, if that's any consolation for him." 
               "S'poze! ought to congratulate you?" exclaimed Fulham, as Waite joined him. 
               "How on earth has he found it out, I wonder?" thought Mr. Waite. "Oh, perhaps he has met her out, and he thinks I shouldn't bring her to the Clarendon without we were rather thick." So he said: 
               "Thanks; you are very good, I'm sure." 
               "Not at all, my boy-not at all." rejoined Fulham, sarcastically; "you don't suppose I envy you?" 
               "What does he mean?" Mr. Waite said to himself, greatly perplexed. 
               "Eh!" he said, as waiting for an explanation or an answer to a difficult riddle. 
               "Only this," added Fulham, with a dry laugh, which he meant to be very cutting: "after one sucks an orange, one generally throws the skin away." 
               Mr. Waite was still more perplexed. He supposed that Fulham had some time before proposed to Miss White, and that she had refused him, and that he was now trying to insult the man he had seen her with evidently on friendly terms. "I will see," he thought, "whether they were previously acquainted, for I can't make head or tail of his manner to-night." 
               "I would have introduced you," he said, "only it was so late, and Miss White was so tired; but perhaps you have met her out?" 
               "Rather!" laughed Fulham in his turn, getting irritated. 
               "Miss White," began Mr. Waite. 
               "That's amusing, too. But if she chooses to call herself Miss White or Miss Black, it don't matter to me now." 
               "Look here!" cried Mr. Waite, "do you want to quarrel with me? because-" 
               'Oh! I'm game for a row, my dear fellow, if you are; so you needn't think you are going to bully me: only I shouldn't have thought you would be such a fool as to get up a shindy about her." 
               "He wouldn't-he couldn't talk to me like this, if he knew all. Perhaps I ought to tell him," thought Mr. Waite, "and then if he cheeks me again I'll just punch his head." 
               "Don't you know?" said Mr. Waite; "have you not guessed?-hang it!-why. I am going to marry Miss White." 
               "Marry Miss White!" burst out Fulham. 
                
               "Well, that licks everything. You can't be in earnest, though?" 
               "What do you mean?" he almost gasped. 
               "Well, nothing much, my dear fellow; but this I can swear; she consented to be Mrs. Fulham without any clerical business." 
               Could it be true? Yes, he had no reason to doubt it. This, then, explained all the mystery that had bovered over her, and which he had endeavored in vain to solve. What a narrow escape he had had! But it was too sudden. It was more than he could bear, and he leant against the wall as if he would faint; but by a great effort he recovered himself. He knew that without he said something to Fulham, the affair would be all ever New York by the next morning. 
               It would be a very fine joke, how Fulham's woman got hold of Waite, and nearly humbugged him into marrying her-a joke which he hardly would like to be perpetrated at his expense; so he turned it off by saying- 
               "Since you have relinquished all claims upon the lady in question, I suppose she may please herself; and when I said I meant to marry her,"-how the word stock in his throat!-"I used the word in rather an elastic sense." 
               "Well, there's certainly something up," thought Fulham; "I can't exactly tell what, though. But those fellows are expecting me at the club, so I must hook it." 
               No eloquence, no word-twisting could conceal from poor Shamrock Waite that he had been very unkindly treated by Fortune. His whole heart and soul were centered on Fanny. He could hope for no happiness without he possessed her; and just as he thought he held the one of happiness securely to his lips, it was dished down and smashed to atoms. Could he take her as she was? A thousand times he asked himself this question, and each time the answer was in the negative, and the melancholy conclusion he came to was, that he must give her up, and allow his heart to break. 
               But at length, thoroughly worn cut, he went to bed, and tried to snatch a few hours' rest. 
               So each, Fanny and her lover expestant, waited for the dawn. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               A FAIR PENITENT. 
               THE next morning, when Fanny was at breakfast, the waiter handed her a note, which she hastily tore open. It was, as she had feared, from Mr. Arthur Shamrock Waite. 
               "Mr. Arthur Shamrock Waite presents his compliments to Miss White, and from certain circumstances which have come to his knowledge-circumstances which Miss White will scarcely be at a loss to imagine-Mr. Waite regrets that he will he unable to keep the appointment he made last night, to call upon Miss White at the Clarendon. 
               "Mr. Waite begs that Miss White will forget the sentimental passages in her life which Mr. Waite, when entertaining certain delusive ideas, may, be hopes, be excused for having given rise to." 
               Fanny read this note carefully. She could easily master the contents of any letter in one perusal, and, strange to say, the thing which most arrested her attention was the address at the top. "At my rooms at Colegate's." She had expected just this sort of letter, and although chagrined, she was not surprised. The great consoling fact was, that he was in New York at Colegate's. He had not, as some men who knew her better than he did, would have done, started off for Washington, Richmond, or some other distant place. He had confiding in his own power and strength of mind, remained upon the field, which was probably to become one of battle. Had he gone away, leaving no clue as to his whereabouts-which, not being a profession man, he might easily have done-then would have, for the time being, been distinctly checkmated. His staying in New York inspired her with great hopes. 
                
               "He evidently," she argued, "loves me very dearly. Perhaps he is doing his best so break his stupid old heart this very moment. I have no doubt he hopes that he will be able to see me now and then. However, as things stand at present, desperate though they look, I don't altogether give it up. I think, by judicious management and time, I shall conquer. And there is one good thing about all this. He must have fawned all about me some time or other, and perhaps it is best he should know it at once. It will prevent all recriminations, which is at all times so unpleasant. I am not at all annoyed at his note. Of course he in a little shocked at first. The discovery was so abrupt, and perhaps not conveyed to him in the most delicate manner. Well, what I must do is very plain. Letter-writing is all bosh; I must see him, and quickly, too, before he goes out. There is nothing like striking while the iron is hot. I will dress myself at once." 
               Fanny had no difficulty in finding Colegate's. It was not her first visit there, and on asking for Mr. Shamrock Waite, the porter quickly directed her to his rooms. 
               A woman who acted as chambermaid opened the door. Fanny asked for Mr. Waite, and the woman said he was at breakfast, but she would go and see if he would admit any one. Fanny remained standing in the passage. Presently she heard a voice, whose tones she knew too well, say- 
               "Admit no one. I am engaged. I cannot see any ladies. Ask the lady to call again later." 
               Fanny knew very well that if she went away she would lose her only chance as doubtless, to avoid her persecution, Mr. Waite would lock up his rooms and leave tour; so with that promptness, energy and decision which were some of her most valued characteristics, she pushed aside the woman whom she encountered in the passage with her master's message on the tip of her tongue, and seeing the door of Mr. Waite's sitting-room open, she boldly entered. 
               Had an apparition appeared to him, Mr. Waite could scarcely have been more surprised than when he beheld Fanny standing on his carpet. 
               "What is the matter with you?" asked Fanny; "are you ill, or has my appearing so unexpectedly upset you?" 
               "Why, the fact is, my dear Miss White," he replied, "I wrote you a note." 
               "Which I have in my pocket," said Fanny: "there's your note, old fellow," and she drew it from her pocket, held it up a moment, so that he might recognise its superscription, and then threw it bodily into the fire. 
               This seemed to arouse Mr. Waite a little for he exclaimed- 
               "Having received that note, I am free to confess I am surprised at seeing you." 
               "After you are acquainted with me a little longer," she answered, "you will get accustomed to being astonished." 
               "But suppose I intend the acquaintance to be of very limited duration?" 
               "And suppose," said Fanny, elevating her eyebrows, "I intend just the contrary?" 
               "You cannot compel me to do what I don't like; at least I should think not." 
               "Oh! can't I we shall see. Why, my dear man, if I took it into my head, I'd never leave you; I'd follow you to the end of the world, I'd be your ruin, your curse." 
               Mr. Waite looked the astonishment he felt at this extraordinary speech, but that did not prevent him from smiling incredulously. 
               In a moment, however, the smile faded from his countenance, and advancing towards her he said, with a grave, almost compassionate sir- 
               "It is absurd to talk to me in this way; I am not a foolish boy." 
               Fanny made a movement as if she meant to interrupt him, but he prevented her by saying- 
               "Don't interrupt me, I beg of you. Our little affair lies in a very narrow compass. Will you permit me to recapitulate the thing as it happened? I do not wish unnecessarily to wound your feelings or touch your susceptibilities, but you must be good enough to bear in mind that you have forced this interview upon me, and I hope I do you no injustice when I say that you are, in my opinion, sufficiently a woman of the world to understand what I am going to say." 
               "You cannot deny that you engaged yourself to me," began Fanny, with some impetuosity, although her demeanor, while he had been speaking, had visibly changed. She seemed to feel that she had made a great mistake in talking to him as she had done. 
               In reply to her exclamation, he said, "I admit at once, most fully, that I did engage myself to you, but in any court of equity or of morals in the world our engagement would, I think, he looked upon as a conditional one. Now consider, suppose you had last night or this morning met some police-magistrate, and he had recognised you as a friend, and you had fallen into conversation, and he had said to you. "Do you know that the man who accompanied you to the Clarendon is a most accomplished ruffian, a thief of the first water, a ticket of-'" 
               "Oh!" cried Fanny, covering her face with her hands," "Oh, I do not deserve this! I do not love you now, I hate you; you are not a gentleman, to talk to me like this," and the tears-tears of rage and of mortification-streamed plentifully down her face as she moaned, "Oh! what have I done, what have I done to be spoken to like this?" 
               Mr. Waite walked up and down the room with his arms folded: he thought that in the excitement of the moment, and the keen disappointment he was laboring under, he had spoken too harshly. Fanny continued to sob as if her heart would break: and she really was much affected. To be reproached by the being we love is hard, and when the language is terse and crashing, it is still harder. 
               "If I have gone wrong, I am not a thief or a murderer," said Fanny, between her sobs, as if speaking to herself; "and I would be good for his sake." 
               "When a woman has once gone wrong," thought Mr. Waite, "one has no guarantee for her good conduct in future, especially is she is not over-religious." He could not, however, conceal from himself that he loved her, frail and sinful as he deemed her to be; he loved her, but he could hardly bring himself to think that he was justified is sacrificing all his brilliant prospects, all the happiness that lay in store for him, in order, as the slang is, to make an honest woman of the lovely weeping Aspasia who lay, as if were, overwhelmed with sorrow at his feet, more charming in her grief than ever he had formerly beheld her. 
               Fanny continued to sob, Mr. Waite would have been more than stoical, more than human, if he had not endeavored to afford some consolation. He approached her and said,- 
               "Do not cry so. Is there anything I can do for you? Tell me; will you not speak to me!" 
               Fanny's only reply to his adjuration was a hurst of tears, and when he repeated his inquiries, she only murmured, "Oh! yes, Leave me. Go away; oh! go away." 
               If she had been other than she was he would have been the first to have stayed her tears with kisses. How gladly would he have clasped her to his breast and fondly called her his own! There is something at once confusing and interesting about a weeping woman. He felt this; and he felt in addition that she was the woman he loved-all the discoveries in the world would not alter that fact. He loved her, and loved her dearly; but this morning he was smarting under a sense of deception-he thought that he had been tricked, and had very nearly plunged into an entanglement which would have brought him, in all probability (so he then thought) great and lasting misery. 
               "I would have loved him: oh! I would have loved him so fondly!" murmured Fanny, gently, but the words were not  upon the person for whom she intended them. Mr. Waite seemed to waver for a moment, he walked to the window and looked out, then he retraced his steps and gazed upon Fanny, who still sat upon the same chair with her body bent and her face upon her hands, over which her hair partially fell. The muscles of his face relaxed, and obeying an uncontrolable impulse, he fell on his knees by her side, and taking one of her hands in one of his, he endeavored to pull it away from her face. His effort was successful. She turned her tear-stained face towards him, and while she put back her hair with one hand, she made no effort to remove the other from his hold. But she said to him, with as much composure as she seemed able to summon to her aid- 
               "Let me alone, please. I shall be better presently. I will not trouble you much longer." 
               "Stay here as long as you like," he said, in a low voice, a little agitated. 
               "Oh! no," she replied, with a bitter smile. "I will go away-anywhere-away from New York-anywhere from you; for I cannot forget that I have loved you, and I should always cry if I met you." 
               "If you were anything else-How unfortunate we ever met!" he said, thoughtfully. 
               "If I were anything else I would not perhaps have met you. At least I should not have thought of marrying you," she replied, still bitterly. "I, too, wish we had never met. I was happy and light-hearted before I saw you." Here a fresh burst of tears put an end to her lamentations. 
               "I love you now," he said; "you little guess how much." 
               "Oh! no, you do not," answered Fanny, laughing incredulously through her tears, "you cannot love me, or you would not treat me like this. You never did love me." 
               "God knows how I loved you," he said, passionately; "to make you my wife was the wish of my heart-but what is the use of talking?" 
               "I would have done anything for you, Arthur," she exclaimed all at once wiping her pretty eyes, now red and swollen, with a tiny laced pocket-handkerchief. She called him Arthur, and he trembled at the gentle tone in which she pronounced his Christian name. "I would have died for you; I would have made you a far better, loving little wife than half the women, whose only recommendation is the negative one, that they are what an artificial state of society calls virtuous." 
               Mr. Waite rose from his recumbent position and stood up as if in great perplexity. Then, as if he had come to a sudden determination, though not without an inward struggle, he exclaimed: "Will you forgive me for having spoken too harshly just now? You must remember that I was speaking figuratively, and-that I did not intend to draw any analogy. You accused me of not loving you. Perhaps you will know some day how much I have loved you, and do love you now." 
               Fanny paid marked attention to what Mr. Waite was saying. She thought that he was about to say that he was about to say that he forgave her, and she felt a good deal disappointed when he continued: "I begin to think we hardly know one another well enough yet to confide our destinies to one another. Will you consent to an interregnum? Let us see how we feel and think towards each other at the and of six months." 
               Fanny, although she had defied society for a long time, was far from being bad-hearted and incapable of doing a fine action or perpetrating an act of self-denial. If she seldom exhibited those qualities it was because she had in her every-day life little occasion for them. She knew that, however foolish, however unfortunate it might be, she loved Arthur Waite,-loved him, too, with all the vehemence of a wild, untutored nature; for she had not been taught to command herself in any one particular. The pet of every one, every one was her slave. When Arthur Waite had been unkind to her, and had spoken cruelly, and with apparent indifference, if not disgust, to her, she had felt very forlorn, very crushed, and very broken. But now there was a chance of her regaining his esteem; his love, she felt, she had already secure enough. When she had said that she would do anything in the world for him, she had meant it, and she would have died for him. perhaps, if she had been hard put to it. But, notwithstanding all the strong current of warm and affectionate feeling setting in towards him, it was a noble effort which made her say: "Arthur, you shall not doubt my love. During the next six months you shall see that I am worthy of you. I will leave New York, and live quietly, very, very quietly, in the country, and then I will endeavor to make myself good and worthy to become your wife. Only say that there is some chance of your relenting; give me some hope in case you find me a little more deserving of so much happiness." 
               "This is good of you, this is more than I expected," said Mr. Waite. "But you must not bind me in any way. Do not ask me to make any promise. Leave me a free agent, having the power unfettered in any way to do as I choose." 
               "Dear Arthur," she answered, I will do anything you wish. Only tell me, and I will go through what to me will be great hardships to please you." 
               He was touched by her self-denial and her evident affection for him. He had not anticipated her proposal, but he accepted it with avidity. 
               "Dear Fanny," he said, attempting to kiss her, but she prevented him mildly, but firmly, saying: "No, Arthur! not now; only when I may honorably receive your caresses. A great change has taken place in me." 
               He did not attempt to expostulate with her; he turned the subject of the conversation, and said. "Where do you think of going, then, and when!" 
               "I would go to-day," she replied, "but I have no place to go to. I must find one. I cannot go to Yonkers, the associations are too painful." This with a sad smile. 
               "Ought they not to be pleasant?" he asked. 
               "Cela depend," replied Fanny, archly, recovering her former manner a little, though very grave still. 
               "I have a cousin who is a clergyman as Kinderhook," said Mr. Waite, after a moment's consideration. "I could give you a letter of introduction, and he might be given to understand, without any deviation from the truth, that you are an invalid wishing for country air, rest, and seclusion for a few months. What do you think?" 
               "No, that will hardly do," Fanny replied. "Your cousin would be introducing me in the neighborhood, and you know I really mean to be good and quiet for your sake. You remember Jacob served seven years-wasn't it-for his love, and I am only a poor little woman, so I serve seven months for mine." 
               Mr. Waite smiled, and said: "You totally mistake my cousin; he is a sort of saint; he never goes into society; he knows very few people there, and devotes all his time in doing good." 
               It was ultimately arranged that Fanny should go to Kinderhook for some months, and that at the expiration of that time they should meet again, although Mr. Waite would net pledge himself to any decided course of action. 
               To go into the country during the height of the season showed such a revulsion of feeling in Fanny that it cannot be doubted for a moment that she was really in love with Mr. Waite. It was a great sacrifice on her part, for the pomps and vanities of the world are generally omnipotent with women. 
               She parted with Arthur in a friendly but not a lover-like way, he giving her a letter to his cousin, and she on her part promising to keep her resolution to do nothing which would make her unworthy the man she loved. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               IN THE COUNTRY. 
               FANNY did not allow her resolution so cool after the exciting interview she had with Mr. Waite. She felt that her whole existence was bound up in that man. Without him life would be blank and desolate and although she was not able to consummate her wishes at once, he had held out a prospect which was not altogether vague and shadowy. So she went up to Kinderhook with a light heart and a spirit full of hopefulness. 
               As Mrs. Fully's was the first cottage which met Fanny's view when she entered the village, she stopped the carriage, and getting out, opened the gate which led through the garden, and reaching the door, tapped gently upon it. Mrs. Fully was employed in washing, and when she heard a knock, she ran to the window to lock out. If she had had any children she would have delegated the mission to them, but her three children had all died in their infancy. When she discovered that her visitor was a fine lady, she hardly knew what to think; but at last, Mrs. Fully, like most poor country people, when visited by the ladies of the squirearchy, came to the conclusion that she was about to be preached to, and read to, and prayed with, and presented with money and a few matters of grocery. With this impression, she opened the door, and asked Fanny to enter. The cottage was poor but clean, and there was nothing poverty-stricken in its appearance. The floor was paved with bricks, and the front room, into which the door opened, was evidently the kitchen; for a wide fire-place and an old-fashioned range precluded all doubt the matter. Arrayed on shelves in the window, placed one above the other, were bottles containing the most approved descriptions of sugar-plums, with here and there a bottle of lemonade or ginger-beer. Chairs, a table, and a plate-rack placed against the wall, completed the picture. Mrs. Fully endeavored to impress Fanny with her delight at having so distinguished a guest, but she cut the good woman short, by saying. "I want to stay in this village for a few weeks for my health, perhaps longer; can you tell me, my good woman, if any of your neighbors let lodgings?" 
               Mrs. Fully surmised that there was the smith but, for his place wouldn't be good enough for Fanny. But Fanny hastened to assure her that she wanted something very homely and simple; anything would do for her, provided it were clean and respectable. An idea came into Mrs. Fully's head, that if the lady were to become the spoil of the village, it would be as well that the spoliation were done by herself. So she said: "Begging your pardon, Miss, but would my poor place be good enough for you? Since my children died, there has been a room as no one has used; we, that is, my old man and myself, could use that, and give you the best room, which we sleep in now, and which looks into our bit of garden-ground; we have a flower or two in it, and it smells powerfully sweet o' mornings." 
               Fanny assured Mrs. Fully that it was just what she did want, and requested to be shown upstairs. The room pleased her; it was plainly papered, but it did not look shabby. It bad two windows, which looked over a wide expanse of country, and a good view was a great desideratum with Fanny, so she at once agreed to take the room, and pulling out her purse, she gave Mrs. Fully twenty-five dollars saying, "That will, I suppose, pay my first month's rent." Mrs. Fully thought it would pay her own for an entire year; however, she took it, and curtsied, and thought the Fates had sent her a goddess. 
               "I cannot, you know, Mrs. --" 
               "Fully, ma'am." 
               "Mrs. Fully, I cannot use the old traps you have at present in your room; but I will purchase a few little things which I will have sent over and arranged before night. I shall sleep to-night at the hotel, and tomorrow morning I will come and take possession of my new tenement. I shall expect you, remember, to take in and arrange what I send. My name is White, Miss White. Good morning, Mrs. Fully," 
               She found a furniture shop, and bought a carpet, a wardrobe, some chairs, a chest of drawers, and all the different things which a bedroom requires before it can be pronounced to be habitable, and ordered them to be sent to Mrs. Fully's. This done, she returned to her inn, and after tea, retired to rest. The next day she took her luggage to Mrs. Fully's, and finding everything arranged to her satisfaction, even to the pink curtains around the window, she definitively took up her abode there. Indeed, the carpet, the handsome bedstead, the marble washstand, and the round mahogony table, so changed the aspect of the apartment, that Fanny could almost fancy herself in New York. Instead of smoking chimneys and interminable houses, however, she saw nothing but a lovely and extensive champaigne country, whilst a beautiful garden stretched itself for some little distance immediately under her window, filled with flowers, which, if not exotic and costly, were charming, redolent of perfume, and particolored as a rainbow. Fanny arranged with Mrs. Fully that she should have her breakfast brought up at nine o'clock every morning, and that she would, before she went out, order her dinner, and say what time she would dine;-that Mrs. Fully was to go to market for her, and be her cook. All these details being satisfactorily settled, Fanny, putting on a shepherdess's straw hat, not ornamented with a pheasant's wing, but circled with an ivy wreath, and dressing herself in a light muslin dress, walked out to explore the country. She was the object of much wonder and astonishment to the natives, and gave rise to a good deal of speculation among them. In her progress up the village street, she conciliated some of the juveniles who were disporting themselves in the gutter, by patting them on the head, and asking them their names, and then giving them sundry coins to buy sweetmeats with; and she even got into conversation with some old women, who were pleased with the attention she paid the children. She told them she had come up to enjoy the country, and use the fresh air for the benefit of her health; and she was told in return, that there were many lovely walks in the neighborhood; and acting on their advice, she turned to the left when she got to the top of the village, and made for a spot about a mile distant, called Ingledell, which she was assured was well worth seeing. She carried a book in her hand, and promised herself a quiet read when she got to the dell. Everything had been done so suddenly by Fanny, that she had had as yet little time to think about Mr. Waite's letter of introduction, but she was averse to making any use of it; she wished to be quiet, and to meditate; she felt that she was performing a penance, and if she had some one to talk to, the penance would not be so great, and she wished to prove herself worthy of Arthur Waite. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               FANNY STUNG BY AN ADDER. 
               FANNY pursued her walk for some little time, enchanted with everything that met her view. It was the merry month of May. The sun was sufficiently powerful to be pleasant, but not oppressive. All nature seemed to be awakening from a long lethargy, and like a giant bursting into life with renewed and irresistible vigor. Butterflies of varied hues fluttered about in the fresh and balmy air, looking like fairy spirits on the wing to a better world. Cowslips and daisies cropped up under her feet, and blue bells shone in the sunlight. Altogether it was a charming scene, and Fanny enjoyed it very much. She even went so far as to gather what the good people about there would have called a posy. She gathered buttercups and all the little simple country flowers, and placed them together . It only required a few bluebells to complete her posy. These she espied growing on a bank a little ahead of her. This bank received the full heat of the sun, and the bluebells had grown large and beautiful. Fanny stooped down and plucked a few, but seeing some more in amongst some thorns, she pulled up the sleeves of her dress, and plunged her hand into the thicket. What was her surprise and  to find something cold and clammy  hold of and cling to her hand, and  twine its body round her arm!  could not doubt it was a snake. dreadful adventure for her to have met with! She was ready to sink to the ground with fear, for snakes were her terror and aversion. She shrieked aloud: not tiny feminine shrieks, but good hearty ones, such as a female in distress has a right to make. An instinctive feeling made her draw her hand away from the bush, but the snake still clung to her. As yet it had not bitten her, but it might at any moment. Her shrieks redoubled; she made an effort to fling the reptile from her; she could not bear it any longer; but this movement was fatal to her. The snake bit her severely just above the wrist, and then, unable to maintain his hold, fell glittering in the sun some yards off amongst the grass. 
               Unexpected succor was, however, at hand. A young man who had been botanizing and pursuing the study of entomology in the adjoining field, had leaped over a stile which divided him from the place where the sound came from, and had arrived on the scene in time to see what had happened. He held a stick in his hand. Marking where the snake fell, he ran forward, and before the venomous beast could regain his hole, he despatched him with a few vigorous blows, tying the yet quivering body in a knot round his stick. The stranger advanced towards Fanny, who was standing in an attitude of despair, looking with tears in her eyes upon her wound, out of which issued small streams of blood. 
               "Pardon my speaking abruptly, even rudely," exclaimed the young man who had killed the snake. "I will talk to you afterwards. I think I have arrived in time to do you a service. Are you bitten-yes, I see you are. See here; the beast is an adder. They are somewhat poisonous; but if you will trust yourself in my hands for a moment, I will undertake to cure you." 
               The calm and confident, though somewhat hurried tone in which he spoke, reassured Fanny, who was too frightened to speak. 
               "Will you give me your arm?" he asked. 
               Fanny held out her arm, and the stranger took hold of her hand and said, "Do not be alarmed at what I am going to do: I will not hurt you." 
               He then put his lips to the wound, which was becoming a little puffed and swollen, and sucked at it vigorously, as if to get all the venom he could out of it. Having done this sufficiently, he took a handkerchief from his pocket and tied it very tightly round her arm an inch or so above the wound, saying: "There is nothing to be frightened at. I will cure you. I have often done it before, when the affair was more serious than yours is. I have taken yours in time. Sit down on the grass for a minute or two if you feel faint; I have not quite finished my doctoring." 
               Fanny did as she was told, and watched her youthful physician's operations with astonishment. He seated himself on the grass near her, and untying the adder from his stick, laid it on the grass beside him; he then took a knife out of his pocket, and cut open the snake's belly, out of which he extracted some warm, yellow-looking fat. This, with the greatest care, he applied to and rubbed into the wound, and also anointed the rest of her arm with the same substance. 
               "Now," he exclaimed, triumphantly, 'you are all right; but had not these precautions been taken, you might have been seriously ill. I don't say for an instant that the bite of an adder to an adult is a matter of life and death, ending more frequently in the latter; but this I do say, that if the blood of the sufferer is not in a good healthy state, the effects of such a bite will be very much felt, and may in the course of some months bring the victim to a premature grave. Children, it is a well-known fact, often die from the bite of the common adder; but you have nothing to fear." 
               Fanny, weak as she was from the effects of the bite and the shock she had suffered, thanked him very warmly for his timely assistance. 
               "I am afraid," she added, "I must ask you to do me a further kindness. I feel so faint and ill, that I shall be so much obliged if you will lend me your arm as far as the village." 
               "Are you an inhabitant of Kinderhook?" he asked. 
               "Yes, for the time being," she replied. 
               "Oh, indeed; I only asked because I live there, too, and-" 
               He paused, thinking all at once how rude his inquiries were. 
               "And you had not as yet had the pleasure of seeing my face," supplied Fanny, with a smile. "You see I can divine people's thoughts." 
               The stranger looked confused, but made no reply. 
               "I may tell you," said Fanny, "that I only arrived here yesterday." 
               "Oh, I see," he cried, "you have friends in the neighborhood?" 
               "No, I have not. I know no one. I am simply in lodgings at Mrs. Fully's." 
               The young man looked very much surprised, but he made no reply. 
               "It is true I have a letter of introduction," said Fanny, "to the rector of the parish; but as I have come here for seclusion, I do not think I shall make use of it." 
               "What is his name?" he asked. 
               "Well, really, I forget," said Fanny. "I should remember, I think, if I heard it." 
               "Was it Everingham?" he asked. 
               "Yes, it was," answered Fanny. "I remember now, it was Everingham." 
               "That is my name," said he, turning round and looking her full in the face. 
               Up to this time Fanny had not had a good opportunity of looking at her new acquaintance, but now she found that he was a good-looking young man, with black hair inclined to curl a little, with singularly dark piercing eyes, regular features, though his face was pale, not at all inclined to make "adipose tissue," rather the reverse. His, however, was a wiry, muscular frame, apparently capable of great exertion. The expression of his face was earnest and sombre. He looked like a man who could not only conceive a good work, but carry it through; and these are the really valuable men in a state, whether they work at the bar, in a hospital, or in God's vineyard. There was something very taking about Mr. Everingham, You felt drawn towards him at once. You could see, in the play of those honest but expressive features, every good feeling which men can cherish. 
               Altogether Fanny was very much pleased. She had not cared much for persons up to this time, and she could not doubt that Mr. Everingham was one; for even if Mr. Waite had not told her his cousin was a parson, the high-buttoned waistcoat which he wore, just concealing the snowy whiteness of his tie, would have made the fact patent very quickly. 
               "We meet in an odd way," said Fanny. 
               "Yes, our meeting is a little strange," he replied, "but I really do think my coming up at that moment-I mean just when the snake had bitten you-was a special interposition of Providence in your behalf. I do not often come out into the fields, I cannot afford the time, but I am passionately fond of botany, and I have a famous collection of insects, so I sometimes steal an hour or two from my professional duties and come out here away to see what I can not. I was in pursuit of a rather rare moth when I heard you scream." 
               "I hope you did not lose your moth!" exclaimed Fanny. 
               "Oh, it does not matter, I can get plenty more now the summer is coming on, though with my schools, and Bible and sowing-classes, and one thing and another, I find my time pretty well occupied." 
               "You must be very good," said Fanny; "indeed, Mr. Waite told me you were a saint." 
               "Arthur is a good boy," he replied. "You must let me call upon you for his letter; I could not think of troubling you to come up to the Rectory." 
               "You may call if you like, but I have no place to receive you in." 
               "Ah! that is awkward. I forgot. Well, if you would not mind, will you pay me a visit?" 
               "Yes," replied Fanny, smiling. 
               Fanny began to feel a little faint, and she was not sorry when they reached Mrs. Fully's. Then Mr. Everingham left her, saying, "he was always in up to eleven, if she would be so very good as to look in upon him some morning." This she promised to do, and he went on his way rejoicing that he had made so agreeable an acquaintance. 
               After partaking slightly of the dinner Mrs. Fully had prepared for her, Fanny felt herself getting extremely feverish; so, at her desire, Mrs. Fully despatched one of the village boys for the doctor, and until he arrived Fanny thought it would be best to go to bed. This she did, and when the doctor arrived he found his patient suffering slightly from the ill effects of the serpent's bite. Her arm was swollen, and she was feverish, hot, and thirsty. He, however, saw no reason for alarm and having prescribed for her, he said: It is nothing; don't be alarmed; you had better, however, stay in bed till you see me to-morrow. I will come early." Fanny passed the rest of the day in bed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               VILLAGE CHIMES. 
               THE next day passed without Fanny's paying the promised visit to the Rectory-her illness was a sufficient excuse; but towards twelve o'clock Mr. Everingham called and left his card, saying he was glad to hear she was better. She was gratified by this little mark of attention, and the card with the name of Alcide Everingham was allowed to remain upon her dressing-table. When the doctor came he said she might get up. The fever had subsided, and the swelling was hardly perceptible; for, thanks to the vigorous sucking Mr. Everingham had given the wound, the virus had been thoroughly extracted. The doctor recommended her to avoid excitement for a day or two, and promised, as the next day was Sunday, to look in again on Monday. 
               On Sunday morning Fanny was thinking of a ramble in the fields. She had hardly courage enough to go to church; besides, it was so thoroughly antagonistic to her previous habits, that she thought she had better wait a week or two. And yet she could not conceal from herself that she should like to hear Mr. Everingham preach. While she was in this state of uncertainty, the bells of the church began their matutinal melody. Fanny could not resist the fascination of those bells; they seemed to be calling her, and she obeyed the call. Putting on her bonnet and shawl, she went down-stairs to Mrs. Fully, and asked her if she would show her the way to church. Mr. Fully was at home, and he at once volunteered, for his wife was one of the stay-at-houses, owing to the exigencies of the kitchen; for, as Mr. Fully would often observe, "Parsoning and preaching and all that be good, but dang me if a bit o' dinner beant good too." 
               So Fanny walked up the street by the side of Mr. Fully, and made herself very agreeable to that gentleman; and his neighbors looked on and wondered, and envied, and thought what an amazing slice of luck "that there Fully has got, to be sure." 
               When Fanny entered the old-fashioned church all eyes were directed towards her, but she was not exactly the woman to be frightened at any one's scrutiny, and this sort of ocular demonstration pleased her She hesitated a moment at the entrance until the sexton came up, and asking her to follow him, showed her into the rectory pew. This served to excite astonishment anew, but Fanny could not doubt that she was indebted to the delicacy and kindness of Mr. Everingham for this little act of attention. 
               By some extraordinary coincidence the text Mr. Everingham selected as the one to discourse on was that about the first stone and being without sin, and the beautiful way in which he expounded it touched Fanny to the heart. He talked about the force of circumstances, and the force of example, and the cruelty of the world, and what desperation will drive people to, and how those particularly to whom Providence had given abundance of the good things of this world should be the last to be censorious rious, for their temptations were few in comparison with those who were penniless and in want. 
               After the service was over, Mr. Everingham sent the sexton with a message to Fanny, to say that he would esteem it a pleasure if she would lunch at the rectory; there would only be a few friends, people living in the neighborhood; but Fanny respectfully yet firmly declined, alleging as an excuse that she was still too ill to go into society. 
               The next day she paid Mr. Everingham a visit at the rectory, and handed him his cousin's note, saying, with a smile. 
               "These are my credentials; it is rather strange for a lady to bring an introduction from a man, but your cousin and myself are friends of long standing." 
               Mr. Everingham took the note and read it, and said, 
               "Waite tells me you are in bad health, and that you came here in quest of solitude." 
               "Yes," replied Fanny, "and for that very reason, I suppose, you asked me yesterday to meet all those people." 
               "But then, you know, I was hardly aware," he said, "that you intended to be quite a recluse." 
               "Indeed, but I do intend," Fanny answered, gravely enough. 
               "Well, in that case, Miss White, we will do our best to leave you alone; but if a simple country parson may pay a lady a compliment, I will say it is a shame that so much beauty and so many accomplishments, as I dare say you possess, should be buried, absolutely buried, in a dull old place like this." 
               "If you admire the beauty so much," said Fanny, with a dash of her old impudence. "I don't mind indulging you occasionally with a sight of it, but to every one else I shall wear the thickest Maltese veil I have got." 
               "You should not be personal," he replied, laughing, "you will make me blush; I always was modest; at all events, I hope you will find me a good neighbor; and now we know one another a little, having, as it were, broken the ice, I trust you will make the rectory your own; any room you like to set apart to read, or write, or work in, shall be yours, and religiously preserved as such. I have no one here but an old housekeeper, who makes my preserves and mends my linen, and all that, so you will have no one to molest you." 
               Fanny thanked him, and said she would take advantage of his kind offer if she found that the room she had in the village was not big enough for her. 
               "In the meantime, if you like to look over the village I should be proud of your company for an hour or so, for I am about to make my rounds; will you come?" 
               Having nothing else to do, and fearing, above all things, that the time might hang heavily upon her hands, Fanny gladly accepted the invitation, and she made the tour of the village in his society. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               MR. EVERINGHAM OFFERS HIS HAND TO FANNY. 
               FANNY soon became a constant visitor at the Rectory, and she could not conceal from herself the fact that Mr. Everingham was becoming warmly interested in her. She had now been an inhabitant of Kinderhook for nearly a month, but she had not as yet felt ennuyed. She began to take an interest in religion, and listened attentively to Mr. Everingham, who was only too glad to be allowed to talk to her. 
               Mr. Everingham, like hundreds of other and more experienced men, had fallen a victim to Fanny's charms, and he felt that if he did not succeed in winning her, he should be a miserable man for the rest of his life; but weeks glided on without his daring to make known his passion, and Fanny had been two months at Kinderhook before he ventured to do so. 
               Latterly, Fanny's manner had changed a good deal; she had, under Mr. Everingham's tuition and guidance, become religious. Her dormant conscientiousness was at last awakened, and she was a very ardent laborer in the vineyard. She would pray with poor people who were sick, and would visit them in the place of Mr. Everingham; and she had set up a cabinet in which to make a collection af butterflies and moths, in which pursuit there arose quite a rivalry between her and Mr. Everingham. He taught her the names of all sorts of insects, and the names and properties of flowers, and she had even gone so far as to make a small cask of cowslip wine, in conjunction with the old house-keeper, with whom Fanny was quite a favorite. But a still greater event than all had just taken place; Fanny had received her first communion, and it seemed to place such a wide gulf between her and her former life, she felt a different being, and she experienced so much quiet real happiness, that she was beside herself with joy. 
               Mr. Everingham was walking with Fanny along a shady lane which led down to the turnpike-road. 
               "These trees are so shady," exclaimed Fanny, "I think I shall put down my parasol." 
               "Let me carry it; may I?" said Mr. Everingham. 
               Fanny gave it to him, and said-"Shall we rest here a little while? there is a nice cool place near that gate; what do you say?" 
               He at once assented, and pulled a bottle of ginger beer from his coat pocket; "There," he exclaimed, "you see I have not forgotten you." 
               "Oh! how nice," sain Fanny. "This is very kind of you. It is just what I was longing for; I am so thirsty." 
               "How easily I seem to have settled down to this sort of life," observed Fanny, sedately, "I shall be quite sorry to leave dear Kinderhook." 
               "Leave it!" cried Mr. Everingham, "do you really intend to leave it? But, of course; I had forgotten you only came here for a few months; I wish I had sufficient power and authority over you to keep you here for ever." 
               "Do you?" asked Fanny. "Nothing but very powerful reasons would induce me to quit it." 
               "Can you find no attractions here," he asked, rather pettishly, "without going to New York for them?" 
               "There is every attraction for me," replied Fanny. "I am so altered now, that I could live here very, very happily, I think, to the end of my days." 
               "Will you let me speak to you," asked Mr. Everingham, nervously, "and tell you something that has been laying heavily on my mind for some time past?" 
               "Oh, yes, by all means," she replied. 
               "Well, it is not a long story; it won't take me long to tell; it is only this, Miss White, I-it must come out-I love you." 
               "God forbid," exclaimed Fanny, "that you should love me me! Oh! I did not think this. If I had expected it, I would have run away; oh! this is cruel! What can I do for you? You are so good. It will break your heart." 
               Mr. Everingham was quite upset at this outburst; he did not know what to make of it exactly, but he concluded that it foreboded something unfavorable to his suit, so he remained silent, waiting for her to explain her meaning. 
               With tears in her eyes, Fanny said to him, laying her hand on his arm- 
               "My dear, good fellow, I love another; I would give anything in the world were it not so, for your sake." 
               Mr. Everingham's voice was broken, as he seized her hand, and squeezing it lightly, said- 
               "Don't say a word; not one word. Forget that I spoke to you. Forget what has passed. God is good, and he will give me strength." 
               Here he broke down altogether, and burying his face in his hands, wept bitterly. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               MR. WAITE WRITES A LETTER. 
               FANNY remained at Kinderhook, passing her time very much during the third month as she had done in the two preceding ones. A sort of brotherly feeling had sprung up in Mr. Everingham's heart, and Fanny loved him cordially with the love of a sister. Fanny's piety became more and more confirmed, and the whole village learnt to love and respect her. She came in time to be regarded as a ministering angle. At the end of the third month the post brought a letter, the contents of which astonished her not a little. It ran thus: 
               "Reports have reached me from time to time about the way in which you pass your time at Kinderhook. At the risk of breaking our mutual compact, which you will. I believe, agree with me were better ended at once, I must say that the way in which you have trifled with the feelings of my poor, honest, unsophisticated cousin has very much pained me; and I am convinced that a woman who can act with such levity and heartlessness will never make a wife that a man can honor and respect. I beg that you will, therefore, consider everything broken off between us. 
               "From A. S. Waite to Miss White." 
               This letter was a heavy shock to Fanny. She had tried to be good for his sake. She had given up everything for his sake,' and now he threw her over, and for the commission of an imaginary fault. She knelt down by the side of her bed and prayed for strength to bear this great disappointment, even as Mr. Everingham had done formerly. At last her cross had come, and she took it up bravely. She made up her mind to live at Kinderhook for the rest of her life, and to pass that life in doing good to the poor and helpless, the widow and the orphan. And now that she was going to be all her life in Mr. Everingham's society, she felt it her duty to let him know more of her private history than she had hitherto done. She would not sail under false colors, as she had done formerly. So she went up to the rectory, and sought the parson in his study. 
               "Will you come for a walk!" she said. 
               "With pleasure," he replied; "I have just finished my sermon for to-morrow, and as I am a little fagged, there is nothing that I should like better. We will start at once. Where would you like to go?" 
               "Come to Linden Grove," said Fanny, "you once told me something there, and now I want to tell you something." 
               Wondering what she had to tell him,-she looked so serious,-he put on his hat, and they walked down the lane, talking about different subjects until they arrived at the gate where Mr. Everingham had made his declaration of love. 
               "Now," he exclaimed when they were seated. "Is it to be a confession? you look so grave." 
               "Yes, it is," answered poor Fanny, trembling at her task of self-immolation "I have, you must know been very wicked once; but now I am penitent, and want to tell you all, because as we are a good deal together it is only right that we should know all about one another. But you must promise me one thing; you will not hate me and drive me away from you." 
               "How can you think of such a thing?" he replied, feelingly. 
               "Oh! how can I tell you?" exclaimed Fanny, all at once, in great trouble. "No; if you cannot guess. I would rather die than tell you, and yet you ought to know. I cannot be really good without I tell you. Oh, how hard it is to be good!" 
               "My dear child," he said, in a calm, low voice, "I know all; I know what you mean, and I love you all the more for your magnanimity in seeking this interview." 
               "You know?" she cried; "and do you not hate me? do you not shrink from me? you who are so good, and have always been so good." 
               "I will always protect you and love you," he replied. 
               "How did you--?" she began, but she did not like to finish the question. 
               He knew what she meant, and he took a letter from his pocket, which he gave her to read. It was from Arthur Waite to his cousin, and the greater part of it was about Fanny. It said: "I would advise you to beware of Miss White if, as I hear, you are smitten in that quarter. She is not everything she should be; and I now regret ever having brought you together. I write this because you are too good to be taken in by a woman who has had as many affairs of the kind of her own as you are years old." 
               When Fanny had finished reading this heartlessly cruel epistle, she leant back against the gate of the field, quite overcome. It was too much to hear. She could have out up with the insults of a stranger, but it was too much to ask her to receive the unkindness of the man upon whom her whole soul was centred, and not feel the blow. 
               "Oh!" she moaned, "and I loved this man-I loved him. Oh! I wish I were dead. Why did I ever meet him? I was happy before. I did not know I had a heart before I saw him. It was all sealed up; and he has made me love him, only to bring out all my good feelings, and then to crush them and break my heart. Oh! it is not manly; it is too bad. I wish I were dead-I wish I were dead." And poor Fanny wrung her hands in agony. 
               "Dear Fanny," said Mr. Everingham, "I may call you Fanny now, in this your great sorrow. Do not think that you have lost all your friends. I love you, I always shall love you; if I can never be more than a brother to you. I will always love and adore you; you shall never want a friend while I live." 
               But Fanny was not to be comforted; the iron had entered her soul, and she continued to sigh and mean piteously. 
               "Poor child!" muttered Mr. Everingham to himself, "it is very hard on her; I know what I have suffered for her sake. Yes, it is very hard. Poor child! poor child! Arthur is a brute to have done this; I do not know all, but I can guess a good deal; he is decidedly a brute, and I shall write and tell him so." 
               Fanny at last cried herself out, and became a little composed, and listened to Mr. Everingham's exhortations. "Since you do not hate me," she said, "I will live here, although the temptation to be bad again is very great." 
               Mr. Everingham talked very gravely to Fanny about this temptation; he told her it was only meant to try her faith, and if she had confidence in Providence, all that now appeared dark and gloomy would clear up and become bright and sunshiny, and most likely this great, this cruel blow would turn out, after all, for her good. Indeed, he himself had no moral doubt that it would be so. 
               At last, Fanny agreed to renounce the pomps and vanities of the world, and to live at Kinderhook as she had done before, but she declared her determination of remaining single 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               A HOPELESS SUIT. 
               MR. Everingham began to hope that Fanny might change her mind now that his cousin had thrown her over, but whenever he spoke to her about her future prospects, she shook her head sadly, and replied, "No, my friend, I cannot forget, if he can." 
               But as the days multiplied themselves into weeks, and the weeks became months, she recovered her former vivacity, although she still remained as earnest in her spiritual devotions as before. She was constant in her attendance at church, and it is not saying too much to declare that she was Mr. Everingham's right hand. He would have been lost without her. They called one another now by their Christian names. His devotion to her was sincere and honest, and he only lamented that she should still care for a man who had so grossly hurt her feelings, and who had behaved so badly to her in every way. "Has she not," he would say to himself, "has she not endeavored to make herself worthy of him by living a life of piety, seclusion and prayer! Has she not tried to blot out her former life, and make herself as pure as the angels? Who is he that he shall set himself up in judgment against her?" 
               Fanny could not help seeing that Mr. Everingham still loved her truly and fondly, but she gave him little or no encouragement. 
               "I know," she said, 'that there is no chance of my ever becoming Arthur's wife; yet I love him, and it would be sacrilege to shrine another in my heart,-to allow another to ever occupy the niche which has been occupied by him alone. Alcide loves me so devotedly that I wish I could make him some return, but I do not feel that I can." 
               Mr. Everingham saw, or fancied he saw, that Fanny was kind to him and endeavored to smoothe the way which her refusal had made so difficult of traverse, and with the sanguineness of lovers he began to hope. He was unremitting in his attentions, and he did all he could to win her recalcitrant heart. 
               Six months had elapsed since Fanny first became a denizen of Kinderhook, three months of which had been passed in dreamy happiness; she had had a hard struggle, but she had conquered, and was fast recovering her serenity and peace of mind. 
               Mr. Everingham considered that this was a good time to mention his suit, and if she favored his appeal, to press it. 
               It was the end of autumn; there were no pleasant smiling fields to wander through; the trees were stripped of their foliage, and the leaves lay withering in their death-agonies upon the grass, which already began to assume a wintry tint. The sun had lost its accustomed power, and all nature was evidently putting on its winter garb. Mr. Everingham's favorite amusement was to take Fanny to an aged walnut tree in the rectory garden, and seating her on a bench, to ramble about in quest of walnuts, which he would break up and present her with. 
               They were thus employed one morning, about twelve o'clock, when she exclaimed- 
               "Don't break any more for me, Alcide; I have a lapful here, come and have some yourself." 
               "I wish I could say, what's the husband's is the wife's," he replied, seating himself by her side. 
               "Oh, fancy! making love and eating walnuts, how unromantic!" cried Fanny, laughing. 
               "I am in earnest, Fanny," he said, so-dately; and he looked as if he were hurt at her levity. 
               "Well, then," she said, putting her hand into his, "I won't laugh; I am very sorry." 
               "I wish, dear Fanny, you would let me call you my own," he said, very tenderly. 
               Fanny turned her face away from him, and affected not to understand his meaning. 
               "Will you, my more than angel?" 
               "That is not right," she replied; "you know I am not an angel, and that I never was; I may be beautiful, and I don't wonder at your loving me; hundreds of men strong as you, have worshipped me; but you, my dear Alcide, love me fondly and devotedly, and I am not worthy of you,-indeed, indeed I am not; besides, I am your own already, Alcide; I am your own pretty little sister; you have often called me so, why not let me remain so." 
               He shook his head at this, and said, "No, darling, we cannot live like this; if you cannot let me call you something more than sister, I must go away from here, I cannot live on with my hopeless passion consuming me. You don't know how wrapt up I am in you. You are my dream. Waking and sleeping, your image is fixed so firmly on the retina of my eyes that I can see nothing else. When I think there is a chance of losing you I become frantic-I am not myself. If you would give me some hope--Say, dear Fanny, that you will try to love me, will you? You do not know how I hang on your answer." 
               "Alcide," replied Fanny, laying her hard on his shoulder. "I will try to love you; I do not know whether I shall succeed, but I will pray that it may be so. If, at the end of three months, I find that I can swear to love, honor, and obey you-the two latter I could always do-I will be your wife." 
               "Oh! Fanny, how can I thank you?" was all he could say, but he seized her hand and kissed it rapturously. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               TIT FOR TAT. 
               SOME days after this occurrence, when Fanny was at the rectory, busily helping Mrs. Wade, the old housekeeper, to make damson cheese, a servant brought her a card, and said. "The gentleman wishes very much to see you, ma'am." Fanny, wondering who on earth could wish to see her, picked up the card and looked at it. Was she mad? was she bewitched? or did she really see on that little piece of paste-board the name of the man who had wronged her, who had slighted her, who had put her to shame? Yes, there it was, in black and white-"Arthur Shamrock Waite." The room seemed to swim before her eyes, and she would have fallen had not Mrs. Wade caught her in her arms. 
               "Lord ha mussy!" exclaimed Mrs. Wade, "what is the matter with her?" 
               Fanny sat down in a chair, and presently recovered herself. It was only the surprise-the suddenness of the thing which had taken her a little aback at first. She soon got over it. 
               "Shall I see him?" she asked herself. "What shall I do? Oh! this is indeed a trial. What can I do?" 
               At this moment Mr. Everingham entered the room. His manner was strange; his dress disordered. 
               "My  is here," he exclaimed, excitedly. 
               "Yes, I know it," replied Fanny; he has sent me had card and wishes to see me." 
               "Shall you go!" he asked, intensely excited. You-" 
               Here he broke off, muttering to himself, "No use; I will not try to influence her in any way. She must please herself. Oh God, this is hard!" 
               "I will see him," replied Fanny, after a moment's consideration and rising from the chair she left the room. 
               Mr. Everingham followed her with his eyes till she left the room. Then he walked up and down like a tiger in his den when he is about to . Every now had then a great sob broke in his throat and threatened to choke him. 
               Fanny went with a steady step, but with a strange light in her eyes, to the room in which Mr. Waite was awaiting her. 
               He was standing gazing out of the window when she entered, but at the noise of her entry he quickly turned round, and bowing respectfully, held out his hand, but Fanny kept hers immovably by her side. 
               "I have many apologies to make," he said, "for intruding upon your privacy in this way, Miss White." 
               "Yes, you have," replied Fanny, resolutely, putting-aside all those considerations with which people usually disguise their real sentiments. 
               This firmness of demeanor astonished him a good deal, but he went on: "I have to apologize for a still more serious offense than taking you by surprise." 
               "I can see," said Fanny, with some impetuosity, "what you mean, Mr. Waite. But let me tell you that a heap of excuses as big as the White Mountain would not palliate your conduct." 
               "I was vain enough," he answered, "to hope the contrary." 
               "I cannot help your vanity. I am not answerable for what it leads you to suppose," she said, rudely. 
               Mr. Waite felt that he was losing ground, so he said: "Will you have the kindness to listen to my explanation?" 
               She bowed her head in token of assent, and he began: 
               "When you came up to Kinderhook, as we mutually agreed, I thought I was justified in making some inquiries from time to time as to how you spent your time, and in whose society, together with various other minor details." 
               He stopped and looked at her. She returned his glance, and catching his eye, she exclaimed, "It was a hateful, unjustifiable espionage." 
               "That may be," he said. "However, I did it, and I was assured that you were gradually inducing my cousin to look favorably upon you. I was told that you were 
                   please him. I was  one object in view,  him, and bring him to  was hinted to me that a country-parson in the hand was considered better than twenty men about town in the bush. I was told that you had fully succeeded; in fact, that my cousin loved you." 
               "Am I to be blamed, then," cried Fanny, with flashing eyes, "because a man chooses to fall in love with me?" 
               "This is simply what I was told," he answered, calmly enough. 
               "And now," exclaimed Fanny, not quite so calmly, "I will tell you something." 
               There was a slight sneer to be perceived about the corners of her mouth as she said this. 
               "I will tell you that your informant, whoever it was, told you lies, sir-base and infamous lies." 
               "So I afterward discovered," replied Mr. Waite, with exquisite self-command. 
               "Then why insult me with the recital of your folly and stupidity?" she inquired, annoyed at his self-possession. 
               "It was necessary that I should do so in order that you might understand my condition. I found that I loved you still, and having heard from my cousin's own lips that you rejected his suit, and that you were firmly attached to me, I have come to offer you my hand. I have come to fulfil our compact, which was, if I remember rightly, that if I were satisfied with your conduct at the end of six months, I should make you my wife. That at least was implied." 
               "Your own sense might tell you," said Fanny, with a defiant laugh, "that the tables are turned now. It is I who an dissatisfied with your conduct." 
               He did not seem to pay any attention to this. Perhaps he ascribed it to the natural indignation and petulance of a woman who has been ill-treated. 
               "I offer you my hand, dear Fanny," he said, with a touch of tenderness in his tone; "will you take it?" 
               "You offer me your hand: very well," said Fanny. "That is plain and straight forward and easy to understand; now I will say something which I mean should be equally explicit and facile of comprehension." 
               As he listened to this speech, so different from what he expected, his eyes dilated with astonishment. 
               "And that is-" he asked. 
               "Simply, that I reject your hand; you had better take it where it will be better appreciated. 
               "Are you in earnest?" he said, as his heart sunk at this declaration. "Think for a moment; you used to love me. I have wronged you, but I have made ample atonement. What more can I do?" 
               "You insult a woman," cried Fanny, "in every possible way, and when you find you are in the wrong, you come and tell her so, and think you are to be forgiven. No, Mr. Waite there are some things which a woman can forgive, but which she can never forget." 
               "Will you have no pity?" he asked. 
               "Had you any upon me?" 
               "Will you not think over my proposal? Let me hear from you in a month or so, I can wait." 
               "That is fortunate," said Fanny, with a scornful laugh. "It is a quality that will prove very useful to you." 
               "Is there no hope for me?" he asked, she thought rather piteously. 
               "Once for all, Mr. Waite," said Fanny, "I beg of you to understand, that I can never be your wife; I may not be able utterly to eradicate your face and the past from my heart, but I can never hope for a revival of the old feeling. I can say no more. This interview is painful to both; so, with your permission, I will wish you good morning." 
               "At least," he cried, "let me press your hand once more." 
               She held out her hand, which he grasped, and raised to his lips; then letting it fall, he said- 
               "By a life of celibacy I will endeavor to prove to you that of all women I love only you. Your refusal is a great, very great blow to me, but perhaps I have deserved it." 
               Making an inclination of the head, Fanny ran from the room, and joined Mr. Everingham in the housekeeper's room. 
               He was still walking up and down in great perturbation, and so engaged was he with his own thoughts, that Fanny had to speak to him before he observed her. 
               "Alcide!" she said. 
               He turned round at the sound of her voice and gazed at her inquiringly. 
               "It is over," she said, "and-and-oh! do not ask me to say any more." 
               She smiled sweetly, and Mr. Everingham caught her in his arms, and kissed her again and again. 
               "My darling," he said, "my darling, how shall I thank you?" 
               She burst into tears. The excitement had been too much for her, and now she gave way. 
               Mr. Everingham tried to still her sobs; at last he succeeded in making her comparatively calm; and as they sat on that old-fashioned horse-hair sofa, in that musty old housekeeper's-room, with their arms twined round one another's necks, she murmured-"Dear Alcide, I am all your own." 
               And he, poor, simple fellow, could scarcely bring himself to believe in his great joy. 
               Mr. Arthur Waite left the house almost immediately, without waiting to wish his cousin good-bye; he was too much cut up for that; he had fondly supposed that he had only to come, in order to conquer, and that he would return to town triumphant, bringing his future bride with him. He considered that he was making a great sacrifice for her, at least so his pride told him, and he never dreamed for an instant that Fanny was made of such sterling stuff, and that she could laugh at his proposal. 
               Yet he did not hate her; he had discovered that, after all, he loved her better than any woman he had ever met, and he would have married her with the greatest delight, and she permitted him to do so. But it was not to be, and so it came to pass that Mr. Waite went forth into the world a blighted man, for the desolation he had once purposed for another had fallen on himself, and he wandered from place to place to neck forgetfulness. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               THE DENOUNCEMENT. 
               The reader has probably come to the conclusion, from the perusal of the preceeding chapter, that the betrothal of our heroine and the village parson eventuated in their marriage. Such, doubtless, would have been the case, but for the occurrence of one of those strange events which sometimes intervene to blight the prospects of mortals. Surely, it is for man to appoint, and God to disappoint. 
               Fanny's pride was piqued at Arthur Waite's hasty and unwarrantable conduct in referrence to herself and the love she bore him was, to say the least, in a state of suspense. For the clerical gentleman who had received her so cordially and treated her with so marked a degree of kindness-and to whom, perhaps, she was indebted for the preservation of her life-she entertained the highest respect; and if she did not love him, her regard was next of kin to that sentiment. She knew that she was beloved-tenderly, ardently beloved-by that gentleman, and, as love usually begets love, it would be no matter of surprise if his passion found a response in the breast of our heroine. 
               Fanny's love for Arthur Waite was deep-seated and all-pervading; and though to give him up was like severing her heart-strings, she felt that she could not do otherwise and maintain her self-respect. Her cup of bitterness, she thought, was full to repletion. But after quaffing it to the dregs, and time had assuaged her grief, she was called upon to partake again of the poisoned chalice. 
               We have alluded to the occurrence of an accident which prevented the consummation of the nuptials of Fanny and Mr. Everingham. We will proceed to record it in few words. 
                
               That gentleman had taken one of his accustomed strolls-this time alone-into the fields adjacent to the village, in quest of insects and wild flowers, and while thus engaged he received a ball in the temple from a gun in the hands of a sportsman, who had fired at a bird in a bush near the sport where Mr. Everingham was bonding in pursuit of a cherished object, which deprived him of life instantaneously The reader can better imagine than we describe the scene that followed this painful occurrence. 
               After the funeral Fanny left Kinderhook amidst the sighs and lamentations of the entire village. She left it with grief and desolation in heart, thinking herself the sport of fate, and the foot-ball of Fortune. The fate of Tantalus was certainly hers 
               Going at once to New York, she investigated her affairs, sold her jewelry, and found that she had a sum of considerably more than fifty thousand dollars, as she had surmised. She determined to travel, and with this intention she visited the principal cities of the south, and passed an entire year in endeavoring to forget the many bitter memories which thronged her mind. Although Mr. Everingham's death was very shocking and unutterably dreadful, yet Fanny found less difficulty in getting over his loss than she did in that of Mr. Waite, because she engaged herself to the former more through a feeling of friendship, and perhaps a little bique at being so slighted as she had been by the latter. 
               However that may be, so volatile is the nature of woman, that when at the expiration of a year she found herself at the Spottswood House, in Richmond, she was again light-hearted and vivacious, although a little more sedate. Perhaps she was still religious, and found great consolation in spiritual exercises. 
               She sometimes thought of Arthur Waite, and wondered where he now was and whither he still loved her. 
               One morning, a day or two after she had arrived at Richmond, she proceded to the dining-room, and seating herself at one of the tables began to write what she wished for breakfast on the carte the waiter brought her when she was surprised at hearing some one exclaim, "Good God! Fanny is it possible?" 
               Looking up she perceived Mr. Waite. 
               "How do you do?" she said, with a smile. 
               He was still so astonished he could hardly speak. 
               "Come," she said "if we did part angrily because I would not do what you wished, that is no reason why we should not speak now." 
               He got up, and finding a seat vacant by her side, he took possession of it, and shook her cordially by the hand. 
               "I shall begin to think," he said, "that this is after all the best world possible." 
               Fanny and Mr. Waite, after this strange meeting, struck up an amicable alliance. And he, as the most experienced, showed her all the lions of Richmond. 
               After this, it will be unnecessary to say that when Mr. Waite again presented his suit, Fanny made little objection, and after some slight demur, consented to become Mrs. Arthur Shamrock Waite. 
               And people now talk of them as a very happy, well-assorted pair. And Fanny turns her husband's large fortune to good account; for although "they feast the great they ne'er forget the poor." 
               They pass most of their time at Pomona Grove, on the banks of the Hudson, where they are deservedly beloved by everyone. And although some people, mostly women, turn up their noses at Fanny, she finds her husband's society quite sufficient for her. And he rules his tenantry like an old feudal lord, but obtains their submission and their love by kindness, and not by force. Mr. Waite has a great opinion of himself, and justly considers himself a model landlord, and as such his opinion is well founded, for. 
               "Rex in regno sue non habet parem." 
             
            THE END. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            CHOICE NOVELS AND SELECT READING. 
            These novels form one of the most admirable series of popular fiction that has ever been issued. They are marked by there faithful delineation of character, there naturalness and purity of sentiment, the dramatic interest of their plots, their beauty and force of expression, and their elevated moral tone. The series embrace the most popular works by the leading authors. 
             
               BOOTMAKER OF FIFTH AVENUE.-By Paul Preston. Price 25 Cents. 
               ANNIE.-By Henry Edwards, Esq. Price 25 Cents. 
               BELLE OF CENTRAL PARK.-By Henry Edwards, Esq. Price 25 Cents. 
               NETTA BRIDE. or POOR OF NEW YORK.-By H. L. Williams, Jr. Price 25 Cents. 
               FASHION AND FAMINE.-By Henry Edwards, Esq. Price 25 Cents. 
               NEW YORK EXPOSED.-By S. W. Foster. Price 25 Cents. 
               ISADORE MONKTON.-By Miss Braddon. Price 25 Cents. 
               BEATRICE SAVILLE.-Price 25 Cents. 
               CAPTAIN DEATHSTROKE.-By H. L. Williams, Jr. Price 25 Cents. 
               RED RALPH.-By Buntline. Price 25 Cents. 
               LEONORE.-By Buntline. Price 25 Cents. 
               CHARLEY BRAY: THE FIREMAN'S MISSION.-By Ned Buntline. Price 25 Cents. 
             
            Any of the above popular works sent by mail, postage pre-paid, on receipt of price. Address the dealer from whom you purchased this book. 
          
       
   
