
    ----CITATION----
        Dupuy, Eliza A. (1814-1881). Who Shall Be Victor? .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6355
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               WHO SHALL BE VICTOR? 
               A SEQUEL TO "THE CANCELLED WILL." 
             
            BY MISS ELIZA A. DUPUY. AUTHOR OF "THE CANCELLED WILL," "MICHAEL RUDOLPH," "WHY DID HE MARRY HER," "HOW HE DID IT," "THE PLANTER'S DAUGHTER," ETC., ETC. 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS;  
                     306 CHESTNUT STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 
          
          
            MISS ELIZA A. DUPUY'S WORKS. 
            Each Work is complete in one large duodecimo volume. 
             
               WHO SHALL BE VICTOR? Sequel to "The Cancelled Will." 
               THE CANCELLED WILL. 
               HOW HE DID IT. 
               WHY DID HE MARRY HER? 
               THE PLANTER'S DAUGHTER. 
               MICHAEL RUDOLPH. 
             
            Price of each, $1.75 in Cloth; or $1.50 in Paper Cover. 
            Above books are for sale by all Booksellers. Copies of any or all of the above books will be sent to any one, to any place, postage pre-paid, on receipt of their price by the Publishers, 
            T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, 306 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 
          
          
             
            PUBLISHERS' PREFACE. 
            "WHO SHALL BE VICTOR?" is the title of the Sequel to "THE CANCELLED WILL," and from its pages the mystery of Nina Gordon's origin is learned. These two books are not conventional novels, but a transcript of real life as we see it passing before us. The characters are natural, and, with the exception of the saintly Inez, possess faults enough to make them very human. But in spite of their short-comings, a vivid interest is felt in them from first to last, and at the conclusion the reader draws a long breath of satisfaction over the union of the long-severed lovers. 
             
            In some respects, "WHO SHALL BE VICTOR?" and "THE CANCELLED WILL," are different from the stereotyped form of fiction familiar to novel readers. The young girl left to fight her battle with life is not of the angelic species, as is usually the case in stories. The harder qualities of Nina Gordon's nature are developed by the probation which would have elevated and purified a more noble spirit. 
            The creator of Nina recognizes the fact so patent to every observer, that the being on whom fortune does not smile is not always an angel in disguise; that envy, malice, and all uncharitableness may dwell beneath the fairest outward seeming. The character of the fair Nemesis is far from amiable; but it is true to life, and especially true to one of Nina's temper and antecedents. 
            These two stories read like a leaf taken from human life, and we need hardly add, that they are intensely interesting. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               I.-TOO LATE! THE EVIL GENIUS MUST COME. 23
                
               II.-A SHARP DISCUSSION. THE SKELETON IN THE HOUSE. 40
                
               III.-INCONSTANCY.-OFF WITH THE OLD LOVE, ON WITH THE NEW. 49
                
               IV.-NINA RECEIVES A SHOCK.-THE NEMESIS GOES TO SILVERMERE. 73
                
               V.-FATHER AND DAUGHTER. IS THERE NO ESCAPE FROM THIS FATE? 96
                
               VI.-THE TRUST IS RECOVERED. INEZ GETS HER OWN, AND SETS OUT FOR THE SOUTH. 100
                
               VII.-NINA MAKES A NOTABLE DISCOVERY. 119
                
               VIII.-LOVE ME, OR I PERISH. ILL UNTO DEATH. 123
                
               IX.-MY DAUGHTER! OH, MY DAUGHTER! 135
                
               X.-PAY ME WELL, AND I WILL GO. 142
                
               XI.-NINA HEARS THE STORY OF HER PARENTS. 147
                
               XII.-MRS. MARKLAND HOLDS HER SON TO HIS PLEDGES. 160
                
               XIII.-MRS. LANGLEY SPEAKS HER MIND. DENHAM'S DESPAIR. 168
                
               XIV.-THE MARRIAGE DAY IS FIXED-OPAL'S RELUCTANCE. 179
                
                
               XV.-NINA IS SENT AWAY FROM SILVERMERE. SHE TAKES A FATAL RESOLUTION. 199
                
               XVI.-THE DESERTED ONE. DENHAM'S VAGUE THREATS. 219
                
               XVII.-A DREADFUL DEED. DENHAM'S ARREST. 228
                
               XVIII.-CLAIRVOYANCE OF INEZ. HER DELIRIOUS RAVINGS. 239
                
               XIX.-GUILTY, OR NOT GUILTY? 259
                
               XX.-AN IMPASSIONED APPEAL. 266
                
               XXI.-A SAD INTERVIEW. THE CALMNESS OF DESPAIR. 276
                
               XXII.-NINA STRIKES HER LAST BLOW UPON A BREAKING HEART. 298
                
               XXIII.-A SEA VOYAGE. OLD FRIENDS RE-UNITED. 314
                
               XXIV.-A DECLARATION, AND BETROTHAL. 322
                
               XXV.-A FAIR SAINT. HOME AGAIN. 332
                
               XXVI.-CONFESSION AND ATONEMENT. 346
                
               XXVII.-CONCLUSION. 362
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Who shall be victor? 
             
            WHO SHALL BE VICTOR? 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               TOO LATE! THE EVIL GENIUS MUST COME. 
               HAD a thunderbolt suddenly fallen among the three listeners, they could scarcely have been more alarmed by it than by the assurance that Nina Gordon was actually engaged as governess to Opal, and on her way to the home in which she might work such fatal mischief. 
               Opal was turning over the music, happily unconscious of the effect her words had produced. 
               Denham had a deep-seated contempt and aversion to Nina, and he spoke in a low voice to his sister: 
               "What on earth can be done to prevent Opal from falling into such hands? It is incredible that so unprincipled a girl is coming hither in so responsible a capacity as that. We must warn Mr. Hastings of Miss Gordon's real character. It will never do." 
               "You shall not interfere in any way," replied Mrs. Langley, in the same tone. "It is not your place; but Godfrey shall. I will goad him on to act at once, if that should be necessary, though I scarcely think it will. Do you occupy Opal's attention while I speak with him." 
               She drew the half-paralyzed Fenton aside and asked in a guarded tone: 
                
               "What is to be done to prevent Miss Gordon's advent here? Is it not a cruel chance that led Mr. Hastings to select her as governess to his daughter? She can do more to injure you than any one else, and you should at once take such steps as will effectually prevent her from entering this house." 
               "Yes-I fully comprehend that, and I believe I understand Nina's object in coming hither. But I will defeat her tactics, I swear I will." 
               "You need not be so energetic with me, sir. Go to Mr. Hastings as soon as possible, tell him what we have heard, and give him clearly to understand how unfit Miss Gordon is for the position he has engaged to place her in. How could he think of entrusting his daughter to the influence of a strange girl of whose character and principles he is entirely ignorant. I thought he had more judgment and more affection for Opal than to do such a thing." 
               "I can account for it in no other way than by supposing that Mrs. Lyme, the lady who educated Miss Gordon, wrote in her praise; but she is ignorant of what we know about her. Of course I must speak to Mr. Hastings about it, but I cannot do so till after dinner. The servant is announcing it now." 
               "Well, after dinner is over, then. If you should need my assistance, you may refer him to me. I will readily tell all I know about her, to prevent her being brought here; and you know that what I should say would not be very creditable to Miss Gordon." 
               "I think that my statement will suffice. At least it should with any father interested in the welfare of an only child." 
               The folding-doors between the two rooms were opened, revealing an elegantly set table, laden with every delicacy that could tempt the appetite. 
                
               The host took in Mrs. Markland and his wife. Denham had already appropriated Opal, and nothing was left for Fenton but to escort Mrs. Langley, though his mother looked annoyed that he was not the companion of the daughter of the house. But she was somewhat consoled by seeing that Opal addressed her son across the table quite as often as she spoke to the attentive cavalier at her side. The dinner proceeded as such things always do. Course after course came on-each one served with a different wine, drank from glasses of various colors and shapes. It was a very rcherch entertainment, and was duly enjoyed by the elders of the party, though little eating or drinking was done by the others. 
               Opal was the life of the little company, and it was easy to see that the joyous gayety of her nature had never yet been checked in its overflowings. She was the darling of the set in which she lived, and enjoyed the immunity of a petted child who had not yet taken on herself the restraints of young lady-hood. But, amid all her sallies, the innate refinement of her nature was visible. There was nothing of the hoyden in her mirth, and in his poetic soul Denham likened it to the ripple of musical waters on which the sun of summer shone. 
               That Nina Gordon, with her worldly tact, her manuvring wiles, should come to tarnish the sweet purity of this human lily, was an odious thought to him, and he heard with intense satisfaction Mrs. Langley's whispered assurance that all would be made right. 
               The gentlemen did not linger over their wine after the ladies left them. Even if they had wished to do so, the parting words of Mrs. Hastings to her husband would have prevented it. Denham seldom drank at all, and Fenton had taken more wine at table than he often did; he was nerving himself in this way for the interview he dreaded after dinner was over. 
                
               As the party arose from the table, Mrs. Hastings said, with some asperity in her tones: 
               "You have taken as much wine as is good for you, William, and I insist that you shall not tempt our young friends to follow your evil habit of sitting over the bottle. You had all better come with us into the drawing-room, where we will have a game of euchre. Mrs. Markland likes to play, and so do I." 
               Her husband flushed slightly, but he bowed with his courtly air, and said: 
               "Of course, my dear. When you utter your mandates I know that I have only to obey. These lads are not fond of intoxicating beverages, and I am glad of it; I am sure that I would be the last man to tempt them to press the flowing bowl to their lips." 
               "Come, then; coffee will be served in the drawing-room, and we can make up our game at once.You need not join us immediately if you must have your cigar." 
               "Thank you, Laura, I believe I shall prefer that to the cards; and as to the coffee, I don't care for that after drinking wine. I will go into the library and take my smoke there. Guy is a model young man, and does not smoke, but Godfrey does, and if you will allow me to monopolize him a little while, I shall be glad to enjoy a cosy chat with him." 
               Nothing could have suited Fenton better, at that moment, so he spoke with alacrity: 
               "I will gladly go with you, sir, for I have something particular to say to you." 
               They went into the drawing-room a few moments, saw the three ladies with Denham settled at their game, with Opal looking over the players, and chattering in her pleasant, off-hand manner, not saying anything particularly wise, perhaps, but it was not the less fascinating for that, for Opal Hastings was not a girl to utter platitudes, or to bore her listeners with twaddle. What she did say was as bright and sparkling as herself, and Denham at least thought that the pearls of the Princess in the fairy tale were not more valuable than the utterances of her rosy lips. 
               The library was fitted up with oak and green, and it contained a well-selected collection of books in English, French and Spanish; for Mr. Hastings had spent several years in South America, and learned there the high-sounding language spoken by its inhabitants. 
               A fire burned upon the hearth, though a window was open which looked out toward the lawn, affording a glimpse of the placid sheet of water which lay about half way between the house and the road. 
               Mr. Hastings drew up two comfortable chairs, and placing his cigar-case, filled with fragrant Havanas, upon the table between them, invited Fenton to select one for himself. A servant came in almost immediately, bearing a waiter, on which stood two cups of delicate porcelain, filled with coffee so strong as to be quite black. Fenton took one of these, but Mr. Hastings said to the man: 
               "I shall not take coffee, John; bring me the old Bourbon that stands on the sideboard, with a couple of glasses." 
               The negro glided away, and presently returned with the required articles, and also a pitcher of fresh water. He placed them on the table, and at a sign from his master left the room. 
               "Won't you join me, Godfrey?" said the host." I hate to drink by myself, and this clear amber is the only thing really worth imbibing. It is twenty years old, and as mild as milk." 
               Fenton took up the decanter and poured a small quantity in the goblet as he replied: 
               "Of course I will not refuse to join you, sir, though I do not often feel the need of such a stimulant as this." 
                
               Mr. Hastings sighed lightly, half filled his own glass, and said: 
               "I wish it was so with me, lad, but-well, it isn't. I shall never be a drunkard, but moderate indulgence has become a necessity with me. The time was, though, when youth and high spirits bore me through everything as they now bear you, and I needed no artificial means of excitement. Ah! Godfrey, I hope the day will never come to you, as it did to me, in which I felt forced to seek for consolation and renewed courage to face my destiny in this base substitute, so dreadfully misnamed the elixir of life." 
               Fenton listened to this outburst in much surprise. He said: 
               "You are the last person from whom I would have expected such words, Mr. Hastings, for I have always looked on you as the most fortunate, and one of the most contented of men." 
               "Fortunate!-fortunate in being the slave of a woman who could speak to me as my wife did a little while ago? Godfrey, I need some one to talk to without reserve. You are to be my son, and to you I may safely speak of the disagreeables that mingle their bitterness with the apparent prosperity of my life. I have yielded inch by inch to the woman who gave me the fortune I enjoy, until at times, I feel as if all the manhood is crushed out of me. Yes, it is so; and if it were not for my love for my daughter, I should be tempted to run away and leave my degradation behind me; but Opal chains me here, for she is the jewel of my worthless and wasted life." 
               His features were working with emotion, and Fenton was at a loss to know how to reply to this unexpected and most unwelcome confidence. In a constrained tone he said: 
               "You are excited now, my dear sir, and annoyed with what lately passed; but after soothing your nerves with a cigar, you will take a different view of affairs. We all understand Mrs. Hastings' peculiarities, and make due allowance for them. You should not take her little imperious ways so much to heart." 
               "Shouldn't I? That proves that you know nothing about it. If you understand what it is to be brow-beaten by your own wife, and made to feel that you are only her chief slave, you would feel differently. But you will never understand that from experience; for the girl who is to be your wife is too generous and noble to humiliate the man of her choice, in spite of the evil example set before her. Besides, you will be independent of her; you will not owe to her the roof that covers you and the bread you eat." 
               "Nor do you, Mr. Hastings. Your services as the manager of your wife's property are worth a large sum annually; and viewing your position only in that light, you are not dependent on her. It is very painful to me to hear you speak in such a strain as this. The love that exists between Mrs. Hastings and yourself should long since have put to flight all such feelings on your part." 
               Mr. Hastings had drank twice since this conversation commenced, and already the strong liquor began to act upon his brain. He recklessly repeated: 
               "Love!-yes, that is the burden of the young man's song, yet I wonder how much of the real stuff is found in the world. Laura loves me in her way, I dare say; but to say the least of it, such affection is inconvenient, for it only makes her as jealous as a fury, while it never leads her to treat me with the respect due to me as her husband. As to my love for her, well-I sold myself for gold, and I've got it, so I won't complain of my bargain any more than I can help." 
               He lit his cigar, puffed away vigorously a few moments, waiting for Fenton to speak. Finding that he did not do so, Mr. Hastings presently said: 
                
               "You think me a fool for laying bare the skeleton in my house. Well, perhaps I am; but as you are at no very distant day to become a member of my family, I thought it as well to sketch the map of the country for you. Mrs. Hastings will subjugate you, too,-depend on that; for she is the autocrat of this house, and here you must live. I shall not give up my daughter to any man to be taken away from me. I should shoot myself if Opal wasn't near me to comfort me and make me feel that I have something yet to live for." 
               "It has always been understood, I believe, that your daughter is to remain in the paternal home when we are married. I offer no objection to that; but I do not think that I shall suffer myself to be ruled by Mrs. Hastings." 
               His host shrugged his shoulders significantly. 
               "I dare say you think so now, but wait and see. Opal is worth the risk anyhow; but I warn you that you will have a fierce battle to fight if you keep your own flag nailed to the masthead. I speak from experience, and I know." 
               "Perhaps we can combine our force and rout the enemy," suggested Fenton, with a faint smile, for the prospect of submitting to a second feminine tyrant was not agreeable. He had already known enough of it under Mrs. Markland's rule, and he had more respect for her than he could ever feel for such a woman as his prospective mother-in-law. 
               Mr. Hastings laughed aloud at his last words. 
               "There is something in that. You will be on my side, at any rate, for Opal clings to me more fondly that to her mother, and of course you will be apt to take the same view of things that she does. Oh! you don't know what a sweet, loving darling she is! If you do not cherish her as the core of your heart, Godfrey, I shall look on you as the most insensible of men. But of course you will, for I am sure that you love her exclusively and devotedly." 
                
               Fenton flushed and grew pale, but he hastened to reply: 
               "I admire and love her more than I can express, but-but I wish to explain to you that I have taken the privilege of my years and sex to amuse myself with flirting occasionally with other girls. No serious harm was done, but I think it best to tell you now what you may hear from others who may not be friendly to me." 
               His companion regarded him with a surprised expression as he replied: 
               "How very straightforward in your dealings you must be, Godfrey. What harm to Opal's happiness could ensue from a trifling flirtation? Of course you have done as every handsome fellow like you will-accepted the flattering incense that was offered you, and for my part I can see no harm in it. I know something of the ways of my fair countrywomen with a fine-looking young Southron, who of course is always supposed to have as much money as he knows what to do with." 
               "I am glad that you are so much a man of the world as to take this sensible view of the case, dear sir. I will tell you the truth: I have fancied two girls since I went away-one, because she reminded me of Opal; the other, because-well, because she is such a contrast to myself I suppose, for she is dark as I am fair. But the first glimpse of my betrothed put to flight all such nonsense, and my heart returned to its old allegiance to your beautiful daughter." 
               "Two flirtations, serious affairs I suppose, in two years! Well, well, there is safety in numbers, and the third has always been considered the charmed one. I have no doubt of Opal's power to win your whole heart and keep it, so I have few misgivings on that score. I was a sad flirt myself in my youthful days, and all my sins against the sex have been punished by the she-dragon into whose hands it was my luckless fate to fall. Don't stare so, Godfrey, even if I do use such a term in speaking of my lady-wife. I feel savage this afternoon, and if I cannot talk freely with you I cannot with any one." 
               "You are quite safe with me, sir, and I think I can understand the state of your mind at the present moment. But the irritation under which you are suffering will pass away and things become more pleasant again. Mrs. Hastings did not intend to wound you so deeply, I feel assured." 
               "I dare say not. She thinks that I am used to such treatment by this time, but I am not, and sometimes I feel goaded beyond endurance, as I am to-day. If Laura knew that John had brought this decanter in here at my bidding, you would see her fly into one of her tantrums. She would order it away, and end the scene by falling into hysteric spasms. Oh, I have a nice time of it, I can tell you! but, luckily for you, Mrs. Hastings' daughter doesn't resemble her in the least. She will never fly out in a rage, for she has at times been made too unhappy by seeing how her mother goes on." 
               "I am sure she will not. But if Mrs. Hastings is so jealous as you asserted just now, how are you to introduce a young lady in your house as governess to your daughter? Opal mentioned such an intention on your part to-day." 
               Mr. Hastings changed color, and uneasily replied: 
               "As to that, the young lady in question would be a companion for my daughter, and Laura will hardly be so absurd as to fancy that I could have other than a fraternal feeling toward her. I must risk it, for Opal needs an instructress, especially in music, and Miss Gordon is a fine performer I am told." 
               "But, my dear sir, do you know anything more than that of this young lady? Are you acquainted with the antecedents of the girl you are about to bring into such intimate companionship with Opal?" 
                
               With an air of reserve, Mr. Hastings replied: 
               "I know enough about her to feel satisfied that she is a suitable companion for my daughter." 
               Fenton hastily rejoined: 
               "Pardon me if I differ from you in that opinion, Mr. Hastings. I know a great deal about this Miss Gordon, and I assure you, on the faith of a gentleman, that she is not a suitable person to be placed so near Opal." 
               A deep purple flush crossed the face of the listener, which faded into sudden paleness, and he almost angrily asked: 
               "What can you know of her that is not creditable? The lady who educated her has written to me in very high terms of her manners and accomplishments." 
               "Mrs. Lyme is her friend, and of course she speaks well of her as far as she knows her. But are you aware that Miss Gordon left her protection and went to Newport last summer as the companion of a half-demented old lady who was wheedled by her into making a will in her favor, bequeathing to her a very large estate? But unfortunately for her, she is an unrivalled mimic; she exercised her powers in that line for the amusement of some friends, making Mrs. Hawks the subject of her satire. She discovered it, added a codicil to her will cutting her off entirely; and Miss Gordon returned to New Haven to accept the offer you so unfortunately made to employ her as governess to your daughter." 
               The surprise with which this revelation was received seemed to be mingled with some very painful emotions on the part of Mr. Hastings. He leaned his head upon his hand a few moments, and then huskily said: 
               "It was very wrong in her to make sport of a person whose intentions were so kind toward her, but there was nothing criminal in it. The poor girl seems to have lost more by it than the game was worth. Who is this Mrs. Hawks? Was she a Miss Horton before she married?" 
               "Yes, that was her name; and it seems that some fancied resemblance to a girl she had been reared with induced her to adopt Miss Gordon as her daughter. If she had possessed common prudence or any principle, she would have inherited the whole of Mrs. Hawks' large fortune." 
               "Don't be too hard on her, Godfrey. I knew this lady in her younger days, and she never was a person whose likings could be relied on. The will might have been changed all the same without that provocation." 
               "I do not think it would, sir. Mrs. Hawks took a violent fancy to her; she was in feeble health; and I feel almost certain that the discovery of Nina's ingratitude and treachery hastened her death. She altered her will on the same night that the discovery was made, and died a few hours afterward." 
               Mr. Hastings hesitated a few moments, and then said: 
               "Ah, well, if that brilliant provision slipped through her fingers, she needs all the more the liberal salary I have offered her. It is useless to speak on this subject now; for Miss Gordon is by this time on her way to the South, and of course I cannot send her back without judging of her myself." 
               "I cannot see that it is necessary to receive her here," persisted Fenton. "You can pay her a quarter's salary, and let her know that you have changed your mind about employing a governess for your daughter. Pardon me, sir, for seeming to dictate to you the course you should pursue; but, indeed, Miss Gordon is not a safe person to receive into the bosom of any private family." 
               Again the angry flush mantled the face of the listener, and he drily said: 
               "But I have not changed my mind, and she must come to Silvermere. There is nothing in what you have told me to prejudice me greatly against her; and Opal needs some young person near her. In the heedlessness of youth and high spirits, she may have done what you so much condemn; but I will not judge her till I have seen her. If I do not approve of her, it will be time enough to arrange for her dismissal after she has been tried and found wanting." 
               Fenton was embarrassed as to what he should next say; for it was very evident that Mr. Hastings had made up his mind that Nina was to become a member of his family. 
               He finally asked: 
               "Do you know the history of this young lady?" 
               "Do you?" abruptly asked the other, fixing his clear eyes on the young man's face with an anxious, questioning gaze. 
               "Not much of it; but what she knows of herself has become known to me. She was educated by an uncle; and until the time came for her removal from Mrs. Lyme's school, she was led to believe from the money lavished on her that she was independent in fortune. She was then told that her education had been bestowed on her to enable her to take care of herself in the future. She accepted the situation of music teacher, and remained with Mrs. Lyme till something she liked better was offered. Miss Gordon does not even know that the name she bears rightfully belongs to her." 
               Mr. Hastings listened with eagerness to these details; but, when they were ended, he carelessly replied: 
               "My dear Godfrey, what is there in all this that reflects on that poor girl? I really think that she has shown a commendable spirit in doing what she could to maintain herself respectably. I honor her for it; and as to her family, why should I concern myself about that? It is of little consequence to me whether she is of aristocratic lineage eage or not. She is capable of directing the studies of Opal; she is a lady in deportment; and that is all that I can reasonably require in my daughter's governess." 
               "Pardon me, Mr. Hastings, but I think that one who is to be thrown into such intimate companionship with Opal should possess some fixed principles. She should be a lady on heart as in manners." 
               "And you would insinuate that Nina Gordon is not such a person. Is that what you mean, sir?" 
               The tone of his voice was almost menacing, and his light eyes flashed with anger that was incomprehensible to Fenton. 
               He bowed and coldly replied: 
               "That is precisely what I mean, Mr. Hastings. Miss Gordon is a flirt; a manuverer; in short, a most dangerous person to bring into any family. She will prove a firebrand in yours. I have warned you, sir; and, having done my duty, I wash my hands of the consequences of such a step." 
               In extreme excitement Mr. Hastings now spoke: 
               "Then you have not told me all. There is something kept back which I must know. Speak out, Godfrey for I am bound to interest myself in the fate of this girl. She was left to me as a sacred bequest, and I could find no other method of serving her than the one I have adopted. In God's name tell me why you denounce her in such terms." 
               His agitation became so extreme that Fenton looked at him in undisguised surprise. He could not collect himself sufficiently to reply immediately, and Mr. Hastings hoarsely went on: 
               "You say that she is a flirt. Has she then tried her fascinations on you? You seem to know a great deal about her, and I shall be glad if you will be frank enough to reveal to me all that can be told to her disadvantage." 
                
               After a few moment's reflection, Fenton gravely replied: 
               "Since you so earnestly ask it, I will do so. I became acquainted with Miss Gordon while I was in New Haven. She was then a music teacher in Mrs. Lyme's academy, and it did not occur to me that she would misinterpret the attentions I paid her. As I told you, the resemblance she bears to Opal first attracted me to her; and-I am afraid that you may think me a vain fellow, sir, but the young lady was certainly disappointed that I did not ask her to marry me. She thinks that I treated her badly; and, to tell you the whole truth, I really am apprehensive that she will be capable of making terrible mischief between Opal and myself." 
               Mr. Hastings drew a long breath. 
               "Ah! I begin to see now why you deprecate the thought of her coming hither. But, Godfrey, Nina Gordon must have given up all hope so far as you are concerned. She will find you here established on the footing of my daughter's future husband, and she will not dare to attempt to undermine you in Opal's good opinion. If I thought she would do such a thing as that, I might hesitate about bringing her to Silvermere." 
               "It is my opinion that Nina is capable of doing anything. I consider her a most daring and unscrupulous person." 
               Again that sudden flash of anger gleamed in the eyes of Mr. Hastings, and after a gloomy pause he said: 
               "It seems to me that you are bitterly prejudiced against this unfortunate girl. But it is too late now to make a change in my arrangements. Let what will happen, she must come for a season beneath the shelter of my roof. I must at least form my own judgment of her character, for I am bound by a solemn promise to do for her such service as lies in my power. She was, as you say, educated by an uncle. Mr. Fairlie was my most intimate friend; he-he died insolvent not long ago, leaving to me the charge of his niece; he did not wish that she should be thrown on the world with no friend to assist her. 
               "When I learned that Miss Gordon had been highly educated, I at once determined to offer her the position of governess to my daughter. It was all that I could do for her; and I cannot consent, even after what you have told me, to thrust away so near a relative of my dear old friend because she has some of the faults incident to her sex and age. Indeed this young girl has on me the claim of kindred blood, for Fairlie was a distant cousin of mine, and the resemblance between her and Opal is but the strange family likeness we sometimes find among persons descended from one common stock, however remote may be the tie that unites them." 
               Fenton was confounded by this statement. He saw himself baffled at every point, and saw clearly how hopeless the task was to induce Mr. Hastings to decline receiving Nina into his family. She would come in spite of all he could say against her-come as a connection of the family from which he was so anxious to keep her apart; and feeling how useless his efforts were, he arose and rather stiffly said: 
               "I regret that I have been so very frank concerning your young relative, Mr. Hastings; If you had, at the commencement of our conversation, explained the claim she has on you, I should have been more guarded. Pardon my interference; it has done no good, and may possibly be productive of harm." 
               "No, Godfrey-it will not do that. What you have said shall not be repeated to any one, and you were quite right to put me on my guard. I shall inform Miss Gordon of the engagement existing between yourself and Opal, and give her to understand that any effort made to injure you in her estimation will result in her own dismissal. It is not my purpose to inform her of her relationship to myself. It would be useless, and might lead her to expect from me more than I may be willing to do for her, so you will consider that portion of our conversation as confidential." 
               "Certainly, sir, if you wish it. With your permission, I will go now to join the ladies. I hope you will not feel annoyed with me for speaking so freely as I have of Miss Gordon." 
               "Annoyed?-no, no, of course not. You were bound in honor to act as you have done, but you need have no fears for Opal. I shall keep a keen watch on this young lady, and if I catch her tripping in any way I promise to send her off at once. With her mother and myself to watch over her; my precious child can be in no real danger from any influence Miss Gordon can exercise over her." 
               "I hope not, but I cannot help shrinking from the thought of the ordeal she is about to pass through. But I will say no more, for I am afraid that I have already said too much." 
               The door closed on him, and Mr. Hastings bowed his head on his hands in deep and painful thought. He sighed heavily more than once, and at length muttered: 
               "What a charge! what a responsibility! But I cannot-I dare not evade it. Having done so much, I must do more; and after all, the poor thing may have been more 'sinned against than sinning.'" 
               He straitened himself, poured out glass after glass of the fiery liquid that stood so temptingly near him, and he was certainly soon in a condition to justify his wife's anxiety on the subject of his potations. He was not intoxicated-for it would have taken a great deal more to bring him to that condition; but his eyes were glassy and his brain confused, though he could still move about with perfect steadiness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               A SHARP DISCUSSION. THE SKELETON IN THE HOUSE. 
               FENTON sought the drawing-room, where he found the game broken up and Guy and Opal talking together in a recess of a window with great animation. 
               His mother and Mrs. Hastings had gone into the conservatory to look at some rare cactus plants, and Mrs. Langley was lounging on a sofa reading a magazine. 
               Fenton glanced with displeased surprise at the two who seemed so completely occupied with each other as to be oblivious of his own entrance, and he would have crossed over to interrupt their tte--tte had not Mrs. Langley intercepted him by saying: 
               "Come and sit beside me, Godfrey. I must hear what you have to tell me about that girl. I was so much occupied in thinking of her and her possible advent here, that I could not give my attention to the cards. Your mother got offended at my random plays and refused to continue the game. It was exactly what I wanted, for now I can have you a moment to myself. Be quick in telling me what has passed between you and Mr. Hastings, for we may be interrupted at any moment." 
               Fenton had no resource but to obey the summons, and he sunk down on the sofa beside her with a pang of jealous rage convulsing his heart, which went far toward convincing him that he was already in love with Opal Hastings. 
               "Mrs. Langley looked into his face and misinterpreting its expression, asked in alarm: 
               "Have you failed? But that is impossible. Tell me in a word that Miss Gordon is not to come hither." 
               "But that would not be true; she is to come, and neither you nor I can prevent it. I found Mr. Hastings immovable on that point." 
               "It is incredible! Did you tell him all that we know about her?" 
               "Yes, I told him all I know, and it is much more than you are aware of; but it did not avail. It seems that Miss Gordon's uncle-for such a person was lately really in existence-left her as a sort of ward to Mr. Hastings, who was his intimate friend. He feels bound to receive her at Silvermere and treat her as such." 
               "Who was her uncle? and how is it that this story has been kept so long in the dark? Where did this uncle live-what was his name?" 
               "I did not inquire into his place of residence; his name was Fairlie, and that is all I know about him." 
               "I will speak to Mr. Hastings myself. It is shameful that he will persist in bringing Nina Gordon into his house in the face of such evidence against her as must have convinced him that she is neither a good nor a true woman." 
               Fenton arrested her as she attempted to rise, and gravely said: 
               "It will be useless to do so, Anna, and I am convinced that any interference on your part will only annoy him-possibly make him angry. The mind of Mr. Hastings is irrevocably made up as to the necessity of receiving Miss Gordon in his house." 
               "Then what are we to do?" she excitedly asked. 
               He shrugged his shoulders: 
               "Nothing, I should say. What can we do but acquiesce in the decision of the master of the house? But he has promised to be on the qui vive with regard to the artful creature, and with the first evidence of lack of principle on her part to send her away." 
               "Catch her giving such evidence! She is far too deep for that. I declare I am almost tempted to set his wife on him by making her jealous beforehand. She would at once put her veto on the coming of the girl at all, and you know she is lady absolute here." 
               "I entreat that you will not attempt that. Mr. Hastings is already in a state of great irritation against his wife, and so strongly is his heart set on bringing Nina here, that any opposition from her may produce worse consequences than you dream of." 
               Mrs. Langley regarded him with a look of alarm. 
               "Has he been talking with you about the way she treats him? I often wonder that he bears it as well as he does; but he is too much of a gentleman to make a scene when she speaks to him as she did to-day about the wine." 
               "It was that which threw him into such a state of excitement as to render him quite unmanageable about Nina. He was determined not to be thwarted twice in the same day." 
               "Then perhaps when he is calmer he may be willing to listen to what I have to say." 
               "I most earnestly advise you to say nothing on the subject. It would do no good, and might produce ill-feeling between yourself and Mr. Hastings. He thinks Miss Gordon has claims on him that cannot be set aside, and you know him well enough to understand that he is the last man to disregard them. All we can do is to put Opal on her guard against the fair serpent that is coming to invade her paradise; for, in spite of the scenes her mother occasionally gets up, I think she is very happy in her home." 
               "Yes-Opal has a bright, strong spirit, and a young creature like her casts trouble off, hoping for the best, Godfrey. I trust that you are not seriously thinking of receding from the promise you gave me at Newport. You surely will not break with Miss Lopez after all your pledges to her, and remain here to interfere with Guy? I think that Opal likes him. She will be safe and happy with such a man as he is, and I really cannot believe that you care for her as a man should for the girl he asks to become his wife." 
               Fenton set his teeth hard, and, after a pause, defiantly replied: 
               "I have decided to maintain my right to the hand of my betrothed, and I shall not submit to any remonstrance from either yourself or your brother. A union with Inez is impossible. My mother will not even hear her name mentioned with patience. She will never consent to receive her as a daughter, so nothing is left me but to accept the bride so long intended for me. Let me further say, that since I have seen Opal I can only wonder at the infatuation that led me to prefer another to her. I love her already, and very soon I shall adore her. She was such a child when I parted from her that I could not understand my feelings for her, but I do now, and I assure you that my heart as well as my interests are bound up in a union with her." 
               Even in so fickle a man as Godfrey Fenton, Mrs. Langley could scarcely understand so sudden a revolution of feeling. She gazed at him a few moments in speechless surprise, but then found voice to say, in an indignant tone: 
               "Then you are the most false and perjured of men. You think only of yourself; and after leading that poor girl to believe that you were devoted to her alone, you will leave her to break her heart over your desertion. It is incredible that you, Godfrey Fenton, can play so base and cruel a part toward the woman you professed to love." 
               Fenton flushed angrily, but he calmly replied: 
               "It would be far more cruel to bring her to poverty, as I certainly should, if I married her. My mother declares that she will cut me off without a dollar from her if I unite myself self with Inez. She would give the money she has hoarded for me to Guy, and he would be the winner in every way, if I were simple enough to sacrifice my best interests to a scruple of honor. When you remember how your brother and myself are situated, you will not dare to use such influence as you may possess to break off my marriage with Opal. You could not clear yourself from the imputation of mercenary motives, for every one would believe that in acting thus, you were actuated by the desire to secure for Guy what will only be given to me as the husband of Opal Hastings." 
               Mrs. Langley was enraged. With flashing eyes, she said: 
               "This is plain speaking, indeed, and it is what I did not think you would dare to say to me. You know that my brother is incapable of building his prosperity on the ruins of yours. He has a morbid sense of honor, and, loving Opal as he does, he would sooner die of disappointed hope than win her otherwise than honorably and fairly. No one is more fully aware of this than you are, Godfrey Fenton." 
               He mockingly replied: 
               "Men that have any stamina in them do not die of such things, Mrs. Langley. Guy will survive my marriage with his idol, and in time find some one to place upon the vacant pedestal. I wish you to understand that it is a settled thing, and I am seriously thinking of hurrying it on now that my fair enemy is making ready to appear on the scene. Opal is a woman in development, and to the accomplishments she wishes to perfect I am indifferent. She is lovely and attractive enough in herself without such brilliant tinsel. I tell you this, madam, that you may warn your brother that he is not to carry on such lover-like conversations with my betrothed as is now in progress on the other side of the room. I do not wish to have any difficulty with Guy, so I leave it to your tact to keep the peace between us." 
                
               Fenton arose as he ceased speaking, and crossing the room, broke up the tte--tte that was so displeasing to him by asking Opal if she would now sing for him. 
               She moved at once toward the piano, followed by Denham. She sang "Annie Laurie" with much sweetness and expression, and once she glanced up in his face with a smile so soft and eyes beaming with such tender interest that he felt almost assured she loved him. Fenton intercepted the look, and he felt as if he could have struck his rival down where he stood, so rapidly had grown his desire to snatch her from him and secure her for himself. 
               The two elder ladies came in; and when Mrs. Hastings saw Fenton, she hurriedly asked: 
               "Where is Mr. Hastings? Did you leave him alone in the library, Godfrey?" 
               "I believe he is still there, Mrs. Hastings; but he will doubtless join us immediately." 
               The black waiter had just come in to inform Mrs. Markland that her carriage was at the door. His mistress sharply said: 
               "Call your master, John, and tell him that Mrs. Markland is about to leave. But, no-stop where you are. I will go to him myself. It is very strange that he should hold himself aloof from his guests so long!" 
               With a quick, determined step she hastened from the room, crossed the hall, and entered the library. Mr. Hastings was still there, with his flushed face buried in his hands and an, air of weariness diffused over his whole person. Her eyes fell on the half-emptied decanter; and in a voice of concentrated anger, she said: 
               "So you have retired here to evade me, and have been bringing yourself below the level of man by swallowing that odious poison. Mr. Hastings, have you no shame in you that you desert your guests to indulge in your besetting sin?" 
                
               His hands dropped on the table, and he regarded her with a stare of dull bewilderment that was pitiable and painful to behold. He drearily said: 
               "Laura-Mrs. Hastings, I-I only wish that you would attend to your own concerns, and let me alone. You-you badger me to death. I have no peace-no rest, and God only knows how much I need it!" 
               "I must let you alone to find peace in muddling your brains with intoxicating liquors, I suppose. If that is what you ask, you will not get it from me, I can tell you. Get up, and come with me to bid Mrs. Markland good-bye, if you can stand straight on your feet. This is too much! The first day of Godfrey's return, too, and you could not refrain! If I had dreamed that you would order whiskey in her, after what I said to you at dinner, I should have come in to look after you myself." 
               "This is my house, I believe, madam," he said, with an effort to be dignified, "and-and it is not fitting that a wife should interfere with her husband's pleasures as you do with mine. God knows that I have few enough left me." 
               She regarded him with an expression of supreme contempt and tauntingly replied: 
               "Your house, indeed! I suppose it is, as long as I permit you to be master of it, but if you go on in this way, that will not be long. I am disgusted and worn out with such shameful self-indulgence. I should not wonder if you have mania  potu next, and when it comes to that I will take my daughter with me and leave you to die as you will deserve, alone and uncared for." 
               "You have threatened me with that before to-day, madam, but I defy you to take my child from me. The law gives her to me, and her affection for me will induce her to cling to me in preference to you." 
                
               "A fig for the law! I don't care for it, and I would take Opal from you or die in the struggle. She should never remain with a father who daily proves his incompetency to take care of himself. Get up, if, you can, and come out with me, for Mrs. Markland will be offended if you are not on hand to help her in her carriage." 
               "Of course I shall get up, and walk as straight as you can. I am not intoxicated. I have only taken enough stimulant to brace my nerves, and there is no occasion for all this nonsense." 
               He arose steadily enough, and Mrs. Hastings laid her hand on her heart and cried out: 
               "I shall be ill; I feel it coming on me now. You know in what a state you always throw me by acting thus, yet you will persist in your debasing habits. I must summon all my strength to keep up appearances till our guests are gone, but then I shall sink down, crushed by the burden you lay on me." 
               He looked at her with his unsteady eyes, and moving with extreme deliberation toward the door, said: 
               "Come on then, Laura, and keep up appearances. That is all you care about in this world. I am right enough to do all that is necessary for that, and you can bottle up your wrath till those people are gone. We need not exhibit to them the phantom that invades our domestic privacy." 
               He threw the door open and found his guests in the hall, the ladies with their wrappings on ready to take leave. 
               Opal cast an anxious glance at her parents, and with a painful pang understood what had occurred, anticipating with dread the scene that was sure to follow the departure of their friends. 
               Adieux were uttered, and with extreme gravity and courtesy, Mr. Hastings assisted Mrs. Markland to step into her carriage, after accepting an invitation to spend the following day at her house. 
                
               Mrs. Langley and her brother had rode over on horseback, and they were soon catering away beneath the shadows of the trees, without having extended to them from their august aunt anything more than a general invitation to call at Magnolia when they felt inclined to do so. 
               The carriage of Mrs. Markland more slowly followed, and it was no sooner beyond hearing than Mrs. Hastings uttered a piercing cry, and fell on a sofa in strong hysteric spasms. Her shrieks filled the house, and it was with some difficulty that she was at last borne to her own apartment, undressed, and placed in bed. 
               Opal remained with her, administering such sedatives as she was accustomed to use in similar attacks, till her mother sunk to sleep beneath their influence. 
               It was a sad ending to so pleasant a day as the past one had been to her, but she was young, sanguine, and accustomed to such scenes, so she did not take them greatly to heart. She loved and trusted her father, in spite of his weakness, and she wished that her mother could only be made more reasonable when he overstepped the temperate limits to which she was so anxious to confine him. Nearly every gentleman Opal knew drank more or less, then why should their home be turned into a pandemonium, because its master occasionally indulged in his potations a little too freely? 
               Opal had never seen her father intoxicated in her life; he was never so far beside himself as not to be courteous and kind in his manners and language, and she was far from willing to set herself up in judgment against the parent she love with her whole heart, and reverenced in spite of his failing. 
               She went to him when she was free to do so, and with her caresses consoled him for her mother's outbreak; and the self-condemned and unhappy man felt that while she was left to brighten his home, it would never become so odious to him as he had that day told Godfrey Fenton it might. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               INCONSTANCY.-OFF WITH THE OLD LOVE, ON WITH THE NEW. 
               ON the following day Mrs. Hastings was as well as usual, but she remained in bed until the hour nearly arrived to set out for Magnolia. She had no idea of giving up her visit on account of her late assumed illness; for she had become so expert in imitating hysterical attacks that it was difficult for those near her to detect the imposture. 
               Mrs. Hastings deluded herself with the idea that by simulating suffering she could work on the better feelings of her husband till a reform would be produced. She never dreamed that he saw through her shallow tactics, and resented the confusion and discomfort produced in the house by her pretence of illness. If he had ever loved her as he knew himself to be capable of loving, he might have felt differently-might have made efforts to redeem himself from his sin; but he did not. He had never loved her as a man should the woman he vows before God to cherish as the partner of his life. He had been fascinated by her beauty, for in her youth she had been very attractive; dazzled by her great wealth, and finally won by her evident preference for himself. 
               Mr. Hastings had always been an attentive and affectionate husband, save when the reproaches of his wife goaded him to utter some bitter retort; but in his heart of hearts he knew that his Laura was not the woman who should have stood beside him in the battle of life. Before they met, he had lavished on another all the passion of his heart; and the pale and feeble glimmer of love she had awakened, when compared with that lava tide of feeling, seemed as a farthing rushlight beside the grand eruption of a volcano. 
               Wildly as he had loved her, he had wronged that other woman as deeply as man can wrong his fellow being; and he sadly confessed to himself that he merited all and more than the wife he had wedded chose to inflict upon him. So he bore his cross as meekly as he could, and tried to be respectable, if he could not be happy. 
               While her mother was making her toilette, Opal joined her father on the portico, where he was restlessly pacing to and fro waiting for the appearance of the carriage and his lady wife. 
               The young girl had recovered from the excitement of the previous evening, and she looked as pure as a snow-drop in her dark silk dress, relieved at the throat by a delicate lace collar fastened with a large opal set with pearls. She put her hand through his arm, and tenderly said: 
               "Let me walk with you, papa, and cheer you up a little. You look sadly dispirited this morning." 
               "Do I, my darling? I thought I had quite recovered my usual equanimity, and with it the deceitful semblance of content, at least." 
               "Oh, papa, I hope you are not in earnest when you speak thus. Are you not contented, even happy, in your own home, with your own pet to make much of you?" 
               And she eagerly scanned the handsome face from which the purple flush that disfigured it a few hours before had entirely faded, leaving his fine features clear and pale, but unutterably said in expression. 
               He smiled down on her, and affectionately replied: 
                
               "Yes, I am happy when you are beside me, my precious one. But there is little else to attach me to life, Opal. Your mother will not permit us to enjoy the peace we might have; and although I know that I do not always do exactly right, she does not take the true way to reform me. But Laura is your mother, my dear, and of course I am unwilling to say anything to you that can lower your respect for her. We will talk of something else; and first and foremost let me ask what you think of Godfrey Fenton? You know that your opinion of him is of paramount importance." 
               She flushed slightly, and with some reserve replied: 
               "Not to him, I fancy; for there is some one else in the world that he thinks far more of than he does of me." 
               "Who told you that, my child?" 
               "I heard such a hint from Mrs. Langley soon after her return from Newport, and it was confirmed by some words that fell from Guy Denham yesterday. They were together several weeks last summer, you know, and at that time Godfrey was devoted to a young lady whose acquaintance he made in the North." 
               With some irritation Mr. Hastings asked: 
               "How did Guy come to tell you such a thing as that? Knowing as he does the relations that exist between you and Godfrey, it was unkind and uncalled for on his part to speak of a flirtation such as any young man may carry on with a casual acquaintance at a watering place." 
               "But, papa, I have the impression that it was something far more serious than a flirtation. Mr. Fenton is not absolutely bound to me, for no word of love has ever passed between us, and so far as I am concerned he is perfectly free to choose another. The sort of contract that has been made for him and myself, by you and his mother, is not binding on either of us; and-and-to tell you the truth, I wish it had never been made." 
                
               "Nonsense, Opal, don't talk in this strain. Don't you like Godfrey well enough as a lover? He is the handsomest fellow I ever saw, with the cultivation of an elegant gentleman. No girl could long remain indifferent to him." 
               "Not if he loved her devotedly and truly, perhaps; but Godfrey is not in love with me, and I do not think that he intends to put forward such claims as he might once have had to my hand. I believe that phase of his life is over, and I am no more to him than any other girl he knew and petted as a child." 
               "There you are greatly mistaken, for he and I had a long conversation about you yesterday, in which he distinctly said that he loves you, and looks forward with certainty to the completion of your long contemplated union." 
               Opal looked frightened and seemed ready to burst into tears; but she controlled her voice sufficiently to say: 
               "I-I am sorry to hear it, papa, for I do not think that I like Godfrey better than-than any one else; and I ought to do that if I consent to marry him." 
               "Whom do you mean by any one else?" asked her father, abruptly, as he fixed his eyes searchingly upon her changing face. "Has any other been trying to rival Godfrey in your good graces?" 
               Opal hung her head and faintly murmured: 
               "I hardly know. But if you won't be angry with me I will confess that whenever I do marry, I had rather choose my own husband than have him chosen for me. Godfrey only takes me because his mother insists upon it; I feel almost sure of that, and-and I had rather not be almost offered to him. I should prefer that we both have perfect freedom of choice in this matter." 
               Her father drily replied: 
               "If you mean by that you would not choose Godfrey, I am afraid it cannot be granted to you, Opal." 
                
               She looked up at him with an alarmed expression and deprecatingly said: 
               "Don't speak to me in such a tone as that, papa; it wounds me deeply. What necessity binds me to accept Mr. Fenton, regardless of my own feelings? I cannot understand why I must marry him." 
               "You will marry him, my dear, because he adores you; because your parents wish it, and my future peace demands it. If you refuse Godfrey Fenton, in all probability your mother and I will cease to live together as husband and wife. I should go away, God knows where! but you would see me no more. Much as I love you, I should then have no choice but to separate myself from you, and the separation, once made, would be final." 
               Opal listened appalled. In a tone of anguish she exclaimed: 
               "Oh, papa! what are you talking of! Leave us! Leave mamma and me! Do not try to frighten me into measure by uttering such a threat as that." 
               "It is not intended as a threat, my daughter. It is the saddest truth to me. I cannot explain why it is so, but for me everything depends on your union with Godfrey Fenton. If your heart has strayed from him, recall it as speedily as possible, for there is no escape from the marriage that has been arranged for you." 
               Opal listened to these sad and measured words as to those of doom. She trembled and grew pale, for she saw that her father was terribly in earnest. She was not in love with Guy Denham, but she felt that indefinable attraction toward him-that perfect trust in his honor and nobility of soul, which must have resulted in a tender and enduring attachment had it not been thus rudely nipped in the bud. 
               After a pause of some length she sadly said: 
               "I cannot wilfully do anything to make you unhappy papa; much less to bring about such disastrous results as your words foreshadow. I am your loving and obedient child, and if Godfrey can succeed in convincing me that he loves me truly and with all his heart, I-I will try to return it. That is all I can promise." 
               "And that is enough, darling. In the present state of affairs I could ask no more of you. Godfrey has a whole year in which to win you, and in that time I am sure he will succeed. Put aside this jealous fancy of yours, for although he admitted to me that he had flirted with two girls since he went away, he declared that he still kept the image of his child-bride paramount in his heart." 
               "Two! I heard of but one. Well, I suppose that Godfrey only amused himself as other handsome young man do, and I must attach no importance to what I have heard." 
               "You need not, for I am sure there was no serious entanglement; and by the way, 'forewarned is forearmed.' I was sorry to hear that one of the ladies is the very Miss Gordon who is coming here as your governess. Now she may cherish some spite against Godfrey for disappointing her, and it must be your part to put down any effort made by her to disparage him in your estimation. You must not permit her to talk of Godfrey at all. He meant nothing by his attentions, and he assured me that her chief attraction for him lay in her resemblance to you." 
               "Miss Gordon looks like me? That is strange." 
               "By no means. Such accidental resemblances often occur; but, in fact, this young lady is a distant relative of mine, and by some strange freak of nature you have both inherited features of the same mould from some common ancestor." 
               Opal looked very much surprised: 
               "If she is a relative, why has she not before been spoken of as such? I thought her an utter stranger." 
                
               With some embarrassment her father replied: 
               "Until Fenton told me of the likeness between you, I had made up my mind to say nothing about it, as the girl herself might build hopes upon the connection that could never be realized. But as no one knows what absurd fancies your mother might take into her head if it was not accounted for by the fact of her relationship, I shall confide to her what I have just told you; but it is not my wish that Miss Gordon shall know that such a tie exists. She might presume upon it and give us trouble. You are to forget that a drop of the same blood flows in your veins, and only treat her as a lady whose accomplishments entitle her to every consideration." 
               "I shall be sure to do that, papa, for it must be a sad fate for a young girl to have no home of her own. But here comes the carriage and our talk is at an end, for I must run up stairs for my hat and shawl. Thank you for your confidence in me. It has placed me on a right footing, and I mean to prove myself quite worthy of it." 
               A dark brown carriage, with silver-mounted harness on the blooded horses, drew up in front of the steps, and a groom led his master's steed behind it. Mr. Hastings never drove with his wife; he could not bear the confinement of a close carriage, and, like most southern gentlemen, preferred equestrian exercise. 
               Mrs. Hastings came forth elaborately dressed and rouged. She had not seen her husband since she was borne from his sight on the previous evening, for he never ventured near her while she was in what her black maid called "spagms" and "squirming tantrums;" the last being the most expressive name that could possibly have been invented for the condition of Mrs. Hastings at such interesting times. 
               She smiled on her liege lord this morning, and held out her finger, as she languidly said: 
                
               "I have overslept myself; but no wonder, after all I suffered last night. But I forgive your naughtiness, my love, in the hope that such a thing will not occur again. When you see how unhappy it makes me to see you ruining your health and destroying the fine looks in which I take such pride, you should resolve to abandon your self-indulgent habits." 
               "If you would cease preaching, Laura, perhaps I might make the effort. If you had any discernment, you would have found that out long ago. I don't choose to be hectored over by my own wife, so I let her see that I will have my own way, even if it is to my own detriment." 
               "Hectored over! what a horrid, vulgar word!" exclaimed the lady, shuddering affectedly. 
               "By no means vulgar, for it has a classic origin, and comes from the feats of that hero of the Trojans so nobly sung by the oldest poet known to Greece. I am sorry that the word shocked your sensitive nerves." 
               "If you cared about shocking my nerves, you would act differently from what you do. You never seem the least sorry or repentant, although you have been the cause of such suffering to me. I shall die yet in some of these attacks; and, if justice were done, you would be held responsible for my fate." 
               "Yet if such a catastrophe were to occur, I should go 'unwhipt of justice,' for there is no law to punish a man because his wife gives way to her temper till it masters her completely." 
               "Temper!-temper is it, when my frame is racked by suffering, and my heart almost broken by your cruel want of consideration for me. Mr. Hastings, there are moments in which I wish that I had never seen you." 
               "I sincerely wish that you never had, Mrs. Hastings, for we should both have been better apart. I have lived in a whirlwind since I have been your husband; and it seems that even now, when we have a grown up daughter to witness our quarrels, you will not suffer peace to reign in her home. I have resolved on one thing, and that is, that I will no longer submit to your caprices; and if you do not treat me with more respect, I will shake the dust of this place of my feet, and go-God knows whither, but to some place as far distant from you as can be found in this miserable world." 
               She looked into his set face, and saw that he was deeply in earnest. Her heart gave a great bound, for she loved him in spite of the tyranny to which she habitually subjected him, and in a changed tone she said: 
               "I only speak for your good, William. Don't look at me so, for you know that I am devoted to you-that I could not live without you. Don't talk in that dreadful way, or I shall be ill again." 
               "Very well, Laura. I will not, if you will be on your good behavior. You make me so unhappy at times that I am ready to do anything desperate. You don't understand me, or you would take a different course to influence me." 
               She came to his said, laid her hand upon his arm, and looking up into his face with eyes filled with tears, almost humbly said: 
               "Forgive me this once, William, and I will try to do better. But indeed you exhaust my patience and humiliate me by-by-well, you know what, so I will not speak of it." 
               He looked down at her, sighed wearily, and sadly replied: 
               "Let 'the dead past bury its dead,' Laura. I promise not to exceed bounds to-day, and I will make an effort to refrain from drinking more than is good for me. Of late I know that I have exceeded bounds, but I have been very unhappy, and that was the only escape from the burden that oppresses me. Let there be a truce between us, for here comes Opal; and the poor child will be most happy to see that we are reconciled." 
               The young girl was indeed rejoiced to see them standing amicably together, and she smiled brightly as she sprang into the carriage after her mother. Mr. Hastings mounted his horse and slowly followed them, thinking and planning for the future, almost repenting the arrangement he had made to bring Nina Gordon beneath his roof, yet repudiating the suspicion that she could become the agent of evil to any member of his household. 
               On this bright morning, he thought far more of her than of the recent reconciliation with his wife, and his final conclusion was that it was best for her to come. He must provide for her in some way; and the one he had chosen seemed to be the only means of doing so that was open to him. 
               When Mr. Hastings reached Magnolia, he found the little party gathered in the spacious drawing-room, the elder ladies near the bright wood fire that sparkled on the hearth, and the young people gathered in a group around a portfolio of engravings, which they were looking over and discussing. 
               As this was Saturday, Dora and Jenny were at home; and most happy were they to be near the brother of whom they were so proud and fond. They caressed his hands, played with his amber curls, and showed in every way the delight his presence afforded them. Opal noted with an observant eye the affectionate playfulness with which Fenton submitted to these demonstrations; and, with a half sigh, she admitted to herself that the love chosen for her by her parents was amiable and considerate of others, and she thought that it might not be impossible to learn to love him. 
               She resolutely put aside the dream that had begun to mingle with her maiden fancies, and hoped that Guy was not so much attached to her as his manner of late had led her to believe. Her destiny was fixed-no effort of her own could change it, so she must submit to be given in marriage to the handsome and fascinating man who, on this day, set himself seriously to the task of winning her from the rival he both hated and feared. Guy Denham should never take her from him-he was determined on that; and, after Fenton's return home on the previous night, he had distinctly pledged his word to his mother that he would do all in his power to hasten his union with Opal Hastings. If they were to be united at all, it was safer and better to have their marriage completed as soon as possible, and thus baffle the efforts Nina Gordon would doubtless make to produce a rupture between them. 
               Fenton observed that the manner of Opal was much more shy and reserved than on the previous day, and he readily surmised that her father had given her to understand that he intended to maintain his claim on her hand. How much she had been told concerning Inez he did not know, but to-day he was ready to protest to her that, through all his other love experiences, she had never for one moment lost the hold on his heart gained by her childish attractions. 
               Fenton would not pause to think how false he was to both these women; he felt that the necessity of a speedy decision, and as rapid action, left him no choice. Convinced that Inez was out of the question as his future wife, he was resolute that so fair a prize as Opal should not escape him through any lack of ardor on his part. 
               Already was his inconstant heart inflamed by her beauty, and he was ready to vow that no other girl had awakened such profound emotions of regard in his susceptible heart. Mrs. Markland looked on with joyful satisfaction, and determined before the day was over to speak with Mr. Hastings tings on the subject of an immediate union between the young people. It could do no good to defer their marriage a year, and she was most anxious to place between her son and Inez Lopez a barrier that could not be overleaped in a moment of desperate and rebellious passion; for, after what had passed between them on the night of Fenton's return, she could not feel entirely sure of him till the knot was actually tied that bound him fast to the bride she had chosen for him. 
               After greeting Mrs. Markland, Mr. Hastings drew near the young people, and pinching Dora's cheek, said: 
               "You are growing almost as tall and pretty as Opal, my dear. But before you dream of a lover for yourself, you shall act as bridesmaid for her, and we will have the grandest wedding that was ever given in the county, or perhaps the state!" 
               Opal flushed painfully, and Jenny archly said: 
               "I know who the groom is to be, and of course Dora will be first bridesmaid. I only wish that I was tall enough to stand up too, but I suppose I'll have to stay with the children." 
               And she curled her lip contemptuously. 
               "I will tell you how we'll manage that, Jenny, We'll have candle-bearers to light the bride on her way, as was the fashion in my young days, and you shall be one of them." 
               The little girl clapped her hands in ecstasy. 
               "That will be splendid! and I'll hold my candle so straight as not to drop the wax on my dress and spoil it. I intend to wear a white tulle looped up with roses. Mamma will think that simple enough for a child like me, I hope." 
               "I don't doubt it; and, as you are such a connoisseur in dress, Jenny, perhaps you will give Opal a hint of what hers should be on that auspicious occasion?" 
                
               "Of course I will," replied the voluble child, with extreme gravity. "As Opal is a great heiress, she must have satin and real lace-lace as fine and costly as that worn by the Princess Royal of England when she was married. She must have diamonds on her neck and arms, but her head must be crowned with orange-blossoms, because all brides wear them." 
               Opal was bending over the picture called "The Lover's Parting," but she did not see it. She was trembling with agitation, and rapidly changed color, for she know that Fenton's eyes were fixed on her, and she felt almost angry with her father for subjecting her to so painful an ordeal by his idle prattle with the self-sufficient little girl. 
               Dora added to her confusion by saying, in a distinct whisper: 
               "That picture represents you and Godfrey, when he goes to New Orleans to get his wedding outfit-only the girl's hair is black, and yours is brown. It's a pity the artist did not give her light hair." 
               Fenton overheard her, and he glanced down at the colored lithograph on which Opal's eyes were mechanically fixed. He started with a painful sense of guilt, for the scene it represented brought vividly to his mind that last parting scene with Inez, in which he had vowed before Heaven to be true to her. There was an expression in the dark, imploring eyes, in the drooping grace of the figure, that brought her image as a living reality before him; and for a moment he felt almost stunned. In that instant he knew that Inez had lost no portion of her power over his heart, and he could have cursed himself for the base desertion he had so readily determined on. 
               The voice of his mother aroused him from his painful trance, and he came back to the present, resolutely thrusting aside such inconvenient memories as intruded upon him. 
                
               Dinner was announced, and on this day he had Opal all to himself. He sat beside her, and sedulously devoted himself to her, talking with a brilliancy that was born of the unrest that devoured his soul. 
               What he meant to do should be done quickly, that no loophole of escape or repentance might remain. He would place his matrimonial destiny beyond his own control, and then he would be able to exorcise the past and think only of the auspicious future opening before him. He drank several glasses of champagne, and under their exhilarating influence felt never for the ordeal through which he intended to pass before the day was over. 
               Opal was unusually silent, and she scarcely tasted the tempting viands that were offered in succession to her. When the elaborate dinner was at last over, she was glad to escape from the scent of food by taking refuge in the open air. 
               The afternoon was soft and clear, and she managed to evade the children, hoping to gain a few moments alone in the seclusion of a summer-house situated in a wilderness of shrubbery in the lower end of the large garden. 
               With a weary sigh she threw herself on the rustic seat it contained, and pitifully murmured: 
               "I see it-I feel it-I must-I must obey the wishes of my father; yet-yet, I feel tempted to follow the dictates of my own heart. Godfrey intends to marry me-I understand that plainly enough, and I-I wonder if I can love him as he deserves to be loved? He fascinates me-he enthralls me in some mysterious way; yet I am sure it is not love. No-no-it is not the attraction of love-I know it is not; yet it is my duty to cultivate that feeling for him. I must teach myself the lesson they have set me, and-oh, Heavens! here he comes to demand the ratification of the contract that was made for us, and there is no escape for me." 
                
               She recognized the eager step that drew near her place of seclusion, and bitterly regretted that she had afforded Fenton and opportunity of speaking with her in private. She intuitively knew what he came to say, and dreaded hearing it. 
               Fenton came blithely forward, sat down beside her, and taking her passive hand in his own, tenderly said: 
               "This is a happiness I had scarcely dared to hope for, Opal-my Opal, is it not so? All day have I been panting for the opportunity to tell you with what passionate sentitiments of affection you have inspired me. Our parents long ago decided that we should marry, Opal; but their wishes would have little weight with me if I did not adore you. Your consent to give me your hand will render me the happiest and proudest of men." 
               She looked up at him and suddenly asked: 
               "To how many others have you uttered the same protestations, Mr. Fenton? I have been told that you found charms, superior in your estimation to mine, while you were far away; then how can I believe that your professions are sincere?" 
               Nothing daunted, he earnestly said: 
               "Look into my eyes, Opal, and you will see that I mean every word I utter. Do not doubt me, dearest, because slandering tongues have tried to poison your mind against me, by misrepresenting a mere flirtation that meant nothing. Everything is over between the lady you refer to and myself, and I am at your feet to be made the happiest or the most miserable of men." 
               He arose and gracefully dropped on one knee before her, but he did this that he might have a fair look into the agitated face which she had turned so persistently from him that he could see nothing of its expression as he sat beside her. 
                
               Fenton saw that her doubts were melting before his asseverations, for she looked down on him with dewy eyes, and her lips relaxed into a faint smile as she asked: 
               "Are you sure. Godfrey, that the gift of my love will make you as happy as you say it will? Do not seek to deceive me, nor play the traitor to your own heart, for it is of the last importance to both of us that we shall fully understand what we desire." 
               "I have but one wish, Opal, and that is to make you my wife at as early a day as possible. The sooner our marriage can take place the better it will be for me, and I hope for you, my dearest girl." 
               In a tone of alarm she cried: 
               "But there is no question of an immediate marriage, Godfrey. Such is not my father's wish, nor-nor my own. When he spoke to me on this subject this morning, he said that we would have a year in which to understand our feelings toward each other. I am too young to marry yet." 
               "I do not think so, Opal. You are a woman in person, and your mind is developed beyond your years. Let mine be the precious task to develop your heart and affections, and I shall feel myself the most fortunate of men. Consent that our union shall take place immediately; there is no necessity for delay, and I am most anxious to make you all my own before your heart has had a chance to receive other impressions. To win your virgin affections is the sweetest hope of my life, and, blessed with them, I feel that I shall have won all that is needed to make my future happy. Let me become your husband without any delay that can be avoided." 
               An almost imperceptible shiver thrilled through her frame, and she hurriedly said: 
               "No-no-it cannot be, dear Godfrey. Eloquently as you plead; earnest as you seem to be, I must refuse to give you my hand before the stipulated year is out. Grant me that grace, I entreat, and say nothing to papa about a speedy marriage. I must not consent to it, for I do not yet fully understand my own heart. I love no other, yet I shrink from the thought of giving myself irrevocably to you." 
               "Opal-darling, that is but the natural feeling of every young girl when she first listens to words of love; but you will get over it, love. You will gradually accustom yourself to think of my as the companion of your future life, and you will be wrought on to consent to name an early day for our union. Since it is to be, there is no good reason for deferring it longer than is necessary to prepare a trousseau befitting so peerless a bride as you will be. Oh, Opal! I could not bear the delay of a whole year. I know not what might happen in that interval to separate us forever." 
               "But what could happen, Godfrey? I am willing to consider my hand as plighted to you; to bring my heart into subjection to the wishes of those who love me best; but it is asking too much of me when you insist that I shall become yours before I have had time to learn to love you. I would not deceive you for the world, Godfrey, and I have known too little of you in the last few years to wind my affections around you all at once. Give me the stipulated year, I entreat, in which to make up my mind to this important change in my destiny. Nothing can sever us but your will or my own, and if either of us should wish to recede from the contract, it will surely be better to retain the power of doing so, before an irrevocable yow is taken at the altar." 
               "Opal," he passionately said, "your coolness drives me mad. I tell you that the girl who is coming hither as your governess, may step between us; she may make a breach between us that can never be healed. Consent to marry me at once, and all Nina Gordon's arts will be effectually baffled." 
               She made an effort to release her hands which he had forcibly imprisoned in his own, and coldly said: 
               "Miss Gordon, I already understand, thinks that you have not treated her well. I do not judge you, Godfrey, and your flirtation with her may not have been looked on by you as wrong; but you must have a very poor opinion of me if you think anything she would dare to say against you would be listened to by me. No-if I trust you at all? I trust you implicitly. I have consented to become your wife at some future day, and I shall hold your honor sacred from the attacks of any one. Miss Gordon will never be permitted to say aught that is not fitting to be spoken of you to your betrothed." 
               Fenton arose and leaned against the doorway, looking down on her with an expression she could not interpret. In a sad tone, he said: 
               "I thank you for that assurance, Opal. It is worthy of you, and half consoles me for your opposition to what I so earnestly desire. This young girl is my bitter foe; twice has she threatened to avenge herself on me for the imaginary wrong I did her in leading her to suppose that my attentions were more than friendly. I sought her acquaintance because she reminded me of you; that was the sole attraction, I solemnly swear, though she deluded herself with the belief that I loved her. But she is the 'counterfeit presentment' beside the true gem, and you alone are mistress of my heart." 
               Opal looked up at him, smiled faintly, and replied: 
               "I am willing to believe you, Godfrey, but let me have a little time to fathom my own heart, and bring out all its capacity for loving, before I plight my faith to you. Surely that is not asking too much." 
                
               "It is only asking that which I feel incapable of granting, Opal. I shall see you every day for weeks to come, and, at the end of another month, I shall again press for a speedy union. By that time you will know me better; you will understand how dear you are to me, and I am vain enough to hope that I shall have been able to elicit a corresponding emotion in your heart. If you love me ever so little then, will you promise to listen more favorably to my proposal of an immediate marriage? We will make a bridal trip to Europe; I have never travelled except on this continent, and together we will explore the old world, finding day by day something to prize and love in each other even more than the wonders of art and beauty to be enjoyed there." 
               The bait was well presented, for Fenton knew that Opal was most anxious for such a tour; that she had looked forward to it through all her short life as its crowning joy. She was so young, so untried, so ignorant of her own needs, that she listened to this suggestion with a bounding heart. She smiled on him with all her native brightness, and extending her fair hand to him, softly said: 
               "I will think of what you have said, Godfrey, and if I can gain the consent of my own heart, and papa is willing to give me up so soon, perhaps your wishes may be fulfilled. But I am to have a month to make up my mind, remember; and if I recede, then you will not urge me further till the year is gone." 
               "I will not; I pledge you my honor I will not," cried Fenton, beaming with rapture at this concession. "Oh, Opal, I will not doubt my power to win you, for such love as I feel for you must meet its reward." 
               He did not attempt to kiss her. He had too much tact for that. He only lifted her hand to his lips with fervent pressure, and she thanked him in her heart for his forbearance ance; for, after what had just passed between them, he surely had the right to kiss her if he chose to do so. 
               Fenton remembered the last passionate kiss he had pressed upon the lips of Inez; and although he did not scruple to secure his own interests by making love to her rival, he shrank from talking Opal in his arms, and bestowing on her the caress which he felt would be profanation to the pure and maidenly creature who had just given him her troth. 
               She arose, and quietly said: 
               "We will return to the house now. It is getting late, and mamma will be anxious to return home." 
               Fenton drew her arm through his, and as they walked slowly forward he said: 
               "There is one thing I must require of you, Opal. Guy loves you; he makes no concealment of it; and I saw indications yesterday that made me a little jealous. Men may flirt with impunity, dearest, but no man likes to see his betrothed too attractive to another." 
               He felt that she shivered, but she calmly replied: 
               "Mr. Denham has never told me that he loves me, and I have no right to believe it until he does so. You need have no fear of him. I shall not again permit him to approach me as he did yesterday. I understand too well what is due to our relations toward each other." 
               "Thanks, dearest. Freed from Guy's rivalry, I am persuaded that I shall be able to win all that I have asked. Only let me devote myself to you without any disturbing element, and my adoring love must win its way to your gentle and affectionate heart." 
               By this time they had gained the entrance to the house, before which the carriage was waiting; and when they entered the drawing-room mischievous glances greeted them from the two girls. 
                
               Jenny came up to Opal and whispered in her ear: 
               "Kiss me, sister, for I see from your face that Godfrey has gained your consent to become such. I hope it won't be long before I shall have my tulle dress looped with roses." 
               "You absurd child, that is only fitting attire for a young lady. Wait till the occasion comes, and then you shall have a white silk, with a lace tucker." 
               Jenny pouted, and Dora softly said: 
               "I hope we shall have the wedding very soon, and I think we shall, for mamma and Mr. Hastings have been talking it over; and I overhead her say that it is of no use to put it off, and it will be safer and better to have it over at once." 
               Opal crimsoned, and cast a half-resentful glance toward Mrs. Markland, but another one at the handsome and animated face of Fenton made her think how ungrateful she was for all the affection lavished on her. 
               Poor child! how was she to distinguish the true from the counterfeit, especially when love was so well simulated? and she left Magnolia with the conviction that, in the estimation of Godfrey Fenton, she was the dearest of God's creatures. 
               Mrs. Markland whispered a few words in her ear as they separated, and Opal sunk back in the carriage in a strange whirl of feeling, for the assurance was thus conveyed to her that her father, on whose opposition she had relied to save her from the too ardent pursuit of her lover, had given his consent to an immediate marriage. 
               What influence had been brought to bear upon him which could induce him to do this? Opal vainly asked herself. She was bewildered and frightened by the suddenness of the whole thing, and she could not divest herself of the feeling that she was hovering on the brink of a precipice from which she felt herself powerless to recede. The hand that pushed her over its brink would be that of her own father; and, although she shivered and shrank in every fibre of her frame from the last fatal plunge, she felt that she would be forced to make it without the entire consent of her own heart. 
               The first moment she found herself alone with her father, she threw herself sobbing upon his breast, and cried out: 
               "What have you done, papa? Why have you consented that my marriage shall be hurried on? I shall not have time to know whether I am taking Godfrey because I love him or because he said he would take me to Europe. I made a foolish promise when he said he would-but I regret it already. I do not wish to marry any one yet, papa." 
               "To this outburst, Mr. Hastings soothingly replied: 
               "You will think differently about it, my love, when you have had time to overcome your agitation and view things calmly. There is really no reason why the marriage which is eventually to take place shall be postponed. Godfrey is extremely anxious that no delay shall take place, and I really could not bring forward any valid objection when Mrs. Markland set forth all the reasons in its favor. Godfrey is a noble and true man, and it is as well for you to secure a good husband now as at some future day." 
               "Secure him!-I don't wish to secure him. He may go if he chooses, and I should not break my heart over his loss. I do not understand how I feel towards him; when Godfrey talks with me, I seem to be under a spell, and I have no power to resist his specious pleadings; but, when I am away from him, something cries aloud in my soul and warns me that he is not its true mate. Oh, papa, pity me and save me from-from-making a precipitate marriage, which may end in supreme wretchednesss to your poor Opal!" 
                
               "Hush! hush! darling. You must not talk in this strain. You must not give way to such chimerical fancies. Opal, you must marry Godfrey Fenton, if you would save me from disgrace. Make the sacrifice, if it be such, without these bitter wailings over you lot. Refuse to give him your hand by the twentieth of next month, and all is ended for me. I will go away and find some place in which to hide my dishonored head for the remnant of my unhappy life. It rests with you to decide what my fate shall be." 
               Opal raised herself from his bosom, and regarded him with terror. His face was paler than her own, and there was an expression on it that chilled her to the soul. She tremulously asked: 
               "Has it come to this, that I must, sacrifice myself to save you from-What-for I do not understand the danger that menaces you." 
               "Nor can I explain it," he mournfully replied; "but my fate rests with you. I leave you free to decide for yourself, and-and-for me." 
               The solemnity with which the last words were spoken left her no room for doubt, and with a cry of anguish she exclaimed: 
               "Then there is no alternative! I give myself away at your command; but oh! my father, my heart is not in this contract. It is not. I feel-I know it now when it is too late." 
               "It will be, my darling child; for no mortal woman can resist such a man as Godfrey, when he swears that he loves her beyond all others; and I believe, I am sure that he thus regards you." 
               Opal shook her head, sighed heavily, and escaped to her own room to weep more bitterly than she had over wept in her life. Alone, she stood face to face with her own soul, and she knew then that another was dearer to her than the man to whom she had promised her hand. 
                
               But she was brave and meant to be true, and she silently closed that portal in her heart and vowed to make every effort to give it up to her betrothed. For her father's sake this sacrifice must be made, and she would not make it with a shrinking and unwilling heart if she could help it. 
               Mrs. Hastings was informed that night of what had taken place between the betrothed pair, and although she was surprised that Opal had consented to so early a marriage, she was delighted with the prospect of the bustle of preparation, and entered heart and soul into the details of the trousseau. 
               Orders were dispatched to New Orleans for a splendid one to be prepared, and her soul revelled in anticipations of the exquisite toilettes she ordered both for her daughter and herself. 
               Day after day Fenton came to Silvermere, and if the truth must be told, he prospered in his wooing. He rode, walked and drove with Opal, and made himself so charming that she began to believe that her father's words would prove true, and her betrothed find himself as irresistible to her as he had been to others. 
               Yet at moments a timid dread would steal over her, and at such times nothing held her to her pledges save the memory of her father's strange words. For him she could do anything, and after all, did he not ask her to accept as her husband the most devoted lover that maiden ever had? 
               Thus this inexperienced creature reasoned, and the days glided on till three out of the five weeks granted her were gone, yet she was no nearer the solution of the important question, Do I love him? than she had been in the first hour of her bondage. She walked blindly forward, reckless now of what the future might bring. 
               Through all her transitions of feeling, Fenton anxiously watched her, for he was now as eager in pursuit of her as even his mother could have desired. Her coy reticence, the fluctuations of her manner toward himself had awakened something of the feeling of the sportsman who dashes on in pursuit of the frightened hare; and Fenton persuaded his own heart that it desired Opal Hastings above all others as the sweet partner of all its joys and sorrows. 
               A letter came from Inez informing him that the health of her father was rapidly failing, and nothing had yet been heard from the missing will; but it scarcely moved him now. He had turned away from the past, put it behind him forever, and he could almost smile when he recalled the hours of anguish their recent parting had inflicted on him. 
               He did not reply to her; what could he have said? He had already written to her, informing her that his mother was immovable in her opposition to their union, and he had nothing further to add. He could not bring himself to tell her that he was on the eve of marriage with another while his kisses were yet scarcely cold upon her lips; so he left it to chance to reveal to the forsaken girl all the height and depth of the perfidy he was about to consummate by taking to his arms an unwilling bride. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               NINA RECEIVES A SHOCK,-THE NEMESIS GOES TO SILVERMERE. 
               AT this crisis Nina Gordon arrived in Natchez, and went with Mr. Matson to his charming house in the vicinity of the town. She was there presented to his family, and won from them golden opinions by her beauty and brightness. She made every effort to please, and Mrs. Matson, a cheerful, motherly woman, declared her to be one of the most charming young girls she had ever met. 
               Nina was soon on the best terms with the young people in the house, and no one who had seen her there at the close of the first day would have imagined that she was but a waif recently cast among them. 
               A messenger was despatched to Silvermere announcing her arrival, and on the next morning Mr. Matson informed her, that Mr. Hastings would come in himself to conduct her to his house. 
               In the evening some guests came in, and after discussing other topics one of the ladies asked: 
               "Have you heard of the grand wedding that is about to come off, Mrs. Matson? The greatest heiress in the State is to be married, and I am told that a trousseau fit for a princess has been ordered for her." 
               Mr. Matson good-humoredly said: 
               "There must be a mistake in one respect, Mrs. Glenn, for Mr. Hastings' daughter is supposed to be the richest girl in Mississippi, and I am sure she is not the bride elect." 
               "What makes you so sure, pray? Opal Hastings is the very person I am speaking of; she is to be married to young Fenton in a few weeks." 
               He uttered an exclamation of surprise, and turning toward Nina, asked: 
               "Do you hear that, Miss Gordon? 'Othello's occupation's gone,' so far as your intended pupil is concerned, for she is on the eve of marriage. Shabby treatment it is to you, I must say; but I suppose so liberal a man as Hastings will make it all right in some way." 
               Nina had heard every word spoken by Mrs. Glenn, though she was apparently attending to what young Matson was saying to her, and the spasm of rage and surprise that convulsed her heart almost overcame her self control. But by the time her host addressed her she had gained the command of her emotions, and she turned her face toward him with an inquiring look and asked: 
               "What is that about Othello's occupation, sir? I was listening to your son, and missed what was said." 
               "I told you a bad piece of news, Miss Nina. Your intended pupil has abjured the restraints of the school-room to put on the heavier yoke of matrimony. She is about to be married." 
               "Married! Miss Hastings married! I thought she was little more than a child." 
               "A very well-grown child she is then," said Mrs. Glenn, "and I know she was sixteen her last birthday. Southern girls often marry younger than that." 
               "So much the worse for them," said Mrs. Matson. "I thought her father had more judgment than to allow his beautiful daughter to marry at so early an age. Opal has seen nothing of society; she has enjoyed few of the pleasures of girlhood, and here they are settling her in life. With her fortune, she should have been allowed a few years of freedom at least." 
               "She would never have been a belle, Mrs. Matson, if that is what you mean by the pleasures of youth; for it has been understood from her childhood that she was to marry Godfrey Fenton. I met him on the street yesterday, and I must say that he is the most elegant and distinguished looking young man that I have ever seen. Of course Opal is over head and ears in love with him, for such a suitor must be irresistible to so young a girl." 
               "Do you really think so, Mrs. Glenn?" asked Nina, with a curl of her ruby lip. I knew Mr. Fenton when I was but little older than Miss Hastings, and I did not find him so irresistible, though he flattered me by such devotion as he is in the habit of offering to every attractive girl he meets." 
               Mrs. Glenn looked at her in great surprise, and blurted out: 
               "I heard that he was a great flirt; that there was some sort of entanglement at the North that caused his mother to hurry on the match; but pray excuse me, Miss Gordon, I may be touching on dangerous ground." 
               Nina laughed with silvery sweetness: 
               "Not at all, Mrs. Glenn. Do not fancy that I was the heroine of that romance. I know the young lady you refer to, and her beauty was of that oriental type which men of Mr. Fenton's temperament prefer. He was desperately enamored of her, and I own that I am surprised at the precipitation with which his marriage has been hurried on. But as Miss Lopez lost her fortune, I suppose he thought it best to return to the old love." 
               Mrs. Glenn was a gossip, and loved news dearly, so she made an effort to draw from Nina all the details of Fenton's inconstancy, but she would tell nothing more. 
               The guests soon after took leave, and Mr. Matson returned to the parlor to find Nina leaning against a window, the blind of which had been left unclosed, looking vaguely out into the night. He felt sorry for her and annoyed at what he had lately heard; but as he approached her she turned a smiling face toward him and gaily said: 
               "I shall have to set my cap for Johnny and become your daughter, after all, Mr. Matson, even if he is younger than I." 
               "He is more than half in love with you now, Miss Nina, and I only wish that he was something more than a hobbledehoy, that he might stand some chance with you. But we will not take trouble by the forelock, for Mr. Hastings will be sure to make some suitable arrangement for you, even if he cannot employ you as his daughter's governess." 
               "That would not suit me at all," she abruptly replied. "I came hither to reside in the family of Mr. Hastings, and I shall not permit myself to be transferred to any other. If he declines to receive me, I shall return whence I came." 
               "That will be nonsense, child. You can get as high a salary as Hastings offered you in some other wealthy family, and I intend to do my best to secure a situation for you." 
               "I entreat-I insist that you shall do nothing of the kind. I assure you that if I do not go to Silvermere, I shall return to the North as soon as possible, and resume my position as music teacher in New Haven. It is useless to discuss this subject further now; Mr. Hastings will come in to-morrow and explain the position of affairs; I shall then be able to judge what it will be expedient for me to do. If you will excuse me, I will retire now, for my head aches and I feel very tired." 
               When Nina was alone in her own room, the door fastened behind the sable handmaiden who had assisted her to undress, she gave vent to the passion of rage and disappointment swelling in her breast. She clenched her hands, threw them above her head, and uttered such anathemas as would have made Godfrey Fenton shiver if he had heard them. 
               To swoop down on him as a dire Nemesis was her first thought, and at all hazards break off this precipitate marriage; but she gradually became calmer, and concluded to defer settling on any plan of action till she had seen and talked with Mr. Hastings. 
               Nina finally threw herself in bed, and after many hours of restless tossing to and fro she sunk into a sound and refreshing sleep, which lasted till a late hour of the morning. 
                
               While she was making her toilette a note from Mr. Hastings was brought up to her, briefly informing her that he would call for her at eleven o'clock, and hoped to find her in readiness to accompany him to Silvermere. 
               So she was to go at all events to that bourne of all her wishes, and once there, her craft would fail her indeed if she did not find means to accomplish the vengeance she had sworn against the betrothed husband of Opal Hastings. Fenton should return to his allegiance to herself, or drink to the dregs the bitter cup her hands should prepare for him; such was her unalterable resolve. 
               Nina descended to the morning meal in good spirits, and showed the note she had received. Mrs. Matson said: 
               "Mr. Hastings is too much of a gentleman not to do what is fair and liberal by you, Miss Gordon." 
               "Nina flushed slightly as she replied: 
               "If you mean that he will offer me money as a compensation for my disappointment, I shall not accept it for services that have never been performed. Let us talk of something else if you please, Mrs. Matson, for I am tired of thinking on this subject." 
               Johnny hastened to say: 
               "I only wish I was a few years older, Miss Nina, and nobody should take you away from us. It seems to me that you belong to us already." 
               "Bravo, my son," cried his father-"that is a gallant speech for a boy of seventeen to make to a young lady." 
               "But I mean it, father," replied Johnny, growing red in the face, "for Miss Nina is the nicest girl I ever have seen in my life, and I only wish I was old enough to make love to her in earnest." 
               Nina smiled and nodded at him across the table. 
               "Thank you, my young cavalier, I shall not forget your devotion." 
                
               Johnny blushed more deeply than before; his sisters broke in with their gay chatter, and breakfast proceeded with the usual cheerfulness of meals in the Matson family. Nina was as charming as on the previous day, and the early morning hours passed away till eleven o'clock arrived. 
               A few moments later a carriage drew up in front of the house, from which descended a stately, gray haired-man, who appeared more agitated than a meeting with the new governess seemed to warrant. 
               Mr. Hastings was actually trembling with emotion, and while a servant went to inform Miss Gordon of his arrival, he stood leaning against the frame of an open window, trying to regain his composure before she appeared. 
               Suddenly a sweet voice that sent an electric shock through every nerve of his frame, spoke near him: 
               "I have the pleasure of seeing Mr. Hastings, I believe." 
               Every shade of color retreated from his face, and slowly turning toward her he held out his hand with a vain effort to appear composed. His voice sounded strange to himself as he said: 
               "Yes, I am Mr. Hastings, and I have come to take you to Silvermere. I have something to explain to you, but that can best be done when we are in the carriage, and on our way there." 
               "I believe that I already know what you have to tell me, sir. I have been told since I came hither of the approaching marriage of your daughter, and of course, I suppose you will have no desire for me to remain in your family under such changed circumstances." 
               "My daughter is soon to be married, but that does not materially alter my intentions toward you, Miss Gordon. I have a proposal to make to you that I think you will accede to; but there is time enough for that when I have you all to myself. Here comes Mrs. Matson now, and while I speak with her pray make yourself ready to accompany me. I have an engagement at two, and we have a long drive before us." 
               Mrs. Matson came in smiling and friendly, and while Nina went to her room to prepare for departure, Mr. Hastings briefly explained to the elder lady what were his intentions with regard to her. She was pleased and satisfied, declaring that he always managed things for the best, and she was sure that Miss Gordon would be perfectly contented with the arrangement he contemplated. 
               Nina came down stairs a few moments later, received the adieux of the hospitable family, and promising to visit them when she came to Natchez, entered the carriage with her new protector, and was driven rapidly away. 
               A small open wagon, loaded with her trunks, followed them more slowly; and her heart bounded with triumph as she realized that she was on her way to the theatre of action she had so ardently desired to gain. 
               Her companion sat perfectly silent till they were more than a mile from the town, but Nina was conscious that he was attentively observing her. At first his eyes wandered furtively to her face, but soon they fixed themselves upon her with an expression that was almost one of pain. When she had borne this scrutiny as long as she felt it to be endurable, she spoke herself: 
               "I probably remind you of some one you have known, Mr. Hastings. You look at me with a half-puzzled air as if trying to recall the features of some one you have known. I believe that I am thought to resemble your daughter." 
               He started at the sound of her voice and hurriedly said: 
               "Excuse me; I was dreaming over the past. You do remind me of Opal, and also of somebody else I knew in my youth; yet you can be no relation of the person I refer to. We are fairly on the road now, and I can develop my plans for you without interruption. I trust that you will offer no objection to them." 
               "I will hear them first, if you please." 
               "Of course; that is necessary, as I do not wish you to pledge yourself to anything, in the dark. You have heard of my daughter's approaching marriage, and of course the governess scheme is at an end. But I have another which is quite as good, to which Mrs. Hastings has eagerly consented. Opal goes to Europe immediately after her marriage, and it is my desire, and that of my wife, that you shall remain at Silvermere as Mrs. Hastings' companion, receiving from me the same salary that was offered you as governess to my daughter. I think this will suit you quite as well, and you may feel assured that you will receive the attention and consideration of a daughter of the house." 
               "I have no doubt that every kindness will be extended to me by your family, Mr. Hastings," replied Nina with a singular smile; "but of course a nameless dependent like myself could not expect from others the homage and consideration due to your daughter." 
               "Why not? And why do you call yourself nameless? Gordon is a very good name, and one that is borne by people of aristocratic pretensions." 
               "True; but I have sometimes doubted my own right to bear it. I know nothing of myself. I am a waif, cast off by those connected with me, and my origin is shrouded in mystery. Who I am, or whence I came, I know not. It is right for me to tell you this when you speak of extending to me the consideration due to a daughter of your family." 
               Mr. Hastings was silent some moments, and then he huskily replied: 
               "It is a painful position, but not irremediable. Allow me to become the guardian of your future, and I pledge you my word that it shall be a bright and happy one. You may think this interest in you strange. Miss Gordon, and I had not intended to tell you why I wish you to become an inmate of my family; but this touching confidence has changed my purpose. The uncle who educated you was my intimate friend. I-I was deeply attached to him. He is dead now, and he had nothing to bequeath to you at his decease; so he left me the charge of providing for you in some way. I could do so in no other manner than that I have adopted, and I hope that I shall be able to render your new home a pleasant one to you." 
               Nina listened to him with vivid interest. She eagerly said: 
               "You knew my uncle! Who then was he? Where did he live, and, above all, why did he so perseveringly conceal from me everything concerning himself? I only know his name." 
               "What Mr. Fairlie's reasons were I can scarcely explain. He was surrounded by difficult circumstances, and he endured many trials; but he was sincerely attached to you. I know that by the earnestness with which he implored me to take an interest in your fate, and assist you in every way I could." 
               In tremulous tones Nina exclaimed: 
               "Oh, Mr. Hastings, how shall I ever sufficiently thank you for this revelation! It gives me a foothold on life, by assuring me that I am somebody's child; that I am really entitled to the name I bear." 
               There was deep compassion in his voice as he said: 
               "Poor child! why should you have taken this so deeply to heart, if it were so? You can not be held responsible for the faults of others; you could not be tainted by such a stain as that, so long as you are pure and good yourself." 
               "The world thinks differently, sir, and I confess that I share their prejudices. What you have told me has given me new life, new confidence in the pleasant phase of existence that I am sure is opening to me. How kind of you it was to accept so annoying a trust as a giddy young girl might prove. But I promise to do my best to give you as little trouble as possible. I only hope that you will be as well satisfied with your ward as I am sure I shall be with my guardian." 
               With impulsive grace, Nina lifted his hand to her lips and warmly kissed it. He hastily drew it away as he said: 
               "You must learn to curb your sensibility, Miss Gordon; and let me forewarn you that my wife is of that jealous temperament which would certainly lead her to misinterpret such demonstrations, however innocent they may be. Since you are to live with us, and become one of ourselves, I must prepare you for the peculiarities of temper in Mrs. Hastings with which you will have to deal. She is generous and affectionate-so devoted, in fact, that you will soon understand for yourself the line of conduct it will be best for you to pursue toward me. I wish her to like and appreciate you; but to win her to do this, you must show no preference for me above herself. I hope you comprehend the ground of this unusual confidence in one I have so lately met?" 
               To this embarrassed speech Nina gravely replied: 
               "I think I do, sir, and I will take heed to what you have said. But pray explain to me what I shall be expected to do for Mrs. Hastings. What services will she require from her companion?" 
               "Oh! you will have an easy time enough. You will be called on to read to her an hour or two every day; sometimes longer, when her novel is unusually interesting; but that will amuse you as much as it will her, I dare say. You will write her notes, make up knots of ribbon for her collars, and perhaps be trusted to alter the arrangement of the flowers in her caps. That is, if you have good taste, for Mrs. Hastings is very particular about her toilette." 
               "I can easily do all that," replied Nina, smiling brightly "and find pleasure in it. I am fond of reading aloud, and think I should have made a skillful milliner. Is that all?" 
               "You will drive out with her, of course, and after Opal is gone, make an effort to fill her place as far as possible. I wish you to make yourself so necessary to Mrs. Hastings that she will not be willing to part from you till-till you marry. You will have an apartment of your own, and a servant to attend to you; and I need scarcely tell you that I shall do all that lies in my power to make Silvermere agreeable to you." 
               Nina gratefully replied: 
               "I cannot sufficiently thank you for all this kindness, Mr. Hastings. It is far more than I expected, or indeed deserve." 
               "As to what one deserves, who gets it, I wonder. If I had my deserts, I should not be where I am, nor what I am." 
               There was so much bitterness in his tone that Nina raised her eyes inquiringly to those that seemed never sated with gazing on her face. She flushed slightly as she met his earnest look, and asked: 
               "If you do not merit your prosperity, sir, who does. The man who acts toward a forlorn stranger as you are acting toward me must be a good one, I think, and worthy of every reward." 
               "Then God help the sinners! But we have exhausted this subject, and now tell me about yourself. Give me a sketch of your life from your earliest remembrance. I am interested in learning all that can be told of one who, in future, is to stand to me in the relation of ward." 
               In her most piquante manner Nina complied with this request, and she kept literally to the truth till she came to her escapade from Mrs. Lyme, and her engagement with Mrs. Hawks to act as her companion. She was aware that in the early portion of her narrative she must not vary from facts, because she intuitively knew that enough had been already made known to Mr. Hastings to render prevarication dangerous. 
               When she came to the Hawks episode, she put her own coloring upon the incidents she felt sure her companion had already heard from Fenton, and denounced the interference of Mrs. Langley as cruel and unjust. She ended by saying: 
               "To accomplish their own ends they tempted me to mimic Mrs. Hawks, as Mrs. Langley was most anxious that her fortune should descend to her niece. She hoped in that event that Mr. Fenton would marry Miss Lopez, and be out of the way of her brother." 
               "Out of Guy Denham's way? What do you mean by that?" 
               "Excuse me, sir. If you do not know, in the present position of affairs I do not care to enlighten you. Mr. Fenton is on the eve of marriage with your daughter, and it is useless to talk of those things now." 
               "But it is not useless. Opal's happiness may be at stake, and-Miss Gordon, I insist on a full explanation of what happened at Newport." 
               With seeming reluctance Nina replied: 
               "I had rather not tell what I partly guessed. But if you insist in this way, I suppose I must." 
               "I do insist. It is most important to me to know what you seem so anxious to keep back." 
               "Well, since you will have it, sir, I found out that Mr. Denham is in love with Miss Hastings, and by helping Mr. Fenton to marry Inez Lopez, Mrs. Langley hoped to open the way to her brother to win her." 
                
               "Perhaps that was natural and pardonable; but was Godfrey so much in love with Miss Lopez as to wish to make her his wife; or was it the prospect of the great fortune her aunt could give her that allured him?" 
               "As to that Mr. Fenton had best speak for himself, sir. He is a flirt, as I know from experience, for he and I had quite a sentimental acquaintance while he was at college; but with us it was 'diamond cut diamond,' I believe. He may have been no more in love with Miss Lopez than he was with me, but he seemed very much in earnest." 
               For many moments Mr. Hastings seemed lost in painful thought, and Nina remained silent, wondering what the result of her revelations would be. He at length aroused himself with an effort, and slowly said: 
               "You will oblige me by saying nothing of this to Opal, Miss Gordon. It is too late now to act on what you have told me, and I do not wish her mind to be disturbed by doubts of her lover. Her union with Godfrey Fenton is a family arrangement of long standing, and it cannot be deferred on any pretext. I have confidence in Godfrey to believe that, in spite of his wandering fancies, he will make a good and affectionate husband to my daughter. He has many good qualities, and possesses a warm and tender heart. Opal has found her place in it, I am sure; for no one could be with her and not love her dearly." 
               "I have no doubt that you take the right view of the case," was the brief reply; and Nina sunk back listless and disappointed. But she remembered that she had yet time to act in before the day of the wedding, and she took hope to her heart again, though it was wrung with many bitter and jealous pangs. 
               She soon brightened up, and gave him a graphic account of her voyage to New Orleans, describing the run into Norfolk, and the call she had there made on Mrs. Marsden. At that name Mr. Hastings flushed, and then grew pale to his very lips. Nina remembered the story told her by Mrs. Hawks, and maliciously went on: 
               "Mrs. Marsden looks like a broken-hearted, worn-out woman, and I should think that she has borne some woeful calamity in her day. But she is married to an ascetic, who thinks most things wrong that are done in this wicked world, and that may account for her subdued manner and faded appearance." 
               In a constrained tone, Mr. Hastings said: 
               "I am sorry to hear such an account of Mrs. Marsden, for I knew her in her youth, and a brighter or more animated creature than she then was it would be difficult to find. But time changes us all sadly, and tells on some more fatally than on others. Did you see her husband?" 
               "No, sir,-he was from home; but I saw her children-at least those that remain to her. She was in mourning for the elder ones, four of whom were snatched from her in a single week. That, doubtless, helped to bring her to what she is." 
               "Poor Anna, poor Anna!" he muttered. 
               Then, suddenly regarding her with a piercing glance, he asked: 
               "Did you ever hear Mrs. Hawks speak of Mrs. Marsden. They were reared together, and-and I believe they were very much attached to each other?" 
               "Oh dear, no, sir; why should Mrs. Hawks have told me about her?" 
               And the falsehood was spoken with the most natural air possible. Mr. Hastings looked pleased, and carelessly said: 
               "I thought Mrs. Hawks might have talked to you of her early friends, as she must have been very fond of you." 
               "She did speak of them sometimes, and I remember hearing her speak of you as a lover of her sister. But I suppose I must be careful to hint nothing of that to Mrs. Hastings, as she might not like to hear of your having a first love?" 
               "You are very right!" he gravely responded. "Although my wife was a widow when I married her, she cannot bear the thought that she was not my first choice. It would make her wretched to be told that I ever sought the hand of any other woman. I admired Susan Horton very much, but if Mrs. Hastings could know all, I do not think she would be very jealous of my preference for her. Poor Susan ran off with a Cuban, and was disinherited by her father. It was her daughter, I suppose, who expected to inherit Mrs. Hawks' fortune?" 
               "Yes, sir, and she may recover it yet. A will was executed by Mr. Horton, leaving the whole estate to Miss Lopez, at Mrs. Hawks' death, but it could not be found. It may chance to come to light some day, for such things are not often irrevocably lost." 
               "I sincerely hope it will, for it was an act of injustice on the part of her aunt to deprive her of her family inheritance. I hope she provided for her in some way?" 
               "Yes; a thousand a year was given to her-little enough for herself and her father to live on, for Mr. Lopez is paralyzed, and a dreadful charge to a young girl I should think." 
               "Not if she loves him as she should. But here is Silvermere, and I welcome you to your future home." 
               Nina looked out on the undulating woodland and wide carriage sweep; saw the walls of the stately mansion looming in the distance, with the miniature lake lying in its green hollow; and she enthusiastically exclaimed: 
               "What a beautiful place it is! almost like a baronial mansion, I declare! So this is the Eden of which the fair Opal is the Eve. I congratulate you on your surroundings, Mr. Hastings, for few have their lot cast in so charming a paradise." 
                
               "Fair enough," he muttered, "if there were no serpents to mar its loveliness." 
               Nina caught the meaning of his words, and bitterly thought: 
               "If there had been none before, you have this day brought one into it, who will poison its sweets, or die in the attempt." 
               But she smiled serenely, and uttered burst after burst of rapturous praise as each turn in the road revealed some new beauty, till the carriage drew up at the steps. 
               The sound of approaching wheels brought Opal to the portico, and she was closely followed by Fenton. Nina knew him at the first glimpse of his person, but she crushed down the rebellious jealousy that swelled in her heart; and, when he descended the step and offered her his hand to assist her from the carriage, with the cool politeness of an ordinary acquaintance, Nina calmly said: 
               "How do you do, Mr. Fenton? You scarcely expected me to follow so closely on your steps when you left Newport. But I am here as you see, and likely to remain here some time. I hope you are glad to see me?" 
               "Glad is scarcely the right word, Miss Gordon. I am charmed- ravir-to meet you again. Mrs. Hastings could scarcely find a more agreeable companion to replace the daughter she is about to lose." 
               "Thank you! I understand that you are about to become a Benedict at last-pray accept my congratulations!" 
               "Thanks in my turn! but, I am so happy and well-satisfied in my choice, that congratulations hardly signify. Of course, though, I appreciate the friendly spirit that dictates them, at its true value." 
               These insincere words passed between them as they ascended the steps, at the head of which stood Opal, looking paler than usual and a little excited. She dreaded the intrusion of this stranger into the family-she could not have explained why, and she remembered with pain that her betrothed had not treated Nina Gordon quite well. 
               She offered her hand to the new-comer with a faint smile, and said: 
               "There is no need of an introduction between us, Miss Gordon, for we already know each other through our mutual friends. I hope you enjoyed the drive this morning, for the day is heavenly, and the country you have passed through well worth looking at?" 
               "I found it delightful, I assure you, but I am afraid that the agreeable discourse of your father occupied my attention more than the sylvan landscape through which the road wound. I cannot tell you how deeply his kindness has impressed me-how grateful I am for it!" 
               While this greeting passed, the two girls scanned each other, and each one saw wherein she differed from the other. Opal was attracted by Nina's beauty, and thought herself complimented in being thought to resemble her; but Nina's mental comment was: 
               "How could Godfrey Fenton compare that pale, unformed chit to a brilliant, passionate creature like myself? She has no vim-no style; and I don't belive she loves him, for she has not the air of a happy bride elect." 
               Mr. Hastings lingered in the yard till the greeting was over, but he now joined them, and the three entered the house together. 
               Mrs. Hastings received Nina in a small boudoir opening from her bed-room. She was lying on a sofa in a handsome morning wrapper, and over the tables and chairs a quantity of elegant trifles that had arrived only that day from New Orleans, were scattered in gay profusion. She half raised herself and languidly said: 
                
               "How do you do, Miss Gordon? I am happy to welcome to Silvermere a companion who will be capable of amusing me when my daughter is gone. Excuse the confusion of the room, but a portion of the trousseau came this morning, and I have been looking over it. Olympe has excelled herself, for the head-dresses sent for myself are the loveliest things I ever saw. As there was not time to send to Paris, I was forced to order the things I needed from here." 
               Nina took the offered hand and gracefully said: 
               "I thank you, Mrs. Hastings, for being willing to accept me as a poor substitute for your daughter while she is away. I think I shall find my duties toward you less tedious than instructing even so advanced a pupil as Miss Hastings would have been. I am not naturally fond of teaching, but I shall fall into your ways, I am sure, almost without an effort." 
               "I hope you will; and you will not find me very hard to please. You read French, I am told, and it will be a great pleasure to me to listen to you when we have time for such things. But just now I can think of nothing but Opal and her bridal outfit." 
               "I think that I can satisfy you in that too, Mrs. Hastings; for I took lessons from a Parisian, and he pronounced my accent perfect." 
               "We shall get along together famously, I know. But I will not detain you longer now. Minette will show you your room, and you must call on her for any services you may need. When you are rested, and we have dined, we will look over these loves of things together, and I hope that you will appreciate them more highly than my daughter does. Opal is as indifferent about what has been ordered for her as if they were designed for some other person." 
               Opal smiled and said: 
               "Why should I think about my clothes, now, mamma, when I have never found it necessary to do so before? I have been like one of Solomon's lilies, I am afraid, and it is too late now to inspire in me a passion for what has always been furnished me without any effort of my own." 
               "But you are going to be married, child; and you will not have me to choose your things and order the style in which they should be made. You have always been well dressed, because I superintended your toilette; but now that you are going away from me, I don't know what you may be induced to wear that will be frightfully unbecoming." 
               "The milliners and mantua-makers must settle all that, mamma," replied Opal, with a light laugh. "Besides, Godfrey has excellent taste, and I can consult him." 
               At this familiar mention of Fenton's name, Nina felt as if she could have struck her to the heart. By a sudden motion of her head she caused her veil to fall over her face, and she did not put it up again. Mrs. Hastings said: 
               "Miss Gordon is fatigued with her long and dusty drive. You had better take her to her room at once, my dear, and see yourself that everything is in order there." 
               The two girls went out together, ascended the broad staircase, and passed through the upper hall. At the farthest end of this, Opal opened the door of a handsome room, looking out toward the lawn, and said: 
               "This is the apartment my father ordered to be prepared for you, Miss Gordon. The view from the windows is lovely, and you will find it a cheerful and comfortable place of retreat when you are tired of being with the rest of us." 
               "With her most charming smile Nina replied: 
               "If that is the condition, I do not think that I shall often bury myself in my own den, Miss Hastings. I am a social being, and rarely seek solitude, if I can help it. I am already so much charmed with those I have met to-day, that I am afraid I shall impose on their good nature by seeking them too much." 
               "You will scarcely be able to do that; for when I am gone mamma will be very dependent upon you. I shall rely on you to fill my place to my parents as far as possible." 
               "I shall do my best; but how can I hope to fill your place?" 
               "I do not mean that you should quite do that," replied Opal, with a smile mingled with a sigh. "But you can at least brighten their days, and prevent them from feeling the weary flatness that I know will fall on everything when I am actually separated from them. Mamma will feel it less than my father, and to him I expect you to be a minister of grace, for he will need consolation for giving up the pet and darling of his life." 
               "Then why does he allow you to marry so young? You are scarcely more than a child yet." 
               A cloud passed over Opal's face, and with sudden reserve she said: 
               "Mr. Fenton and myself have agreed on a speedy union. 
               Everything is here that you need, I believe, and here is Minette to attend to any orders you may give. I must go down now, for I have left Godfrey too long alone." 
               Nina took off her bonnet and shawl, smoothed her hair, and dismissed the servant with orders to have her trunks brought up as soon as they arrived. She then surveyed her apartment with much satisfaction. It was spacious and elegantly fitted up, and a small dressing-room opened from it. 
               A fire burned behind a tall wire-fender, before which a luxuriously-cushioned chair was drawn up. Nina threw herself into it, and sat with frowning brow and compressed lips, immersed in deep thought, until her luggage arrived. She then made her toilette, and dreamed, and planned again, till dinner was announced. 
               Mrs. Hastings gave her an approving glance as she descended to join the group awaiting her appearance in the lower hall; and, at the table, she placed her on her right hand-telling her that henceforth that was to be her place. 
               Mindful of the hint given her by Mr. Hastings, Nina spared no effort to make a favorable impression on his wife, and she talked in her most agreeable manner, although Fenton sat nearly opposite to her, devoting himself so exclusively to Opal that he seemed scarcely conscious of the presence of the jealous rival who saw and heard all that passed between them in spite of the constant flow of small talk she kept up with her new patroness. Mr. Hastings sat silent and preoccupied, but he was listening to Nina's voice, watching her tactics, and internally congratulating himself on the ease with which she adapted herself to her new position. 
               He wished his wife to become fond of her, and he believed she must do so if Nina played her part as adroitly every day as she was doing now. 
               After dinner was over they had some music, and the voice of the stranger was pronounced charming by those who then heard it for the first time; but Fenton never approached the piano, and when Mrs. Hastings asked him if he had ever heard better singing, he calmly replied: 
               "Often, madam, though Miss Gordon does sing well for an amateur. However, I prefer the 'wood notes wild' of Opal to all these trained efforts. But I do not pretend to be a connoisseur." 
               Nina overheard him, and abruptly rising from the piano, she said: 
               "I have a bad headache, Mrs. Hastings, and if you will excuse me, I will spend the remainder of the evening in my own room." 
               "Certainly, if you wish it. I thought you were changing color too suddenly to be quite well. I will send tea up to you, and a cup will do you good." 
               "Thank you; then I will bid you good-night." 
               She flitted up the staircase, gained her own room, and locking the door behind her, fell into her chair in an almost hysterical passion of weeping. 
               When the first violence of the storm swept away, Nina arose, stood before the mirror, and contemptuously regarding her reddened eyes and tremulous lips, she savagely muttered: 
               "I can feel thus yet!-can weep for that ingrate!-can be weak enough to dream of bringing back his fickle heart to its allegiance to me-to me-dependent, penniless. It is madness; but I will attempt it, and wo to him if I fail!" 
               Daylight yet lingered over the landscape. Nina went to a window, and looked forth a few moments in deep thought. Then opening one of her trunks, she took from it her portfolio and a small patent inkstand. These she placed on a table near the window, through which sufficient light for her purpose yet came, and hastily dashed off the following lines: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              NATCHEZ, December 6, 18-
                            
                           MR. WILKINS-I give you leave to make your own terms for the restoration of the instrument in your possession, provided you will telegraph to Godfrey Fenton immediately that it is in the possession of its lawful owners. If you do not obey me literally it will be the worse for you. 
                           
                              N. G."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Having sealed and directed this, she became calmer; and when Minette came up with the tea she was already in bed. 
               On the following day the letter was sent to town to be mailed, and Nina impatiently awaited the result. The change in the prospects of Inez might induce Fenton to postpone his marriage, thus affording her more time in which to carry out her plans. That was her only object in producing this diversion in Opal's favor; for as the day drew nearer, her reluctance to the proposed union deepended and intensified, though the poor girl thought she was learning with surprising ease, the lesson she had set for herself. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               FATHER AND DAUGHTER. IS THERE NO ESCAPE FROM THIS FATE? 
               IN the gathering twilight of a cold December day, Inez and her father were together in the room she had taken such pains to fit up, in the belief that Godfrey Fenton would be pleased with its simple elegance. 
               Mr. Lopez leaned back in his chair, silent and pallid as if death had already set its seal upon his face. He was greatly changed, and it was evident that he was rapidly sinking to that bourne which awaits us all. 
               How desolate, how deserted the almost friendless daughter felt, it would be impossible to tell. In the weeks of wearing anxiety and doubt since Fenton left, Inez had grown thin and pale, though her trust in her lover remained as strong as ever. She had received but one letter from him, and that assured her that his mother was obstinate in her opposition to their union; but he concluded with the assurance that he would yet triumph over all objections and return to claim her as his own. 
               She believed him, of course; for, true as she was herself Inez could not fathom the perfidy of which she was the victim. When no second letter came, she began to look for Fenton's arrival with certainty, for had he not pledged himself to return to her before the year was out? 
               The sound of an arrival at the lonely house would set her heart to fluttering, and bring the bright blood to her cheeks, in the happy belief that her lover had flown back to her upon the wings of love and joy; but, alas! day after day passed, bringing with them only disappointment and added cares to the forsaken one. 
               Her father was now rarely free from the benumbing influence of the deadly drug that was destroying him, long enough to carry on a connected conversation; for, since the wreck of his daughter's fortune, and the departure of Fenton, Mr. Lopez indulged himself in its use more recklessly than ever. 
               Remonstrance was useless, and Inez had ceased to make an effort to induce him to refrain. In attempting it, she found that she only irritated him, and threw him into transports of anger that made them both wretched. She mournfully felt that he would "die as the fool dieth," and go down to his grave the dishonored victim to his own weakness; and the unhappy girl wept over him with that abandonment of feeling which her loneliness and helplessness inspired. 
               The bright firelight flickered on his still face as he dozed in his chair, and Inez sat near him, watching every change in it, dreading the approach of that last, solemn one which would leave her alone, for his physician had warned her that he might pass from life to eternity in one of those hours of stupefaction. 
               Suddenly Mr. Lopez aroused himself, and spoke: 
               "Inez, is Godfrey here? I-I thought I heard his voice speaking to me." 
                
               "No, papa. There is no one here but myself. You must have dreamed of him." 
               "Yes, I suppose so; but it is time he was here. I do not understand his delay, when he has not written. He should have been here before this." 
               "He will come, papa, never fear. I do not doubt him." 
               "That is well. Yes, believe in him to the last, for that is all that is left to you. When I am gone, you will have your little income for yourself; you can sell this place, and that will add something to it; and-and-if Fenton does not come very soon after I have left you, you must go South yourself. If his mother has an opportunity of seeing and knowing you, she will relent. I did not once think that I could ask my child to enter any family that would unwillingly receive her, but my pride has been brought low, and I shrink from the thought of leaving you entirely alone in the world, with no one to look to as a protector. Godfrey loves you, I am certain, and if he cannot come to you, you must seek him." 
               "Dearest father, do not speak of leaving me!" exclaimed Inez, with a passionate burst of tears. "We have been so much to each other, that I cannot bear it." 
               "But you must learn to look our inevitable separation in the face, Inez; for it draws very near. When I sink away to sleep, as I did just now, it is often with the thought in my own mind that I shall never wake again. I feel that I grow weaker day by day, and the end must soon come. It is best for you to know this, my child." 
               Inez took his wasted hand in her own, caressed, and wept over it, but she had no words to reply to him. He tenderly said: 
               "Don't grieve for me, my darling. I shall go to my rest and be a clog removed from your path. I have not been what I should, Inez; but I have made my peace with God, and through the blessed intercession of the saints, I hope to gain a safe haven at last. Father Espana gave me such consolation this morning, that I feel almost willing to go when I am summoned; but for leaving you, I should say I am quite willing." 
               Since he had given up all hope of life, Mr. Lopez had many times held long interviews with a Spanish priest, brought by chance to Newport, and from him he had received such religious consolation as he needed. He was a rigid Catholic, and gladly hailed the advent of a countryman of his own, who could afford him both material and spiritual assistance. 
               To Father Espana he designed leaving the management of his daughter's affairs, provided Fenton did not arrive in time to receive her as his wife before his own decease. The Spaniard was a man of sound heart and good judgment, and Lopez felt the assurance that Inez would be carefully guarded by him, and placed in some safe asylum, should her earthly hopes be brought to week, as he sometimes feared they might. 
               Fenton's silence, his long delay in returning, had more effect on Lopez than on Inez, for he had less confidence in his intentions, though he believed fully in the genuineness of his attachment to his daughter. His knowledge of life taught him that men are often false to lover's vows when interest demands the sacrifice of the affections, and Fenton might at last succumb to the influences brought to bear upon him. 
               Mr. Lopez believed if anything would recall him to a sense of what was due to Inez, it would be her presence near him, and hence his desire that she should go to Natchez, there to battle for her life's happiness with those who were bent on snatching it from her. 
               A bustle was heard in the hall, and Inez started up trembling bling and panting; it might be Fenton at last, and her heart almost ceased beating in the moment of suspense that ensued. 
               The door opened and the voice of Mrs. Perkins said: 
               "Here is a-a person-that wishes to see you, sir. He says he has important business with you." 
               "Let him come in, then; though I don't know what business I can be expected to attend to in the helpless condition I am brought to." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE TRUST IS RECOVERED. INEZ GETS HER OWN, AND SETS OUT FOR THE SOUTH. 
               THE door was opened more widely, and a tall man with dark complexion, black hair and whiskers, came in with a shambling gait, which gave one the idea that his limbs were fettered in some way. In a voice that was evidently feigned he said: 
               "I have the honor of seeing Senor Lopez, I believe. My name is Hopkins, sir, and you need not trouble yourself to try and remember me, for I do not think that you ever saw me before in your life." 
               "I believe not, sir, and if you have any business with me, I shall be glad to have it despatched as soon as possible. I am not strong enough to bear much excitement." 
               "I understand all about that, sir; but you mustn't allow yourself to get excited over what I have come to tell you. It is something that will make your heart sing for joy, and bring back the color to the face of your pretty daughter there." 
                
               The stranger had seated himself familiarly, and the lamp Mrs. Perkins placed on the table flashed on a pair of pale blue eyes, contrasting so remarkably with his dark face that Inez was convinced that he was disguised. Who he was, or what his purpose could be, she was unable to divine, but she glided to the door and whispered to Mrs. Perkins to bring Dick into the hall, and at the slightest alarm from her to rush into the room to her father's assistance. They were known to possess a few valuable jewels, and this intruder might have come there, believing the house without any one capable of defending it, to make himself master of them. 
               Mrs. Perkins nodded intelligently, closed the door, and having taken this precaution, Inez came back to her father's side and sat down to await further developments. The visitor seemed to comprehend her fears, for he blandly said: 
               "You need not be frightened at me, Miss Lopez. I came here to serve you, as I shall soon convince you. The business that brought me is most important, as you will understand when I tell you that it is connected with the will for the recovery of which your father has offered so handsome a reward." 
               Inez listened in breathless interest, and Mr. Lopez raised his enervated form and gazed searchingly into the strange-looking face that confronted him. 
               "Do you know anything of it? Have you come to restore it?" he eagerly asked. "If you have, I will give you even more than I promised." 
               "How much more, sir? You see I have come here to make a bargain, and I must do the best I can for the-the person who entrusted the business to my management." 
               "Then you have the will! You can bring it to light! I will give you two thousand-five thousand dollars more than I offered-if all is right, and there is no deception about it." 
                
               "I accept your terms, Mr. Lopez; and as to deception, I should scarcely attempt it with a man like you. I was sent here to let you know that the missing will is in the possession of a friend of mine, who is most anxious to restore it to its lawful owner. How it came into his hands it will be best not to inquire, but I assure you that it is safe, and will be transferred to you, or your daughter, if you will keep to the terms of your advertisement, and ask no questions." 
               "I shall only be too happy to do so. But why have you not before made this known to me? It is several months since that advertisement appeared, and you would have saved me from great annoyance and inconvenience, if you had communicated with me before the Horton estate passed into other hands." 
               "My friend is as well aware of that as you can be, sir; and if he had been at liberty to act by himself, he would have treated with you long ago. But there was another party interested, and that person would not agree to give the document up. But things have worked around so that the consent of that person has been given to the transfer I came here to make." 
               "That is satisfactory, at all events. How do you propose to settle it? What will induce you to surrender the will without further delay?" 
               The visitor paused a few moments, and then said: 
               "I know that you are a man of your word, Mr. Lopez; and your daughter is a lady who, I believe, will do whatever she pledge herself to. You know this is rather a ticklish business for a man to put his finger in, and we-that is, my friend and myself-must rely on your honor to redeem the pledges you may make." 
               "My honor has never been questioned, I believe, sir; and my daughter shall bind herself equally with myself to pay you your reward, and make no inquiries as to who or what you are, if you will restore to her the estate of which she has been defrauded. Does not that suffice?" 
               "It does, and I will deal honestly with you. Give me a joint note signed by yourself and Miss Lopez for twenty-five thousand dollars, to be paid in to Solomon and Sons, of New York, to the credit of Abraham Hopkins, as soon as money enough from the property comes into your possession to do so, and I will produce the will." 
               "Then you have it with you! You can give me ocular demonstration that such a thing is really in existence? I know Mr. Horton's writing, and no deception can be put upon me." 
               "I am not attempting one, sir, I assure you. I have the thing safe here in my breast-pocket, and for the note I mentioned I will at once surrender it to you, relying on your good faith to carry out your part of the bargain." 
               "Of course you may. Oh, Inez! my child-my darling, you will have your own yet! and I-I shall die happy in the thought that now your happiness is secured beyond a doubt. Bring me pens and paper; let me write what is necessary to secure this great good for you." 
               Inez, trembling with surprise and joy at this unlooked-for turn in her affairs, hastened to lay open a portfolio before her father and place a pen in his almost lifeless fingers. He made an effort to write, but long disuse of his hand had almost paralyzed it, and he cried out: 
               "I cannot make a legible mark. Write the note yourself, my child; it will also be better from you, for you are the heiress." 
               "But Miss Lopez is not of age, and a contract made by her will not be valid," objected the stranger; but he laughed aloud as soon as he had spoken the words, and went on-"I studied law once, and habit is second to nature. What does it matter in a transaction of this kind whether the young lady is old enough to be responsible in a legal point of view or not. She will be on honor with me, and such a claim as this could not be brought into the courts at any rate. Write the note, if you please, Miss Lopez, and sign your own name to it. If the money is duly paid to Solomon and Son, I shall be sure to get it; if it isn't, you may chance to hear from me again some time or other." 
               Inez looked him clearly in the eyes as she coldly said: 
               "You will have no cause to apply to me again. The money shall be deposited as you direct, as soon as I can control so large a sum. The note can be drawn up in my father's name, with mine as security, and it can pass for a liability of his." 
               "That will do-you have a head for business, young lady, I perceive, and the large estate you will inherit will not be badly managed." 
               Inez scarcely listened to him. She impatiently asked: 
               "What is the usual form of such things? Dictate what I am to write, and I will put it down:" 
               "Give me a note, payable at sight, for the sum agreed on. I shall keep a sharp lookout on the business as it proceeds, and your lawyer can place the money in the hands of the bankers. I shall know when you are able to pay it well enough." 
               Inez had managed her father's affairs sufficiently to know what was required, and she hastily dashed off the necessary words and offered the paper to the inspection of the visitor. He glanced over it, nodded and said: 
               "Now get the old man to scrawl his name, and place your own below it." 
               "I must first see that for which it is to be exchanged," said Lopez. "You can have nothing to fear from Inez and myself, and I must verify it before I affix my signature to that paper." 
                
               "I do not see the use of such a precaution in a transaction like this, but you shall be satisfied." 
               He drew from his breast a small parcel secured in several wrappers; unrolling these, he presented a sealed envelope, endorsed on the back: 
               Roger Horton-Deed of Transfer to my granddaughter, Inez Lopez-Anno Domini, 18-. 
               The pallid father grasped it, held it to the light, and, in a transport of joy, cried out: 
               "It is-it is genuine! This is the old man's writing, and I hold in my hand the open-sesame to affluence and happiness for you, my dearest Inez. I only wish that I could live to enjoy it with you, but God will not grant me that blessing too. It is too much to ask of His goodness." 
               With tears in her eyes, Inez replied: 
               "I trust that He will, father. Without you, half the pleasure of being rich will be gone. We will go to Europe, where the German baths may restore to you the use of your limbs and bring you back to what you were a few years since." 
               Lopez shook his head, and impatiently said: 
               "Give me the note. Let me make an effort to sign my name for the last time; for, after this, I care little what may happen to myself." 
               The pen was again placed in his fingers, and, after several efforts, his name in irregular characters was affixed to it. Inez lightly dashed off her own below it, and then placed the note in the hands of the visitor. 
               "There, sir, the exchange is made; and you may consider this slip of paper as equivalent to the sum it represents. The first obligation I pay after my property comes into my possession shall be this one, I promise you on the honor of a true woman." 
                
               "I can ask no more, Miss Lopez, and I am sure that I can trust you. Of course, you will summon Mr. Manly to your assistance as soon as possible, and he will speedily put things in train for the restoration of your rights. I can only regret on my own part that circumstances have so long deprived you of them." 
               He bowed jauntily, secured the paper she had given him in his pocket-book, and, taking up his hat, went on: 
               "I will now bid you good-night, Mr. Lopez, leaving with yourself and your daughter my best wishes for your health and happiness." 
               Inez touched the bell, and Mrs. Perkins promptly appeared at the door, wearing a most curious and puzzled expression on her face. The young lady briefly said: 
               "Tell Dick to show this gentleman out, and guide him in safety to the road." 
               "There is no need of the last. I can find my way out as I found it in, Miss Lopez. I wish you a very good night!" 
               And the visitor shambled out of the room in the same ungainly fashion with which he had entered it. 
               "I'm blessed if I don't believe his clothes is stuffed," whispered Dick to the old woman. "Sich a small-faced man as that 'ere don't have so much flesh as that to carry. What brought him here, I wonder?" 
               "Never you mind," replied Mrs. Perkins, in the same guarded tone, "he has brought some good news that brightened up my child anyhow, and I have a notion what it may be." 
               She placed a lamp in his hand, and Dick was forced to follow the stranger to the steps, near which the horse he had rode was fastened. With some amusement he witnessed his efforts to mount, and the man's belief that the clothing worn by the visitor was padded received additional strength. But he finally gained a secure seat on the saddle, and rode away in the darkness. 
               No sooner had the door closed on him than Inez threw herself on her knees before her father, and joyfully cried out: 
               "Oh, papa, papa! what have I done to deserve this great blessing? I can now bring such a dower to Godfrey that his proud mother will be glad to welcome me as her daughter. I can give you all that you pine for-you shall have change, amusement-everything that can restore you to health." 
               Mr. Lopez would not throw a cloud over her joy. He passed his hand caressingly over her hair, and smilingly said: 
               "I do not doubt that you will do all that will lie in your power for your poor old father, Inez, and I hope that I may at least be spared long enough to see you united to your lover. You must write to Godfrey, to-morrow, and tell him what has happened. Send in for Mr. Manly at as early an hour as possible; and, in the meantime, place this precious document in a place of safety." 
               Thus brought back to the prosaic realities of life, Inez took the package from his hand, pressed the lines written by her grandfather to her lips, and then hastened to place it in a cabinet in which her mother's diamonds were kept. She retained the key in her own possession, and, sitting down beside her father, talked with him with all her former gayety and brightness. 
               Half an hour of unalloyed happiness in the prospects opening before her flitted away on wings of light, and then Mrs. Perkins came in with the waiter, and set out the small table on which Mr. Lopez took his meals. With this faithful friend Inez could have no secrets, and she blithely said: 
               "What has been so long sought in vain has come to light at last, Jane. That singular-looking man came hither to restore the missing will, and I have it safe." 
               The nurse dropped the plate she was placing, and stared in mute surprise; but she presently found the use of her tongue and poured forth such a volume of inquiries and congratulations that Inez found it difficult to answer them. She ended by saying: 
               "That vagabond stole it himself, I'll bet any amount, Miss Inez; and I s'pose he asked a pretty penny for giving it back?" 
               "Of course he has had his reward, or he will have it, which is the same thing; but you must be very prudent and say nothing of his visit here." 
               "Of course, miss, I understand-when people bring back stolen goods they don't want their visits talked about. I know what I'm about, and I'll hold my tongue of course. But I just wish the fellow could be brought up with a short turn, in place of being paid for his rascality." 
               "I would cheerfully have paid him double the sum I am to give him if he had brought me this good fortune three months ago," replied Inez, with a faint sigh. 
               Lopez impatiently broke in: 
               "Give me my tea, Jane; I am tired and too much excited for my state of health." 
               Mrs. Perkins acted on this hint, and served the supper in silence, though her beaming and triumphant glances told Inez how deeply she shared in her joy. 
               An order was sent to Dick to set out for Newport at an early hour on the following morning with a note written by Inez to Mr. Manly, briefly informing him of what had occurred, and requesting his immediate appearance at the Glades. 
               It was later than usual when Mr. Lopez retired, and Inez sat several hours talking with her nurse, and blithely arranging her future plans. For a brief space of time, she was deeply, unutterably happy; for not a doubt of her lover's truth came to mar the sweetness of the cup that was so unexpectedly offered to her lip. She quaffed whole draughts of joy, and most sorely did she need them to sustain her through the bitter trials that awaited her loving and devoted heart. 
               Inez at a late hour retired to her own apartment. She looked in on her father, saw that he was sleeping quietly; and after pouring out her soul in thanks to Heaven, she sought her couch, hoping to dream of Godfrey Fenton-to be with him at least in spirit through the hours of slumber. But sleep refused to come to her eyelids; the excitement of the evening had effectually banished it, and the uncouth form of her recent visitor came between herself and her lover, diverting her thoughts from Fenton, and fixing them by a kind of fascination upon himself. 
               She recalled the stained face; for Inez had penetrated the disguise, and knew that a fair complexion and sandy hair was concealed beneath the artificial tinge and raven wig. 
               That it was Wilkins himself who had come to her under a feigned name to restore what he had purloined she did not for a moment doubt; but she had forbore to suggest this to her father. Let him profit by his rascality, though she would have given much to understand why this long delay had been made in restoring the will to her, as he could any day have made as good terms with her father. Finally, wearied with conjecture, Inez fell asleep, but she did not dream of Fenton. 
               All night she was falling from a great height, to find herself caught in some mysterious manner on a gossamer cloud which bore her lightly onward till the same giddy experience recurred, to meet always with the same result. 
               The voice of Mrs. Perkins at her bedside aroused her, and she heard her say: 
                
               "It is getting late, Miss Inez, and as Dick has come back with a message from Mr. Manly, saying that he will be here by ten o'clock, I thought I had better rouse you up that you may be quite ready to receive him." 
               "Thank you, Jane. I have overslept myself, but I shall soon be ready for breakfast. Is papa awake yet?" 
               "Bless your heart, yes; he is in the parlor waiting for you. As soon as he heard that the lawyer was coming he insisted on being dressed and taken out at once." 
               "So much the better. I am glad he is so well. Ah! I hope this piece of good fortune will bring new life to him." 
               When Inez joined her father she thought that it had indeed had that effect; for she had not seen his eyes brighten with such animation for years. He greeted her with a kiss, and hastened to dilate on what they would do when Fenton came, with a lightness of heart that gave her new hope for him. 
               The breakfast things were scarcely cleared away when Mr. Manly arrived. He came in looking glad and excited, and grasping the hand of Inez with friendly warmth, said: 
               "You have the deed, Miss Lopez? It's all safe and right. I assure you, my dear young lady, that a terrible weight was lifted from my heart by the announcement your note made. I could never have died satisfied, knowing that a trust confided to my care had slipped through my fingers, even with no fault of my own. Come, tell me all about it." 
               Inez produced the deed, laid it before him, and briefly explained how it came into her possession. 
               "But what could the thief mean by withholding it so long. Why did he not communicate with you before the estate passed into the hands of trustees for that charity? We shall have double trouble now to get possession of it; and it is a shame that you should have been kept out of your own all these months." 
                
               "That does not signify now, Mr. Manly," replied Inez with a smile. "I do not think there will be much difficulty in making a compromise, as I do not wish to take from the poor orphans the home that has been given them at Oakland. My father agrees with me that the old place shall be given to the county as an asylum, with an endowment from the estate of fifty thousand dollars. Such a settlement as that will prevent litigation, which I wish by all means to avoid." 
               "You are very liberal, Miss Lopez; but I think that bait will suffice to prevent a lawsuit which would be sure to end in your favor. There will still be enough, and to spare, left; for I have been looking into Mrs. Hawks' affairs, and I find that the property left by her is worth nearly four hundred thousand dollars. You are a great heiress, and a-a most charming girl, I must say. You are positively radiant to-day." 
               "Thank you; but I am most happy," replied Inez, with a silvery laugh that rippled musically from her red lips. 
               Mr. Lopez impatiently asked: 
               "There is no doubt-not the shadow of a doubt, I hope, of the nature of the settlement you hold in your hand, Mr. Manly?" 
               "Not the slightest, I believe; but we can soon settle all that. Mrs. Perkins is here, I believe, and the man who came in for me seems an intelligent fellow; we will have them in, and after explaining to them what it contains, we will break the seal of this envelope and satisfy ourselves as to what its provisions are." 
               The bell was rung and immediately responded to by the appearance of Mrs. Perkins. Dick was summoned, and the lawyer said to them: 
               "I wish you both to examine the superscription of this envelope, and hereafter, if necessary, to testify to the fact that it was opened in your presence, and its contents read aloud to you." 
               "Of course we will, sir. We are ready to do anything that will help to bring Miss Inez to her own again," said Mrs. Perkins, briskly. "I always believed that the will of the old master would turn up, and sure enough the rapscallion that's had it all this time repented of his villainy and brought it back." 
               The writing was duly examined, the seal broken, and the little party listened with breathless interest to the voice of Mr. Manly as he read in clear tones an instrument perfect in all its details, which gave intact to Inez Lopez, the only child of Mr. Horton's beloved daughter, Susan Lopez, the whole of his large estate, to be enjoyed by her after the decease of Eunice Hawks, ne Horton. 
               The reader ceased, cleared his throat and said: 
               "It is just as I always believed. Mrs. Hawks had no more than a life estate in the property, and this must settle your claim to it beyond all doubt, Miss Lopez." 
               Inez turned to her father to see the effect this had upon him. He was leaning back, with his eyes closed, his hands clasped in thankfulness; but there was a singular expression on his face that alarmed her. A death-like pallor had taken the place of the more healthy hue excitement had brought to his dark cheek, and his eyes seemed wandering in vacancy. He faintly gasped: 
               "Thank God! it is all yours! I am going where money is of no avail; but you will be happy with the one that loves you Inez. Seek him; don't wait for him to come to you; for others may withhold him. God bless you, darling of my heart, and keep you always." 
               "Oh, papa, don't-don't. You break my heart talking and looking so. There are your drops." And with her own hand Inez hastened to offer him the preparation of opium he sometimes used in place of the gum. He put it back, feebly saying: 
               "Too late, too late. It can do no good now. Kiss me, Inez, and do not moan too bitterly over my loss. Let Godfrey speedily wipe away your tears, and be as happy as you deserve to be." 
               Inez stooped forward and kissed him many times, though the touch of his chilling lips sent a wild thrill of fear to her heart. With one long struggling sigh, the spirit of her father escaped from his worn out frame, in the very moment the fruition of his most ardent hope had been gained. The overtasked heart ceased its pulsations forever, and all that remained of the parent that had loved her was his broken down and wasted body. 
               But it was long before Inez could be brought to believe that he was really dead, and she vainly used every effort to bring back the life that had flickered so long, to be extinguished in that hour of triumphant joy. 
               We draw a curtain over the anguish of the stricken daughter. When at last convinced that life was extinct, Inez permitted herself to be taken to her room by her nurse, there to weep over the sudden calamity that had overtaken her; for, irritable and difficult to please as her father had often been, she clung to him with the fondest affection, and the blow which severed him from her was a severe one indeed. 
               Mr. Manly took possession of the will, and lost no time in notifying the trustees that it had been recovered; at the same time informing them of the munificent compromise the heiress was willing to make. As the property had scarcely yet passed into their possession, the terms of an agreement were soon settled, and a few days after her father's funeral was over, Inez signed the deed of transfer which gave Oakland, with its handsome endowment, to the charity to which her aunt had devoted the whole estate. 
               Inez gladly did this; for she would have been unwilling to receive so much without giving from her superfluity to the young and helpless beings who had already been collected as recipients of the bounty. 
               With Mr. Manly's assistance, the sum agreed on as the price of the will was transmitted to Solomon & Son in New York, and Inez felt that her work at Newport was finished. She could not remain in that desolate home, with no companions save servants; and when Father Espana came to inform her that he was on the eve of departure for New Orleans, Inez recalled her father's last injunctions, and asked him if he would take charge of herself and Mrs. Perkins as his travelling companions. 
               The priest was an old, gray-haired man, many years older than her father had been, so there was no impropriety, she thought, in asking this service at his hands. After some slight hesitation, it was granted, though he seemed anxious to discover the object of her southern tour. 
               Inez explained to him that she went at her father's command; and she hoped to find a friend in Natchez who would relieve him from all further care on her account. She had written to Fenton informing him of the occurrences of the few past weeks, and asked him to meet her on her arrival in the city of the bluff; and in the simplicity and truth of her own soul, she did not doubt that he would hasten there to receive her with most loving welcome; to secure her hand at once, and with it the magnificent dower she could now bestow upon him. 
               His mother's opposition to their union was of little importance to them now; for the fortune that Mrs. Markland could bestow on her son dwindled into insignificance beside the one Inez herself possessed, and she doubted not that the haughty mother would, in time, learn to appreciate her at her true value. 
               Mrs. Perkins entered into her young lady's plans without demur, and preparations were made for departure. The first bitterness of grief for the loss she had sustained had passed away, and Inez began to enjoy the change in her monotonous life; to look forward with shy happiness to her reunion with the lover to whom she was so earnestly devoted. 
               Father Espana proved a most agreeable travelling companion, for he was a thoroughly cultivated man, who had seen much of the best society, and yet who did not disdain to converse with his young charge in such a way as to prove to her that, in spite of her age and sex, he considered her an intelligent entity, capable of appreciating the lofty subjects he often discussed with her. 
               Father Espana was about to visit the convents in Louisiana, and he earnestly invited Inez to spend some time in the seclusion of one of them before she settled her worldly destiny. To him a young girl offering herself at the shrine of the Madonna, to assume the duties of consoler and comforter to the weary and broken-hearted, was the most sublime spectacle that earth could witness; and Inez listened to him until she thought if ties so strong did not bind her to Fenton, she might seek the life the priest so glowingly depicted as the happiest and noblest one to be found among earth's children. But Godfrey Fenton beckoned her to his side; with him she would be safe and happy; so she held her precious secret intact, and would not betray to her kind protector the cause of her long journey, anxious as he was to discover it. 
               They reached Natchez on a bright morning in February, and Father Espana went with Inez to the hotel, secured rooms for herself and Mrs. Perkins, and then, giving his address, begged that she would write to him as soon as possible, and inform him as to whether her hopes in making so long a journey had been realized. 
               Inez was deeply disappointed that Fenton was not at the landing to meet her; but she excused him by remembering how uncertain the arrival of Mississippi steamers was. As soon as she was established in her room she rang for a waiter, and sent her card down to the office with an inquiry as to whether any letter or message had been left for her. 
               The man returned immediately with the card of Guy Denham, on which was pencilled a brief request that she would see his sister, who was in the house awaiting her arrival. 
               Pleased with this mark of consideration, which she attributed to Fenton's forethought, Inez wrote in reply: 
               "I shall be most happy to see Mrs. Langley again. How kind of her to come to meet me. 
               In a few moments the messenger returned to conduct her to the private parlor in which Mrs. Langley sat; and, in a flutter of emotion, Inez followed him. She was about to hear of her betrothed, and the poor trusting child could never have anticipated the crushing blow that awaited her. Fenton had not written to her for many weeks, but that did not cloud her perfect trust in him. She accounted for his silence in every way that did not implicate his honor and truth; and she descended the steps with a bounding heart to meet her friend of the past summer. 
               Mrs. Langley came forward looking very pale, though she was smiling in a sad sort of way, and she hastened to kiss Inez, and say: 
               "I have come to take you home with me, my dear Miss Lopez. I have been here on the watch for you two days, and my carriage is already ordered. It will be at the door in a few moments." 
                
               "How shall I thank you for such kindness? Godfrey sent you, I suppose, though it is strange if he knew when I was to be here that he was not on the spot to meet and welcome me himself. I have taken an unusual step, I know, Mrs. Langley, but it was my father's dying wish, and, to tell you all the truth, it was my own also." 
               "Yes, I understand that. Godfrey had your letter. He could not come in to meet you himself, so he delegated to me the pleasure of welcoming you on Mississippi soil. I have a great deal to say to you that is of the deepest interest to you, but we must defer our confidences till we are safe in my house. Mrs. Perkins is with you of course? Pray send her word that you will make no stay here, and she can bring your things down to this room." 
               "Why are you in so great a hurry, Mrs. Langley? We are alone, and you can tell me all you have to communicate without waiting till we reach your house." 
               "We may be interrupted any moment, my dear. No, no,-you must come with me at once, and I will not tell you a syllable of Godfrey till you are safe beneath my own roof." 
               "He is ill!" faltered Inez, growing pale,-"perhaps dying?" 
               "I declare to you that he is not ill, but he is in difficulties. He could not come to town to-day, though he was here last night. Rely on me, my dear Inez, to do what is best for you, and for him too. You will consent to come with me?" 
               "Certainly, since only by so doing can I hear what so deeply concerns me. Excuse me a few moments-I will go up to Jane and inform her of this arrangement." 
               As the door closed on Inez, Denham came in by an opposite one, and quickly asked: 
               "Has she consented? Will she return with us to Ash-wood?" 
                
               "Yes; she has accepted my invitation. Unfortunate girl! to come so far, with her heart filled with love and trust, to meet such a blow as awaits her! Oh, Guy, it is terrible! it breaks my heart to think of what is before her." 
               He drew near her, and, with pale passion, said: 
               "And that villain has robbed me of my love-my life, while this hapless girl believes him devoted to her. Oh, Anna, I sometimes think that I shall kill him yet!" 
               "Don't talk so, Guy; you terrify me by such threats. I hear Inez coming. Compose your face, and do not let her suspect what is hanging over her while we are here. When she is in the seclusion of my own home I will tell her of Godfrey's faithlessness as tenderly as I can." 
               Inez came in, followed by Mrs. Perkins. Denham advanced to meet her, and offered his hand with commonplace greetings. She gravely said: 
               "You were very kind, Mr. Denham, to come with your sister to meet me. You are not looking as well as when I saw you in the summer." 
               "No; I have not been well of late. I will see if the carriage is ready." 
               And he made his escape from the room to regain outward composure, and return a few moments later with the announcement that his sister's carriage was at the door. 
               The four took their seats in it, and were whirled away; and while Inez goes forward to meet the sad revelation that awaits her, we will return to Silvermere, and relate what had happened there during this long interval of time; for we left Opal Hastings and her fortunes on the ninth of December, and it is now the fifteenth of February. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               NINA MAKES A NOTABLE DISCOVERY. 
               THE first few days of Nina Gordon's stay beneath the roof of Mr. Hastings were spent quietly enough so far as outward appearances went, though her mind was kept in a constant ferment of rage by the preparations that were making for the approaching marriage. 
               Boxes loaded with finery came from New Orleans, and the bridal presents began to come in. On these Nina looked with surprise and envy, for they were all as magnificent as the taste of the friends who offered them was good. But pre-eminent among them was the gift of Fenton. It was a superb suite of opals, set with diamonds of the purest lustre, with a point lace fan ornamented with the same costly gems. 
               Nina went into raptures over them. 
               "Oh how beautiful! how exquisite! Those stones look as if a heart of flame would burst from them. I have never before seen jewels to be compared with them. But you will not venture to be married in them, Miss Hastings?" 
               "Why not?" asked Opal in surprise. "Such was Godfrey's intention when he sent them, I am sure." 
               "Then Mr. Fenton must be ignorant of the superstition which many people attach to these gems. It is thought unlucky for a bride to wear them." 
               "I do not suppose that my fate can be materially influenced by the jewels I may wear," replied Opal, indifferently. "It is settled, at any rate, that they are to be a portion of my bridal attire, and I should wear them in compliment to Godfrey's taste, even if I were certain that a tear was set with every gem." 
                
               "You speak very lightly of tears, Miss Hastings, but when you have as much cause to shed them as I have had, you may shrink from even a trifle that looks ominous to a superstitious eye." 
               Opal's violet eyes turned on her with an expression of interest. She earnestly asked: 
               "Do you then think that my life has been all sunshine? that I have not wept as bitterly as you can have wept? Ah! Miss Gordon, the children of prosperity are not always as gay and happy as they seem; yet I have no right to complain, for I have everything that fortune can bestow, besides the affection of tender parents." 
               "And the adoring love of your betrothed," replied Nina, in a low voice. "Mr. Fenton seems more deeply enamored with you than he has ever been before." 
               Opal turned from her, coldly saying: 
               "I am quite satisfied with Godfrey's devotion; and if his heart did wander from me for a season, I have forgiven it. We will not speak of him, if you please, Miss Gordon." 
               At that moment the entrance of Mrs. Hastings, who broke into raptures at the sight of the jewels, enabled Nina to recover from the fit of rage into which Opal's rebuff had thrown her. 
               The voice of Fenton was heard on the lawn at this moment speaking to a servant, and Opal glided away to receive and thank him for his magnificent present. 
               Nina discussed everything with Mrs. Hastings in the manner she knew would be most agreeable to her. She was really very fond of pretty things herself, and she succeeded in stifling her real feelings so far as to induce the elder lady to believe that she was deeply interested in the display of the many articles accumulated for the bride-elect. 
                
               Mrs. Hastings was in her true element, and in the hurry and excitement of the approaching event she neglected her usual surveillance of her husband, and left him pretty much to his own devices. 
               Mr. Hastings passed much of his time alone in his library, with his bottle concealed in a cabinet in which his private papers were kept. It is but justice to him to say that he made a faint struggle to keep the promise he had made to his wife; but much was pressing on his mind, and old habits of self-indulgence were too strong for him. He never drank enough to intoxicate, but he was never free from the influence of what he had taken, and he saw the days go by which must soon bring the one appointed for the sacrifice of his daughter to a man he knew she did not love, with that sullen indifference which is the offspring of alcohol. 
               Opal seemed to have reconciled herself to her lot, and all would be well; such was the flattering unction Mr. Hastings laid to his soul, and he would not see the inward shrinking with which his child looked forward to the assumption of the marriage bond. He could well have interpreted the pale shadow that had settled on her face; the restless, yet subdued manner which betrayed with how much difficulty the unquiet heart was brought into subjection to the destiny she could not evade; yet her father never faltered in his determination to let things take their course. 
               Mr. Hastings rode out every morning, and as soon as the sound of the footsteps of his horse died away Nina would find some pretext for entering the library. When there, in place of looking for books to read, she pried into everything as if seeking confirmation to some suspicion that had found entrance into her mind. 
               On this morning she found his keys hanging from the lock of his cabinet, and sure of being uninterrupted, for Mrs. Hastings had gone to lie down and Opal was in the conservatory atory with her lover, Nina locked herself in the room and began to examine the private papers of her host. 
               She took out package after package, all tied up with red tape and neatly labelled, but seemed disappointed as she glanced at each one. But she at last found what she was seeking-the full name of Mr. Hastings written out in his own hand. She had already asked him what the F. in his name stood for, and he had evaded her in such a way as to confirm the belief that began to assume form in her subtle mind. Nina read it now with flashing eyes, traced in the same clear chirography so well remembered by her-"William Fairlie Hastings;" and she bitterly muttered: 
               "It is as I thought. He is the uncle who has educated me; who, I now believe, has defrauded me of my inheritance to give it to his own daughter. He has lied to me, too-asserting that Mr. Fairlie is dead, while he himself is that person. What can I do to right myself? To recover my own, for I believe that the money he spends so lavishly belongs to me. If I could claim his fortune, Godfrey Fenton would seek me, in place of that pale, reluctant bride, and I will possess it yet. My uncle appropriates my wealth, and makes me a dependent in the house that should be my own. He thinks a thousand a year liberal payment for the wrong he has done me; but we shall see; we shall see!" 
               Entirely ignorant that the wealth enjoyed by Mr. Hastings belonged exclusively to his wife, Nina wove a theory of probabilities that looked plausible enough to one like herself, for she knew that if placed in his position she would not scruple to be guilty of the very villainy of which she was accusing him. 
               Why he should desire to conceal the near relationship that existed between them, Nina could not comprehend, unless his reticence cloaked some deep-laid scheme of wrong of which she was the victim; and her mind was soon fully made up that her kinsman had defrauded her of the fortune that should rightfully have belonged to her. 
               Yes, she was the heiress, and he the unprincipled usurper of her rights. She had often read of such things, and there could be no doubt that some foul conspiracy had placed her in the inferior position she held in that house. Mr. Hastings had doubtless been the executor to her father's estate, and had made himself master of the whole of it; thus she settled it in her own conviction, and, when she heard Opal's voice on the portico, she hastened to replace the papers, and went out to join her and Fenton. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               LOVE ME, OR I PERISH. ILL UNTO DEATH. 
               A POLITE greeting passed between Fenton and Nina, but after a few moments he found her at his side talking with her old animation, and using all the fascinating arts of which she was mistress to beguile his attentions from his betrothed. 
               Opal leaned listlessly over the railing, toying with a cluster of evergreens that grew below it, and Fenton, flattered and interested in spite of his mistrust of the fair actress, yielded for a season to the old spell the enchantress had once thrown around him. Nina's magnetic eyes grew luminous, her lips eloquent with the emotions that swelled in her bosom, and Fenton, attracted, enthralled for the moment, mentally said: 
               "What would I give if a portion of this girl's fire and power could be infused into Opal. The one evidently loves me still with all the passion of her ardent soul, while the other only endures me. Yes-that is all; yet I would marry Opal now, if all the fiends in the Inferno rose up to oppose me. I am not going to be balked of fortune twice in so brief a space of time. I shall have that at any rate, and I suppose, in time, she will learn to love and care for me as much as most women do for their husbands." 
               While these thoughts floated through his mind the syren voice talked on, and Fenton listened with charmed ear, although he had such bitter cause to dread Nina Gordon. He was tired of the rle he was playing, and ready for anything that offered a diversion. Nina was piquante, and he no longer felt afraid of her; she had conducted herself with such calm propriety since she came to Silvermere, that he began to wonder why he should have deprecated her advent there. 
               The day was brilliantly clear, but the atmosphere was chill with wintry frost, and Mrs. Hastings presently appeared at the door, and said: 
               "It is too cold for you to remain out there, Opal; you have not been quite well for several days, and I would not have you get ill just now for any consideration. Come in, my dear, to the fire." 
               "Yes indeed," chimed in Fenton, "Opal must be in her highest beauty when we stand together before the altar. We will all come in, Mrs. Hastings, for it is rather chilly here." 
               "I am not cold at all," said Nina; "such weather as this only makes my blood bound through my veins like quicksilver. Come with me to the lake, Mr. Fenton. I have set my heart on taking a sail on it this lovely morning, and there is wind enough for that." 
               "Indeed you will be half frozen, Miss Gordon," remonstrated Mrs. Hastings. "I am sure it will not be safe to attempt such a thing on so cold a morning. Pray come in." 
                
               "My dear Mrs. Hastings, in the country I came from this day would be considered spring-like. I have set my heart on a sail on that pretty little sheet of water, and if Mr. Fenton ungallantly refuses to go with me and manage the boat, I will trust myself to old Simon." 
               Nina looked into his eyes, and in spite of his late feelings toward her, under the influence of that glance he said: 
               "Of course I cannot permit you to go with Simon after making such an appeal to me as that. If Opal will wrap herself up well, I think you may permit her to join us, Mrs. Hastings." 
               "No-thank you," said Opal, quickly. "I have no desire to go; the last time you were on the lake you came very near upsetting the boat, and I advise Miss Gordon to take Simon along at any rate, if she is in earnest about going with you." 
               "Indeed I am in earnest! Stay here, Mr. Fenton; I will be ready in a moment." 
               She dashed into the house, and almost immediately returned wrapped in a crimson shawl, with a white nubia thrown over her head. She and Fenton descended the steps, and Opal went in with her mother, wondering why Nina wished to secure a private interview with Fenton, but perfectly indifferent as to its result. 
               It was too late now for either of them to recede, but if such a thing were possible her betrothed was welcome to take the initiative even at the instigation of Nina Gordon. So she sunk upon a seat and gave herself up to painful reverie, while the two of whom she was thinking went toward the lake. 
               With light badinage Nina resumed the conversation, and Fenton passively yielded to the flattery with which she had lured him to her purpose. In assailing his weakest point she had triumphed, and the radiant glow that lit up her features was most fascinating to a worshipper of beauty like the man that walked beside her. The tiny sheet of water was a quarter of a mile distant, but Fenton did not find the way long, and when they reached the boat-house Nina suddenly said: 
               "Ah! this reminds me of old times!-of the days in which you and I were-Well, you know what we were to each other once, Mr. Fenton; though for you that has passed utterly away. Tell me truly, Godfrey: do you not at times wish that I were possessor of this charming place, instead of the girl you are compelling to marry you? Speak the honest truth for once in your life, and give me the only consolation I can now receive." 
               The passionate quiver in her voice touched him-his vanity was flattered, though he was deeply embarrassed as he replied: 
               "Let by-gones be by-gones, Miss Gordon. You and I are quits now, and it is best that we remain so. Shall we go on the water, or will you return to the house?" 
               The glance she flashed on him might have scathed him, though it gleamed through gathering tears. She dashed them away and haughtily said: 
               "I will go on the lake if you please. I came hither with that purpose, and I shall not be turned from it. I have something to say to you that no other ears must hear, and you must go with me." 
               "Suppose I refuse to do so?" he asked. "I have no wish to hear anything you may have to communicate. It is better for us both that we shall return to the house at once." 
               With taunting sarcasm she replied: 
               "Do you think so? I am sorry that I cannot agree with you. If you are sure of your own heart, you will not be afraid to give me a few moments alone. When a lady asks of a gentleman the favor of his company for a brief season, he cannot be so churlish as to refuse it. Pray unloose the boat from its moorings, or I will do it myself, and if you will not accompany me, I will go alone." 
               "If you did that, you would very likely be drowned, for the water is over ten feet in depth, and I do not think that you know how to swim." 
               "What would it matter to you if I were drowned? You would not shed a tear over my untimely fate. Will you loosen the boat, Mr. Fenton?" 
               He leisurely moved down the embankment, obeyed her imperious command, and silently helped her into the fairy bark, in the stern of which cushions were placed upon the seat. Fenton knew how to manage the light craft very well, for he had often been out sailing or rowing on it with Opal. Besides, on this miniature sheet of water there could be no danger to either of them, though he wondered greatly at the sudden freak which led Nina to wish for him as her companion on such a jaunt. 
               The boat was soon gliding away over the clear water, and Fenton waited for his companion to speak. She at length contemptuously said: 
               "This is a pretty pond, but it is absurd to call it a lake, and when I take possession of the place, I intend to give it a better name." 
               Fenton stared at her in astonishment. With a laugh he asked: 
               "Are you dreaming, Nina? or have you planned to poison Mrs. Hastings and marry her husband?" 
               "No, thank you. I shall find a better way to what I spoke of than that. Do you know why I wished you to come out here with me, Godfrey Fenton?" 
               "To hear you talk as if you had lost your senses, I suppose," he replied, with a sneer. 
                
               "There you are mistaken, for I was never more perfectly in possession of them than at this moment. I brought you hither to prove to you that you are about to give your hand to a girl who has no right to these broad lands-who will bring you a much smaller dower than you anticipate." 
               "Ah, indeed! That is news worth hearing; but how are you to prove it to me, fair Nina?" 
               "I can do so-I shall do it. I will tell you a secret I have fathomed; I know who I am-I have discovered the name I am entitled to bear." 
               "That must have been an interesting discovery to you, but I cannot see how I am interested in it." 
               "Can't you? Well-we shall soon see. I am the niece of Mr. Hastings. He is the Fairlie who educated me-who conceals himself behind a cloud of mystery, that he may enjoy the fortune of which he has defrauded me-the fortune that would bring you back to my feet, if I could reclaim it. Is it not so, Godfrey? dearest Godfrey!" and her voice softened to its most tender tones. 
               Fenton listened to this revelation in incredulous surprise. He scarcely heeded the last words, imploringly as they were spoken, flattering as they were to his self-love. He coldly said: 
               "Miss Gordon, this can never be true. Why should Mr. Hastings have suppressed his near relationship to you-have received you as a stranger beneath his roof, when you had such strong claims on him?" 
               "Ah! why indeed! unless he served his own interests by doing so?" she triumphantly asked. 
               "But what proof have you to bring forward that you are his niece?" 
               "I am satisfied of it myself, and that is sufficient. Mr. Hastings refused to tell me what the middle letter in his name stood for, but I found it out for myself, and from that and various other circumstances I drew my own conclusions. Yes-I am an heiress, and my uncle has defrauded me of the inheritance for the possession of which you are about to marry his daughter. You do not love Opal, Godfrey Fenton, although you so deftly play the part of her wooer; and if her heart could be laid bare before you, you would find there only shrinking from the bond you are so anxious to cement. Look into my eyes, if you dare, and tell me that you really care for her." 
               Fenton did not comply with this demand. He looked away from her as he quietly replied: 
               "You are under a great delusion in one respect. Even if you are the niece of Mr. Hastings, you could bring forward no claim to this estate, for it belongs to his wife. Through her mother Opal will be a great heiress; as to my feelings towards her, I decline discussing them with you." 
               Nina clenched her small hands and lurid fire gleamed from her light eyes. She passionately cried: 
               "And you-you will marry her for that money! You will trample my heart in the dust of your selfishness, though you know that for you alone has it ever beat. I am maddened with the struggle through which I have passed, and I must speak out, or die. Say that you love me, Godfrey-me alone, or I will throw myself into this water and end life and suffering at once." 
               Fenton believed that she was but acting a part, and he lightly replied: 
               "You would only get a good ducking, for of course I should jump in after you and rescue you in spite of your struggles. Be reasonable, Nina, and do not lay aside your natural character to assume that of a tragedy-queen. It does not suit you, I assure you." 
               She pressed her hand convulsively over her heart, and murmured: 
                
               "And this man I have loved as only such women as I can love!" 
               Then, turning fiercely upon him, she asked: 
               "Godfrey Fenton, do you not fear to arouse the serpent of hate that lies coiled in my heart, ready to spring into venomous life when the conviction comes to me that you have cast me off utterly and forever? Listen to me. I have never loved any but you. I cling to you in spite of all you have done to alienate my heart. Last summer, when I wheedled that old woman into making her will in my favor, it was with the hope that, endowed with fortune, I should again be sought by you. Your machinations defeated me, but what have you gained by them? You have given up the girl to whom you were then devoted, and you are about to burden yourself with a wife chosen for you by your mother, while I-I perish for the boon of your affections!" 
               She cast herself wildly at his feet, and raised her eyes imploringly to his face. But she read there no answering emotion. Fenton was shocked by this unmaidenly revelation, and embarrassed by the novel position in which he found himself placed, and he could find no words with which to frame a reply. This silence became so unendurable to Nina that at length she bitterly cried: 
               "Speak!-stab me to the heart by saying what I already know-that you dare not recede-that the love you once bore me is dead-dead as I shall soon be now!" 
               She cowered down in the bottom of the boat, and, with some effort, Fenton lifted her and placed her on the seat again. In gentle tones, he finally said: 
               "Nina, I would to God that we had never met. I hoped-I believed that you had put that dream aside forever. Remember that I have no right to speak words of love to you now, even if my heart responded to yours." 
                
               "And it does not-it does not? To hear the words spoken by your lips, will scarcely be more bitter than to feel that it is so. Yet, I would have made you happy, Godfrey. If the wealth I feel sure should have been mine had not been appropriated by my uncle, you would never have deserted me. I cannot be deceived as to your feelings towards me when we first knew each other. I was the first love of your heart, and it is not yet too late to free yourself from the fetters with which you are bound. I will assert my rights. I will claim my fortune at Mr. Hastings' hands, and then-then--" 
               "Nina, for God's sake, cease such language! It is unwomanly-uncalled for. If you possessed the wealth of the Rothschilds, I never could marry you-never! I have no faith in you. I should fear you,-and how much love can exist with such a feeling, I leave you to judge." 
               A fearful convulsion passed over her face, and a blue pallor settled around her lips. She bent her head upon her breast, and sat nervously working her fingers together. 
               Fenton turned the boat toward the shore and took up an oar to assist its progress forward, for the wind had suddenly fallen, leaving them in the centre of the lake. 
               In a low, concentrated tone, Nina at length spoke: 
               "So this is the end of all between us. This is the reward of the maddest love that one human heart ever held for another. Godfrey Fenton, you have been my evil genius; and I, in my turn, will be yours. Beware! remember, I bid you beware!" 
               "You have threatened me before to-day, Miss Gordon, but I have no fear of you. Even this melo-dramatic scene has inspired me with but one conviction, and that is, that in you the stage has lost a great actress. I believe that you might almost rival Rachel herself. But let me set you right as it regards Mr. Hastings. If you are really his niece, as you so confidently assert, he cannot have defrauded you of your fortune, for he possesses none of his own. He was a penniless lawyer when he came to this State and married a wealthy woman; but her property is all settled on herself and her daughter, and you will gain nothing by bringing forward such imaginary claims as you have spoken of." 
               With bitter sarcasm, Nina replied: 
               "And that is why you hold to your troth with Opal, I understand; the links that are forged of gold are not easily broken!" 
               "You are at liberty to think what you please, but my honor is bound to Miss Hastings, and I intend to redeem the pledges I have given her,-so we will say no more on that subject." 
               "I understand, noblesse oblige," said Nina, scornfully. "Put me ashore, Mr. Fenton, and forget what has lately passed between us. Since nothing is to be gained by proclaiming the discovery I have made, I shall say nothing about it. Let my uncle keep his secret. Since he is ashamed to acknowledge his dependent niece, I can live, as I have long done, upon his bounty without asking more at his hands. Now that I know I have a right to it, I shall not scruple to accept it." 
               Fenton was quite as anxious to end this strange interview as Nina could be, and he soon brought the boat to the flight of steps which led up to the rustic temple on the bank. As he sprang up to fasten it, Nina also arose; the light craft careened, she lost her balance, and fell over the farther side into the deep water. 
               Fenton sprang in after her, brought her up dripping and half-strangled, and, in a few moments, he laid her on the seat of the boat-house, and hurriedly said: 
               "This is a most unfortunate accident, for you are wet through, and we are far from the house. I am afraid you will take your death of cold, but you must remain here while I run to the house and send you assistance. It will never do for you to attempt to walk so far in those saturated clothes." 
               Nina arose, wrung the water from her long hair, and defiantly said: 
               "You can go if you choose, but I can and will walk back. If I take cold, and it strikes to my life, so much the better. I shall be out of your way, and you may thank your stars should it end so." 
               Fenton did not care to be the companion of her walk in her present mood, so he hurriedly replied: 
               "Perhaps it will be best for you to keep in motion. I will hasten on before you, and send some one to meet you with a dry shawl." 
               In another moment he was gone, and Nina wrung her hands in impotent anguish and fury. The grand coup had failed, and she felt herself utterly defeated. But she soon regained her presence of mind, and set out for the house. The wet garments impeded her steps, and the frosty air struck upon them, chilling her through every fibre of her frame. 
               Half way to the house, she met a servant carrying a heavy shawl for her. The wet one was removed, and the dry one carefully wrapped around her; but Nina did not derive from it any sensation of warmth, and, by the time she gained the steps, she was shivering with a severe chill. 
               She was taken to her room, her garments changed, and, after she was placed in bed, hot teas were pressed on her by the old negro nurse who had been summoned to her assistance. These she refused to taste, and asked for wine. This was sent up to her, and Mrs. Hastings followed, to remonstrate against its use, as fever would be sure to follow the chill. 
                
               Nina was obstinate, and would listen to no persuasions, so she was permitted to have her own way. She drank several glasses of port, and, under their influence, sunk into an uneasy slumber. 
               From this she awoke in a burning fever; her intense excitement, followed by the sudden plunge into the cold water, had produced their legitimate effects, and Nina knew that she was becoming very ill. 
               In the evening, Mr. Hastings himself came to her bedside, accompanied by his daughter. He knew a little of medicine, and the alarm depicted on his face, as he looked on the burning cheeks and flashing eyes of the sufferer, proved that he feared the worst for her. He sadly asked: 
               "How could you be so imprudent as to go on the lake on such a day as this? It was very careless in Godfrey to let you fall in the water." 
               "Oh no, it was all my own fault. Pray don't blame Mr. Fenton, for I only was in fault. I am paying the penalty of my own folly, and I am afraid that I shall give you a great deal of trouble. Perhaps I shall die, and then you will forgive me for--" 
               The voice sank away into an inaudible murmur, and Mr. Hastings hurriedly said: 
               "You must be quiet now, Miss Gordon. I will send to Natchez for my family physician, for you must have the best medical advice without delay. I had no idea that I should find you so ill." 
               "Pray don't send for the doctor for me. I shall be very well to-morrow. Hagar can do all I require." 
               Opal leaned over her and took her hot hand in her own; but Nina quickly drew it away, and impatiently went on: 
               "All I need is rest. Just let me alone, and I shall do well enough." 
               Opal moved away, and left the room with her father. As he descended the stairs with set lips and clouded brow, his wife came into the hall. She eagerly asked: 
               "How did you find her? Oh dear, if Miss Gordon does get really ill, what are we to do? It is so inconvenient to have sickness in the house when we are preparing for a great festival." 
               "Madam," he sternly replied, "this poor girl is thrown upon our kindness, and we must do the part of good Samaritans by her. I am afraid that she is very ill; in fact, I know she is, and everything else must give way when there is sickness in the house. If she grows worse, the wedding must be postponed; there will be no help for it." 
               Opal listened to his words with a sudden bound of the heart; and I am afraid the condition of Nina inspired her with but one feeling-that of gladness in the temporary release her illness afforded herself from the fate that so nearly approached her. Day by day her reluctance to become the wife of Fenton deepened and intensified till she almost felt as if any catastrophe that averted such a doom would be welcome. 
               Opal did not believe Nina to be in actual danger, or she would scarcely have rejoiced in the illness which, at best could only afford her temporary freedom from the yoke she knew she must some day assume. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               MY DAUGHTER! OH, MY DAUGHTER! 
               FENTON had put on a suit of Mr. Hastings' clothes, been laughed at in them, and had then insisted on returning home to shake off the effects of his cold bath there. 
                
               In truth he did not care to remain with his betrothed, with the chance that Nina might recover sufficiently to come down and join them before the day was over. He wished to reflect on what had passed between them, and make up his mind as to whether it would be advisable to inform Mr. Hastings of the discovery she was persuaded she had made. He had not before been aware that Fairlie was a part of Mr. Hastings' name, and Fenton believed her suspicion to be well founded. 
               He recalled that gentleman's agitation when speaking of this girl; the admission that a tie of blood connected her with himself; and Fenton thought it possible that Nina might be as nearly related to Mr. Hastings as she asserted herself to be. Yet why should such a mystery be made of it? Surely it would have been much better to receive her in her true character, and present her to society as his niece, than to bring her beneath his roof in this underhand manner. 
               Look at it as he would, it was a puzzle that he could not unravel, and Fenton finally concluded to say nothing on the subject. 
               On the following day he was slightly feverish, and he sent over a note to Opal, excusing his non-appearance and inquiring after Miss Gordon. 
               The servant came back with a few lines from his betrothed, informing him that Dr. Wiseman had been sent for, and he declared Nina to be in the preliminary stages of an attack of pneumonia, which threatened to be very violent. 
               In the afternoon Fenton went over to Silvermere accompanied by his mother, as Mrs. Markland wished to ascertain what effect the state of affairs there would have on the approaching marriage. The invitations had not yet been issued, and she greatly feared that it might become necessary to defer it. 
                
               Mrs. Markland's worst fears were confirmed; for Nina had grown steadily worse, and was now delirious. She was already pronounced in a most critical state, and all thoughts of festivity must be given up in that house in which the King of Terrors might soon enter. 
               Mrs. Markland faintly suggested a private marriage; but to this Mr. Hastings would not listen. He was pale and stern, and decisively said that his daughter should not marry and go away from her home while the shadow of death lingered over it. It would not be long to wait, for the fate of the poor girl up stairs must be decided in a few days. So Mrs. Markland went back to Magnolia, gloomy and half angry that this insignificant stranger should come between herself and the fruition of her dearest hopes. 
               She could not understand why Mr. Hastings was so deeply depressed by her condition, and she resented the contented expression of Opal's face when she assured her that the bridal must be deferred. 
               So the days passed on, and Nina grew worse from hour to hour. At length she lay pallid and exhausted on her bed, seeming scarcely to breathe, and Dr. Wiseman pronounced his final opinion to Mr. Hastings: 
               "I cannot save her. Young and strong as she is, the disease is too much for her. Life barely lingers now, and before the dawn of another day she will be dead." 
               These words of doom were spoken to the restless and anxious man whose wretchedness during the progress of this illness could not be concealed, and his evident suffering had aroused in the breast of his wife all the furies of jealousy. 
               For the last two days she had scarcely come near Nina herself, though Opal gave her every attention that a sister could have bestowed. As the words of Dr. Wiseman fell on his ears, Mr. Hastings looked down on the sunken features with an expression of deep anguish, and in a broken voice, said: 
               "So young-so fair! Oh, Doctor, can you not do something yet to rescue this life? Use all your skill, for I-I take a deep interest in the poor child; and if she can be saved, I know that you can accomplish it." 
               Marvelling at the emotion which shook his frame, the physician gravely replied: 
               "I have done all that was possible. She is a beautiful creature; but she must go in her youth; there is no hope left." 
               "No hope-no hope," repeated Mr. Hastings mechanically as he followed the retreating form of the doctor; and after he was gone, the unhappy man went into the library, locked himself in, and paced the floor, muttering to himself: 
               "No hope-no hope! Oh, my God! why is this punishment sent to me? After all these years in which I so carefully prepared her for the position that was to give her a home near me, she is to be snatched from me. Now, when I hoped to have her all to myself, death-inexorable death-comes to wrest her from me. Oh, Lord, I have been a wretched sinner, and I merit the chastisement; but she, the innocent one, should not be made the offering for my guilt." 
               For the first time for many years, Mr. Hastings knelt down and fervently prayed that this cup might pass from him. Calmed by his devotions, he arose and again ascended the stairs, and moved toward Nina's chamber, there he firmly believed to take his last farewell of her. 
               The house was perfectly still. Opal, worn out with watching, had been ordered to bed by Dr. Wiseman, and only the old woman, Hagar, was in the sick room. She was lying back in a large chair by the fire, and Nina lay motionless and nearly lifeless upon the bed. The nurse believed that nothing more could be done for her patient, so she went comfortably to sleep, expecting to find her dead when she woke up again. 
               Mr. Hastings took up the lamp, and passing it to and fro before the eyes of the sleeping woman, satisfied himself that her slumbers were too profound to be broken by anything that might pass near her. He then replaced the light in such a position as to throw its glare upon the pale form upon the bed. 
               In an agony of emotion he knelt down, took one of Nina's passive hands in his own, and pressed it tenderly to his lips. He felt it thrill to his touch, and in tones of wild entreaty he cried: 
               "Nina-darling, precious child, speak to me once again. Do not die without the knowledge of who you are-what you are to me. Oh, my daughter, my daughter, lift those closed eyelids, and look once more upon your guilty and most wretched father, for such indeed I am." 
               That Nina had heard and partially understood him was evident, for her eyelids quivered, slowly unclosed, and she faintly asked: 
               "Who are you? What-what did you say? I-I am so weak that I have no power to think. Give me something to drink." 
               Mr. Hastings arose, took from the table a cup in which some stimulating drops were mixed, and held it to her lips. With some effort she swallowed a small portion, and sunk back as helpless as an infant. He thought she was dying, and, overcome by the passion of woe that filled his breast, the wretched man took her in his arms, and pressing her fondly to his heart, called her by every endearing name he could think of in that hour of supreme anguish. 
               "Nina-mine, my own, my eldest born; child of her I loved with all the passion of my heart; of her I so deeply wronged; awake to life again! Let me repay you for the suffering I inflicted on your mother. Oh, my daughter, my beautiful one, my adored darling, I cannot-cannot give you up thus! God will not punish me so severely as to take you from me just as I had brought you to my side. How I have yearned for your sweet face near me I can never tell; and just as I had accomplished all I labored for, you will leave me to desolation and despair. I cannot give you up! Oh, Nina, live-live for my sake, for your loss will leave me a broken-hearted man." 
               This passionate outburst had the effect of fully arousing Nina from the state of semi-consciousness in which she had lain for hours. It gave her the impulse she needed to save her from sinking into the grave that was yawning to receive her. The sluggish blood was aroused to new action, and life and consciousness began to return. She feebly said: 
               "Is it you, Mr. Hastings? Why are you here? Why do you hold me in your arms thus? and tears are raining on my face. What does it all mean?" 
               "It means that I am too wretched to maintain any longer the reserve that has existed between us. Know me as your father, Nina; your erring but repentant father, who will be to you all that a parent should be, if God in his infinite mercy will only spare you to me. My daughter, my darling, let me press my lips to yours once while you recognize the strong and tender tie that binds us together." 
               Nina's eyes again unclosed, and fixed themselves with an expression of intelligence upon the agitated face that bent over her. Mr. Hastings saw that she understood him, and he kissed her again and again on cheek, lips, and brow, while her whole being seemed to gain new life from the shock she had received. The reaction the physician had pronounced hopeless had fully commenced, and, with a happy smile, she faintly murmured: 
               "Lay me back upon my pillows, father, for as such I know you now. Watch with me through the night, for if I die I wish you to be near me; but I shall not die-I will not die-now that I know that one heart will be wrung with anguish for my loss." 
               Again he kissed her, then replaced her comfortably upon her bed, and made her take a few more of the restorative drops. He sat down beside her, holding her wasted hand in his own, with his fingers pressed lightly on her pulse, counting each feeble throb with the dread that it might prove the last. 
               Nina slept fitfully, and at intervals her eyes unclosed to find that anxious face watching her with an anguish of solicitude depicted upon it such as only those may feel who watch the fluctuating life in the form of one unutterably dear. 
               As the hours waned, Mr. Hastings felt the feeble thread of life grow stronger, and hope began to spring up in his heart. In spite of the physician's assertion that all chance of recovery was over, he believed that she would live. Live to bless him he fondly thought. 
               Ah! if he could have looked into the future, he would have thanked God for taking her then; but that was veiled; and the curse of a granted prayer was his, for he prayed almost without ceasing through those awful hours that Nina might be spared to him; and not once did he say, "Not my will but thine be done, oh Lord." 
               At dawn his gray hair was nearly white, blanched by the wild throes of anguish and doubt that shook his being to its very centre through those long hours of watching; but he had his reward. 
               Nina lived on; the morning light found her stronger, and able to take a small portion of nourishment. Dr. Wiseman came out expecting to find her dead; but, to his surprise, one of those inexplicable reactions had taken place in his patient which sometimes set at naught all prognostics of medical skill. He regarded Nina's recovery as almost a resurrection from the grave; and he now assured her father that with care he believed she would be restored to health. 
               The physician's visits continued several days longer, but Nina's elastic constitution soon triumphed over weakness, and she recovered as rapidly as she had grown ill. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               PAY ME WELL, AND I WILL GO. 
               IN two weeks' time Nina had regained all the charm of her beauty, and was more attractive than ever. When she was able to appear again in the family circle, Mrs. Hastings received her with such marked coldness that Nina wondered if a suspicion of her actual position had entered her mind. She cared not; she had a right to be there as the daughter of the house, and she would maintain her ground at all hazards, at least until she found it desirable to seek another home for herself. 
               Nina believed that she could influence her father to any course she wished him to take; for in the few moments he could snatch with her alone, he showed the same idolatrous fondness for her which had stimulated her failing senses and brought her back to life on that memorable night. Yet her feelings towards him were of a very mixed nature. She could not be entirely insensible to his demonstrations of affection, but she bitterly felt that he had wronged her unfortunate mother too deeply to be entirely forgiven by her child. She resented the stain upon herself, and eagerly watched for an opportunity to ask an explanation of the early events of his life. 
               Nina felt assured that the pale woman whose acquaintance she had casually made in Norfolk was her own mother; and she understood why Mrs. Marsden referred to the loss of her children as a judgment. She had forsaken her eldestborn-left her to be reared by strangers; and with curling lip Nina thought that she had met a fitting reward. She had no pity for that unhappy mother; she too deeply resented the thought that she had no right to claim the name of her own father, through that mother's weakness; for, loving her as Mr. Hastings evidently had, he would have married her had she been less credulous and trusting. 
               At any rate, she would be provided for as his daughter should be. She had made up her mind to that, and only awaited an opportunity to tell him so. 
               This was at length afforded by a visit made by Mrs. Hastings and Opal to spend the day at Magnolia, where it was understood another day for the bridal was to be settled on. Nina was scarcely strong enough to leave home yet, so they did not press her to accompany them. Mr. Hastings also declined going under the plea of business, which would take him to Natchez, and his wife saw him ride away before she left herself. She went into the library where Nina was, and coldly said to her: 
               "Good-bye, Miss Gordon. I am sorry to leave you so long alone; but you must take the best care of yourself while we are gone. If you should do anything to make yourself ill again, I believe my husband would lose the little sense he seems to have left." 
               To this sarcastic speech Nina sweetly replied: 
                
               "I shall do very well, dear Mrs. Hastings. I am fond of reading, you know, and there are some new books with which to wile away the hours of your absence. I shall miss Opal to-day, for of late she has been a delightful companion to me; but you treat me with such extreme coldness that I am often wounded by it." 
               Her eyes were filled with tears; and Mrs. Hastings hurriedly replied: 
               "You should be able to understand the reason, Miss Gordon. No woman likes to see her husband make a fool of himself about another one, and of late William seems always in a fidget about you. I wish you would go away. If you will, without saying that I instigated you to do so, I will give you something handsome. I have talked with him on this subject; but he will not listen to my proposal for settling you elsewhere, and I now appeal to you. I am sure that you care nothing for him, or I should not have borne with your presence as long as I have; and when you are once gone, my husband will return to his sober senses again." 
               "This is a singular request to make of me, Mrs. Hastings. If my presence is distasteful to you, you have the power to send me from beneath your roof," replied Nina, haughtily. "So far as I am concerned, I assure you that you have nothing to fear." 
               "I know that, or I should not have appealed to you at all. I have watched you more closely than you suspected, and I have sometimes thought that you despise the gray-haired old fool who seems to have lost his head about you. What do you say now to a thousand a year enjoyed at the north? That income will enable you to live handsomely there, and it is a trifle to me. I should hardly miss it." 
               Nina thought rapidly. It was the one object of her life to secure money; and if her father was really too poor to bestow it on her, there was a chance to secure something for herself, of which she hastened to take advantage. She coolly said: 
               "I have no wish to remain here till the marriage of your daughter takes place. The sum you offer me will be equal to the interest of ten thousand dollars at ten per cent. Settle the ten thousand upon me, and I will go the week before the wedding. I would not willingly remain here to be a cause of unhappiness to you; and I candidly tell you, madam, that I do not believe your husband would permit me to leave his house unless he knew that I was adequately provided for." 
               Mrs. Hastings flushed, and her eyes flashed at this bold assertion; but she stifled her wrath and said: 
               "It is a bargain, Miss Gordon. I will write to the lawyer in Natchez who manages my legal affairs, and have the business arranged. The day of the marriage will be settled before we return from Magnolia, and you will know how long you can remain." 
               Nina took Mrs. Hastings' hand, though she made a movement as if she would have withheld it, and in her softest tone said: 
               "How shall I thank you, dear madam, for affording me the means of escape from a position that is very painful to me. I shall leave your house, carrying with me a deep sense of gratitude for the liberality you have shown. I need this money, or I would not accept it from you." 
               "I give it freely to rid myself of an incubus. I am jealous, I admit it; and I cannot bear a rival in the heart of my husband, even if she is herself indifferent to him." 
               "I understand your feelings, and I promise to do all that is possible to remove myself from Mr. Hastings' presence. But our conference is ended, for here comes Opal." 
               Opal came into the library. She looked much depressed, and traces of recent tears might have been detected by a close observer. She listlessly said: 
               "The carriage is at the door, mamma, and I am quite ready. It seems cruel to leave you all alone, Nina; but I am not permitted to remain with you. I had far rather do so than go to Magnolia on the errand that takes us there. If I were mistress of my own actions, I would stay here with you to-day; and I would do something else, too, that would set people to talking; but I am under the control of others, so good-bye; and don't fatigue yourself too much while we are gone." 
               Nina held out her hand with a bright smile, and affectionately said: 
               "Adieu, Opal! to the gods I commend you, and I am sure that your guardian-angel will keep you from doing any thing which will compromise your happiness." 
               "I don't know. I have a suspicion that what will be settled to-day will not add to it much." 
               Encouraged by their father, a more intimate companionship had been established between the two girls, and Opal had begun to attach herself to Nina and to speak openly of her own affairs to her. Mrs. Hastings arose with a slight frown, and led the way out. In a few more moments, she and her daughter were whirling away from the door. 
               Opal nodded from the window to her they left behind, and Nina's lip curled disdainfully, while she clenched her hands till the nails almost wounded the flesh. She bitterly muttered: 
               "Aye, go on your way to fix the day that will seal your own wretchedness, if I permit such iniquity to be consummated. But it shall not-it shall not! I hate her, but I will save her from becoming Godfrey Fenton's wife. I hate her because she is rich, courted, almost worshipped, and I am as nothing beside her. I hate her because she has the right to bear the name of our father, and I, the eldest born, can lay no claim to it. But he shall make me equal with her-I swear it by my mother's wrongs. The atonement he spoke of shall be amply made." 
               Nina returned to the library, but she did not attempt to read; her mind was in too great a ferment to permit her to fix her thoughts on a book. Since her illness she had not once seen Fenton, and she began to thirst for his presence, for the sound of his voice, as the traveller in an arid desert thirsts for the rippling of water. Opal, under her father's influence, had drawn nearer to her, and showed that she could easily learn to love her, but in Nina's heart no corresponding emotion was awakened for her rival with the man who had mastered her whole being till her soul cried aloud that she could not lose him; could not surrender him to another, indifferent as he had proved himself to her. 
               The hours passed Nina scarcely knew how, till a tempting little dinner, served with the port wine the doctor had ordered for her, was placed before her. She ate with appetite, for she was passing through that stage of convalescence in which dainty food is a necessity, and after taking several glasses of the wine, she returned to the library, and coiling herself upon a comfortable lounge, fell fast asleep. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               NINA HEARS THE STORY OF HER PARENTS. 
               HOW long she had slept Nina did not know, when she was awakened by a kiss falling lightly on her brow, and she aroused herself to find her father looking down on her with an expression of the tenderest love. 
                
               "My darling," he said, "at last I have been able to secure a long and uninterrupted conversation with you. I hurried back on purpose, as soon as I could finish my business, and we have several hours to talk with each other before Laura's return." 
               Nina sat up, arranged her dress, and calmly said: 
               "I expected you to do so, sir, for something must be settled as to my future position. I am dissatisfied with being here in this clandestine manner, with my near relationship to you unsuspected. Besides, Mrs. Hastings is becoming desperately jealous of me." 
               He regarded her with mournful surprise; and, with some chagrin, said: 
               "I thought you would be so happy to know me as your father, Nina, that you would be perfectly contented to remain with me-to make up to me for all the years in which I was forced to separate myself from you. Do you wish to go from me, my daughter?" 
               "If I can do better for myself than by remaining-I answer, Yes. You will find it impossible to keep me under the same roof with your wife. Enough has lately passed between her and myself to convince me of that." 
               Her reply appeared to give him intense pain, and he made several turns across the floor before he had determined what to say. Nina watched him keenly. She saw that her willingness to leave him had deeply wounded him, and she was not sorry for it. She felt bitter toward him, and she meant to sting him if she could. How else could she avenge her mother, she asked herself. 
               At length, Mr. Hastings drew near her, and, sitting down beside her, gently said: 
               "I have indulged the fond hope that I could retain you near me, Nina; but, if it is your wish to go away, I will not thwart it. I will make you such an allowance as will be in my power, but I have very little of my own. What I can command shall be freely lavished on you." 
               "Thank you. It is but just that you should do for me all that you possibly can. The wrong you have done me demands reparation, and I ask it in the name of my unfortunate mother." 
               "Your mother! why should you refer to her? You know nothing of her-you will never know more than I may choose to tell you." 
               Nina looked steadily in his face, and asked: 
               "What if I could name her to you?" 
               He became pale as death, gasped for breath, and, after an agitated pause, said: 
               "Nina, that crowning sorrow and humiliation shall be spared the unfortunate woman whose child you are. I trust in God that you have no clue to your mother, and I refuse to furnish one to you. The past is sealed to you; content yourself with knowing that you are my child, to be cared for as such, to be tenderly loved, if you are willing to accept my affection on my own terms." 
               She firmly replied: 
               "I must know that past, and I will furnish the key to it myself by telling you that I am convinced that the Anna Moore, who is now known as Mrs. Marsden, is my mother. She eloped with you from the house of Mr. Horton, whither you had gone as a suitor to his younger daughter. You saw the companion, and loved her better than the heiress. She disappeared from her old home, and remained away two years. She then came back, faded and half broken-hearted. She refused to give any account of herself during her absence, but the friends of her youth would not turn their backs upon her, and she was received into the family of a widowed brother of Mr. Horton, whose, children she took charge of. Her employer emigrated to Virginia, and there, where her story was unknown, Miss Moore married her present husband. Am I not correct in my statements, sir?" 
               Nina might have talked on much longer, for her companion sat staring at her with wild eyes and pallid face. The cool hardihood with which she related the history of her own mother to the author of her wretchedness afforded him a painful glimpse into the nature he had to deal with. It was a bitter revelation to him, and he began to dread this creature for whose presence near him he had so ardently yearned. When Mr. Hastings did not reply, Nina again asked: 
               "Have I not stated the truth, sir? And now I demand as my right the history you are so anxious to keep from me. Tell me, tell me of that past, for I must know all." 
               In answer to this imperial demand, Mr. Hastings brokenly said: 
               "It is just that my sin should find me-that my punishment should come from her child. Oh, Nina, Nina! have you no pity for your unhappy father? no love to give in return for all he has lavished on you, from the very hour of your birth? You are dearer to me than Opal, for you are the child of the woman I loved better than my own soul." 
               "Yet you gave her shame and despair. Is that what adoring love lavished on its object?" she bitterly asked. "How can you expect me to return your affection, when I have seen the broken-hearted woman who dared not claim me as her daughter? No, I do not love you-at moments I almost hate you, even if you are my father." 
               Mr. Hastings covered his face with his hands, and hot tears, wrung from his wounded and bleeding heart, fell heavily upon the table on which he leaned. When he regained sufficient calmness, he sadly said: 
                
               "I could scarcely have expected a different result when the truth became known to you, and that is why I so long and carefully withheld it. In a moment of high-wrought excitement, when I believed you to be dying, I told you the cherished secret of my life. If I had believed it possible for you to live, I would still have guarded it from you, and with good cause; for I feel that you are making a most ungenerous use of my confidence. You are forcing me to betray what I consider it vitally important to conceal from you. What use do you propose to make of the knowledge you have gained, Nina? I trust that you will spare your unfortunate mother, and never permit her to know that my weakness laid bare the record of our wretched past before you." 
               Nina steadily replied: 
               "If you do not give me the story in its minutest particulars, I shall apply to her for them. Choose your own course, sir, but my mind is irrevocably made up; I will know all, either from you or her." 
               Mr. Hastings regarded her almost with horror. In broken tones he exclaimed: 
               "So young! so hard! Where did you get that nature from, Nina? It is not Anna's, nor is it mine." 
               "You forget, sit, that my mother had little reason to believe that you could not be hard. How else could you have deserted her, and married another woman while she was yet living? I am impatient for the revelation for which I am waiting. The afternoon is getting on, and Mrs. Hastings may come home earlier than she intended, in the fear that you and I might meet in her absence." 
               He saw that no alternative remained to him. He must speak at the bidding of this imperious and determined creature, and nerving himself for the task, Mr. Hastings presently began: 
                
               "Since you already know so much, little remains to be told. I met with Susan Horton at Saratoga, and was attracted by her beauty and fortune, for the last was important to me then. I followed her home, and there met the passion of my life in the person of a young girl who had been reared and educated as a dependent in the Horton family. There was a fate in it from which neither of us could escape. The love with which Anna Moore inspired me spurned all prudential considerations, and it was returned with equal ardor. It was a true union, of hearts if one ever existed on earth. 
               "I lured Anna from her home under a promise of marriage; but I was too poor to make her really my wife. One of my college friends read over us a form of marriage, and Anna believed herself lawfully wedded to me." 
               Nina uttered an exclamation of joy. 
               "I am glad to hear that, sir, though it but adds to the turpitude of your own conduct." 
               "Alas! yes; I played the part of a villain. I know that without having such hard words spoken to me by you. But you are pitiless, Nina. In your sympathy for your mother you forget how bitterly I have suffered for my evil doing. Ah! if I could lay bare my heart before you, and show you how deeply I have repented that wrong-how willingly I would have repaired it, you might have some compassion for me, badly as I have acted." 
               Mr. Hastings paused, and Nina impatiently said: 
               "Go on, sir, if you please. I wish to know all that you will tell me." 
               With a heavy sigh he resumed: 
               "I had a few thousand dollars of my own, and I determined to abandon the practice of law, which I had not found lucrative, and embark in some speculations in South America which held out brilliant promise of reward, and I embarked with Anna for Rio Janeiro. 
                
               "There a year of as perfect happiness as mortals ever enjoyed, flew by on wings of light. Your birth gave the crowning joy to my poor Anna; but when I held you in my arms I first felt how irreparably I had wronged both mother and child. It was too late then to confess the base deception of which I had been guilty; for I dreaded what might follow if Anna became aware of the falsehood of which she had been made the victim. 
               "My business affairs had prospered, and I believed that I was in a fair way to secure the wealth I so ardently desired. I became most anxious to atone for the injury I had done your mother, and I was seriously thinking of becoming a Catholic that I might have a pretext for having the ceremony of marriage performed between us a second time; for you are aware that the Romish church does not recognize the sacredness of the service outside of its own pale. 
               "But just as I had determined on this course, a reverse as sudden as unexpected overwhelmed the fabric of my prosperity, and in a few weeks I found myself a ruined man. Anna was a sweet angel of consolation to me in my reverses, and I loved her better than ever. Just as I was beginning to recover from that blow, and consider what was best to be done both for her and myself, another followed, more crushing still, for it snatched from me the best treasure of my life and made me poor indeed. 
               "A letter for Anna came from New York, and I gave it to her with my own hand, never suspecting the fatal nature of its contents. She read the dying confession of Charles Linley, which assured her that she was not a wife. He knew that she was living with me under that delusion, and he stated that he could not die without revealing to her the wickedness of which he had consented to become the instrument." 
               Mr. Hastings paused, overcome by the painful and humiliating memories that crowded on his mind. 
                
               With flashing eyes Nina exclaimed: 
               "And my mother refused to accept such tardy justice as you would then have been willing to afford. Was it not so, sir?" 
               He looked at her reproachfully, and drearily replied: 
               "No-she could not refuse what was never offered. The scene that passed between us destroyed all hope of future happiness with the being I had so deeply outraged. I plainly saw that I would never be forgiven, and I forebore to take on myself or put on her a yoke that could but gall us both. On Anna's part all confidence was destroyed, and she seemed to have but one wish-to escape from me and return to the home she had deserted. 
               "I represented to her the impossibility of taking her child there with her, and she coldly replied that the child was mine to do as I pleased with. She had the right to go whither she pleased, but you belonged to me by the decision of the law if I chose to claim you, and she would not dispute my right to retain you. 
               "It is useless to dwell on the bitter suffering of those days. We parted forever. Anna wept many tears over you, but she never asked me to surrender you to her keeping. She knew well that, burdened with a young child, she could not hope to be received by her former friends, and to them she was bent on returning. 
               "I forced her to accept a considerable sum of money though I almost impoverished myself to raise it, and she embarked for New York. I placed you in the care of a faithful nurse, and gave my attention to winding up my business. I saved enough to enable me to return to my native land at the, end of a year, and place you in the family of Mr. Somers, whose wife was a cousin of my own. He undertook to carry out such arrangements as I might wish to make for you, and I came to Mississippi to resume the practice of my profession. 
                
               "I met with Mrs. Hastings, and dazzled by her beauty and fortune, I married her. I had heard nothing from Anna, for she had cut herself off from me as completely as if I were dead; but a few months after my own marriage I saw hers announced in a Southern paper. I was glad of it; I hoped she might find peace at least in the new tie she had formed; but from what I have since heard I fear it was not so. 
               "When you were little more than four years old, I caused you to be placed with Mrs. Lyme, and there you remained till you left her yourself. At one time I thought of bringing you here as my niece, but I feared that Mrs. Hastings would discover the deception, and I finally determined to leave you to suppose that you were to be left dependent on your own exertions, that you might be willing to accept the situation of governess to your sister. I could think of no other way to bring you beneath my roof, and through all these years, Nina, the most absorbing desire of my heart has been to have the little darling I had so tenderly petted brought back to the shelter of my own roof. Tell me that you forgive me the evil I have done-that you will love me, and remain here as the solace of my life." 
               Nina drew herself from the caressing arm that sought to enfold her. She bitterly said: 
               "So, even my own mother deserted me! Yet she was right to leave your child behind her, for what could she expect from her but ingratitude and hardness of nature? Yet you-you! the spoiler, ask me to forgive and love you! Is that in my power, do you think, Mr. Hastings?" 
               He shrank from the fire of her eyes, the cruel hardness of her tones, and almost humbly asked: 
               "Have you not humiliated me enough by forcing this confession from me, Nina? that you thus stab me to the heart by your unfilial reproaches! You do not know how deeply they wound me." 
                
               "Unfiilal!" she repeated, with scorn. "What duty do I owe you, who outraged a good and true woman by putting so base a deception upon her? Though she deserted me in my babyhood, I avenge her cause by telling you to your face that I will never forgive you for the wrong you did her in the eye of the law alone. In that of Heaven, she is your true wife, and the daughter you have placed above me in everything is the illegitimate one-not I." 
               Her cheeks were flaming, her eyes flashing, and at that moment her beauty was that of an enraged tigress. Her father looked at her and shuddered. What spirit had he evoked in this creature who had it in her power to become a fearful Nemesis to him? He deprecatingly said: 
               "I have at least done my duty by you, Nina. You have little to reproach me with, for my tender care has always shielded you from harm, and my liberality has afforded you the advantages you have enjoyed." 
               "And what were they?" was the scornful rejoinder. 
               "To be cast off from kith and kin; to be left to believe myself thrown upon the world without a provision, that I might fit myself for the inferior position in your family you thought fit to assign me. For what have I to thank you, oh! most tender and considerate father?" 
               The bitter mockery of her tones stung him; he arose and sternly and proudly replied: 
               "It is enough. The child I hoped would prove a comfort to me turns on me with reproaches, when I fondly expected a different return for what I have done for her. Most men would have left you to find your place in an orphan asylum, to be reared by charity and made the drudge of more fortunate people; but I-I loved you, and I endeavored by every means in my power to atone for the wrong I have done you, and this is my reward. Oh, Nina! in this hour I awake from the latest delusion of my life. Is there no pity for me in your heart, that you crush me in this reckless manner?" 
               Something in his tone seemed to touch her. She too arose, and, casting herself upon his breast, cried out: 
               "Take me to your heart, and make me feel that you do indeed love me by securing to me the happiness you can win for me, and I will be your child in affection as I am in blood." 
               Mr. Hastings folded her to his breast, and Nina felt his hot tears falling like rain upon her hair and brow. They assured her of her power over him, and she determined to use it to its utmost limit. 
               Again they seated themselves, and Nina submitted now to have his arm encircle her slender form. She looked up into his face with pleading eyes, and softly murmured: 
               "Forgive me, but my heart is very sore. You can scarcely understand my feelings, father. Ah! it is a humiliating and wretched thought that I can never bestow upon you that precious title save when we are alone. That I must stifle the natural feelings, of my heart because a jealous eye is ever on us. How long do you think we can live in so painful and unnatural a position toward each other?" 
               "If I had not betrayed myself, we could have done so easily enough," he sadly replied. "I had settled it all in my own mind. After Opal's marriage, you would have fallen naturally into her place. I could have found a lover worthy of you, to whom I would have been willing to give you, and I should have found means to provide such a dower for you as would have been suitable to your actual position. But now all is changed, and I see plainly that it is for you to dictate what our future course shall be. State your wishes, Nina, and so far as I can I will carry them out." 
               "I have but one wish on earth," she impetuously exclaimed claimed, "and you will think me mad when I express it; but I will do so, regardless of consequences. I was the first choice of Godfrey Fenton's heart; he loved me-I am sure he did; and I-oh, I loved him to that degree that I shall perish at your feet if you persist in making Opal his wife! She cares nothing for him; you know that as well as I do; and he is marrying her for the fortune that will be hers. Make me rich enough to become his bride; break off the match that is in progress, and bring him back to his first allegiance. This is what I ask you to do-what must be done if you would save both your children from utter misery." 
               Mr. Hastings listened to this wild demand with a helpless feeling of bewilderment. He presently faltered: 
               "But that is impossible, Nina. I have no power to do what you ask. Fenton would never consent to such an exchange, and-and the fortune I hope to endow you with must be saved from my own allowance from my wife. She is very liberal, and the control I have over her large income will enable me in a few years to speculate and increase the small sum I can at present command. Besides, Mrs. Markland would never consent. Her heart is fixed on the union of her son with Opal." 
               "What does her consent signify?" she defiantly asked. 
               "It signifies so much that I dare not provoke her by proposing so wild a scheme as this. For years she has known the history of my connection with your mother. A cousin of hers who was known to me in South America gave her all the details, and Mrs. Markland has held them in terrorem over me, threatening to reveal the whole story to my wife if I refused my consent to the union of her son with Opal." 
               "You are very weak to submit to such thraldom. What if she had told Mrs. Hastings?" 
                
               "I can easily answer that. A separation between us would have ensued, for Mrs. Hastings is almost insane on one subject. If she suspected that she was not my first love, that I had lived with another woman claiming her as my wife before I met her, she would leave me. That is why I submitted-why I have permitted this marriage to be hurried on before Opal is really old enough to become a bride. My dear Nina, recall your heart from the betrothed of your sister; forget the mad dream that has bewildered you, and trust your future to me. It shall be bright; I promise you it shall." 
               Nina burst into a hysterical passion of tears, and, with sobs of anguish, cried out: 
               "I cannot-I cannot! I love him-I love him, and he knows it. I have told him as much since I have been here. That evening on the lake, I spoke such words to Godfrey as he will never forget while life lasts. Send me away from here. I cannot live and see him give himself to another! Let me go, I care not whither, so I escape seeing him bestow his hand upon my rival. I cannot answer for myself. I might do something dreadful to Opal, and she has been good to me since I came here." 
               In extreme perturbation, Mr. Hastings reflected a few moments, and then sadly said: 
               "It will be best, perhaps. Since it is your wish, I will send you back to the North, and your allowance shall be liberal enough to enable you to live as my daughter should. Mrs. Somers will consent to receive you, I am sure; or, if you prefer it, you can return to Mrs. Lyme, and remain with her as a boarder. My care must still be over you, Nina, wherever you may go." 
               "Yes, you must provide for me suitably, I understand that. Oh, father, is it impossible to give me back my love-my life? Opal's heart is not in this marriage; she will rejoice it is broken off." 
                
               "It will not be broken off, Nina. It is too late for that. Make up your mind to what is inevitable, for a few more weeks will find your sister on her way to Europe as Fenton's wife. If it were possible to arrest the hand of fate, I would do so for your sake, but I can not. You must submit to be guided by me, and I will do the best I can for your happiness and future welfare." 
               The excitement of the interview had exhausted Nina's strength, and she sunk back half fainting. Her father brought water from the sideboard in the hall, and bathed her hands and face; but he did not summon a servant to her assistance, lest the story of their long interview should be repeated to his jealous wife. 
               Finally, lifting her in his strong arms, he carried her to her room and placed her on the bed. Kissing her tenderly, he left her to such repose as she could find after the stormy emotions that had lately filled her heart, and returned to pace the library and think almost to madness of that one act in his early life which had clouded his days and filled his heart with remorse; for, weak as he was, Mr. Hastings was not altogether a bad man. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               MRS. MARKLAND HOLDS HER SON TO HIS PLEDGES. 
               WHILE Nina lay almost in the grasp of death, a telegram from Newport reached Godfrey Fenton, which made him feel for a season as if he would do what Job's comforters tempted him to in vain-"curse God and die." 
               The paper only bore these words: 
               "Mr. Horton's will is found, and in the possession of Miss Lopez." 
                
               After all, Inez would regain her inheritance, and he was bound to another! But for the opportune illness of Nina Gordon he would, by this time, have been the husband of Opal. Was there no avenue of escape? he asked himself. Was his honor too deeply pledged to his latest love to enable him to break through such impediments as he had himself created to perfect freedom of action. 
               In Fenton's pursuit of her rival, the passion he felt for Inez had lost much of its ardor, but in the first moments of learning that she would regain her fortune, he felt that Inez was the true choice regain of his heart; that the emotions Opal elicited were born of vanity and a desire of success with so lovely and reticent a creature as he had found her to be. 
               In the rebound of his feelings all his old love for Inez revived in full force, and when a letter came from her, informing him of the death of her father, and the certainty that the estate would soon pass into her possession, Fenton prepared himself for a final contest with his mother. 
               He had not much hope of success; but he resolved to make a last effort to disenthral himself, if possible, from the bondage in which Mrs. Markland held him. After Dora and Jenny had set out for school the next morning, he sought his mother in her usual sitting-room and abruptly said: 
               "I have something to show you, mother, which is of deep interest to me. Here is a letter from Miss Lopez informing me that she has recovered her inheritance. I wish you to read it, for I think you will be touched by her artless expressions of confidence in me-of affection for one who has proved himself so unworthy to have won her love as I am," 
               Mrs. Markland coldly put aside the offered letter and icily said: 
               "I can only feel surprised to hear that Miss Lopez has written to you at all. If she had the true pride that a lady should possess, she would never seek to enter a family which she must be aware has already repudiated her alliance. The recovery of her fortune can make no difference to you, for you are in honor bound to fulfil your pledges to Opal." 
               "But, mother, I love Inez far the best; and Opal will not break her heart over my desertion, as, I am afraid, the other will. Besides, Inez will have great wealth entirely at her own disposal. If I gain that by my marriage, you need not care particularly which one is the bride elect." 
               "But I do care very much. It is my most ardent desire to claim Opal Hastings as my daughter, and I refuse to see Miss Lopez as such. Godfrey, if I thought you could be so false, so dishonored, as to break the tie you have formed for yourself, and that, too, on the very eve of your marriage, I would never speak to you again; I would no longer acknowledge you as my son. Have you no love for Opal that you can speak so coolly of giving her up? Think of all her beauty and sweetness-how tender her heart is, how gentle her disposition. She will make a model wife, and this young Cuban no doubt possesses all the fire of her countrywomen. She would never be the yielding and submissive wife that you will require. With your imperious temper, I am quite sure that you will find more happiness with Opal than with her rival." 
               Divided as his feelings were, Fenton listened to these arguments more calmly than his mother had hoped. He listlessly said: 
               "Perhaps you are right, ma'am, and-and-to tell you the truth, I hardly know which one I prefer. I was thinking more of Inez than of myself when I came here to appeal to you. She will suffer dreadfully when she becomes aware of my inconstancy. I really think that it will be better for all concerned for me to get out of this entanglement with the Hastings family, and give my hand to her who has the best right to it. I am bound in honor to both these girls; one adores me-the other accepts me because it is the will of others that she shall do so. I feel sure that Opal will gladly release me if I make an appeal to her, and I will do it if you will consent." 
               Mrs. Markland was quick to remark the difference in his manner of pleading now from that he had used but a few weeks before when he had entreated her to receive Inez as his wife. She had little faith in the depth or endurance of such love as Fenton had to give, and she was only more firmly determined that the bride she had chosen for him should be forced on his acceptance. She coldly replied: 
               "With my consent no such appeal shall be made to your betrothed. Of course she would reply by releasing you, for no other course would be possible to a refined and sensitive girl like Opal. You have keenly pursued her, for I have watched you through your wooing, and after professing the ardent love you have offered her, with what face can you turn on her and tell that it was all a sham? No, Godfrey; it is too late to recede now, and I feel assured that your heart is in the marriage that has been arranged for you, although you would persuade me that you still waver between the two you admire. Write to Miss Lopez and tell her the plain truth, or I shall do it for you." 
               "Mother," said Fenton, very gravely, "something tells me that I had better take the other course, that it will be safer for me to do so." 
               "Safer? Do you think the jealousy of that Spanish girl will lead her to strike you to the heart? Absurd, my dear Godfrey! do not obscure your usual clear Judgment with such ridiculous apprehensions." 
               "I scarcely know what I apprehend-certainly no personal injury from Inez, for she is incapable of inflicting it on any one; but I cannot put aside a presentiment that something dreadful will follow my union with Opal-I am haunted by it as by a shadow of evil." 
               Mrs. Markland scoffingly asked: 
               "How long is it since this prophetic spirit descended on you? and why should it foreshadow evil? In your position, I should have only the most brilliant anticipations. You are betrothed to the most charming of girls; you will have a liberal income secured to you, with the certainty of possessing great wealth at some future day; yet you talk in this lugubrious strain about presentiments. Do not give me cause to blush for your imbecility and vacillation, Godfrey." 
               Fenton yielded to his mother's influence, as he always did; and, with a sigh, said: 
               "You refuse then to read what Inez says? Her letter might touch you, for it deeply moved me." 
               "Give it to me!" 
               And Mrs. Markland held out her hand. With a sudden bound of hope, Fenton placed before her the lines Inez had so confidingly written; but, in place of reading them, his mother dropped the letter on the fire, and, as it flashed into a blaze, she decisively said: 
               "I will not read it, nor shall you do so again. What good could it do, when your destiny is positively settled? The first ardor of your fancy for that girl has passed away, and I will not permit you to sacrifice Opal to her. Leave to me the settlement of this difficulty. I will write to Miss Lopez at once and put an end to such delusions as she may cherish." 
               "I entreat that you will not do that, mother. If I must give Inez up, I will write to her myself and, as gently as I can, inform her of what is about to happen here. I could have been very happy with her I know, but I cannot estrange you forever from me, by disappointing you in the hope you have so long cherished. After all, Opal may, as you say, suit me best as a wife-she will not be apt to be jealous when I indulge my besetting sin of flirting with every pretty woman I meet." 
               Thus, coolly and selfishly, was a question settled which involved not only the happiness of two human beings, but which far more deeply concerned himself, if Fenton had only known it; but the dark curtain that conceals futurity allowed no glimpse of the risk he was incurring to penetrate its folds, unless his vague presentiments of evil were sent as a warning from the spirit-land. 
               Fenton did not much regard the destruction of the letter-the sight of Inez's writing no longer thrilled his soul with passionate joy as it once had done, and the scenes in which they had acted together seemed faded and dim beside the new excitement he had found in trying to win some proof of love from the shy and reserved Opal. 
               The one of whose affection he was assured sunk into insignificance beside the fair rival who, as yet, had given him no cause to believe that he had made himself master of her heart. The advantages of either marriage were so equally balanced that Fenton could afford to choose between them; and he decided to keep on good terms with his mother, and give the world in which he lived no opportunity to gossip about his ill-treatment of Miss Hastings. 
               Inez was far away-he could settle the whole difficulty without meeting her face to face, and very few near him would be aware that such an entanglement had ever existed. So the assurance Mrs. Markland so eagerly desired to gain was given, and he promised to write the truth to Inez at once. 
               But Fenton deferred this dreaded task from day to day-loth to strike the last blow to her trusting heart till it became absolutely necessary to do so. 
                
               The time in which Nina lay struggling back to life was passed by him in a state of painful uncertainty as to whether it would be best to write at all, or suffer Inez to infer his inconstancy from his silence. 
               A severe shock was given him by the arrival of another letter from her, in which she informed him that she was on the eve of setting out for Natchez, in compliance with the dying command of her father. 
               What was now to be done? Inez was already on her way; she might arrive any day, and after his first perturbation subsided, Fenton hurried to his mother, and advised with her as to what should be done. With indignant surprise, Mrs. Markland listened to what he had to tell, and exclaimed: 
               "I never heard of anything so indelicate in my life! The girl has actually followed you up, thinking that she would leave you no alternative but to marry her. If I had been before willing that she should become your wife, this step, would have disgusted me to that degree that I should have withdrawn my consent. I shall certainly give her to understand what my opinion of such conduct is." 
               "You will have no occasion to come in contact with her at all, mother; and-and, I really do not think that you should judge Inez so harshly. She is but a young girl, quite ignorant of life, and her father's dying wish had all the sacredness of a command to her. I only wish that I could meet her as my heart prompts, and marry her as soon after she lands as possible. In spite of all that you say about honor, I feel that I am bound to her by that more than to Opal." 
               "Godfrey, it is enough to provoke a saint to witness the fluctuations of your feelings. Yesterday you were jealous of Guy Denham because he called at Silvermere, and Opal changed color when he came in; and to-day you are ready to give her up to him and go back to your old love. It is shameful for any man to vacillate so. Your choice has been made, and you must abide by it." 
               The mention of Denham's name produced the effect Mrs. Markland had intended. Fenton disliked him, and he felt certain that in taking Opal from him he had repaid all the early heart-burnings that had arisen between them. In their boyish contests, Denham had nearly always come off conqueror; but in this one most vital to his happiness Fenton had proved the victor, and he would not resign that which he knew was so dearly prized, so ardently coveted, by his rival. So he moodily said: 
               "I am quite satisfied with my last choice, ma'am; but I have come to you to consult as to what is to be done with reference to Miss Lopez. I cannot see her; I dare not; but some one must meet her on her arrival in Natchez, and inform her of the state of affairs here." 
               "I will go myself, if that is all; and I think that I shall give this imprudent young lady some advice that will be useful to her." 
               Fenton shrank from this proposal. The blow would be severe enough, let it fall as lightly as it might; and his mother was the last one he would have been willing to allow the privilege of dealing it. He hastily replied: 
               "That would never do, mother. With my consent, you and Inez shall not meet at all. There is no need that you shall trouble yourself about her. Anna knows her very well, and they like each other. I will ask her to meet Inez, and take her to her house, to explain to her there all that is necessary to be told." 
               "Very well; I am not anxious to take this awkward affair on myself if it can be avoided. Anna will do anything to serve you, though she cares very little for me. You may ask her to stand your friend, and Guy may console sole himself for the loss of Opal and her thousands by making love to your former divinity." 
               Fenton was now really angry, and, with flashing eyes, he said: 
               "She will never listen to him. False as I have proved myself, Inez will never give her hand to any other man." 
               "Then she is different from all other women," sneered his mother. "Don't play the part of the dog in the manger, Godfrey. You cannot marry both these girls, and if Guy can secure so great an heiress as you assert Miss Lopez to be, it will be a good thing for him." 
               "Perhaps it will, madam," replied Fenton, more calmly. "I will go over to Ashwood this morning and place my dilemma before Anna. She has been very cool to me of late, but I do not think she will refuse me this favor for the sake of Inez herself." 
               He rang the bell, ordered his horse to be brought around, and was soon speeding away on his errand. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               MRS. LANGLEY SPEAKS HER MIND. DENHAM'S DESPAIR. 
               MRS. LANGLEY'S house was but two miles distant. It was a pretty Norman French cottage, situated amid highly cultivated grounds, and Fenton found the mistress of the place in hat and shawl, overlooking the labors of two negrolads, who were clearing away the dead autumn leaves from the walks. 
               Mrs. Langley greeted him with some surprise. 
               "This is the first call you have honored me with since your return, Godfrey, and I am curious to learn what has brought you to see me at last." 
                
               Fenton dismounted, threw the bridle of his horse to one of the boys, and walked towards the house with her, as he replied: 
               "I came to you as a petitioner, Anna. But you should not reproach me for not calling on you, after the hard words you spoke to me the day we met at Silvermere. I scarcely thought I should be welcome." 
               "You know better than that. When I have said my say, I don't bear malice; and I have been so used to excuse your shortcomings, that, after my wrath spent itself, I was almost sorry that I had said so much. I cannot blame you very severely for being attracted by Opal, when there are so many reasons why you should be anxious to marry her. I was only unhappy about my brother, for you know how long he has loved her." 
               "It is unfortunate that Guy should have done so, but I am not responsible for that. He had the field open to himself when I was away, but I found Opal's heart open to the impression I have endeavored to make upon it. Our union is settled beyond a doubt, and I have come to you in the greatest perplexity as to what is to be done to warn Inez of the event that is so soon to take place." 
               "Inez? Is it possible that you have not broken with her before this? Do you come here to ask me to write and inform her of your approaching marriage?" 
               "Ah! if a letter only were in question, I could easily despatch that myself. But Inez is on her way here now; she may be in Natchez in a few more days, and I wish you to meet her there; bring her home with you, and, as tenderly as possible, tell her that all is at an end between us." 
               Mrs. Langley looked very much displeased. She frigidly replied: 
               "It is asking a great deal of me; it is hardly fair for you to put on me this painful revelation. I was much interested in Miss Lopez, and, under different circumstances, I should be most happy to receive her as my guest; but, if she is to come to me half broken-hearted by your desertion, I had rather suffer the task of consoling her to devolve on some other person." 
               "You will not refuse me this vital favor, Anna?" he earnestly entreated. "I know it is asking a great deal, but if you have any sympathy for this poor girl, I beg that you will show it now. She will need a friend to counsel and protect her, that the world may be led to believe that she came south to visit you. What her father was thinking of when he commanded her to come hither alone, I cannot imagine." 
               "It is a strange thing for her to do; but why does not Mr. Lopez accompany her himself?" 
               "Why? Oh, I forgot that you know nothing of late occurrences in her home. Her father is dead; the will has been found, and Inez is a great heiress after all." 
               Mrs. Langley listened with eager interest, and she quickly exclaimed: 
               "Is it possible that the last is true, and yet you lingered near Opal. I begin to believe that she has really bewitched you in spite of your devotion to her rival last summer." 
               Fenton gravely inquired: 
               "Why should you doubt that I have discovered what is best for my own happiness! As I told you, my marriage with Opal is settled, and I am quite satisfied with the arrangement I ask you, as my best and earliest friend, to aid me in the painful dilemma in which I find myself placed. Inez expects me to meet her in Natchez, but you must see that it is quite out of the question for me to do so. Dear Anna, I entreat by our old friendship that you will go in town and await her arrival at the hotel. You can tell her there, or bring her here, as you may think best; of course, I cannot dictate to you what guests you shall receive, but I think I have some claim on you for the service I ask." 
               Mrs. Langley sighed, and regarding him steadily said: 
               "'Men are inconstant ever,' but I did think that you were in earnest with this poor girl. Are you sure, Godfrey, that Opal has won all your heart from her? It may not be too late to extricate you from your embarrassing position as the betrothed of two girls, by giving a hint of the state of affairs to the one that is least interested in you. I believe that Opal will be glad to have freedom of action restored to her." 
               Fenton flushed, and half-angrily said: 
               "I do not know why you should fancy that; but I am not going to release her. I requested you to become the medium of conveying to Miss Lopez my resignation to all pretensions to her hand, and you reply by hinting that the one I prefer to her will be glad to escape the necessity of marrying me. If it is so, we are playing at a game of cross-purposes indeed." 
               "You have said it precisely, Godfrey. I cannot read your heart, nor fully understand hers, but I have the conviction in my own mind that neither you nor Opal are doing that which will secure your future happiness. I have not seen much of her of late, but when we have been together, her restlessness and assumed spirits showed me that she is not as happy as she should be in the prospect of the approaching change in her destiny." 
               Fenton was silent a few moments, and then abruptly said: 
               "It is too late to make any change in it now, at any rate. Have you decided what you will do in reference to my request?" 
               "Yes; but you need not feel grateful for my compliance. If I go to Inez, it will be for her own sake, that I may soften the blow that is about to fall on her. Poor girl! I pity her with my whole heart. But for you, Godfrey, fickle and reckless as you have shown yourself, I have no feeling of compassion. If you had manfully stood to your pledges to Inez in spite of the uncertainty of her fortune, you would now have been blessed with a faithful and affectionate wife, who would have bestowed on you as much as you can gain by a union with Opal. Do not deny the existence of interested motives to me, Godfrey, because I know they first led you to Opal's feet. You may like her in a feeble sort of way, but you loved the other-I know you did!" 
               Fenton coldly and a little haughtily replied: 
               "Yes, I loved her-it is well that you spoke in the past tense, for men like me do not long care for that which they have only to reach forth the hand to take. Had Inez been less devoted, perhaps I should have proved more constant." 
               Mrs. Langley indignantly said: 
               "That is enough, Mr. Fenton. All your egotism is laid before me now. I will meet Miss Lopez in Natchez, and bring her here, and it will not be my fault if she does not soon rejoice in the escape she has had from uniting her fate with that of a man who can speak as you have just done. I could not once have believed such a thing of you, Godfrey." 
               "Perhaps not; but I am not as good as a man as I was when a boy, Anna. I am sorry that you will quarrel with me for what I cannot help; but I can forgive your hard words in consideration of the service you have promised to render me. Since that is settled, I will leave you to nurse your wrath alone, as I have another engagement this morning." 
               "Will you not come in? We are just at the door, and you may at least sit down a few minutes?" 
                
               "No, thank you. We have said all that is necessary, and I must go on my way. Good morning." 
               "But pray stop long enough to tell me how Miss Gordon is. She has been extremely ill, I hear." 
               "Yes-they thought she would die for several days; but she is recovering rapidly now." 
               "So much the worse for you. Are you not afraid of her?" 
               "Afraid? why, pray? Miss Gordon is nothing more to me than any other acquaintance." 
               "But you are much more to her, as you well know. She is deep as the sea, and like it too in another respect, for she is capable of wrecking any strange craft that floats in her way bearing a flag hostile to her own interests. Are you not certain that Nina Gordon loves you yet?" 
               The change in Fenton's face was so marked that it could not escape the penetrating eyes fixed upon him. He reluctantly asked: 
               "What reason have you for imagining such a thing? Nina is aware of my approaching marriage, and she has shown no symptom of jealousy." 
               "Are you quite sincere in that assertion, Godfrey? What passed between you that day upon the lake, pray, and what sudden access of passion induced the young lady to throw herself into the water? I do not believe that she fell in accidentally." 
               "It is true nevertheless. The boat is an unsteady thing, and she imprudently arose as I was about to jump ashore; that was all, I declare to you. Nina could not hope to drown herself with a strong swimmer to bring her out of the water; and even if she had been in a fury with me, she has too much sense to cool her anger in that way." 
               "It was an unlucky plunge for her, since it nearly proved her death. But I have an idea that it would have been better for you if you had let her drown-better for the Hastings' family if Dr. Wiseman had permitted her to die." 
               "It was not his fault that she did not, for he gave her up and declared that no human skill could save her. Mr. Hastings watched beside her that night himself, and brought her back to life. He seems to be deeply interested in her." 
               "I wonder that his wife stands it, jealons as every one knows her to be. I only hope that Mrs. Hastings will carry things with a high hand, and send the girl away before the wedding. I am really afraid for her to be there at that time." 
               "I think your apprehensions have no real foundation but I must positively bid you good morning." 
               Fenton bowed and moved toward his horse, which the lad had led slowly after them. Mrs. Langley watched his receding figure a few moments, and then entered the house, took off her hat and shawl, and opened the door of a pleasant sitting-room on one side of the hall, in which her brother was writing. 
               Denham looked up as she entered and asked: 
               "Who were you talking with on the lawn? I did not come out because I did not wish to leave my employment." 
               "I am glad you did not, as it was Godfrey. He came to me on a strange and painful errand, and I hardly know how he had the courage to ask me to do for him what I have promised." 
               "What was it? I am not sorry that we did not meet, for some unpleasant words have lately passed between us. Fenton undertook to find some fault with my management of his mother's business affairs, but I gave him to understand that so long as I am the agent I will submit to no interference from him. We have not spoken to each other since." 
                
               His sister anxiously regarded him and uneasily said: 
               "I am sorry that you quarelled with him just now. Others might think that you are willing to do so, because he has rivalled you with Opal. Dear Guy, I hoped all along that something would happen to prevent this marriage, but I have given up all such thoughts now. Godfrey declares that he is determined to hold Opal to her troth, and he would have me believe that he really prefers her to the poor girl he was so much in love with last summer." 
               An expression of deep pain flitted over Denham's face, and he gloomily said: 
               "I have comprehended since that day at Silvermere that such was his intention. I wish-I wish that I had spoken to her before Fenton came; I believe I could have won a promise from her that even her parents could not have induced her to break. But I lost my chance, and this vain, fickle man, with nothing but his great beauty of person and gayety of manner, has stepped between me and my happiness. It is hard to give Opal up to such as he, but there is no alternative now. I must try and forget her, difficult as the task will be. What did he ask you to do for him, Anna?" 
               "Only to go in town to meet Inez Lopez, who is coming South in the belief that he will be glad to welcome her. Her father is dead, and she has recovered her grandfather's estate. But that does not signify now to Godfrey, for he asserts that he has ceased to love her." 
               "What madness brings that poor girl here, to be trampled into the dust by such an ingrate?" exclaimed Denham, indignantly. "I really think that Mr. Hastings should be informed of the exact position in which his precious son-in-law elect is placed, that he may see how little happiness his daughter is likely to find with the husband he has selected for her. I have a mind to tell him myself." 
                
               "Only to have your motives misinterpreted. No, no, Guy; that will never do. We must let things take their course, for all we could now do would be of no avail. Aunt Gertrude is the moving spirit of the whole affair, and we know of old that she is not easily circumvented." 
               Denham passionately asked: 
               "Why should shebe permitted to ruin my happiness as a man, who tyrannized over me as a boy? But for the uniform kindness of my uncle, I believe that I should have run away before I was fifteen; then came his sudden death, when I was nearly grown, and it was found that the provision intended for me had not been made. His widow understood his intentions perfectly, yet she would do nothing for me but employ me as the agent for the property, while she hoarded every cent from her large dower, drawing from the estate of the two girls all that is needed for household expenses, that she might have means to place her own son on a better footing as to money than my uncle had ever contemplated. Godfrey and I were to enter the world on equal terms, but Aunt Gertrude has made me a dependent, while on her son she has lavished a liberal allowance. Her craft has enabled her to bring about the separation of Opal and myself, and accomplish her union with Godfrey. She knew that I always loved Opal; that from her childhood she has been the darling of my life; yet she ruthlessly laid her plans and carried them out. Oh, Anna, Anna! when I think of what might have been, I lose all my fortitude; but the most bitter thought of all is, that my stainless lily must be given to such a man as Godfrey Fenton. His vanity has absorbed his better nature, and after his treatment of Inez Lopez I feel as if he scarcely deserves to live." 
               "Hush-hush, Guy! don't talk in that strain. Godfrey has much good in him, that in your present mood you will not recognize. After all, if Opal had shewn great repugnance nance to the match her parents would not have forced it on her. She has been cold and distant to you since the day we dined at Silvermere, and we may have deceived ourselves as to her preference for you before Godfrey came back." 
               "A man who has watched the development of a beloved one as tenderly as I have watched Opal, is apt to understand her modes of thought and feeling. Until that false man came and fascinated her by his good looks and his flatteries, I was almost sure she loved me. But it is of no use to talk in this way. I have lost her forever-forever! but I swear endless hate to him that won her from me. If I could find a pretext for meeting him in deadly combat, I would seize upon it; but there is none that I can make available. We are so nearly connected, too, that the scandal of a duel between us would convulse the country." 
               "Guy, for Heaven's sake cease talking in this strain, or you will drive me wild. Any one that overheard you would suppose that you are ready to shoot Godfrey down at the slightest provocation. I insist that you shall keep out of his way, and avoid any difficulty with him. You seem to forget all about poor Miss Lopez; yet I am to settle when we are to go in for her, and what I am to do with her when we get her here." 
               "We will try to bind up her broken heart, and play the part, of the good Samaritan. That is all we can do for the forsaken one." 
               "But it will first devolve on me to break her heart by telling her of Godfrey's perfidy," cried Mrs. Langley, and that is what I dread about it. Oh dear, to think that such a task has been put upon me, and with my own consent, too. Really, I think it is taxing good nature too far to ask such a service as this." 
               "If it were only rendered to Fenton, I should say so, too; but we have a painful duty to perform toward this friendless girl. She must not be made the subject of gossip, and the only way to save her from it will be for you to go in town and await her arrival at the hotel, as if she is your expected guest. Fenton's name will not then be connected with hers, and the crushing disappointment that awaits her be known only to the few who are aware of her engagement to him. I will accompany you, and be on the spot to render you any assistance you may need." 
               "But suppose Inez declines to come home with me? She may prefer awaiting Godfrey's arrival at the hotel." 
               "She will not do that, I am sure. You have tact enough to make her anxious to hear news of Fenton, which you will only communicate beneath your own roof. We must lure her hither, and then, as tenderly as possible, tell her the bitter truth. Poor girl! my heart bleeds for her." 
               "And so, I am sure, does mine; but what does that signify? It won't make the telling of the story any the less difficult to me, nor will it lessen the heaviness of the blow to her. But of course we must go, and I must make a victim of myself." 
               "Yes, I think so, Anna; and you who have suffered yourself, will know how to minister to your sister woman in her hour of distress." 
               A shadow flitted over Mrs. Langley's sprightly face, and she sighed heavily, but said nothing in reply. 
               A few days later the carriage was ordered, and the brother and sister went in to Natchez, and took rooms at the principal hotel to await the arrival of Inez. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE MARRIAGE DAY IS FIXED.-OPAL'S RELUCTANCE. 
               FENTON rode slowly back to Magnolia much disturbed in mind by the words Mrs. Langley had so frankly spoken. A cold dread of some approaching calamity thrilled through his blood, but he put it aside with the vain thought that at east two of the women he had trifled with were dying of love for him, and in his heart he vowed to make the third one as devoted yet as the others had been. 
               The annoyance the coming of Inez gave him went far toward neutralizing such love as he still felt for her, and his predominant feeling was one of vexation at her inopportune arrival. If she had delayed coming till he was on his way to Europe he would have cared little enough, and in his heart he execrated Nina as the cause of his marriage being deferred. 
               If his perfidy were betrayed to Mr. Hastings, he might yet chance to lose the hand of his daughter, with little hope left that Inez Would forgive and receive him into favor again. 
               In this mood Fenton returned to his mother. Mrs. Markland was anxiously watching for him, and on his replied: 
               "It is settled, mother. Anna has promised to do all I asked." 
               "That is well; and now sit down, and let us settle something else that is of no less importance." 
               Fenton listlessly threw himself upon a chair that was drawn up in front of the cheerful fire, and his mother gravely went on: 
                
               "No time must be lost now in fixing the day of your marriage. It cannot take place too soon, and I deeply regret the delay that has already been made." 
               "You cannot be more annoyed at it than I have been," was the moody reply. "Since it is to be, the sooner it is over the better. But for the inopportune illness of Miss Gordon, I should now have been on my way to Europe with Opal as my wife. I only wish she had chosen some other time in which to get sick." 
               "I do not suppose that it was a matter of choice with her," replied his mother, drily. "It is of her I wish first to speak. Has she given you any cause to believe that she remembers your flirtation with her in your college days? I was afraid that something unpleasant had passed between you when you went alone with her on the lake on that unfortunate morning. Tell me the plain truth, if you please, Godfrey." 
               "Well, ma'am, the plain truth is, that something very unpleasant did pass between us. Most men would have been flattered by what she said, but I was only annoyed." 
               "Flattered! Then the shameless creature must actually have made love to you." 
               "Something very like it," he replied with a faint smile. "I begin to think that I am really a very fascinating person." 
               His complacent vanity enraged Mrs. Markland. She brusquely said: 
               "You are a fool to talk thus. Miss Gordon has gained strong influence over Mr. Hastings, the origin of which I think I understand, though I shall not betray my convictions to you. She will use her power against you, and in the end prevail, unless your marriage with Opal is hurried on. I have sent an invitation to Mrs. Hastings to dine here to-morrow, and I intend that next Thursday shall be fixed on as the wedding day. Have you any objection to offer to such an arrangement?" 
               "Objection? Of course not. It but chimes with my own impatience to call the divine Opal my own. When I am safely married, of course the two charmers who are ready to risk everything to rival my intended, will come to their sober senses, and make the best of their disappointment." 
               Worldly as she was herself, there was a hard lightness in his tones that jarred on Mrs. Markland's feelings, and with some asperity she said: 
               "You are as handsome as Apollo, Godfrey, and as light of nature as Mercury, with the vanity of Juno's peacock. Those are the qualities that have won you success with so many women; but for Opal's sake I hope that something truer and deeper than anything I have yet found in you may lie beneath them. Don't speak to me again in that insufferable tone of conceit. It destroys my confidence in you." 
               "Really, ma'am, you are very classic this morning, and by no means complimentary. As to my better qualities, I mean to make a tender and devoted husband to your pet, and she shall yet acknowledge that I am as irresistible as-as others have found me. I hope you do not consider that determination an evidence of the conceit of which you accuse me?" 
               "No-that is only proper and right. You will be happy with Opal; make her happy, and that is all I can ask. This is Friday, and to-morrow I will carry my point in having Thursday fixed as the bridal day, and your marriage may be over before Miss Lopez lands in Natchez. Did she name the time of her arrival there?" 
               "No, madam; that would be difficult, you know; but she was to leave Newport on the third of February, and this is the ninth. If no accident delays her, she will probably be in Natchez by the middle of the month." 
                
               "That is unfortunate, as an earlier day cannot well be insisted on. I sincerely hope that something may happen to delay the arrival of the steamer that brings her hither." 
               Fenton arose and looked moodily out of the window. His mother watched him with some uneasiness, and sharply went on: 
               "Opal may object to this sudden hurry; but you must insist with all a lover's ardor on having the affair over on the day I have named. To defer it later will be to risk everything." 
               "I understand, mother, and of course I shall obey you," was the listless reply. "Opal shall believe me the most earnest and impassioned of lovers. I am going over to Silvermere after dinner, and I will prepare her for your proposal of an immediate marriage. The thing has been so long settled that there is no use in putting it off any longer." 
               He lounged out of the room, roamed idly over the place till the dinner-bell rang, and at that meal drank much more wine than Mrs. Markland thought was good for him. Of late, she remarked with some alarm that his former abstemiousness had given place to a reckless use of the stimulants his perfect physical organization had formerly rejected. The truth was that Fenton found himself incapable of filling the part he was playing with satisfaction to himself without some artificial aid, and wine afforded temporary relief to the regrets that would arise in spite of his efforts to repress them. 
               Opal little dreamed that his ardent pursuit of herself was sustained by such spiritual aid as this, or she would have shrunk with deeper aversion from the thought of becoming his wife. 
               When dinner was over, Fenton mounted his horse and rode over to Silvermere. He then startled Opal by declaring ing that, now Nina was recovering, he should insist on the earliest possible day being fixed for their marriage. She evaded him as well as she could; but when her mother joined them, and announced her intention to spend the following day at Magnolia, Opal fully comprehended that the interval of freedom gained for her by Nina's illness was only a respite from the fate that awaited her. 
               She could not bring forward any valid objection to an immediate union, as she knew that Fenton was anxious to make their voyage to Europe before the equinoctial gales came on; but her heart sank down like lead in her bosom, and she wondered if it was timidity alone which made her shrink and tremble at the thought of assuming the duties of a wife to him. 
               On the following day she went, as has already been said, with her mother to Magnolia, with the certainty in her own mind that her fate would be fixed beyond any power of her own to change it. 
               When Mrs. Hastings found that her husband would not accompany her, she said to him: 
               "I am sure that Mrs. Markland wishes us to go there to-day, to fix on the time for the wedding. If I am to act as your proxy, what am I to say?" 
               "Anything you please. Whatever you arrange between you I shall consent to. Godfrey should be kept in suspense no longer than is absolutely necessary. He told me last night that he wishes to be married immediately. I am sorry to give Opal up; but, if she is to go, there can be no use in delay." 
               "So I think too; and now that Miss Gordon is nearly well, the preparations for the marriage can be resumed." 
               "Yes," he absently replied. "Do just as you choose about that. Excuse me, Laura, but I must set out for Natchez at once if I am to keep the appointment I made to meet a man on business there at ten o'clock this morning." 
               Mr. Hastings mounted his horse and rode away, and soon afterward that conversation took place between Miss Gordon and his wife which has already been recorded. 
               Elated with the prospect of releasing herself from Nina's presence in her house, Mrs. Hastings conversed cheerfully with her daughter, and reached Magnolia in the best of humors. 
               Mrs. Markland plied her with such flatteries as she well knew would be acceptable, leaving her son to devote himself to Opal. Dora and Jenny were at home, and they hovered around their future sister-in-law, making much of her, and often interfering with their brother's efforts to monopolize her attention. 
               On this day, Opal fully believed that Fenton adored her; and she sighed to think how poor and pale was the regard she felt for him in comparison with the fervent expressions of love he whispered in her ears. 
               The day was warm and bright for the season, and, after dinner was over, Fenton lured her out to walk. He took the direction of the summer-house, giving his young sisters a very intelligible hint that he wished to be alone with his betrothed. 
               He said little till they were seated in the rustic temple; but he then took her hand, and with impetuous eagerness spoke the wish that now lay nearest his heart. 
               "On this spot, Opal, I won your promise to be mine; and I have brought you here to gain from you a pledge to give me this precious hand in six days from this time. Let Thursday be our bridal day. We will be married in the evening, set out for New Orleans the next morning, and be in time for the steamer that leaves for Havre on Monday. Speak, my angel, shall it not be so?" 
                
               All the color faded from her sweet face, and she faintly said: 
               "Oh, Godfrey, so soon! so very soon! Give me two weeks more at least. I-I-feel as if I cannot bear to be hurried in the most important transaction of my life." 
               "But if you will reflect a moment, Opal, you will see that you have not been hurried. My happiness has been delayed in a most tantalizing manner. I have borne the delay occasioned by Miss Gordon's illness as philosophically as I could; but now she is nearly well again, you will not be so cruel as to impose any further penance on him whose dearest hope is to claim you as his own." 
               "But mamma wishes to have a large party to witness our marriage, and it will not be possible to have things suitably arranged in the time you mention. She will be as unwilling to consent to your proposal as, I confess, I am." 
               "You cruel, icy creature! you make me adore you, and then treat me in this cavalier manner. Oh, Opal, if you feel for me one tithe of the love I cherish for you, you could not speak thus! What does it matter about a grand wedding? I do not wish for any such display myself. I only ask to make you my own in the most expeditious way possible. Tell me, darling, that you will join you entreaties with mine to induce your mother to have a few friends only to witness our espousals on Thursday evening. I intend to claim you then, Opal, and my mother is also most earnest in her wish to see us married at once." 
               If Mrs. Markland had set her mind on this arrangement, Opal knew that it would be carried out in spite of such feeble opposition as she could make. With the desperate thought that the plunge must be made at some time, and as well now as later, she quietly spoke, though her lips grew white as she uttered the words: 
               "I never wished for a large wedding myself, and, if mamma will consent to forego that, we may as well be married Thursday as on any other day. You shall no longer reproach me with withholding your happiness from you, Godfrey, though God alone knows if it will be found in a union with me." 
               "Then it will be found in nothing else that life may offer," he rapturously exclaimed. "Opal, my love, my own, I have no words with which to thank you for this concession. You will allow me to kiss you now, will you not?" 
               He asked this because through all their wooing Opal had never permitted him to press his lips to hers, or to wind his arm caressingly around her form. 
               She faintly said: 
               "Yes-you may kiss me once." 
               Fenton hastened to avail himself of this long-coveted privilege; but the lips that received his passionate caress were pale and cold, and she lay for a moment half fainting on his breast. 
               "Opal! darling!" he vehemently exclaimed. "Why are you thus? Is there no love for me in your heart, after all my efforts to awaken it?" 
               With a slight shiver she withdrew herself from his embrace, and said: 
               "Let us return to the house and tell my mother that in five more days I have consented to become your bride That consent should assure you of what you are so anxious to know. If I had not a high regard for you, Godfrey, I would not have given it under any circumstances." 
               "I must satisfy myself with that for the present, Opal; but I mean to make you love me dearly, in spite of myself." 
               "I hope so, Godfrey, for I wish to love you above all others, since it is my duty to do so. Come-let us go in, and arrange the preliminaries of the marriage as soon as possible." 
                
               With feverish eagerness she hurried on the path that led to the house, listening to Fenton's words of rapture with the feeling that she was drifting to shipwreck, and it mattered little when the final crash came. 
               If Opal had been a few years older, she would have asserted her right to judge for herself in a matter so vital to her whole future life; but she was as yet a child in years and feeling, and she blindly yielded to the sacrifice which, she believed, was to save her father from the sad fate he had shadowed forth as the one he must embrace if she refused the alliance that had so long been contemplated for her. 
               Mrs. Hastings had resisted the proposal of a comparatively private marriage when it was made by Mrs. Markland; but when her daughter came in and said she preferred a small party on the occasion, she yielded, and Thursday was irrevocably fixed as the day on which Opal was to yield herself into Godfrey Fenton's keeping. 
               When this was definitely settled, she became wildly gay; she romped with Jenny, danced with Dora, and was so unlike the quiet, reticent creature Fenton had lately known, that he regarded her in wonder. But he managed to make his demonstrations of gayety keep pace with her own, and she laughingly said: 
               "We shall be a fast couple, I am afraid, Godfrey; and it will be hardly safe for our friends to turn us loose on the world, and leave us to our own devices. I intend to see everything, go everywhere, and write back letters from Europe to some of the papers, that will give me the reputation of a blue stocking. See if I don't. I have long had visions of literary distinction, and now I am going to realize them." 
               "Of course you shall, if you wish it. You do not know how charming you are to me in this new phase of your character. Be always animated; always gay, and I shall adore you more than ever." 
               "I do not want adoration, Godfrey. I am not a divinity, nor do I aspire to be regarded as one. I want true and honest love, such as I am sure you feel for me." 
               "I love you more than words can express, and my actions shall prove to you the value of my protestations," was the earnest reply, though Fenton felt self-condemned when he uttered the assurance. 
               The carriage was announced as ready, and as Mrs. Markland affectionately kissed her promised daughter-in-law, she whispered: 
               "Good-bye, my love! you have made me very happy by the evidence of affection you have this day given to my son." 
               Opal returned the caress, and softly said: 
               "Good-bye, mother, and accept my thanks for receiving me into your house and heart as your own child. I love you very dearly, and I shall love you still more when I am Godfrey's wife." 
               The last word brought a rush of color to her pearly cheek, and she hastened to take her place beside her mother. She hurriedly drew down her veil, but kissed her hand to Fenton, who stood on the steps waving a last adieu to them. 
               Mrs. Hastings sunk back, and peevishly said: 
               "It does not suit me to have things hurried up so, but I could not help myself. Why did you submit to the arrangement that has been made, Opal? I thought you were indifferent about being married very soon." 
               "Dear mamma, don't talk of it any more, please. I knew it was of no use to resist; and when a thing is inevitable, it is better to have it over and done with. If Godfrey and I are to sail for Europe, we should be there before the high winds and storms of March set in." 
                
               "Very well, child; if you are satisfied, I am sure I should be. We can have a grand reception when you come back, and that will compensate for this shabby way of doing things on an occasion so important as the marriage of an only child." 
               "Yes, we can have a grand reception," repeated Opal vaguely. 
               And she sunk back on her seat, and became absorbed in painful thought, scarcely replying to her mother as she went over the arrangements she would make and named the friends that must be invited." 
               "All Godfrey's connections must be asked, of course. Mrs. Langley and her brother have not been very friendly of late, but I shall send them an invitation. Do you think Guy Denham will come?" 
               The name startled Opal, and, with a shiver, she replied: 
               "Why not? Of course he will come with his sister." 
               "Well, I thought he might not care to see you given away to another. You must know that he is strongly attached to you, Opal; hopeless as he must always have known his passion to be, he has betrayed it in many ways." 
               Much to her mother's dismay, Opal suddenly burst into a hysterical passion of tears, and cried out: 
               "Oh, mamma, don't talk to me of Guy's love, now that it is too late-too late. I belong to another, and I must not think of him." 
               Mrs. Hastings was astonished and distressed at this outburst. She had never suspected the feelings of her daughter, and she now asked, in much perturbation: 
               "What does this mean, Opal? Have you ever cared more for Guy Denham than for any other friend?" 
               "I don't know; I cannot understand my own feelings, but, if he stood to me in the same relation that Godfrey does, I am afraid I should be less unwilling to-to give myself irrevocably to him. But Guy never asked me, so what is the use of all this waste of feeling?" 
               And she indignantly dashed away the tears that streamed over her face. 
               After a painful silence, Mrs. Hastings said: 
               "Of course Guy never approached you as a lover, because he understood that he was not in a position to aspire to your hand. The son of a wealthy woman like Mrs. Markland is afar more suitable match for you than the dependent nephew of her husband. Guy is a clever man, but he is not to be compared with Godfrey in any way. You are nervous and excited now, my dear, for this has been a trying day for you; but you will soon recover your composure, and understand yourself better. I must say that I think you a most fortunate girl, for your betrothed is evidently devoted to you, and I am sure that you love him, in spite of your fancy that Mr. Denham would be more agreeable to you as your destined husband. If he stood in the same relation toward you, you would feel the same shy shrinking. It is natural to so young a girl as you are, on the eve of so great a change in her condition." 
               Opal sighed heavily, for she did not believe this. At moments she felt as if she could almost fly to Guy Denham for protection from the fate that approached her, and, without shrinking, pronounce the vows that would make her his own. But, as she had said herself, it was too late; she had accepted the destiny awarded her, and must abide by the pledges she had given, even if, in so doing, she sealed her own wretchedness. 
               The remainder of the drive was passed in silence; and when they came in sight of Silvermere, Mrs. Hastings interrupted the sad reveries of her daughter, by exclaiming: 
               "It is just as I thought it would be. Your father has hurried back from Natchez, to reach home before I returned. There is his horse; and how long he has been with that fair serpent, nobody knows. Opal, I am determined that Miss Gordon shall leave my house as soon as she can be sent away. I am sorry that to-morrow is Sunday, or I would pack her off with the dawn. I will not tolerate her any longer near your father. It is shameful, it is disgraceful that he should betray such interest in this stranger as he has lately shewn." 
               Opal aroused herself, and hastened to say: 
               "Dear mamma, you misunderstand the source of papa's interest in this young lady. He feels that she has a claim on him, and he tries to make up to her for your coldness; for of late you have been very distant to her. I entreat that you will do nothing to annoy him, for he has seemed very much depressed of late." 
               "Fiddlesticks! who cares if he has! It is not without good cause, I dare say; for a man that lets his heart wander away from his wedded wife after strange idols ought to feel depressed. I am going to send Miss Gordon packing before you are married, for I shan't have such a viper at your wedding." 
               Her face was flushed, her eyes sparkling, and Opal knew from experience that in the frame of mind her mother was now in, remonstrance would be useless. She only said: 
               "I hope you will do nothing hastily, mamma," as the carriage drew up in front of the door. 
               Everything was perfectly quiet, and there was no indication of Nina's presence below stairs. Minette, Mrs. Hastings' own maid, came to assist her in removing her wrappings. 
               A look of intelligence passed between the mistress and maid, and the former abruptly asked: 
               "Where is your master?" 
               "He's in the li'bry, mum, a-walkin up and down like mad." 
                
               "How long has he been back here?" 
               "Oh, ever so long, mum. He come back soon arter dinner, and talked with Miss Gordon a long time; but she's gone up to her room to lie down now." And the girl looked as if she could tell much more if closely questioned. 
               "Go up stairs to your room, Opal, and you need not come down till the supper bell rings," said her mother, sharply. 
               Obedient to the command, and glad to escape the tornado she anticipated, Opal sprang up the steps, and Mrs. Hastings passed into her own apartment, followed by Minette, Closing the door, she abruptly faced the girl and asked: 
               "Did you stay on the watch as I ordered you? and have you discovered anything that can be of any moment to me?" 
               "I did stay, Missis, an' I think I has skivered suffin as'll make you hoppin'. 'Scuse me, mum, I didn't mean to say that; it slipped out unbeknownst." 
               Mrs. Hastings sunk down on a sofa, untying her bonnet strings with a spasmodic clutch that was suggestive of "squirming tantrums." 
               The maid hastened to remove her bonnet and shawl, and then administered lavender, till her worst symptoms passed away. Minette then said: 
               "You needn't take on so, Missis, for if master is mightily took with Miss Gordon, she ain't a bit so with him, for I heard her tell him she hated him like pizen." 
               There was some comfort in this, though Mrs. Hastings hysterically asked: 
               "How did she come to be saying such things to him? Oh, my heart! it will be broken yet before that cruel man is done with it. Tell me everything that has happened here since I went away." 
               "In course, Missis, I's ready to do so. I stayed roun', as you tole me, till marster came in and found Miss Gordon asleep on the sofy in de libry. I seed him go in, but he shet de do' after him, an' I can't tell what happened nex'. But I listened at the keyhole, an' I heerd 'em talk a heap; but I couldn't make out what it was about, 'cept dat I heerd her scream out in a passion like dat she hated him. But arterwards I am sho he kissed her." 
               "The wretch!" exclaimed the jealous wife. "How dared she permit such a thing! But I-I'll pay him for it yet. Go on, Minette." 
               "Well, dere ain't much mo' to tell, mum. Arter talkin a long time, she got 'stericky like, an' marster took her up in his arms an' carried her up sta'rs hisself; but he come down direc'ly, an' called me to go up an' see ef she wanted anything. She was crusty enough to be sure, an' tole me to leave her to herself, for she had the headache." 
               "The headache! I dare say, the worthless viper! But it's of no use for me to be angry with her, if she said what you repeated. Are you sure she said she hated Mr. Hastings?" 
               "Yes'm-I heerd dat quite plain, an' I know she meant it too, for she wur' mighty survigerous when she screamed it out at him." 
               "I should like to know what he said to her that made her speak so. Haven't you the least idea, Minette? Didn't you hear more than you are willing to tell me?" 
               "I clare 'fore de Lor', Missis, dat was all I could make out, tho' I lissened wi' all my ears. I knowed how anxious you was 'bout dat young gal, an' I did all I could to find out what dey was a talkin' 'bout; but twasn't no use. De do' was shet fas', an' I daren't to try and open it de leastest mite. When I heerd marster comin' out I had to get out'n do way mighty quick, but I coch a glim o' his face as he went up st'ars wi' her, an' I tell you it looked like a thunder cloud. He seemed mightily cut up 'bout suffin,' I don't know what, but I don't think dey was good fr'en's, tho' he carried her mighty careful." 
               "Yes-they made up their quarrel, I suppose, and I dare say are better friends than ever. But I shall put an end to such goings on in my house, and that without delay. Go and tell your master that I wish to see him in this room; that I have something very particular to say to him. But let me first warn you to say nothing of this among the other servants. If there is any gossip about it I shall have you punished. There is that red silk shawl in my top drawer, that you always thought such a beauty; you may have that for your own." 
               "Oh! thank you, missus; you is a real lady an' no mistake. You may 'pend on me. I ain't gwine to tell nuffin 'mong de darkies dat goes on 'mong de white folks. I knows my manners better 'n dat." 
               "Very well. Go now and tell Mr. Hastings that I am waiting for him here." 
               The girl went on her errand; and without a single feeling of compunction for setting her own servant as a spy upon her husband, Mrs. Hastings, in a state of swelling wrath, sat listening for his approaching footsteps. 
               After an interval it came, listlessly and heavily enough, and she bitterly thought: 
               "If he was going to see her, he would move lighter and more jauntily that that. She repulsed him-that is some comfort; she wishes to go away, and that is another. I'll send her off if it costs me more than the sum I offered as the price of her dismissal." 
               Mr. Hastings came in looking unusually pale, and evidently deeply depressed. He said: 
               "I came back from town sooner than I expected, and I have had a long interview with Miss Gordon. I learned from her that she wishes to leave Silvermere before the marriage of Opal takes place. I was sorry to discover that her interest in Godfrey is still too deep to permit her to see him give his hand to another without feeling unhappy. I thought it best to tell you this at once, Laura, lest you should take some chimerical fancy in your head, founded on my early return home." 
               In spite of herself, Mrs. Hastings found her anger melting away before this plain statement of what had occurred in her absence. She began to feel ashamed of the part she had played, and after a pause she replied: 
               "I was surprised to find that you have been at home so long; but I am glad that Miss Gordon has told you of her wish to leave. She said the same to me this morning, but gave no reason for it. She was more candid with you it seems; but I have not won her confidence as you appear to have done. She is one of those women who like the opposite sex better than their own, I suppose. But if she is really going away, I shall find no fault with her, since it proves that she is not infatuated with you as you are with her." 
               "My dear Laura," he said, with a look of pain, "why will you cherish such absurd fancies? This poor girl is almost friendless; she has been at death's door in our house, and I believe my skill as a nurse saved her life. I naturally take an interest in her, after raising her almost from the grave; but I have willingly consented that she shall go back to the north. She could not be happy here, and I have no wish to keep her." 
               "Are you really and truly in earnest, William? Will you not regret her departure?" 
               "I can truly say that I shall not. It is most unfortunate, as it has turned out, that she came hither at all. I hoped that she would prove a suitable companion for you after Opal's departure, but I dare say you will be able to find some one you will like better in that capacity." 
                
               "Yes, indeed! There will be no difficulty about that. But if Miss Gordon goes before the wedding she will have to be in a hurry, for we have decided that it shall take place on Thursday evening." 
               "So soon! I had no idea that Opal would consent to hasten matters so. But I am contented. There is time enough to arrange about Nina. I will take her in town to Matson's in the early part of the week, and leave him to put her on board the New Orleans packet that goes down on Tuesday. I shall write to my commission merchant to put her under the care of the captain of the New York steamer, after supplying her with funds for her expenses. Of course I must compensate her handsomely for her disappointment here." 
               "I don't object to that. Money is no object; and I am so glad to get rid of her that I am willing to pay her more than she would probably demand. Did Miss Gordon propose going herself?" 
               "Yes-she stated her wish very plainly; and I saw the propriety of her departure as soon as I understood her feelings about Fenton. Though he was only flirting with her, it seems that she conceived a violent passion for him which even the sight of his devotion to Opal has not been able to chill. Poor child! I feel the deepest sympathy for her." 
               Mrs. Hastings fixed her eyes penetratingly upon her husband, and asked: 
               "Are you sure that you have no stronger or deeper feeling for her, William?" 
               He changed color, but firmly replied: 
               "I am quite sure, Laura, that there is not a feeling for Nina in my heart that you would disapprove if it could be laid bare before you. Do not embitter the few days she must spend beneath your roof with suspicions as unworthy of you as they are degrading to me. You have no cause for jealousy, I assure you." 
               "I will believe you, William, and trust to your honor not to deceive me. Did Miss Gordon tell you that I have already offered to give her a large sum of money if she would leave Silvermere?" 
               "Good Heavens! no-she told me nothing of the kind. But I am glad that you did so, as it relieves me from an embarrassing difficulty. I have told you that this young girl is a relation of my own, for whose future I am in some sort responsible; and I shall feel better satisfied if I know her to be placed above the necessity of laboring for her own maintenance." 
               "It is what she was reared to expect; and she is as sharp about money matters as the veriest Yankee. My first offer was a thousand a year; but she computed the sum that would be worth at ten per cent., and asked for that as a certain provision. She has really no claim on me; but I was so anxious to get her safe out of the house that I consented at once to give it to her." 
               This statement relieved the most pressing anxiety of Mr. Hastings on Nina's account; but it lowered her in his estimation very sensibly. It pained him to know that she had bargained with his wife and named the price she was willing to accept to induce her to leave his house, yet had said nothing of it to him in that long and distressing interview. He reluctantly understood how mercenary she was, for he distinctly remembered that Nina had also claimed from him an adequate provision, in the hope, no douht, that he would remain ignorant of the transaction between his wife and herself. He bitterly thought: 
               "She has nothing noble or true in her nature. Yet-yet I have loved her far better than her sister. I will do what I can for her; but she shall go far away from me, and I care little now if we never meet again. She has wounded me to the soul, and I cannot get over it." 
               Mr. Hastings presently said to his wife: 
               "In this instance your judgment is correct, Laura. Miss Gordon will be better elsewhere than here; and you could make no better use of the sum you have named than to bribe her with it to remove herself from our home as soon as possible. As to myself, I shall not regret her departure; my only regret is that I ever brought her in contact with yourself and Opal. I will inform her to-morrow of the decision we have mutually agreed on, and arrange for her departure as soon as possible." 
               Mrs. Hastings' brow cleared, her eyes lost their suspicious glare, and she gradually said: 
               "I have wronged you very deeply, William, and I ask your pardon for it. But of late you have seemed so deeply interested in this girl, that I was naturally jealous. You know that I love you so much I cannot bear to become a secondary object of attention with you." 
               Mr. Hastings sighed heavily, and for a few moments he was tempted to reveal the truth to his wife, but he feared the result that might ensue, and he only uttered a few words accepting the apology, and turned away. 
               When Opal came down to supper she was glad to find that the storm she anticipated had blown over, and her parents apparently on the best terms with each other. 
               Nina declined making her appearance that evening, and her tea was sent up to her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               NINA IS SENT AWAY FROM SILVERMERE. SHE TAKES A FATAL RESOLUTION. 
               ON the following morning, Nina appeared at the breakfast table as serene as if nothing had occurred to mar the peace of her life. She was unusually bright and animated, and Mr. Hastings painfully thought what a comfort and happiness her presence near him would have proved had her moral qualities borne any proportion to her power of fascination. 
               He had, however, but one desire now with regard to her; and that was, to remove her from himself as far as possible, and place her in a secure and comfortable position for the future. 
               When breakfast was over, the two girls strolled out on the portico, and walked to and fro till Mrs. Hastings summoned her daughter to her own apartment, for the purpose of allowing her husband to speak in private with Miss Gordon. 
               The conversation of the previous night seemed to have removed every shadow of mistrust from her mind, and Mrs. Hastings had herself proposed that he should go to Nina, and inform her of the necessity of an early departure. 
               Mr. Hastings sent a request to her to join him in the library, as he had something important to say to her. Wondering that his wife permitted such an interview to take place, Nina moved toward the room in which he awaited her appearance. 
               After carefully closing the door, Mr. Hastings sat down near her, and gravely said: 
               "I asked you to come hither, Nina, to inform you that your desire for a speedy departure from Silvermere can be gratified at once. I will take you away myself in two days from this time, and make the necessary arrangements for sending you back whence you came." 
               Nina changed color, and she bitterly said: 
               "I think you are in a great hurry to rid yourself of me. When I spoke of going away, I had no idea that you would be willing to let me leave you so abruptly." 
               "It is for your own good that I have decided on this course, Nina. On Thursday evening, Opal gives her hand to Godfrey Fenton, and after what you told me yesterday, I considered it best that you should leave before they are married." 
               She uttered a faint cry, and covered her face with her hands. After a painful pause, she said, in smothered tones: 
               "Is it true? Will he really dare to marry Opal, when he knows how madly I love him? How utterly lost, and wretched I shall be without him?" 
               Her father compassionately regarded her, and his voice faltered as he replied: 
               "I am sorry to hear you speak thus, Nina. I am placed in a most painful position between yourself and your sister. But even if Godfrey had preferred you to her, his mother would never have permitted him to marry you. Arouse yourself from the indulgence of morbid feeling, my child, and forget that you have ever cared more for Fenton than he does for you." 
               "Forget!" she repeated, "as if that were possible to such a creature as myself! No-I shall not forget; it were well for him if I could; I will remember, and repay, and-and-But it is idle to utter threats; and I will not be guilty of that weakness. So, you have determined to send me away this week? In what way will you take me? to the cotton landing, or to Natchez?" 
                
               The place she referred to was a rude landing, about a mile distant, near which a rough shed had been built by the neighboring planters for the purpose of sheltering the cotton sent there to be shipped to New Orleans. Nina had rode over to it several times since she had been at Silvermere, and was familiar with the locality. 
               Mr. Hastings replied: 
               "I shall take you to Natchez, for this reason: The packet will not stop at the landing before Thursday night, and it is your wish, I suppose, to be far away from here by that time. If it were not for the wedding, I could easily take you down from here that night, for there is a large quantity of cotton ready to be shipped on the next packet, and she will be there several hours." 
               A sudden light came into Nina's face; her eyes gleamed with the phosphorescent fire that flashed from them in her most dangerous moods; she seemed suddenly to have recovered from her chagrin, for she almost gaily said: 
               "What a good, thoughtful father you are. I have come out of my heroics, and I shall be quite ready to accompany you to Natchez at any time. Only let me get away from Godfrey Fenton, and I shall soon cease to care for such an ingrate as he is. With the money you have promised to give me, I shall be able to make myself very happy, I have no doubt. How much will you allow me, sir?" 
               "Five hundred a year is all that I have at my own disposal." 
               "Five hundred dollars! to board and clothe myself out of! I am sure you must be jesting when you speak of such a pittance as that, as an adequate support, for your daughter." 
               Mr. Hastings looked at her with an expression of intense pain, but firmly said: 
               "That sum, with what Mrs. Hastings is willing to settle upon you, will be quite sufficient for every rational want. My wife has informed me of her offer to give you ten thousand dollars; and that I consider a very respectable provision for you aside from what I shall be able to do for you." 
               Nina flushed, and resentfully said: 
               "So Mrs. Hastings has told you that? She must be in a better humor with you than she has been of late, to give you her confidence to such extent. Did she also tell you why that money was offered to me?" 
               "She did; she does not like you, and she wishes to remove you from her house at any cost. She was jealous of you, but I have dispelled that delusion from her mind." 
               "In what why? Did you inform her of the relation in which we stand to each other?" 
               "God forbid! for that would make a breach between us that nothing could heal." 
               "I am sorry to hear that, sir; for I have serious thoughts of telling Mrs. Hastings myself. Why should she not know that I am your daughter, and must be provided for as such?" 
               With pale sternness, he replied: 
               "In attempting such a course, you would effectually destroy all hope of assistance from me. I have no resources of my own; my wife allows me an annual sum for attending to the management of her property, and from that I shall give you the allowance I named. If Mrs. Hastings is made aware of that unfortunate episode in my early life, I feel assured that she would separate herself from me. In losing her, I should lose the control of her fortune, and with it, the power of more liberally providing for you at some future day." 
               His words produced their due effect, and Nina lightly said: 
               "I was not in earnest, chr papa. What could I gain by making mischief between yourself and wife? Since you are content to 'dwell in decencies forever,' I am sure that I have no wish to balk you; but if I had to submit to Mrs. Hastings' exactions as you do, I should not much care how soon an explosion came." 
               "Perhaps not, as you seem to belong to the explosive order of women; but my home is pleasant to me in spite of its drawbacks; and I have one child at least who has never given me cause to regret that she was ever born. Besides, I owe to my wife such reparation as I can make for not giving her as much of my heart as she is entitled to. I will try and do better in the future. In my house I will seek to bring the true spirit of affection, and put to flight all Laura's fears of finding a rival in my affections. I gave her one in you; but that is over. After what you said to me yesterday, I clearly see that the tie of blood that unites us is the only bond that can exist between you and myself. You have proved that you do not love me; I have ceased to consider you above others; and now we stand on equal ground." 
               The sad severity with which Mr. Hastings uttered these words convinced Nina that they had been maturely weighed, and expressed the simple truth. She listened with a heart filled to overflowing with rage and disappointment. She had evidently lost the hold on him she flattered herself she had established, and he was ready to cast her off without a single regret. He would give her money, and that was all. No wearisome longing for her return would follow her departure. On the contrary, he would breathe freer with the sense of relief it would afford him. 
               She arose and haughtily said: 
               "I believe we understand each other now, sir, and it is useless to multiply words. I am to go, and you are glad to rid yourself of my presence. On my side, I can, with truth, assure you that I am as anxious to leave your house as you are to get me out of it. I shall pack up to-morrow, and be ready to go in town at any time you may think expedient." 
               "Very well. But you need not fatigue yourself with packing your trunks. Ninette can attend to that. I will give orders to that effect myself." 
               "Don't trouble yourself, sir. When I need the assistance of your servants I can summon them myself. I will go to my room now, as I wish to be alone." 
               Nina hurried from the library, and ascended to her own apartment in a state of angry excitement which at that moment might have led her to attempt some desperate act. She locked the door and paced the floor in violent agitation, muttering: 
               "Turned out of doors! Actually ordered to go away, for it amounts to that; and I, his eldest child, too! With every claim on him, I am to be thrust away with that contemptible allowance. Why, it is not the twentieth part of the annual income of his wife. But I will yet find means to increase it. I will-I will! and I will wring the hearts that have ignored my claims, made me bear the stigma of illegitimacy, and left me in the world alone. I wonder what my lady mother will say when she becomes aware that I hold her pseudo respectability at my mercy? She abandoned me-left me to the care of strangers-and I will let her know that I have been informed of her whole history. She, too, shall pay me for withholding from the husband she has so basely deceived the knowledge that she has a living child that does not claim him as her father. I wonder if she has ever read the Scarlet Letter, and took its lesson to heart. I fancy that the man she has married will hold her to as strict an account as the old Puritans held that unhappy woman. And my mother merits punishment more than she did; for the heroine of that terrible story did not abandon her child. She kept it with her, cherished it and loved it; but she cast me off because she considered her own interests before my welfare. It will go hard with me if I do not find the means of repaying her." 
               In her present savage mood Nina felt capable of anything. Her thoughts reverted to Godfrey Fenton and his approaching marriage, and she meditated almost to madness on the means of preventing it. After a long interval of conflicting thought, she muttered: 
               "I will give him one more chance-one more! and God help him if he refuses it!" 
               She opened her portfolio and hastily wrote: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Meet me in the boat house this afternoon for only half an hour. I am going away at once. Perhaps we shall never meet again; it is most probable that we never shall, and I am sure you cannot deny me this last request. I have that to say to you which it most deeply concerns you to hear. 
                           
                              NINA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               She folded the paper and put it in her pocket, then threw herself on the bed to compose herself and rest before the dinner hour arrived. She heard the voice of Fenton talking gaily in the lower hall, and she felt certain that he would remain at Silvermere through the day. There was no service in the neighborhood church, and he felt at liberty to dispose of himself as he pleased. 
               Nina arrayed herself in a most becoming toilette. When she descended to join the party in the drawing-room the tempest of emotion had passed away, leaving her face as fair and placid as usual, and the sweet smile with which she extended her hand to her former lover had in it no shadow of the bitterness that lay cradled in her heart. 
               That she should still love this man seemed to her one of the unaccountable inconsistencies of human nature. She had no respect for him. She knew that he had preferred another to her, yet her heart madly cried out that she must win him yet, or take a terrible vengeance for her defeat. 
               During the progress of her convalescence she had met Fenton several times, and she acted toward him as though that interview on the lake had left no traces on her memory. Admiring her tact, he submitted to the fascination she could exercise at will over any man that approached her, and on this day he found her bewitching. 
               Nina spoke of her early departure, and declared that her spirits had risen from the moment she had actually made up her mind to return to her old home and the friends she would find there. Fenton listened skeptically; but he was not the less charmed with the sparkling gayety of her manner, although he thought it was increased by the quantity of champagne she had drank at dinner. 
               Opal was pale and pre-occupied, and her betrothed allowed himself to be monopolized by Nina. He forgot his recent fears of her. With his usual egotistical recklessness, he thought only of the amusement of the passing hour, and he was only recalled to prudence by having the note Nina had written thrust furtively into his hand as the three young people went out on the portico together. 
               "What could she have to say to him that required such secresy as that?" he confusedly asked himself; and he felt half-tempted to return it to her as mysteriously as it had been offered. But curiosity prevailed, and he watched an opportunity to open the paper and read the lines traced within. 
               Nina adroitly afforded him this by luring Opal to the end of the portico to examine the buds of an early rose, which were already bursting into bloom. She could not see Fenton's face as he glanced over her missive, but she felt perfectly sure that he did read her request, and her heart beat high with the hope that he would grant it. 
                
               When they rejoined him, she carelessly said: 
               "The afternoon is so charming that I think a walk would do me good-what do you say, Opal?" 
               Nina knew beforehand the answer she would receive, for Opal had complained of suffering from headache, and she felt certain that she would decline going. As she anticipated, the reply was a refusal. 
               "Excuse me, Nina; I am not well enough to leave the house, and I scarcely think it will be prudent for you to walk far yourself." 
               "Oh I feel quite well to-day, and I wish to take a last farewell of the boat-house. I have some sentimental reminiscences connected with that, you know. Mr. Fenton saved my life when he fished me out of the lake, thought he violates the rules of romance by deserting me for another. But I hope he will be as happy with you, my dear, as if he had not slighted me." 
               The gay carelessness with which she uttered these words gave no clue to their bitter meaning, at least to Opal. Nina passed into the hall, and throwing a fleecy shawl that hung on the hat-stand around her, she ran down the steps, saying: 
               "You may follow me or not, just as you choose, Opal, but of course Mr. Fenton will be too gallant to permit me to go on my pilgrimage alone." 
               Fenton hesitated a moment as to the propriety of accepting this challenge; but finally, compressing his lips, he walked to the farthest end of the portico, gathered a rose-bud, and returned to offer it to Opal, as he said: 
               "I think I had rather stay with you, love. You are not in good spirits to-day, and you seem to need cheering up." 
               "But it seems unkind to allow Nina to walk alone, Godfrey, and she still weak from her illness. Pray follow her, and make the amende honorable." 
               "Excuse me, I prefer staying with you," Fenton said aloud; but he mentally added: 
                
               "If you only knew the kind of amende she would ask of me, I hope you would not be so willing to permit me to offer it." 
               Nina glanced back several times, and her pace slackened, but she still kept on her way toward the boat-house, in the hope perhaps that Fenton would yet join her there. 
               But he had no idea of risking such an interview, and he ardently hoped that he had seen the last of Nina Gordon forever. When she was beyond hearing, he called to a negro boy, and ordered his horse to be brought around immediately. Opal looked surprised: she asked: 
               "Are you going away before Nina returns, or will you side around by the boat-house?" 
               "I hate leave-takings. Give my compliments to Miss Gordon, and my best wishes for a safe and pleasant journey. That is all I have to say to her. My mother will expect me back early, and I must set out at once, for the sun is getting behind the tree-tops. Good-bye, Opal! I shall be absent from home for the next three days, and I shall see you no more till the important evening on which we have agreed to take each other for better, for worse. I hope to find you in your highest beauty on that auspicious night." 
               He ran lightly down the steps, mounted his horse, and rode gaily away-kissing his hand to her as he turned the last curve in the road that concealed her from his sight. 
               Opal went in to lie down, for the headache of which she complained was not a show to cover the sadness of her heart, as is too often the case with her sex. She did not know how long Nina waited in the boat-house for the faithless lover that never came; nor did she see the pale, set face, the disappointed one brought back with her as the twilight shadows were falling over the earth. 
               Nina went up to her own room chilled through every fibre of her frame by her imprudent exposure to the open air, yet with a fiery flood of passion and despair seething in her heart that rendered her insensible to physical discomfort. 
               On this night she felt herself a veritable Ishmael, for it seemed to her as if every hand was raised against her, and she was ready herself to rise up and do battle against the whole human race. Steeped in the gall of bitterness was her heart, and, at moments, she almost dreaded herself. 
               Nina refused to go down to supper, and she scarcely touched what was sent up to her. She ordered the servant to bring wine up to her, and eagerly drank glass after glass, keeping the bottle near her after Minette had gone away. 
               When she looked into the mirror and saw the flush it had brought to her face, she uttered: 
               "The wine has gone to my head. No matter-I needed it to enable me to bear my burden, and I love its exhilarating effects. That taste is my only inheritance from him-from the weak man who fears to proclaim to the world that I am his child. Never mind! I will find means to repay him yet." 
               Nina took up the light, and held it almost in contact with the bed-clothing, laughing like a maniac as she did so. 
               "Ha, ha! What if I set fire to his house and burned it to the ground? It is a great temptation; but then I'm not ready to bury myself on a funeral pyre. He could easily build another house even better than this, so what should I gain by that? No, no; I will do something that will cause me to be remembered longer than setting a house on fire would. 
               "To be baffled at every point; to be sent away in disgrace and defeat, is more than I will tamely bear. I have thought over all that is possible; I have settled my plan of action; and now, Godfrey Fenton, marry that pale-faced simpleton who does not know how to love, as soon as you dare. You think you are done with me forever; so you thought twice before in your life, but I came upon your path again. The third time of coming will be ominous for you." 
               Thus musing, Nina sat till a late hour; but finally weariness of body and lassitude of mind sent her to her pillow to sleep heavily till a late hour of the morning. 
               In the course of the day Opal delivered to Nina the parting message of Fenton, and at the same time expressed herself so sweetly and tenderly toward her that her hard and wayward heart was touched. She earnestly said: 
               "I hope you will be happy, Opal, and I promise you to do what I can to contribute to your future welfare. As I am going away, you think that cannot be much, but no one knows. I may some day have the power to influence your fate for good or evil, and I pledge you my word that it shall be for the first." 
               "Thank you, Nina; and I, in my turn, will say that if you should need a friend in the future, apply to me, and I will do all that lies in my power to serve you." 
               Minette came up to say that dinner was served, and after it was over Nina was to set out for Natchez, to remain with the Matson family till the departure of the steamer. The meal was a silent one, for each one had much to think of, and by the time it was over the carriage was heard to drive to the door. 
               Nina's trunks were brought down, put into a light baggage wagon and sent off, and she herself followed them, equipped for her drive. Mrs. Hastings bade her a polite adieu, after whispering to her that her husband would attend to the business that was necessary to transfer to her the settlement she had promised. Nina turned from her to the sister who stood beside her, ignorant of the close tie that connected them, and with some emotion said: 
                
               "Kiss me once before I go, Opal. I shall carry with me a pleasant memory of you, at any rate." 
               "I will kiss you once, twice, three times, for papa, mamma, and myself," she replied, suiting the action to the words, and Nina returned the caresses, holding her hand clasped in her own while she looked into the blue eyes bent tenderly upon her. 
               Suddenly she dashed it away, hastened down the steps, and entering the carriage, was driven rapidly from the house she had entered as a malignant influence-in which she yet meant to leave a lasting memento of her presence. 
               Mr. Hastings sat perfectly silent till they had left Silvermere far behind them. His manner toward Nina had so entirely changed that she felt sure he was now only anxious to remove her as far as possible from himself. Although she regarded him with very mixed feelings, she resented the withdrawal of that affection which he had declared had so long been the ruling passion of his life. 
               He looked sad and broken, and Nina thought his hair whiter this morning than it had been before, but that did not touch the heart she had hardened until it felt like adamant in her bosom. 
               Mr. Hastings at length spoke in measured tones: 
               "Nina, you are going from me, perhaps forever; but I shall hope to hear regularly from you. Your letters can be sent to me under cover to my friend, Mr. Matson, and be will take care that they come safely to hand. I shall settle the money agreed on upon you, and you can draw your income through a banking firm in New York, whose address I will give you. Does this satisfy you, my child?" 
               "I shall write to you when I have anything to say, and as to being satisfied with what you can do for me, of course I must content myself with what I can get. It is little enough, considering the style in which you live, and the money so profusely lavished on Opal." 
                
               To this ungracious speech her father calmly replied: 
               "I have explained to you that Opal derives her wealth from her mother, not from me; or so great a difference would not be made. If life is granted me a few years longer, and I am successful in some speculations I intend to undertake for your benefit, I shall be able to give you a handsome dower; but I can promise nothing positively. What I can do, I will, on one condition." 
               "And what is that?" 
               "That you will never seek the unfortunate woman whose life I wrecked. That you will never betray to her that I gave her humiliating secret into your keeping. You will promise me this, Nina?" 
               The repressed eagerness of his manner showed her how much in earnest he was, and she evasively asked: 
               "Why should I seek the mother who repudiated the tie of maternity so far as I am concerned? I am sure there would be no pleasure in a meeting between her and myself, and I shall not be likely to seek it." 
               "Then you will keep my confidence sacred? You will not attempt to embitter still further the sad life of your unhappy mother? Give me this assurance, Nina, for I must have it." 
               "Why should you doubt my willingness to give it? I shall leave Mrs. Marsden to seek such peace as she can now find. You need have no misgivings on her account, sir." 
               Mr. Hastings was forced to satisfy himself with these vague assurances, for he could gain nothing more definite from his companion, and silence again fell between them till the carriage drew near the town. 
               Then he took Nina in his arms, kissed and caressed her as he had done on that night when he believed her to be dying, and she knew that her waywardness had not entirely destroyed the strong parental love he felt for her. 
                
               Nina triumphed in this thought, though her own heart but feebly responded to the endearments her father lavished on her. He at last released her from his almost convulsive embrace, and huskily said: 
               "I have given you my farewell, Nina. When we part in the presence of others, it must be as the acquaintances of a few brief weeks. Nothing must be betrayed to others." 
               "Do not fear for me sir," she replied, with perfect self-possession. "Only retain your calmness, and I can answer for mine." 
               Her father regarded her earnestly a few moments, and then passionately cried: 
               "Child-child! I believe that what you said to me the other day was the truth! that all the love I feel for you has failed to elicit any return. God help me! I deserve it, perhaps, but it is not the less bitter for that." 
               By this time the carriage had entered the avenue that led to Mr. Matson's door, and Nina hurriedly asked: 
               "What do you expect of me? I am human-I have strong resentments, and although you are my father, you have yourself told me that which could only have the effect of estranging me from you. It is better for us to live apart, for we could have no comfort in each other." 
               The carriage drew up, the door was opened, and Nina sprang out without giving Mr. Hastings time to descend and assist her to alight. 
               In another moment she was surrounded by the younger members of the Matson family, who had hurried out on seeing the carriage from Silvermere at the door. Half-paralyzed by the cruel words to which he had just listened, Mr. Hastings slowly followed her, and returned the greetings of Mrs. Matson, who by this time had come to the door herself. 
               She expressed much pleasure and surprise at seeing them both; as they entered the house she said to Nina: 
                
               "I heard of your illness, my dear, and tried to get out to see you, but we had sickness among ourselves, and I was forced to satisfy myself about you by inquiring from Dr. Wiseman how you were getting along. I am glad to see that you are looking nearly as well as ever." 
               "Oh, yes, thank you; I have recovered entirely, I believe; but my experience of the climate of Mississippi has convinced me that I cannot live in it, and I am on my way to my Northern home." 
               "Going back! impossible! Why should you return to that cold country when ours is much more beautiful?" 
               "Ah! there we differ, you see. I think my state the most delightful one in the Union, and I am going back to my 'ain countrie' to stay there, and content myself even with its wintry snows." 
               A glance at the stern face of Mr. Hastings satisfied Mrs. Matson that something had gone wrong, but what it was, she was destined never to know. She mildly said: 
               "I had hoped for something different, Miss Gordon; but if you are satisfied to return to the North, of course we must make up our minds to let you go." 
               "I am quite satisfied-most anxious to be on my way; so anxious, indeed, that I could not consent to remain to the wedding; which, by the way, takes place on Thursday evening, and only the connections of the family are to be invited. Mr. Hastings was so kind as to bring me in himself, but he is not well, and he is besides in a great hurry to to get back home, so, of course, we must not try to detain him." 
               Aroused by these words to the necessity of putting a restraint upon his feelings, Mr. Hastings said: 
               "I have but a moment to stay, Mrs. Matson, for I must see your husband before I leave town, and tell him what I wish done with reference to this wilful young lady, who is bent on taking her destiny in her own hands again. Goodbye, Miss Gordon; I wish you a safe and pleasant journey, and I shall do all that is in my power to provide you with protection on your way." 
               He held out his hand. Nina placed her own in it for a moment, and although she felt how tremulous his grasp was, she indifferently said: 
               "Good-bye, sir; I shall know how to take care of myself very well." 
               Mr. Hastings bowed mechanically to the others, and moved away as if walking in a dream. He re-entered his carriage, which he had ordered to be driven to Mr. Matson's place of business. There, he held a long and confidential interview with the merchant, the result of which was, that on his return home Mr. Matson expressed no surprise at Nina's sudden departure, nor did he renew his offer to find another situation for her as teacher in a private family. 
               When Nina was not looking at him, he regarded her with a half-curious, half-pitying expression, which showed that Mr. Hastings had given him more of his confidence with regard to her actual position than he had bestowed on any other person. 
               On the following morning, immediately after breakfast, Nina went to her room, put on her bonnet and shawl, and watching her opportunity, made her way from the house without attracting the attention of any of its inmates. After leaving the grounds, she moved leisurely toward the city which lay in sight, and soon gained the upper end of Main street. 
               She wore a thick veil, which she never lifted as she moved down this thoroughfare, till she came to the squares occupied by mercantile establishments. Looking about her, she found a clothing store, which she entered, and asked to look at boy's clothes. In a few moments a plain suit, made for a well-grown boy, was selected, to which a dark cloth cap was added. 
               When the clerk asked where the bundle was to be sent, she replied: 
               "I will take it myself," and after paying for them she walked out, carrying the parcel in her hand. 
               With swift steps Nina threaded her way back to Mr. Matson's house, entered unobserved as she had gone out and went up to her chamber. 
               She placed the articles she had so mysteriously purchased in a small trunk, in which her night-dress and toilette apparatus were packed, and her face while thus employed would have made a study for a physiognomist. There was cunning, bitterness, and resolute purpose expressed on it, and it was not difficult to see that her mind was made up to some course of action which promised revenge for the defeat she had sustained at Silvermere. 
               When Nina rejoined the family circle, she was as gay and pleasant with its younger members as on the occasion of her former visit, and no one would have dreamed of the terrible guilt she was meditating; of the purpose that had matured in her own mind, and only waited for the opportunity to be put into execution. 
               Two days passed away with apparent enjoyment to Nina, and on the third one she prepared to embark on the New Orleans steamer. She took leave of the family with many expressions of regard, and accompanied by Mr. Matson in his own carriage, went under the hill to meet the boat which was due at five o'clock. 
               On the way he gave her a letter of introduction to Mr. Thomas Frith, the commission merchant in New Orleans, who received the cotton shipped by Mr. Hastings, and also an order on him for five hundred dollars, as the first installment of the sum to be paid her annually. Mr. Matson gravely said: 
                
               "Mr. Hastings has settled on you enough to make you independent, Miss Gordon, and I have consented to act as your trustee. To prevent unpleasant comments, I shall transmit your interest as it falls due to New York, and send you a check on the bank in which it shall be deposited in your name. All you have to do is to enjoy the goods the gods provide,' and make yourself happy in your own way." 
               Nina fixed her eyes upon his face and abruptly asked: 
               "What reason did Mr. Hastings give you for settling this money on me? If he gave none, you must think it a strange proceeding." 
               He returned her gaze without flinching, and quietly replied: 
               "He told me the truth, Miss Gordon-not in all its details; but he confided to me enough to convince me that he acted very unwisely when he brought you into his own family. I am aware of your near relationship to Mr. Hastings, and I have undertaken to become the guardian of your interests, as it was impossible for your father to act in person for you without exciting suspicion in the mind of his wife." 
               With flashing eyes Nina exclaimed: 
               "So he has put this crowning humiliation upon me? He has told you, the friend I had made for myself, who and what I am. Did he tell you, too, who my mother is?" 
               "No-he scarcely referred to her. He spoke only of you, and he showed the greatest anxiety that you should be suitably provided for." 
               "Suitably! what! with that paltry sum of money? Mrs. Hastings will wear diamonds at her daughter's wedding worth three times as much as they are willing to give me, and a single set of jewels offered to Opal by her bridegroom cost six thousand dollars. Yet my father thinks ten thousand as much as I am entitled to." 
               "It is far more than you had reason to expect when you came hither, Miss Gordon," replied Mr. Matson, coldly. "Remember that Mrs. Hastings' fortune belongs to herself, and her husband has little of his own. He has done all that he could for you, and he hopes some day to be able to do more." 
               "You expect me to be duly grateful, I suppose, but I am not. I think that I have been so bitterly injured, that all the money belonging to them both could not compensate me for it. I cannot yet forgive Mr. Hastings, for he acted a base part toward my mother, and she acted no less basely in giving me up when I was a baby and needed her care. I do not understand how she could do it, but I think she has met her reward." 
               "Do you know anything of her?" 
               "Yes, I do. She married an honorable man, from whom she concealed the fact that she had lived two years with Mr. Hastings, believing herself to be his wife. When she discovered the deception he had put upon her, she left him, and deserted me at the same time. As I was his child, I suppose she included me in the contempt and hatred with which he had given her good cause to regard him." 
               Mr. Matson seemed greatly surprised and shocked. He hurriedly said: 
               "Your father could never have acted so badly as that, Miss Gordon. You must unconsciously exaggerate." 
               "I do not; I had these facts from his own lips only a few days ago. I am not likely to forget them, nor would I put a false coloring upon them to make you think him worse than he is. I only wish you to be able to do justice to my mother, Mr. Matson, badly as I think she treated me; for the time may come when you will learn who she is, and then you will be glad to know that she was innocent of any wrong herself, so far as Mr. Hastings was concerned." 
               "I cannot imagine why you should suppose that I shall ever know anything about her; but I shall remember what you have said. Here, we are at the landing, and the boat is in sight." 
               Glad that the conversation must here end, and half incredulous of the truth on Nina's revelations, Mr. Matson assisted her to alight and they went on the wharf-boat, to the side of which the splendid steamer Vicksburg dashed in a few more moments. 
               Several passengers were going on from Natchez, and among them Mr. Matson found an old gentleman of his acquaintance, to whom he introduced Nina. Mr. Waugh promised to attend to her on the way down, and see her safely established at the St. Charles hotel, on her arrival in New Orleans. 
               Mr. Matson went on board with her, and secured a comfortable state-room, into which he ordered the smallest trunk belonging to Nina to be placed. In a few moments the bell rang, and bidding the merchant farewell, she went into her room; he sought the shore again, and was taken back to his place of business in a brown study. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE DESERTED ONE. DENHAM'S VAGUE THREATS. 
               THE presence of Denham in the carriage acted as a restraint on Inez, and she repressed her restless anxiety to learn something of Fenton till she found herself alone with Mrs. Langley in the comfortable room she had prepared for the reception of her guest. 
               Wine and other refreshments were brought in, but Inez refused them, and after laying aside her bonnet she turned to her hostess and said: 
                
               "Now you will tell me what you promised I should learn when we reached your house. Why could not Godfrey meet me himself, and how was it that he sent you to do so?" 
               "My dear Miss Lopez," was the reluctant reply, "are you not aware that you have done an unusual thing in coming here almost alone? Mr. Fenton asked me to receive you as my guest, to save you from the invidious comments of others. Of course I was only too glad to welcome you beneath my roof, and-and I hastened in town to meet you." 
               Inez colored and naively asked: 
               "Why should it be wrong for me to come to my destined husband, Mrs. Langley? My father wished me to do so, and I thought he knew what was right for me to do. I hope that Godfrey will not think less of me for showing that I have such implicit faith in his honor. Surely he will be here very soon. If he is not ill, he will fly to my side and hasten to assure me that I have lost nothing in his estimation by the step you seem to consider so imprudent." 
               In a tone of deep compassion Mrs. Langley exclaimed: 
               "Oh, Inez, Inez! what shall I say to break the severity of the blow that must fall on you? Have you no suspicion of the truth? Is your faith in Godfrey so perfect that even his failure to meet you gives you no hint of what is impending?" 
               Inez sunk down upon a seat as suddenly as if she had been shot, and with terrified eyes faintly gasped: 
               "What dreadful thing have you to say to me? Do not dare to hint that Godfrey is faithless, or I will leave your house at once. No one shall, with impunity, cast a shadow on his stainless honor. I believe in it, as I do in the steadfastness of my own soul-as I do in the promises of mercy through our crucified Redeemer." 
                
               Mrs. Langley was not offended by her threat; the pity she felt for the unfortunate girl who had made shipwreck of her happiness by setting every earthly hope on so faithless a man as Godfrey Fenton, neutralized every other feeling. 
               She sat down by Inez, took her cold hand in her own, and tremulously said: 
               "Look on me as your sister, Inez. Let me comfort and sustain you in the trial that awaits you, for I now begin to understand what a fearful one it will be to you, Oh, my dear child! can you not divine what I have to say to you? Has no suspicion of the painful truth yet dawned on your trusting heart? Inez, I would sooner have chosen to put my hand in the flame of that blazing fire than tell you this thing; but it has been left to me, and I must do it as tenderly as I can." 
               "What thing?" vaguely asked Inez, pressing her hand upon her brow. "I begin to see dimly. Something dreadful has happened. Godfrey is dead! I feared it before-I know it now." 
               "Yes, Inez-dead to you, but well enough in other respects." 
               Though the words were spoken almost in a whisper, Mrs. Langley knew they were fully comprehended by the expression of the wild, dark eyes which were fixed upon her face with a stare of incredulous anguish that she never forgot. 
               "Impossible! impossible!" cried Inez, in a shrill undertone. "After all that has passed between us, he cannot have forgotten me so soon-have ceased to love me. Do not believe that such a thing could be, Mrs. Langley?" 
               With a desperate attempt to make her fully comprehend her position toward Fenton, Mrs. Langley said: 
               "If he has not, he has proved faithless, Inez. Godfrey is on the eve of marriage with the young girl his mother selected for his wife when they were children. Had he known the change in your circumstances a few weeks earlier, he might have more firmly resisted her wishes; but Mrs. Markland carried everything before her, as she always does, and poor Godfrey yielded to her influence. I would to God that it had not been so; but now it is too late for him to recede." 
               Inez shivered and covered her face with her hands. She faintly murmured: 
               "Yes-his mother-his mother has done it all. I should have known that when he came hither she would work me wo. I have always known that she was bitterly opposed to our union, but I would not believe that Godfrey could give me up at her bidding. Well-it is over now, and I bear it better than you hoped, Mrs. Langley. I will be brave and true to myself, and he shall never know what a bitter blow his treachery has been to me." 
               "That is the right spirit, Inez. You will soon be able rejoice that you have escaped marrying a man so fickle of purpose as Godfrey Fenton." 
               "No-no-never thankful that I have missed the pearl of my life-you cannot expect that of me. Had not that cruel woman come between us, we should have been as happy together as the angels in Heaven are; but his mother willed it otherwise, and Godfrey has given up his heart's desire at her command. Obedience to parents is enjoined on children by the sacred Scriptures, and he-he was right perhaps to do as his mother wished; but oh! Mrs. Langley, I am inexpressibly desolate! Godfrey was all I had-all-and she has taken him from me." 
               "My poor Inez, I am afraid that he was willing to be taken. He has devoted himself to Opal since his return home; if he had not wooed her in every way, she would never have given her consent to marry him. I am almost sure that she was induced to accept him because she believed him to be entirely devoted to her." 
               The eyes of Inez flashed, but their fire was suddenly quenched by a burst of tears. After yielding to her emotion a few moments, she dried her eyes and with simple dignity spoke: 
               "I am quite calm now, Mrs. Langley, and I will give you no more trouble than I can help. It must have been a great annoyance to you to have such a task as this put on you, and I thank you for the kindness of heart that prompted you to undertake it. I shall make my arrangements to leave for New Orleans as soon as possible. I shall find there the friend under whose protection I travelled hither, and he will give me his advice and assistance in the career I have only been withheld from embracing by the imaginary tie that bound me to Mr. Fenton. While there is work to be done in the world, no one should die of a broken heart. Mine is sorely crushed, but in time it will recover from this blow; if it does not regain all its old elasticity, at least enough strength will be left to battle with evil, and seek to do good to others. In this hour I dedicate my life to the claims of the needy and helpless, and with the means at my command God will allow me to find something to do, to save me from the black night of despair that threatens to enfold me." 
               Mrs. Langley took her in her arms and tenderly said: 
               "How few girls of your age, and with your prospects, would have thought of such a refuge as that. It is worthy of your noble nature, Inez, and in you? new path you will find peace and consolation, I am sure." 
               Inez shook her head drearily, and the arm that clasped her felt her slender form shiver as a reed in the wind. She extricated herself from her friend's embrace and moved restlessly toward the window. The shadows of evening had not yet begun to fall, and she hurriedly said: 
               "There is yet time for me to return to Natchez before night. I cannot stay here so near him, yet so far from him. I will go back at once, if you please, Mrs. Langley, and I know that your goodness will excuse my abrupt departure." 
               "Dear Inez, this must not be. You must remain with me a few days at least, for I have told others that I was expecting you as my guest; and-and-will it not be better to keep the cause of your coming from the gossiping outside world? When you are stronger and calmer you can go on your way, and, if you wish it, I will accompany you to New Orleans myself. I could not bear to send you away alone." 
               Inez was deeply touched by this kindness, and after a pause she replied: 
               "That will be better, perhaps. I-I do not wish to do anything that can bring blame on him. Though he has so cruelly dealt with me in leaving me to the last to believe that he was as true to me as I have been to him, I would not compromise him in any way by my unfortunate arrival here. When is he to be--" 
               Her lips trembled, and the word that was so painful to her died away upon them. Mrs. Langley hastened to reply to the implied question: 
               "The marriage is very near now-so near that-that--" 
               She broke down in her turn, and Inez quietly said: 
               "I comprehend you. A few more hours, and I shall have no right to think of him, save as the husband of another. Is it not so?" 
               Mrs. Langley kissed her pale cheek, and whispered: 
               "Yes-to-night at eight o'clock he gives his hand to Opal Hastings. Poor child! I only wish that I could save her from him. Godfrey is not worthy of her, nor of you." 
                
               Inez faintly said: 
               "Pray leave me alone now for a time. I am very weak and I must seek strength where alone it may be found, in prayer and communion with my own heart. Do not permit any one to come to me for an hour at least, and-and-tell Mrs. Perkins what is going to happen so soon. I cannot speak of this again to any one." 
               Filled with compassion for her, and even more indignant with Fenton than before, Mrs. Langley left the room, softly closing the door behind her. She met Mrs. Perkins on her way to her young lady, and, drawing her into her own apartment, briefly told her why Inez wished to be left alone for a season. 
               The dismay of the nurse-her angry exclamations were far stronger than any thing Inez had spoken, and she sat down quite overwhelmed by her feelings. 
               Mrs. Langley left her to seek her brother, after telling her that she would send a servant to conduct her to the room that had been prepared for her. 
               She found Denham on the piazza, walking restlessly to and fro, with a lowering frown upon his brow. As soon as he saw his sister approaching, he stopped, and quickly asked: 
               "Have you told her, Anna? Does she know that tonight Fenton will give his false hand to her rival?" 
               "Yes, she knows all, and bears it like an angel, or the next thing to it-a strong-hearted, unselfish, noble woman! Oh, Guy, if she had become the wife of Godfrey, she would have lifted him from the slough of selfishness into which he has fallen; but Opal is different-she needs some one to guide and sustain her, and he is unfit for the task. If it be true that 'we make our own path, and throw our own shadow upon it,' dark and gloomy will be that of Godfrey Fenton; and that he will make Opal tread it with him, is my deepest regret." 
               "Don't speak of it, don't-I cannot bear it! There are moments in which I feel as if I have the right to prevent such a sacrifice, even at the risk of life itself. If I thought my darling loved him, it would be easier to give her up to him; but she has been hurried on by others till every avenue of escape was closed, and with her child-heart uncertain as to what it needs, she has accepted the destiny prepared for her. Oh, it is bitter! bitter to know this, yet feel how helpless I am to rescue her from the unhappy fate she is embracing." 
               Tears fell from the eyes of the strong man, and he leaned helplessly against a pillar, wrestling with the emotions that overcame him. 
               Mrs. Langley placed her arm tenderly around his neck, and gently said: 
               "Prove yourself as equal to bear your burden as that hapless girl in yonder. It is harder on her, for she has no ambition to turn to for consolation-no busy life to enter on to wear away the keen edge of her suffering. Yet I am wrong in saying that, for she has already turned her thoughts toward finding consolation in benefiting others. She is a Catholic, and she will become a Sister of Charity-in time, perhaps, a nun. I am glad that avenue is open to her; and, with her large fortune, she can do much good in the new life she contemplates." 
               Denham sighed heavily, and sadly said: 
               "It is the best thing she can do. I think I understand such natures as hers; she will find no other one to fill the place in her heart that has been held by that unprincipled ingrate. Unworthy as he is, Godfrey Fenton has been everything to Inez Lopez, as Opal has been to me the pearl of price I desired to win. That man has blighted two lives, and it is my conviction that he will blight a third one if he is permitted to live to do so." 
               "Guy, dear Guy, do not talk in that way! It fills me with unspeakable dread to hear you. If you should raise your hand against him, remember that you will open a gulf between yourself and Opal that would never be closed again." 
               Denham muttered something she could not understand, and, starting away from her, re-commenced his agitated walk. His sister followed him, and imploringly cried: 
               "Stay with me to-night, Guy. Do not go to Silvermere to see the sacrifice completed. Something dreadful may happen if you do. Oh, my dearest brother, speak to me and take from my heart the weight that is pressing on it. Say that you will not leave the house to-night." 
               Denham stopped suddenly and turned his agitated face towards her. He almost roughly said: 
               "I will give no such promise as that, but I shall not attend the wedding. Do you suppose that I could see Opal pledge her vows to any other man? You understand me very little if you think me capable of that. God help me! I have lost her, but I could not look on while she seals her own wretchedness by giving her hand to one so unworthy of her as Godfrey Fenton." 
               A little reassured, Mrs. Langley left him, saying: 
               "Neither shall I attend. I will go in now, and write an excuse for both of us to Mrs. Hastings." 
               "Do so," was the brief reply. 
               And Denham continued to pace the length of the piazza, till the shadows of evening gathered over the landscape. 
               A servant came to tell him that supper was served, but he refused to go into it, though he drank the cup of coffee his sister sent out to him. A few moments afterwards he went toward the stable, ordered his horse to be saddled, and, mounting him, rode away in the gathering darkness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               A DREADFUL DEED. DENHAM'S ARREST. 
               IN the meantime, all was bright and festive in the halls of Silvermere. 
               Though the company was not to be large, as extensive preparations as were possible in the limited time had been made, and a magnificent supper was prepared. A band of music sent its gay strains abroad upon the night, and lights flashed through the illuminated shrubbery, and blazed through every door and window of the stately mansion. 
               Opal, in a whirl of feeling that seemed to her to verge on isnanity, was in her room with Dora, who was here only bridesmaid. Her toilette was completed, and she stood before the mirror arrayed in costly lace and satin, with the gems for which she was named gleaming on her neck and arms, and all the color about her was found in the fiery coruscations of her jewels as she moved listlessly to a seat. 
               A snow-bride could scarcely have looked whiter or calmer than she did now. Doubt, fear, and irresolution seemed to have died out beneath the certainty that there was no escape from the fate she had accepted. The lot in life was fixed; she would do the best she could with it and never suffer Fenton to know that the love she believed he felt for herself was not returned with her whole heart. So she calmly awaited the moment which would irrevocably give her to him. 
               Dora looked anxiously at her, and said: 
               "How pale you are, Opal! Are you frightened? I know I should be if I were going to be married." 
               "No, I do not think I am frightened, Dora. Why should I be afraid of Godfrey? We have known each other from childhood, and I am sure he will always be kind to me. Mamma says that confidence in each other is the basis of happiness between married people; and, if that is so, I have little cause to dread the future. I have faith in Godfrey's nobleness and he trusts me." 
               "You may well have faith in him, Opal, for he is the dearest fellow in the world. See what a beautiful watch and chain he has given me to wear to-night. I have been teasing mamma to give me one for the last two years, but she said I would be sure to break it directly if I had one. Godfrey only heard me say once that I wanted one, and he brought me this to-day. Isn't it a beauty?" 
               And Dora displayed a small enamelled watch, with a spray of brilliants set in the case. 
               Opal glanced at it, and dreamily said: 
               "It is very pretty, and I am glad that Godfrey was so thoughtful." 
               But she became paler than before as she saw that the hands pointed to ten minutes to eight; and, with a pang, she thought that only those fleeting seconds lay between herself and the sacrifice she was about to complete. 
               Her brain seemed reeling, but she recovered herself with an effort when she heard steps approaching her room. Opal knew who was coming, and she called up a smile to welcome the bridegroom, at whose approach she felt as if every drop of blood in her veins was turning to ice. 
               Fenton, looking magnificently handsome, and radiant with triumph, came in, preceded by his mother and Mrs. Hastings. He went up to his bride, took her hand in his, and tenderly said: 
               "It is time for us to go down, Opal. Do not tremble so, my frightened dove. The ordeal will soon be over; and getting married isn't such a frightful thing after all. I have conquered all my tremors, and you will smile at yours presently." 
                
               Mrs. Markland kissed her, and her mother anxiously regarded her as she said: 
               "You are too pale, Opal. Let me put the faintest tinge of rouge upon your cheeks; it will be wonderfully becoming." 
               Opal mutely shook her head; but Fenton looked at her and said: 
               "You will not be whiter when you are dead, Opal. Let your mother do as she wishes, or people may say that you go to the altar as a sacrifice. I know better, of course; but we need give no food to the gossips that can be helped." 
               "As you please, Godfrey," came from her lips with an effort; and Mrs. Hastings dextrously applied a small piece of pink wool she took from her pocket, to the pallid cheeks, imparting a pale rose tint which took from her face its look of white lifelessness. 
               Opal took the offered arm of Fenton, listened mechanically to the tender words he whispered in her ear, and moved toward the door, near which his groomsman, Edward Wallis, was awaiting their appearance. 
               The bridal party paused a few moments in the upper hall to allow the two elder ladies to descend before them, and then wound down the wide staircase, preceded by Jenny and another little girl, bearing wax candles in their hands. 
               Not more than fifty persons had assembled to witness the marriage, who were mostly connections of the two families. The large drawing-room still had sufficient space left to permit the handsome couple to be seen to the best advantage. 
               The Episcopal clergyman from Natchez, in his gown and bands, stood ready to receive them, and long as the ceremony was, it seemed to Opal that scarcely a moment of time had elapsed before she heard herself pronounced the wife of Godfrey Fenton. She had mechanically made the responses, though at the moment she had scarcely more comprehension of the words she uttered than if they had been spoken in Hebrew. 
               When it was over, her father took her in his arms, kissed and blessed her, and then resigned her to the congratulations of those who were eagerly pressing around her. 
               During the next half hour there was a perfect Babel of tongues, and Opal recovered her self-possession sufficiently to return smiles and gracious replies to those who offered good wishes for her future happiness and prosperity. 
               Among the assembled company were many young people, and when the band struck up a gay dancing tune, sets for cotillions were formed in the wide hall. Fenton led his bride to the head of one of these, with Dora and Wallis for their vis--vis.
                
               Waltzing followed; and at eleven the supper room was thrown open, revealing an exquisitely adorned table, loaded with every delicacy that could tempt the appetite. 
               The guests gathered round it, and did ample justice to the feast provided for them. The health of the newly-married couple was drank in bumpers of sparkling champagne, and more than one present noticed that the groom took glass after glass with every one who offered to drink with him. 
               Before the supper was over, Fenton began to feel the fumes of the wine mounting to his brain; but he had already learned to love its exhilarating effects too well to refrain, even at such a time as this. Opal was beginning to recover from the chilling dread that had almost frozen the springs of life at their source, when her composure was almost put to flight by overhearing some one ask: 
               "Where is Guy Denham? How happens it that neither he nor Mrs. Langley are here to-night? Such near connections of Fenton's I thought would be sure to be present." 
                
               "Hush!" replied a warning voice, lowered to a confidential tone; but through the laughter and noise around her Opal distinctly heard every word. "Don't you know that poor Guy is melancholy mad because he has been rivalled? As I came here I met him riding through the woods like one demented. I stopped him and asked him if he was not coming to the wedding, and he scowled at me as if he were ready to fly at me and take my life; but with his usual good breeding, he soon recollected himself, and said that his sister had company at Ashwood which would detain her at home, and he therefore declined attending also. When we parted, I looked back after him and saw that he had put his horse to full speed again, and I understood the feelings that were surging in his soul. It is a pity for him, for Guy is a noble fellow; but the fair Opal has made what her parents consider a more brilliant match than Denham would have been." 
               "I do not know why. If justice had been done by Mrs. Markland, her son would have been no better off than Guy; not so well off, in fact, for he has lately had some money left him." 
               "I know. But this marriage has been a settled thing so long that Denham was a fool to set his heart on a girl who was beyond his reach. It's a serious thing with him, I tell you; for--" 
               At that moment a move was made to leave the table; the music swept in joyous strains through the air, and Opal, feeling faint and sick at heart, was taken back to the drawing-room. She declined dancing again, and sat down on a sofa, trying to put from her the memory of what she had overhead. 
               Fenton left her there, saying that he would join the dancers; but he really wished to go out into the night air to dissipate the effects of the unusual quantity of wine he had drank. His head was becoming unsteady, and he was beginning to awake fully to the disgrace it would be to him to become intoxicated on the evening of his marriage. 
               He went on the back gallery and plunged his head into a basin of cold water. He asked for a goblet of milk, and after drinking it felt less giddy. Thinking that a turn in the shrubbery would quite restore to him the use of his faculties, Fenton made his way around the house and moved bare-headed down the carriage drive. 
               Feeling much better for his al fresco promenade, he turned to retrace his steps. He, too, had heard that company at Ashwood detained Mrs. Langley at home, and he well knew who was there. What bitter anguish was flooding one trusting heart while he was pledging his faith to his lately wedded bride. Now that it was too late, he bitterly repented of what he had done. He would gladly have gone to Inez had it been possible to do so; but a wall of adamant had arisen between them, built up by his own reckless hands, and he must make the best of the fate he himself had courted. 
               Fenton had moved forward but a few yards when the heavens seemed suddenly to open and its lightnings to strike him through the heart. From a clump of evergreens that stood on one side of the road a pistol was discharged within a few feet of his breast. Three shots were fired in rapid succession, as if the murderer was resolved to make sure of the victim, and Fenton fell forward on his face without uttering a single cry. 
               There was a rush of many feet toward the spot on which he lay, for a crowd of gentlemen were on the portico and heard the shots. Cries of rage and terror were heard when they reached the fallen man, followed by that dread stillness which falls on all when the worst is known. The gay bridegroom was found lying on the sward, his embroidered vest covered with blood that welled from his breast, and those who looked upon his face knew that the solemn seal of death was upon it. 
               Life was already extinct, and swift and sure had been his doom. He must have passed into eternity almost before he realized his own danger. 
               The shrubbery was eagerly searched, and a pistol, which had been recently discharged, was found upon the grass within a few feet of the murdered man. 
               Wallis picked it up and held it to the light, and, with white terror in his face, he cried out: 
               "Good God! it is Guy Denham's pistol! He must have done this dastardly deed. Search the grounds; find the murderer and secure him. I offer a reward of five hundred dollars for his apprehension. I will head the pursuit myself, for I had rather do that than face the scene in yonder when poor Godfrey is carried in." 
               There was eager mounting on horseback, and an excited cavalcade set forward to scour the grounds, and, if necessary, seek Guy Denham at Ashwood, for that he was the criminal all seemed to agree. 
               The ladies, in extreme alarm, had gathered on the portico to ascertain what had happened; and foremost among them was the mother and bride of Fenton, both anxious and trembling, but apprehensive of no danger to him. 
               Mr. Hastings came toward the house with his white hair flying wildly back from his brow, and his face pale with horror. He caught sight of his daughter, and, making his way to her, placed his arm around her, and at the same time drawing Mrs. Markland from the group, he huskily said: 
               "Come away with me. Something dreadful has happened, and you must get into the house before you hear it." 
               Mrs. Markland instantly took the alarm, and cried out: 
               "My son-my son! Those shots were fired at him, and they have wounded him, or you would not wish to remove Opal and myself. Oh! what is it? What dreadful woe has come to me?" 
               She evaded his attempts to arrest her steps, and rushing into the yard ran toward those who by this time were approaching the house with their sad burden. 
               The shrill, despairing cry with which the unhappy mother cast herself upon the bosom of her murdered son proved to Opal that something terrible had occurred, and she sunk fainting on the breast of her father. 
               Opal was removed at once to her own room, where we will leave her to learn the sad truth that she was a widowed bride, and return to the wild scene of tumult below stairs. 
               The body of Fenton was brought into the hall and placed upon a sofa. His mother, repressing the cries of anguish that arose to her lips, knelt beside him, and with her trembling hands laid bare the breast in which three small purple spots were seen just over the heart. From these the ensanguined tide continued still to flow, though his face had already settled into the rigidity of death. 
               A young physician, who happened to be one of the company, approached and felt for his pulse. He shook his head ominously, and whispered a few words to some ladies standing near him. Mrs. Markland looked up with an expression of stony bewilderment in her eyes, and sharply asked: 
               "Why don't you speak so that I can hear you, Dr. Manton? Can nothing be done to bring back life? He isn't dead-he can't be dead, who so lately was so full of life." 
               Her two daughters were crying aloud and wringing their hands in helpless anguish, and she turned angrily toward them and said: 
               "Hush-hush! That noise will disturb your brother, and there is no reason why you should give way so. Godfrey will soon come round again; is it not so, Dr. Manton?" 
                
               Thus appealed to, the physician, with a look of deep compassion, replied: 
               "I fear that nothing will ever again disturb him. It is useless to attempt to restore him, Mrs. Markland. Your son is dead." 
               She looked at him a few seconds as if she could not understand him; but then the dread meaning of his words came to her stunned senses, and she repeated in a dull tone: 
               "Dead-dead! The pride of my life gone down to the dust in the bloom of his early manhood." 
               Then her voice suddenly arose to a wild, frenzied cry, and she exclaimed: 
               "Who has done this cruel thing? Who hated my boy to that degree that his life was made the forfeit? I did not know he had an enemy on earth, yet he has fallen in his youth by the hand of an assassin." 
               All present shrank from telling her who was the suspected murderer; for his near connection with her remaining children must give a new blow to her heart. 
               But while Mrs. Markland paused for a reply to her agonized question, and whispered words were exchanged among the bystanders, the bustle of an arrival was heard, and Guy Denham, pallid as a ghost, and looking fearfully excited, came in. He was guarded on either side by those who had found him walking his jaded horse through the woodland that lay around the home of his sister, and seized on him as the murderer of Fenton. 
               He moved steadily forward till he came to the side of the corpse, and looking down upon it with mingled pity and reverence, he stretched forth his hand above it and solemnly said: 
               "I am accused of having taken the life of this man, and circumstantial evidence is so strong against me that I scarcely hope to escape the stigma, at least, of the crime. But as God is my judge, I am innocent, and I call on his holy angels to bear witness to the truth of my asseverations." 
               Mrs. Markland arose and stood facing him. All that was noble in her nature came to the surface in that trying moment, and she felt within her soul the conviction that he spoke the truth. 
               She took in her own the hand Denham still held over her dead son, and sadly said: 
               "I believe that you have spoken the truth, Guy. You did not love my boy, but you are incapable of committing a crime like this. You would never have given so bitter a sorrow to her who has stood in the place of a mother to you." 
               Denham placed his arm tenderly around her shaking form, and earnestly said: 
               "You do me but justice, Aunt Gertrude. I had no hand in this, nor have I the faintest suspicion of who the real criminal is. Let me conduct you to a private room, for this is no place for you." 
               Mrs. Markland released herself from him with a sudden cry, and throwing herself forward, passionately kissed the lips and brow of her dead son, and then submitted to be led away, followed by her weeping daughters. 
               Denham came back in a few moments, and while the body of Fenton was removed to a chamber to be prepared for the grave, he went into the library with Mr. Hastings and a few other gentlemen who wished to hear such defence as he could make against the charge that had been made against him. 
               Denham was there shown the pistol which had been picked up on the lawn, and recognised it, as the others had done, as his own. It was mounted with silver, and had his initials on the handle. He said: 
                
               "I have not had this weapon in my possession for several months. Last autumn, you may remember, Mr. Hastings, we practised target-shooting on the lawn, and this pistol was loaned to your daughter because it was light and easily managed. I have never had it in my possession since, though how it came into the hands of the murderer I cannot imagine. I shall of course go in town at as early an hour to-morrow morning as possible, and let such investigations as are necessary be made. I will not shrink from the ordeal, though it may brand me with a crime which I hope those who know me believe me to be incapable of committing." 
               Mr. Hastings appeared to be dreadfully agitated. His face worked with emotion, and for several moments he was unable to speak. He at length hoarsely said: 
               "I remember the target shooting, and the loan of the pistol to Opal. I have seen it lying in yonder window all the winter, but neglected to return it to you. I believe you to be as innocent of this fearful deed as I myself am, Guy Denham, and I will stand by you to the last. No one shall condemn you while I have the power to prevent it." 
               Denham grasped his hand and gratefully replied: 
               "Thank you, sir-thank you, for so cordially bearing witness for me. Since I know that you believe me innocent, I shall better be able to bear this cruel accusation; but I feel that until the murderer is found, let the award of justice be what it may, the world will still suspect me as the guilty one. I must bear that as well as I can, yet it is hard to endure the odium of such a deed as this." 
               "Hard-hard, indeed," muttered Mr. Hastings in a half dazed way; and he hurried from the room, found the sideboard, and hastily swallowed a bumper of brandy nearly undiluted. He then shut himself up in a room alone, and would admit no one to his presence. 
                
               The hours spent there silvered his hair to the whiteness of snow, and printed lines upon his face that made him look twenty years older than on the previous day. It was to him a far more awful vigil than that one beside what he believed to be the death-bed of Nina, and in the anguish of his soul he cursed the hour that had brought her beneath his roof. 
               
                  He knew whose hand had struck this blow, yet he would not expose her. He dared not ask himself by what means she had accomplished her threatened vengeance, but that she alone had laid this young life low he felt assured. 
               The horror-stricken guests departed for their homes, and the house so lately the scene of festivity was left to death and sorrow. 
               Mrs. Markland mourned as Rachel for her children that were not, and Mrs. Hastings was in her chamber in violent hysterics, while Opal lay in the one above it under the influence of a powerful narcotic which it had been thought advisable to administer to her soon after she revived from the state of insensibility into which the shock of Fenton's awful death had thrown her. 
               Guy Denham gave his parole to appear before a magistrate in Natchez, by ten o'clock on the following morning, and he was permitted to return to Ashwood accompanied by two of the gentlemen who had arrested him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               CLAIRVOYANCE OF INEZ. HER DER DELIRIOUS RAVINGS. 
               THE tragedy that had occurred at Silvermere was not made known to Mrs. Langley till the next morning. 
                
               When Denham came home he found a cold supper set out for him in his own room, as was the custom of the house when he remained out late at night, but he had no appetite for it now. 
               He knew that his guards would be unwilling to lose sight of him, so he gave them up his bed, and sat moodily by the fire thinking over the events of the night, and wondering what the result of the morrow's examination would be to himself. 
               It was a bitter humiliation to be arraigned as the murderer of any man; doubly bitter when that man had been the successful rival who, in his heart, he had wished dead and out of his path. Many times had he been tempted to defy Fenton to mortal combat, but never could he have looked forward to the hour in which he would be forced to stand forth to the gaze of the world and hear himself accused of assassinating in this cowardly manner the man with whom he had been reared. 
               Though freed by the event of this night, Opal was severed from him as completely as if by death, unless the real criminal could be discovered and convicted of the crime. Denham knew that public opinion would accuse him still, let the award of justice be what it would, unless he could bring the real perpetrator forward, and he writhed beneath the impossibility of thus justifying himself. 
               When he tried to think who could have taken Fenton's life, he plunged into a sea of darkness that afforded no clue, and at last, exhausted by all that he had gone through in the previous twelve hours, he sunk into a feverish slumber in the large chair in which he sat. 
               Denham was aroused by the entrance of a servant with wood to replenish the fire, and on opening his eyes he saw that dawn was breaking in rosy splendor over the horizon. 
               With his first waking consciousness came back all the horror of his position, and for a few moments he quailed before what he must undergo that day. 
               Guy Denham was a proud, reticent and shrinking man, and nothing could have been more repulsive to him than the thought that he was to be brought before a criminal tribunal to be examined on the charge of secretly assassinating his rival on the night of his marriage. He shuddered at the thought that his long-cherished love for Opal must become the common gossip of the day, adding another link to the chain of circumstantial evidence against him. 
               He aroused himself from his bitter thoughts and remembered that he had yet to inform his sister of the terrible position in which he found himself placed, and to impose on her the painful task of revealing to Inez the fate of her faithless lover. 
               Denham turned toward the bed and saw that young Wallis was attentively regarding him. After the servant went out and closed the door behind him, with some effort he said: 
               "Wallis, you have known me from boyhood, yet you acted last night as if you believe me guilty of the foul deed from which my inmost soul recoils. Why should you have proclaimed me the murderer of Godfrey and set others on the track of an innocent man? Have our past relations given you any warrant for supposing me the wretch I should be if I had done this thing?" 
               In some embarrassment Wallis replied: 
               "Hitherto I have known nothing of you, Denham, that was not honorable; but knowing what I do of the late differences between you and Fenton, what could I do, when I held your own pistol in my hand, but recently discharged, but denounce you as his assassin?" 
               "What do you know that gave edge to your suspicions?" asked Denham, sternly. 
                
               "Only this-that you and Godfrey have not been on good terms for some time past. That sharp words have passed between you; and I am also aware that you have long been as much in love with Opal Hastings as a man can be with any girl. Can you blame me for believing you guilty? But I admit that what afterwards passed in Mr. Hastings' house put a different face on the affair. Circumstances point to you as the criminal, but I am willing to mistrust them; to give you the benefit of the doubt that has arisen in my own mind." 
               "It is well that you will do me that much justice," Guy gloomily replied. "There is nothing left for me now but to face this accusation as bravely as I may, and repel it by every means left open to me. But if it were not from the cowardly fear that I may be believed guilty of the crime, if I did myself any injury, I believe I would sooner shoot myself than undergo the ordeal that is before me to-day. I warn you, Wallis, that if Opal Hastings' name is brought forward in any way during my examination, I will hold him who does it strictly accountable to me, and I will avail myself of my first moment of freedom to exact such atonement as one gentleman may demand of another." 
               Wallis hastened to say: 
               "I am sure that you need apprehend nothing on that score. Poor Opal is sacred; she will suffer enough, without knowing that your passion for herself throws an additional cloud of suspicion around you. Denham, I loved Godfrey as a brother, and I have long cherished the hope that I should one day claim him as such. I regret deeply that I directed suspicion toward you in the first moment of excitement; sorry on your account, and on that of those two young girls who are so nearly related to you. If I had only had time to think a moment I should have acted differently." 
                
               "On their account alone, I presume," said Denham, with slightly bitter emphasis. "I accept no immunity on the score of my family. I shall stand or fall according to my own worth. If the record of my life weighs nothing in my favor, so be it. No act of mine has ever yet brought the blush of shame to the cheek of any one allied to me, and this false accusation cannot forever remain as a blighting stain upon an innocent man. God is too just to permit that." 
               "I am sure he is, and I now believe that you had nothing to do with the event of last night, old fellow, in spite of appearances," said Wallis, warmly. "I acted like a mad fool, myself, and I saw it plainly when your aunt stood up over the dead body of her son and spoke in your defence as nobly as she did. I shall go with you to town, Denham, but not as your accuser." 
               "There will be enough to play that part without you," was the sorrowful response. "You are not afraid to lose sight of me a few moments, I hope? I wish to see my sister alone and give her my own account of this painful affair. You can keep guard at the door of her room if you are afraid that I shall attempt to escape." 
               "I have no fear of that. Your best chance is to face the charge boldly. I think it will be only a magistrate's trial, for they will scarcely find sufficient cause to indict you before a grand jury. You know that we are not as strict in these affairs as some other people are." 
               Denham sighed wearily as he arose, and said: 
               "So much the better for me, I suppose, for I know that I am in a sad strait. I will go to Anna at once, and tell her as gently as I can what must soon become known to her. Breakfast will be served at eight, and, after it is over, I shall be ready to accompany you to Natchez." 
               He left the room, and crossing the hall, tapped at Mrs. Langley's door. She was an early riser, and he found her already dressed. She turned to him as he entered, and eagerly said: 
               "I knew your knock, Guy, and I cannot tell you how glad I was to hear it. I have been more uneasy about you than I can express. Why on earth did you ride away in that wild fashion last night, leaving me to all sorts of dreadful fancies? I did not fall asleep till you came in, and this morning Betty told me that some of the wedding-guests had come home with you. Did you change your mind and go to Silvermere, after all?" 
               Denham gravely replied: 
               "Yes, Anna, I was at Silvermere. I was taken there under such painful circumstances as you could never imagine. Have you had no intimation of the tragedy that occurred there last night? No, I see by your face that you have not, and it becomes my painful duty to inform you that Godfrey was shot at as he was walking in the shrubbery, and--" 
               Pale as death and shivering with dread, Mrs. Langley interrupted him with a sharp cry. 
               "Shot at! Killed, do you mean? And by whose hand, Guy? By whose hand? Oh, Father in heaven, that I should live to doubt you!" 
               Denham became even paler than herself, and he mournfully said: 
               "It is as I feared it would be. My own sister suspects me, then how can I blame others for attempting to fasten this crime upon me. Look at me, Anna. This hand is pure from the stain of the blood that has been shed; I swear it before the Searcher of all hearts, and He will yet make my innocence manifest, I firmly believe. Though my pistol was used by the assassin, I have no more idea who he was than a babe an hour old. I never told a falsehood in my life, and, in this most solemn and trying moment, I swear to you by the memory of our mother that I am speaking but the simple truth." 
               Mrs. Langley believed him now. She threw herself sobbing, upon his breast, and said: 
               "Forgive me, forgive me for doubting you, my brother. I believe you innocent. I will believe it, though all the world should accuse you. But how did you come to be near the house? If they had not found you there, you would never have been suspected." 
               "My own madness carried me away. I tried to exhaust the fever in my blood by swift riding, but as the hours went on and I knew that Opal was given to another, a wild desire seized me to look on her once more. I resolved, at all hazards, to gratify it, and I entered the grounds of Silvermere, secured my horse near the boat-house, and made my way toward the house. The portico was deserted, and I approached one of the windows over which the curtain had not been drawn. 
               "I saw her, looking like a white angel, in her bridal robes, but I thought she seemed weary and heart-sick. I prayed for her happiness then, Anna. I surrendered her to the husband who had won her from me, and took what I believed to be my last farewell of her; for I did not intend ever to look on her again as Godfrey Fenton's wife. 
               "I heard them coming out from supper, and I went down the steps before any one detected my presence there. I found my horse, and rode very slowly toward home; for, by this time, the poor animal was nearly broken down with the mad speed at which he had been ridden. Just as I reached the entrance to Ashwood, I was overtaken by an excited party from Silvermere, who accused me of having shot Godfrey." 
               "And he-he-is he-is he--" 
                
               Mrs. Langley could not speak the last word. Denham bowed his head, and slowly went on: 
               "I returned with them at once, to find Godfrey quite dead, and to hear myself accused on all sides as his assassin. But Aunt Gertrude would not believe it, and she spoke nobly in my defence,-for which I shall always thank her. The guests who came home with me are my guards, and I must accompany them to Natchez this morning, to undergo an examination before a magistrate; perhaps to be committed to prison to await my trial for murder." 
               Mrs. Langley sat down quite overcome by this announcement. She faintly asked: 
               "Is there no way of escaping such an ordeal as that? Dear Guy, can you not leave home till this dreadful affair has blown over? till steps have been taken to discover the real murderer? They may put you on trial for your life; may punish you for a crime I was myself mad enough to think for a moment that you might have committed. If I thought thus, will others be more lenient in their judgments? Make your escape, Guy, while it is yet in your power to do so, and leave me to defend your cause in your absence." 
               With mournful tenderness, Denham replied: 
               "That is impossible, Anna. I should be sought for immediately, seized on, and brought back again. My flight would add much weight to the evidence against me, and I had rather bear the ignominy of a trial than fly from my home as a banned murderer, to become a wanderer on the face of the earth. Oh, my sister, prove yourself strong in this dreadful hour, and tempt me to do nothing that can more deeply compromise me! I believe that the evidence against me, strong as it is, will not suffice to condemn me; especially as both my aunt and Mr. Hastings have strongly expressed their belief in my innocence." 
                
               "Did Aunt Gertrude really refuse to believe the accusation?" she breathlessly asked. 
               "Yes; I must do her the justice to say that she atoned for all her wrongs to me by the noble confidence she expressed in my inability to have committed such a crime as this. She stood up over the dead body of her son, and uttered such words as have bound me to her for life. If I am permitted to do so, I will take the place of him that is gone, and be to her all that he would have been." 
               Mrs. Langley shook her head drearily. 
               "It was grand and noble in her to speak in your behalf in such an hour of anguish; but no one can be to her what Godfrey was. She loved him far more dearly than she did her younger children, and she will long be inconsolable for his loss. I will not again urge you to escape, though it is dreadful to think that so honorable and high-toned a man as you are should be implicated in so dire a tragedy as this-should even be accused of having committed the deed yourself. Darling brother, what can I do to aid you? Shall I go with you to Natchez, and help to sustain you before your judges by my presence?" 
               "That would be subjecting you to too painful an ordeal. I shall have many friends near me, and you have something to do here. That poor girl must be told of what has happened, and you alone can approach her with such tidings." 
               Mrs. Langley covered her face with her hands, and her frame shook with strong emotion. Her brother waited till she was more composed, and then said: 
               "You must appear at breakfast, Anna, and wear a calm and assured face before those who are here to see that I am safely conveyed to town. I trust that I shall soon return to you freed from the worst fear that presses on my heart. If I am permitted to have my freedom, I can set such investigations on foot as may lead to the discovery of the assassin. Till that is done, I shall ever feel as if the stain of this accusation is clinging to me." 
               "I will do my best to be brave and firm, Guy; but it will be a dreadful effort in the present state of my feelings. Who came with you as your guard?" 
               "Edward Wallis and John Talbot. They were both friendly to me in our boyish days, and I think they are inclined to accept Mr. Hastings' view of what has happened, and exonerate me from the charge of destroying Godfrey. God knows that, eagerly as I have desired to find some cause of quarrel with him that would have brought us face to face in honorable combat without implicating the name of Opal, I never once thought of doing so dastardly a thing as taking his life in this secret way. I could never have aimed a deadly blow at the heart of an unarmed man." 
               "What led others to suppose that you could do such a thing?" 
               "Do you remember the pistol I loaned Opal last fall when we had target-shooting at Silvermere? I neglected to reclaim it, and that was used by the assassin. It was picked up on the lawn within a few feet of Godfrey's body; was recognized as mine; and when I was found, a few moments later, riding toward home, no doubt was left in the minds of my pursuers that I was the criminal." 
               A sudden light flashed over Mrs. Langley's face, and in an excited tone she said: 
               "I believe that I have found a clue to the murderer. That girl against whom I warned Godfrey in vain boasted to me that she could hit a mark at thirty paces distant. She has possessed herself of your pistol and done this deed. What did Miss Gordon say? How did she look when poor Godfrey was brought in?" 
               Denham gravely replied: 
                
               "Have you not yet heard that Miss Gordon left Silvermere on Monday to return North? She embarked on a New Orleans steamer, and must have been far on her way before the hour of the marriage arrived. No, hers could not have been the hand that committed the deed of which I am accused." 
               "But, Guy, listen to me. The packet was not due till Thursday evening; and last night it lay at the landing, only a mile from Silvermere, till one o'clock. I know this, because my overseer shipped a hundred bales of cotton on her, and there was a large quantity from other plantations to be taken on board. Follow up that girl, Guy, and you will clear yourself from this atrocious charge by finding the true criminal. I feel the conviction in my own mind that it is so." 
               "My dear Anna, I cannot agree with you, but I will promise to do as you wish when I am free to act for myself. But it will be useless. No young girl could leave a steamer in the night without a protector, and make her way through a dense woodland alone on such an errand as that. She would never have the nerve to do it." 
               "Few women could do it, I grant; but there are exceptions, and Nina Gordon is one of them. I saw the tiger spirit aroused in her last summer when she was disappointed in her dreams of fortune, and I believe she could do even this. I wish most sincerely that I had made no effort to expose her to Mrs. Hawks. The money would have been hers, and she might never have crossed our path again. It has done poor Inez little service, now that she has gained it." 
               "All that is gone past recall, Anna. You thought you were doing right when you attempted to serve my interests by ruining Miss Gordon's, so don't grieve over it, dear. I will think over your suggestion, and, as soon as possible, take measures to assure myself if there is any foundation for it. Till I am convinced of her guilt beyond a doubt, it would be most cruel to direct suspicion toward a young and friendless stranger." 
               "You always think of others before yourself, Guy. But if Nina Gordon has done what I suspect, she deserves no mercy at our hands. She has avenged herself on me for unmasking her last summer, by taking your pistol, that I might be made wretched by having you implicated in this fearful charge. The longer I think about it, the deeper becomes the conviction that I have found the real criminal." 
               "My dear sister, I would far sooner suffer this injustice myself than become the medium of bringing such a charge against a helpless girl, unless it were better sustained than by mere suspicion. It is beneath my manhood to screen myself by accusing Miss Gordon. No; I must wait until I can find some tangible evidence against her, or I can never breathe her name in connection with this sad affair." 
               "But how are you to obtain that evidence, unless you take measures at once to follow her up through every moment of time from the day she left Silvermere till the steamer left the landing below here?" 
               "I will do that much, I pledge you my word, Anna. I will set a detective on her track who will be silent as death, and keen enough to find out all I wish to know. But really I do not think that we shall be rewarded by the discovery of anything to criminate Miss Gordon. She left Silvermere at her own earnest request, and she is too ignorant of the localities on the river to know when the steamer landed near her late home. There was no moon last night, and I cannot believe that any girl would have the nerve to walk a mile in the night through a thick forest, that she might take a human life when she reached the end of her pilgrimage. It is impossible." 
               "Impossible or not, it was done, Guy, and you will yet learn that I am right. I can do nothing now but pray to God to bring the truth to light, and to shield you from the harm that threatens you while this cloud hangs over you." 
               "Don't give way to fancies, my dear sister, and persuade yourself that things will go badly with me. Aside from the humiliation of being examined on such a charge, I have little to dread. Those who will sit in judgment upon me have known me all my life, and I am persuaded that few of them would be willing to see me indicted for the murder of Godfrey. I trust that within a few hours I shall be free to go whither I please, and I promise you to take the first steps towards satisfying your doubts concerning Miss Gordon. Cease to let your thoughts dwell sadly or doubtfully on my fate, for I am sure that I shall return to you before the day is over, cleared from the charge, so far as the dismissal of the magistrate can have that effect." 
               Mrs. Langley tried to believe him, and she resignedly answered: 
               "You must have your own way, I suppose, and I will make every effort to do what is best for you. I must go now and see how poor Inez has passed the night. Oh! Guy, how shall I ever tell her what has happened?" 
               "Your good angel must guide you, Anna, and show you how to break it gently to the unfortunate girl. I would give a great deal if she had never come hither to have her heart broken in so cruel a manner. Go to her now. Breakfast may soon be ready, and on this morning you must not keep it waiting." 
               Mrs. Langley kissed him tenderly, and holding his hand clasped closely in her own, she tearfully said: 
               "Forgive me, Guy, that I, for one moment, believed in the possibility of your guilt." 
               She hurried from the room, crossed the hall, and tapped at the door of the dressing-room adjoining the chamber of Inez. In that a couch had been placed for Mrs. Perkins, and her hostess found her sitting by the only window, with her hands clasped in a hopeless manner, and her face clouded by anxiety and grief. 
               On the entrance of Mrs. Langley, she nervously arose, and, in guarded tones, said: 
               "Miss Inez is sleeping at last, ma'am. She moaned and went on in such a manner till nearly day as went to my heart; and once, after she fell asleep, she cried out in agony: 'Oh! there is blood-blood on my conscience! His blood! Oh Virgin Mother, take its stain from my soul!' I went in to her, but she was sleeping under the influence of the drops you told me to persuade her to take." 
               Mrs. Langley listened with a strange thrill of emotion. She softly said: 
               "I am glad she slept, at all events, Mrs. Perkins. I will go in now and look at her." 
               The door of communication was partly open, and, gliding through it, Mrs. Langley stood beside the bed of Inez. She lay like a broken flower upon her pillow, all the color gone from her rounded cheeks, all the brightness from her beaming face. Heavy, dark circles were beneath her eyes, and the pale lips wore an expression of suffering and sadness that went to the heart of her friend. 
               Inez was under the influence of morphine, and her fingers moved nervously at intervals, as if trying to grasp something that eluded them. The fixed gaze of Mrs. Langley disturbed her, and she suddenly unclosed her large, dark eyes, and asked: 
               "Where am I? What has happened to bring me to this strange place? Who are you, and what are you doing in my room? or, rather, what am I doing in this room for it does not belong to me?" 
               Mrs. Langley bent forward and softly said: 
                
               "Inez, darling, don't you know me? I am the friend to whose house you came yesterday. Don't you remember that I brought you out from Natchez?" 
               "From Natchez?" she dreamily repeated. "What was I doing there? Ah! I remember now,-I came hither to find my love-my betrothed. I believed him true; I trusted him as my own soul; but he was false to me-false-false. I have repaid him, though. Do you think it wrong to take life, madam? If you do, condemn me, for I have killed him. I have Spanish blood in my veins, and it rose against him till I could not hold my hand, and he lies stark and cold, done to death by this feeble hand. Look at it. Does it look strong enough to take a human life?" 
               Inez held up her hand, exquisite in shape and delicacy, and surveyed it with her wild, dark eyes, as she rambled on: 
               "It has no crimson stain upon it, but that is on my soul. There is no atonement without sacrifice; that was the creed of my ancestors, for I am of Hebrew descent. Those grand and merciless old Israelites always avenged their wrongs, and I have avenged mine in the only way left to a helpless and deserted girl. Was it wrong to take my cause in my own hands? Don't tell me it was, for if you do I will kill myself, and then I shall go into everlasting torment, 'where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched!'" 
               Mrs. Langley listened to these wild wanderings with a chilling doubt in her mind as to whether they were not the offspring of guilt, yet she believed it impossible that Inez could have been the destroyer of Fenton. She tenderly said: 
               "Inez, you must not talk in such a strain as that. You have done nothing to deserve such a fate. Compose yourself, and try to remember what has lately happened." 
                
               "I do remember all too clearly. I came here to find my living lover, and I found him dead to me; this morning he is dead to all. Have you not heard that Godfrey Fenton has been sent to his account by the hand of one he had wronged? If you have not, it is time that you knew it." 
               And she ended with a laugh that froze the blood in the listener's veins. 
               Mrs. Perkins came in and said: 
               "She has been going on that way all night, ma'am; but it don't mean anything. She got up once and tried to get out of the house, but I was on the watch, and I followed her and brought her back. My poor child is going the way her mother went before her. She died melancholy mad, and my darling is getting in the same condition because that faithless man jilted her." 
               "Are you quite sure that she did not leave the house, Mrs. Perkins? Yet why do I ask such a question? Inez did not know the way to Silvermere, and she could never have been the perpetrator of what was done there last night. But it is very strange that her ravings should take this form. Come with me into the next room, I have something to tell you that she must not hear." 
               Mrs. Perkins followed her, and when Mrs. Langley had carefully closed the door, she said: 
               "By what clairvoyance does that poor girl know that Godfrey Fenton is dead? It is certainly true that he was killed last night by some unknown hand." 
               The woman listened in horror. 
               "Dead-killed! and my darling talking in this strange way! Oh, Mrs. Langley, I declare to you that she never left this house through the night. I did not undress at all; I sat up the whole time watching her. I had dozed off a minute when she had got in the hall, but she did not know how to unfasten the door, and I found her standing before it in her bare feet, with her hair hanging all over her. She was too weak to resist me, and I took her in my arms, and brought her back again. She has been in bed ever since, and about an hour before day she fell into the sleep from which she roused just now. Don't mind anything she says, for her mind is only rambling." 
               "It is a singular hallucination, and under present circumstances, may prove a very sad one, unless we keep it from the knowledge of others. You and I must watch over her ourselves, Mrs. Perkins, and try and bring back the light of reason to her mind. That by some inscrutable means, she has become aware of Godfrey's death, is evident, or she would not talk as she did just now." 
               "He deserved to die," said the the woman savagely; "but my poor child is as innocent of killing him as the angels in Heaven. I hope you don't suspect her of such wickedness as that. I've seen her many a time take a bug or a worm out of her path to keep others from treading on them. She never hurt anything in her life, and she loved the very ground that bad man stepped on. He would have been the last one she would have injured, though he has worked her such bitter woe. I must tell you something about the Lopez family, ma'am, and then you will see that Miss Inez has inherited a sort of second sight from them. 
               "They have been a grand family in their day, Mrs. Langley, and as long as they kept with their own people, they were rich, and powerful; but for two generations, they have married with what they call Gentiles. The father and grandfather of Miss Inez took Christian wives; one was an English woman, the other an American. Well-from the date of the first marriage the old gentleman declared that he was haunted by a familiar spirit that foretold to him all the evil that was coming on him. 
               "He had enough, poor soul! for there are seven graves in the churchyard in Cuba, in which his children lie buried. Miss Inez's father was the only one left, and he didn't do much good in the world. After the old man died, the spirit came to him, and he always knew beforehand a great deal that was going to happen to him. He was a firm believer in all them spirit rappings that so much fuss is made about of late years. You have heard how he sent Miss Inez to the old place to look for the will that was hidden in the wall. She did not find it, it's true, but she found the place her father described, and it's pretty certain now that it was taken from it before she went. Now her pa is dead, I suppose the spirit comes to her to tell her what she ought to know. That is the only way I can account for her words just now." 
               Mrs. Langley listened to this singular statement with incredulity, though she did not doubt the implicit faith of the narrator in its truth. She only said: 
               "It is very strange and may account for what Inez has said. At all events, I shall be able to evade the sad task of telling her of Godfrey's fate. Watch constantly over her, Mrs. Perkins. I must go out to breakfast now, but I will bring in her's myself, and remain with her through the morning, while you gain the repose I see you so greatly need." 
               "Thank you, ma'am. I've hardly slept a wink, but I don't feel a bit like sleeping after hearing such news as you told me just now. I am afraid my poor darling will never get over all this trouble, and it's hard to go over with her all that I went through with her mother." 
               "Don't think of anything so sad as that, Mrs. Perkins. I believe that Inez will have strength to rally from the shock she has received, and recover her usual health of mind and body." 
               "God grant it, ma'am," replied the faithful nurse, with a heavy sigh; and Mrs. Langley again entered the apartment of Inez. 
               She found her lying in that dreamy state which is produced by the drug she had taken; she was neither sleeping nor waking, and her heavy eyelids were not again lifted. 
               Her visitor softly left the room and went to see if the breakfast-table was properly arranged. Mrs. Langley assumed outward composure, and when the three young men came in she greeted the visitors with grave and quiet courtesy. 
               The meal was eaten almost in silence, and when the sound of a carriage driving to the door was heard, Denham arose and said: 
               "I believe that we are quite ready now, Wallis, and we may as well go at once. It is useless to defer a painful task when it must be done." 
               Mrs. Langley raised her pale face to the young man as he offered her his hand, and impressively said: 
               "If you do not bring Guy off safe, Edward, I shall never find it in my heart to forgive you for coming to my house on such an errand as brought you here last night. You are responsible for his appearance in Natchez before those whose demand is blood for blood; and rather than not have it, they are ready to offer up an innocent victim on the altar of public opinion. Bring my brother back to me safe and cleared from the foul imputation you and others have sought to fasten on him, or never come into my presence again." 
               Wallis cowered before the indignant light of her dark eyes, and he almost humbly said: 
               "I-I hope that everything will go right, Mrs. Langley. I meant no evil to Guy by coming here with him, you know; and an old friend was better than a stranger. I don't believe now that he did what he is accused of, and although circumstances are against him, we don't give much weight to them in this State when a man's life is at stake. He will have fair play, and-and I'm sure I hope he will win through triumphantly." 
               The three went out together, but Denham came back to kiss his sister and give her a few consoling words before parting from her: 
               "I shall be back to dinner at the usual hour, dear Anna. I feel sure that I shall not be detained on such evidence as can be produced against me. The bitterness to me is, that I must undergo examination at all. I should doubt eternal justice if I could feel apprehensive as to the result of my trial. Before a magistrate's court it will be a simple thing enough, and I shall be dismissed to recover my equanimity as I best can." 
               "God grant that it may be so," was the fervent response, and the two parted with a tender embrace. 
               Denham was many years younger than Mrs. Langley, and she cherished for him an almost maternal regard. She was tenderly devoted to him, and with good reason, for Guy had been the stay and consolation of her life when her unhappiness in the marriage she had made forced her to separate from her husband. 
               Mr. Langley lived in Europe, and she knew no more of him than if they had never been more to each other than strangers. In early youth she had been persuaded by others to accept him, because he was a man of great wealth and made a fine appearance in society. 
               He proved an ill-tempered, overbearing tyrant in his domestic relations, and as no children bound them together, his wife took the bold step which released her from her intolerable bondage, and left him free to seek another if he wished to do so. 
               With a sinking heart Mrs. Langley saw the carriage drive away, but she rallied her courage and busied herself in arranging the breakfast of Inez upon a tray. She took it in herself and remained with her guest while Mrs. Perkins went out to the table and partook of the nourishment of which her long vigils made her greatly feel the need. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               GUILTY, OR NOT GUILTY? 
               THE news of the tragical event of the night had already flown far and wide, and an excited crowd of people besieged the office of the magistrate in which the examination of the supposed criminal was to take place. 
               Denham's personal friends, and he had many warm and influential ones, hastened to the scene of action to bear testimony to his high character, and place that in the balance against the terrible array of circumstances that seemed to point to him as the assassin. 
               The judge was in a state of great nervous trepidation. He was nearly connected with Mrs. Markland, and had only been prevented from attending the wedding by sickness in his own family. He had known Guy Denham from his boyhood, and he was aware that a strong feeling of jealousy had grown up between the two lads who were dependent on her second husband. 
               That their differences would culminate in so dire a tragedy as this, Judge Dalton had never deemed possible, yet he was now called on to sit in judgment upon one of whom he had hitherto known nothing but good. He had never blamed Guy for the state of feeling that existed between himself and Fenton, for he knew that he had not been fairly treated by his uncle's widow, and he also knew that in their difficulties Godfrey was usually the aggressor. 
               Must he condemn him? Give him over to the ignominy of a trial for life and death, when he was so nearly related to the surviving children of Mrs. Markland that the stain which fell on him must also taint them? It was a most painful position in which he found himself placed, but Judge Dalton finally determined to abide strictly by the evidence brought forward, and give his decision accordingly. 
               He had scarcely arrived at this sensible conclusion, when a knock came to the door of his private sanctum, and his clerk glibly spoke, though in a very guarded tone: 
               "Mr. Hastings is very anxious to see you a few moments, sir, before the trial opens. The parties are in court; Mr. Denham came in with young Wallis and John Talbot. I may as well tell you, sir, that the general impression seems to be that the examination will be a mere form. Mr. Hastings himself says that it will be impossible to fix the guilt of the murder on Denham. But of course you'll judge of that when you have heard the evidence." 
               "That will do, Mr. Thompson. I believe I understand what my duty is. Ask Mr. Hastings to walk in, and do you take care that I am not interrupted while he is with me." 
               "Yes, sir-of course, sir. He doubtless has something important to communicate to you." 
               "Then pray allow him to come in, and tell me what it is. The time is getting on, and the hour fixed for the trial will soon be here." 
               The speaker's tone was slightly irritated, and with a bow, the talkative young man hastened to withdraw and inform Mr. Hastings that the Judge would receive him. 
               He came in, and carefully closed the door, and the Judge started as he saw how old and broken he looked. In a tone of deep sympathy, he said: 
                
               "This has been a terrible shock to you, I can see, Hastings. I hope that your daughter has not suffered from it as you have, though it was a dreadful, thing to have her bridegroom killed within a few hours of their union." 
               "My daughter lies stupefied by opiates, but when she is permitted to regain the comprehension of what is passing around her, she has youth and unbroken health to sustain her. With me, it is different, and this blow has fallen very heavily upon me. I feel it as you cannot comprehend; it is not only that Godfrey has been violently torn from us, but that--" 
               He stopped abruptly, as if he had been on the eve of inadvertently revealing the heaviest weight of care that rested on his heart. 
               "I understand," said Dalton. "The imputation that rests on so near a connection of your daughter's husband is indeed hard to bear." 
               "It is not that-no-it is not that, for I swear to you that I believe Guy Denham to be as innocent of all participation in this murder as I am, or as you yourself are. I will do him that much justice let what will come of it. I am here to-day as his friend, not as his accuser." 
               Mr. Hastings sat down, wiped from his brow the great drops that agitation had brought there, and the Judge regarded him with a sympathetic, but puzzled face. He said: 
               "If you stand by Denham in this way, there is little chance that he will meet with condemnation from others. May I ask on what grounds your conviction of his innocence is based?" 
               "On very strong ones, but I-I cannot state them in a public court-room; neither can I explain to you why this conviction is in my mind. Think yourself what this young man's life has been-how high-toned, even chivalrous his nature is, and you will see how impossible such a crime would be to him. There was no cause for such vengeance; angry words may have passed between him and Godfrey, but I am certain that no lasting ill-feeling followed them. There was no real cause of enmity, and Guy Denham is the last man to take so unfair an advantage of his foe, even if poor Godfrey had been such. But he was not, I repeat." 
               The earnestness of the speaker impressed the Judge, but with some reserve he said: 
               "When I have heard the evidence, I can better judge what weight to give it. Of course, the high character the prisoner has hitherto borne must tell greatly in his favor." 
               "Yes-yes-it must save him from the shame of an indictment for Godfrey's murder. I tell you it must;" and he looked into the face of his companion with an expression that made him doubt for a few moments if he were quite sane. 
               Dalton coldly asked: 
               "Am I to understand, Mr. Hastings, that you have come here to dictate to me the course that justice should take? This seems to me an unprecedented proceeding." 
               "The situation is unprecedented, Dalton. If I could tell you all, you would understand; but I cannot. I have only this to say to you as an old friend, and one I have highly valued. If Guy Denham is sent away from your court branded with the charge of murder, I must do that which will bring my grey hairs to the grave in dishonor. The pistol found on the sward was his, but it has lain there in the window of my library unclaimed for months. It was taken from there by the assassin, to throw the odium of the deed upon him, I feel convinced." 
               "Then you must possess some clue to the real murderer, and wish to shield him. I can come to no other conclusion from your words, Mr. Hastings." 
                
               The directness of this inference unnerved Mr. Hastings, and his extreme agitation prevented him from replying for several moments. The Judge poured out a glass of water and offered it to him, and after drinking a small portion, he faintly said: 
               "I did not come hither to accuse another, but to do what I could to save Guy. You are to understand that what passes between us here is never to be repeated or referred to in any way. When you were a struggling young lawyer, I assisted you to gain a foothold in your profession, and you have received from me many favors since that time. I refer to these things now because it is of vital importance to me to find a friend in the judge before whom this case is to be tried. I tell you, Dalton, that all I value in life must be resigned if some way is not found to save this unfortunate young man." 
               To this appeal Dalton gravely replied: 
               "I will do what I honestly can to serve you, Mr. Hastings, and I admit the force of the claims you have upon me; but I cannot understand how you yourself can be so deeply implicated in this affair as your words would lead me to suppose." 
               "It is so; yet I cannot explain. My secret is my own; and, although it is dragging me to the grave, I cannot unfold it. Look at me: see what I have lately suffered-what I still suffer; and then, if you can add to the burden I am bearing, God help me! for there is no help in man." 
               There was silence between them for a few moments, and then Dalton said: 
               "This is the strongest confidence I ever received in my life." 
               "It is not a confidence; I am confiding nothing to you beyond the fact that this man is innocent of the crime imputed to him, and I know him to be so, though I cannot fully state the grounds on which my conviction rests. But I have said all that I came to say, and to you I must leave the rest. You would not willingly do a wrong; and to condemn Guy would be the greatest one you could commit." 
               Mr. Hastings arose, made an effort to steady himself upon his feet, and suddenly sunk down again, feeling in his pocket in a half-dazed way for something he could not find there. With an effort, he said: 
               "I was near forgetting something that is important. I have a note for you from Mrs. Markland. I thought it was in my pocket, but I must have put it into my hat. My head isn't quite as clear this morning as it should be." 
               On looking into the hat, the missive was found; and wondering if his old friend had not been drinking deeply early in the morning as it was, Dalton opened it and read the following lines: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "COUSIN JAMES: I write these lines in a state of feeling that baffles description. How I have the courage to write at all is a mystery to me; but I must do so, suffer as I will in making the effort. 
                           "My son-my pride, my joy-lies dead in this house, destroyed by some unknown hand! I, his mother, would give half I possess to know who committed the act that has desolated my life; but, in the frenzy of the hour, an innocent man must not be made to bear the burden of another's guilt. 
                           "Guy Denham did not do it; he asserted his innocence over the dead body of my son in such a way as convinced me that he knows no more of the perpetrator of the deed than I do. 
                           "Remember that I tell you this. Remember, also, how nearly Guy is related to my daughters-how fondly they are attached to him-and do not give them the additional sorrow of knowing that he is to be arraigned, through your decision, as the assassin of their brother. 
                           "I shall spare no expense to discover the real criminal; and I feel assured that my nephew will aid me in every possible manner to do so, if he has freedom of action restored to him. 
                           
                              "Your broken-hearted cousin, 
                              "GERTRUDE MARKLAND."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Dalton read this very carefully, and after pondering a few moments, said: 
               "Mrs. Markland takes the same view of the case that you do. Did she write this without being influenced to do so?" 
               "If you mean, did I attempt such a thing? I answer no. I have not seen Mrs. Markland since last night, not communicated with her in any way. I do not even know the contents of her letter." 
               Dalton handed it to him, and Mr. Hastings rapidly ran his eyes over the lines. As he returned them he said: 
               "Mrs. Markland has done what is noble and just. Deep as her anguish for the loss of her son is, she is unwilling that injury that will be almost irreparable shall be inflicted on Guy. The suspicions that must cling to him will be hard enough to bear, without having his life actually placed in danger by sustaining this shameful charge." 
               Dalton rather coldly replied: 
               "I can only promise to sift the evidence very carefully, and act according to the convictions of my own mind. My position, you are aware, is a responsible one, and I must do my duty. But our criminal laws are not very strict, and I may find it possible to dismiss the charge without violating my own sense of right." 
               "That is all I can reasonably ask. I will leave you now to take my place near the prisoner." 
                
               Mr. Hastings moved slowly toward the door, with some difficulty made his way through the dense crowd already assembled in the public room, and, grasping Denham's hand, sunk down in a seat beside him. 
               Guy was looking pale, but perfectly composed, and he gratefully said: 
               "I cannot too deeply thank you, Mr. Hastings, for standing by me in this painful strait. I shall never forget your goodness." 
               "It is all I can do for you, Guy. Others shall at least see that I have no faith in this absurd charge. Keep up your spirits, for I am sure that nothing can be done with you." 
               The entrance of the Judge caused a slight bustle, and after he had taken his seat the proceedings commenced. I shall not describe them, for such things have been too often depicted to afford much interest to the general reader. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               AN IMPASSIONED APPEAL. 
               FROM the character of the evidence given, it was clear that a reaction in favor of Denham had taken place in the minds of those who had been foremost in accusing him on the previous night. Even the facts that told most against him were softened in the relation, and the face of the Judge cleared as he listened to the revelations of the successive witnesses who were brought forward to give their testimony. 
               The calm and noble face of the prisoner, his undaunted bearing, favorably impressed all who saw him; and when the evidence was summed up, not one listener regretted that the verdict must be on the side of mercy. 
               The charge of murder against Denham was dismissed, and he was pronounced free to go whither he would, without obstruction from the laws of his country. 
               Loud shouts of applause informed the throng on the outside of the house of the result of his examination, and he arose amid the tumult and made a brief speech, in which he thanked them for the kindly feeling that dictated these demonstrations. Denham went on to say that he could not rest contented under the imputation of so foul a crime as the midnight assassination of the man with whom he had been reared as a brother. He pledged his word to do all that was possible toward the discovery of the murderer, and bringing him to justice. 
               He sat down amid renewed acclamations, and Mr. Hastings hurriedly said to him: 
               "Let us escape through the back office. There is a door opening on a side street, and we can get away without running the gauntlet of the excited crowd outside." 
               "That is what I most earnestly wish," was the reply; but to make their way out of the court-room was not so easy. Friends crowded around Denham with congratulations on the result of the examination, and it was nearly an hour before they found themselves in the narrow street at the father end of which Mr. Hastings' carriage had been stationed. 
               A message was despatched to Mrs. Langley's driver informing him that Mr. Denham had left town with a friend, and he was ordered to remain till Wallis and Talbot were ready to be taken home. 
               When they were alone in the carriage, Mr. Hastings took the hand of the young man in his own and held it firmly clasped, though he did not speak till they were some distance from the town. 
                
               Denham saw that he was struggling with extreme agitation, and he made no attempt to break the silence. In truth, his own feelings were in such a tumult of excitement that he was glad of an interval of silence in which to compose them. At length it was broken by Mr. Hastings, who fervently said: 
               "Thank God that you are safe, Guy! If you had been condemned this day, I should have felt that my own carelessness had caused this evil to fall on you. But for the use of your pistol by the assassin, suspicion could never have been fixed on you. I have seen it all winter lying in that window, yet neglected to return it to you. Had I done so this painful accusation could never have been made." 
               "Do not blame yourself, dear sir. No one could have dreamed of such a result as this from your forgetfulness and my own. I should have reclaimed the weapon long since, but unfortunately I forgot all about it. You believe me innocent, Mr. Hastings; but the question then arises as to who could have removed the pistol to use it in this dreadful manner? I am anxious to learn if your suspicions agree with those expressed by my sister this morning, and I may add, with those I have formed myself." 
               The eyes of the listener dilated, and his lips trembled as he asked: 
               "What do you mean? Who does Mrs. Langley suspect as the author of all this misery?" 
               Denham hesitated a moment before replying: 
               "I would at present speak of this to no other person than yourself, Mr. Hastings; for after all we may cruelly wrong that poor girl; but to you is due an explanation of what I intend to do with reference to a person who was lately an inmate of your family, before I take such steps as may compromise her in any way." 
               Hastings sunk back with a groan that was almost a cry of anguish, and Denham saw with dismay that he was clutching at his necktie as if choking. Fearing that he might fall into a fit, he hastened to assist him in every possible way, and he presently began to recover from his overwhelming agitation. 
               He feebly said: 
               "I have borne a great deal in the last few hours, and I am quite unfit to give my attention to any new phase of this sad affair; yet I cannot rest without hearing your last words explained. Who would you accuse? Yet why do I ask, for your words clearly pointed to the friendless creature who is by this time far away. It will be useless to attempt to criminate Miss Gordon, for she can easily prove an alibi. She was on her way to New Orleans before the-the assassination took place." 
               "I am aware of that, sir; you will permit me to state the grounds of my sister's suspicions, though I confess that I attach but little importance to them." 
               With feverish eagerness Mr. Hastings replied: 
               "State them, by all means, I am most anxious to understand them. Mrs. Langley is a very keen woman-one gifted with unusual discernment, I know, but she should not be too eager to condemn one of her own sex on such flimsy evidence as, I am sure, must have sufficed to her in this case." 
               "You shall hear and judge for yourself. This young lady is nothing to you, and therefore I may speak freely on this painful subject." 
               A convulsion passed over the face of Mr. Hastings, and he faintly said: 
               "Nothing, now-go on, if you please." 
               Denham obeyed, without seeming to remark his extreme agitation." 
               "Last autumn Anna and I met with Miss Gordon at Newport, and you are probably aware that through my sister's means she was defeated in her efforts to secure the fortune of the old lady whose companion she then was. I had nothing to do with the plot that ruined her with Mrs. Hawks, and until the explosion was produced I knew nothing of the affair in progress. She was not treated quite fairly, I have always thought, and I do not thing she ever forgave Anna for the part she then played. Fenton entered heart and soul into it, for he was most anxious at that time to secure the succession of Mrs. Hawks' estate to her niece, with whom he seemed deeply enamored. You are probably aware that he and Miss Gordon had some love passages while he was a student at Yale. I am sure that a deeper impression was make on her heart than on his. I do not believe that she ever forgave Godfrey for the part he took against her, and I sometimes think she came hither to take the opportunity to avenge herself upon him for forsaking her and then helping to ruin the fabric of prosperity she had industriously reared for herself." 
               "I knew much of this before, and I do think that she was badly treated. But Nina was forgiving to him at least, for she loved Godfrey. She admitted this to me herself, and entreated me to send her away before he gave his hand to another." 
               "Unfortunately for her, that only strengthens the evidence against her. If Miss Gordon had ceased to love Fenton, she would never have done what my sister declares she did do. Shall I state to you the position she takes?" 
               "Why should you? This is all nonsense. Nina left Natchez, and was far on her way before the murder occurred." 
               "I beg that you will listen to me at least with patience, Mr. Hastings. Miss Gordon must have embarked on the Vicksburg, for she is the only packet due since she left Silvermere vermere. That boat lay four hours at the cotton landing below your place, last night, and but a mile lies between them. Anna insists that Miss Gordon found means to leave the steamer and commit the crime for which I have so narrowly escaped being imprisoned to-day. She thinks that Nina possessed herself of my pistol that the odium of the deed might fall on me, as a punishment to her for unmasking her last summer." 
               Mr. Hastings listened to him with working lips and a tremulous shaking of his whole frame, which showed how deep was the emotion that moved him. He huskily asked: 
               "But what can you do to bring this suspicion home to her? If Nina is capable of doing such a thing, she will have craft enough to conceal every trace of her motions from others." 
               "I can do but one thing, sir, and that I have promised my sister to undertake. I shall secretly employ a detective to follow every step taken by Miss Gordon after you left her in Natchez. This can be done without compromising her, till the truth is known. When I am satisfied of her guilt, I shall of course have her arrested and brought to trial for this most terrible deed." 
               In tones of piercing anguish Mr. Hastings cried out: 
               "Oh! my God! this is too much! too much! This burden is more than I can bear; my heart is breaking under it." 
               In great alarm Denham exclaimed: 
               "What is it, sir? What have I said to distress you so deeply? Why should you take the presumed guilt of this young girl so much to heart?" 
               Mr. Hastings leaned back several moments without speaking; then, in trembling tones, he said: 
               "God never suffers a deep wrong to pass unpunished, even in this world; but the retribution he has sent to me is hard to bear. To save this wretched creature, I must cast myself upon your mercy, and lay bare the sin that has borne such bitter fruit. 
               "Guy Denham, I have known you from your boyhood, and you have never been guilty of a mean or unprincipled action. Would to God that I could say the same of myself; but I cannot-I cannot." 
               He paused, and, in a painful state of excitement as to what was to follow, Denham asked: 
               "To what does all this tend, Mr. Hastings? If you have anything to confide to me, I can truly say that your confidence will be held sacred, let its nature be what it may." 
               "I believe it-I am sure of it-and there is now no alternative. I must tell you the cruel secret that is corroding my life, and ask you, for my sake, to let this matter drop; to bear the stain of suspicion which can be wiped from your name only by pursuing and exposing the guilty one. Nina Gordon must not be implicated in this dreadful affair if I can prevent it; for she has on me a claim so strong that I must, at all hazards, endeavor to shield her from punishment for the crime she committed." 
               "You believe that she did it, then; but I cannot understand why she is to be screened at my expense." 
               "Not unless you are generous enough to will it to be so, Guy; and when I have told you all you can decide for yourself. The unhappy girl who has entered my house as a demon of wrath is my own daughter." 
               The words were spoken almost in a whisper, but Denham heard and fully understood their meaning. He faintly repeated: 
               "Your daughter! Opal's sister! Oh, sir, this is a terrible strait for you to be placed in. The resemblance between them is now accounted for." 
               "Yes, their features bear some likeness, but it ends there. Opal is pure and good, as the other is fiery and unprincipled. Don't ask me why I brought her beneath my roof; it was madness in me to do such a thing, as the event has proved. But I wished to atone to her, as far as possible, for the wrong I had done her, and no other way seemed open to me. If she had not been ill unto death, I should never have betrayed the tie that binds us together; but when I believed her to be dying I told her all. Since that unfortunate hour she has wounded me in every possible way, and now she has completed her own ruin and broken my heart by this crowning outrage. If Nina is pursued-if the murder of Godfrey is traced to her hand-the blighting record of past shame must be laid bare, and I shall refuse to live with the brand of dishonor upon my brow." 
               His head drooped upon his breast, and Denham surveyed his worn and haggard face with the deepest compassion. He was at a loss what to say in reply, and after a few moments, Mr. Hastings resumed: 
               "Is it too much to ask of you, Guy, to spare the guilty one? for that Nina is guilty I have not doubted for one moment since the event of last night occurred. But in giving her up to punishment you will drive me from my home forever, separate me from the child who is a comfort and delight to me, and send me to end the few days that will be left to me in obscurity and loneliness." 
               "Why should that be necessary, sir?" 
               With some bitterness, Mr. Hastings replied: 
               "Why do you ask that when you know my wife so well? If she were told the history of those days during which Nina was born, she would never forgive me for having lived with another woman as my wife, and having so long concealed it from her. I will, in justice to that woman, tell you all my villainy. I deceived her basely. She believed the words spoken over us to be a genuine ceremony of marriage; but the time came when she knew better. 
               "As I hope for mercy hereafter, I swear to you, Guy, that I would have made such atonement as was possible, but she refused to accept it, and left me. She left behind her the child she would not claim because she was mine, and I did the best I could for her, hoping at some day to be able to bring her beneath my own roof. I will tell you more than this, Guy Denham. Mrs. Markland knew the history of that early entanglement. She held it over me, and dreading exposure to the woman I married, I submitted to her dictation in the matter of my daughter's marriage with her son. I knew that Opal did not love him as a girl should love the man she accepts as her husband; but I won her consent to give her hand to Godfrey through an appeal to her filial affection. I told her enough to enable her to understand that on that union my domestic peace depended. She yielded, and now the tie I wickedly induced her to form is broken. She will suffer by the shock, but not as those suffer who have lost the one that is dearest to them on earth." 
               His voice sank away into a husky whisper, and Denham took his hand and eagerly said: 
               "I will not be less self-sacrificing than Opal has proved herself. I will never be the means of bringing before the world the knowledge of the tie which exists between her and that unhappy girl. Miss Gordon may escape scatheless from me, Mr. Hastings, for I pledge you my honor to take no steps against her. I can live down the imputations that have been cast upon my fair name, and I will do so. Accept this assurance as final, dear sir, and give yourself no further uneasiness about this matter." 
               The elder man lifted his bowed head, and with a sudden gleam of hope, asked: 
               "Will you indeed do this, Guy? Such forbearance I could scarcely have expected, for I know that you have not been treated quite fairly in what has been lately done." 
               At these words a sudden glow came to the heart of Denham, and he asked himself if he dared interpret them to mean that Opal would have preferred himself to the man she had been induced to accept as her husband. Then came the chilling thought that in relinquishing the pursuit of the assassin he must give up all hope of eventually winning Opal; for his union with her would only strengthen the suspicion of others that he had put Godfrey Fenton out of the way because he could not see him bear away from him the girl he so madly loved. 
               These thoughts flashed with lightning rapidity through his mind, but his voice was clear and firm when he replied to the stricken man beside him: 
               "It matters not how I have been treated, sir. I again assure you that I would bear even worse than suspicion rather than clear my own name at such cost to you. Your unfortunate daughter shall not be suspected of this crime through any agency of mine. Your home-Opal's home-shall not be laid desolate by my hand." 
               "Here we are at Silvermere. Will you go in and see your aunt?" abruptly asked Mr. Hastings. 
               "If she will consent to receive me. Dismiss from your mind all dread as to my proceedings, Mr. Hastings. I must make some effort to discover the assassin, but you may feel assured that I shall not set those I employ on the right track." 
               Mr. Hastings grasped his hand in silence, and the two descended from the carriage, and entered the house. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               A SAD INTERVIEW. THE CALMNESS OF DESPAIR. 
               THE stillness of the grave reigned within the house of death. At an early hour of the morning the inquest had been held over Fenton's body, and the verdict returned that he had died by some unknown hand. 
               Denham wrote a few lines on a card, informing his aunt of the result of his examination, and sent them up to her. The servant came back in a few moments with a request that he would go up to her. 
               He found Mrs. Markland exhausted with weeping, and too wretched and restless to lie down. She threw herself upon his bosom, and cried out: 
               "Oh, Guy! Guy! I should thank Heaven that you are restored to me, if I could feel thankful for anything in the present state of my mind. There is no comfort for me-no light left in my life now he is gone! My son! my son! would that I could have died for thee!" 
               Denham gently placed her on a seat, and hastened to say everything that could soothe her grief; but Mrs. Markland seemed scarcely to listen to him. When he paused there was a long and dreary silence, which she broke by suddenly saying: 
               "I have not been just to you, Guy; I did not carry out the intentions of my husband, though I fully understood them. In my selfish love for my own son, I hoarded for him alone what should have been equally divided between you. It shall all be yours, now, Guy,-every cent. Can you pardon me for acting towards you as I have done from your boyhood?" 
               "Dear aunt, I have nothing to pardon. You have amply atoned for any wrong you may have done me by the noble course you took last night. We will not refer to affairs of business at this time. I shall remain near you; I will be to you a son in the place of the one you have lost, if you will accept me as such. But I cannot take from you what should have been Godfrey's. Do with your own as you will; I have enough without it." 
               "But I shall never feel satisfied unless I am allowed to make such reparation as is in my power. We will not talk of it now, for I am not in a fit state to think of anything but the dreadful bereavement I have sustained." 
               "No, let us not speak of it now. When you have had time to reflect, you will understand how impossible it will be for me to become the gainer by the unhappy event of last night. Do you wish me to go over to Magnolia and give any orders there?" 
               "No, thank you; the overseer has been over this morning, and I have told him what must be attended to. To think that yesterday my boy was bright with health, hope, and happiness, and to-day they are digging his grave! I feel as if I cannot live through it." 
               "Dear Aunt Gertrude, it is indeed a terrible trial; but do not sorrow as one without hope. You have other children-draw them nearer to your heart, and in their affection find consolation for Godfrey's loss." 
               She shook her head almost fiercely. 
               "A pair of feeble girls! what have I to hope from them that can gratify the pride which is the strongest feeling of my nature. Godfrey was the darling of my life, and in losing him I have lost all that made it bright to me." 
               Denham could not reason with her in her present state of feeling, and he felt the assurance in his own mind that after the first bitterness of her bereavement passed away, Mrs. Markland would naturally turn to her daughters to console and sustain her. 
                
               He left her calmer than when he entered, and on descending the stairs he sought for the housekeeper, to learn from her how her young lady was after the awful shock she had received. 
               Chloe was a very fat black woman, who was usually to be found in a small room opening upon the back gallery, which had been well known to Denham from his boyish days. As he expected, she was there now, looking very busy and important. 
               As her visitor entered, she looked up and exclaimed: 
               "Bless de Lor', Marse Guy, dat you's back safe an' soun'. What could dem' ere fools ha' meant by 'cusin' you o' dat dreffle thing? I'se got more sense 'n dat, ef I is a darkey." 
               Denham took the toil-hardened hand in his own, and pressing it warmly, with much emotion said: 
               "Thank you, Aunt Chloe; but I am glad to tell you that you are not the only one who has done me the justice to think as you do; I am cleared of the charge, and I have but a moment to stay. I came here to ask you how your young lady is this morning. Have you seen her lately?" 
               "I's jest come from her room, sah. She's lyin' thar like a broken lily, a sleepin' off the doctor's pizen they's dosed her with; but she'll git over it. Don't you believe dat Miss Opal's gwine to break her heart over Marse Godfrey's death. Ef her pa and ma hadn't been so sot on the match, I don't think she'd ha' took him no how. In course she'll grieve over his bein' cut off so sudden like, for she's got a tender heart of her own; but, as I said afore, she'll git over it, and be as chirk and happy as she was afore they thought of marryin' her off while she was nuffin but a chile." 
               "I ardently hope that she will, Aunt Chloe; but how does Mrs. Hastings bear all this excitement?" 
               "Oh, she went off in her squirming tantrums, as I calls 'em, an I was up wi' her till 'most day. But I dosed her with brandy and lodomy mixed together, an' she's sleepin' beautiful now. I only wish I could sleep too, for I feel awful downsey to-day; but there's so much to look after that I must keep a goin' all de time." 
               Denham escaped from the talkative negress, and, declining the use of the carriage, set out to walk to Ashwood. He wished quietly to review the events of the last sixteen hours, and settle his own plan of action for the future. How he was to allay his sister's suspicions of Nina, or reconcile her to the course he had pledged himself to pursue, he was at a loss to determine. 
               The confidence given him under such painful circumstances he felt must be held sacred; yet it seemed imperative that he should impart it to Mrs. Langley, or she would herself proclaim aloud the conviction in her mind that Nina Gordon's hand had given doom to Godfrey Fenton. 
               Denham finally decided that he must be guided by circumstances; and if he found his sister immovable in her belief of Nina's guilt, there would be no alternative but to disclose to her under a pledge of secresy what had that morning been revealed to himself. 
               As soon as the verdict clearing Denham was given, a messenger had been dispatched to Ashwood bearing the glad tidings, and he found Mrs. Langley on the piazza watching impatiently for his arrival. 
               She threw her arms around him, and, holding him tightly clasped to her breast, wept hysterically for several moments. Regaining control of her emotions, she tenderly said: 
               "Oh, my darling brother, I have you safe again, and I should be happy. I am happy thus far, that you are now free to do what is necessary to clear from your name every cloud of suspicion. Till that is done, I can never hold up my head as proudly as heretofore. Oh! Guy, I hold you safe again in my arms, but I must see you cleared in the eyes of all men by showing to the world the real criminal. The more I have thought of what I spoke of to you, the more deeply am I convinced that I have found the right clue. We must lose no time in following it up; shall we, Guy?" 
               "Don't speak of that now, Anna. There is time enough to settle what shall be done. For the present, let my safety suffice to you." 
               She held him off from herself, and looked searchingly in his face, as she earnestly said: 
               "If anything is to be accomplished, we must not delay taking the initiative steps. I am sure that reflection will show you the necessity of that. But you have had worry enough for one morning, and I will not say any more about it till after you have had a good dinner. It has been waiting some time for your return. Come in now, and rest till it is served." 
               As he walked beside her, Denham asked: 
               "How is your guest? Have you yet summoned courage to tell her of the tragedy of last night?" 
               "Inez knows that Godfrey is dead, and bears it better than I believed possible. Come into my room a few moments, while I tell you of the strangest thing that has ever come to my knowledge." 
               When they were in her chamber, and Mrs. Langley had carefully closed the door, she went on: 
               "By some incomprehensible means, Inez has become aware of Godfrey's murder, and on awaking from a brief sleep this morning she spoke of herself as having committed it. At first I was startled, and even thought that she might have escaped from the house in the night, made her way to Silvermere, and in her desperation have taken his life. But a moment's reflection convinced me that she could not have done it, and Mrs. Perkins declared that she watched near her all night. She got up once, and did try to get out; but the nurse brought her back, and did not lose sight of her again. Yet the first words she spoke to me when she awoke proved that she was aware of Godfrey's death. What do you think of that?" 
               "I hardly know what to think. It is very strange." 
               "Mrs. Perkins explains it in her own way. She says that the Lopez family are attended by a familiar spirit since they committed the enormity of marrying Christian women; that being originally of pure Hebrew stock, the sin they committed against their faith and race, is punished by the visitations of this demon, to foreshadow to them sorrow and loss. I can only say that I wish the creature had better performed his devoir by Inez, and warned her of the uselessness of coming hither to have her heart broken." 
               "It would certainly have been more to the purpose," replied Denham, with an expression of incredulity. "I cannot pretend to explain the singularity of what has happened, except through a dream being sent to her as a warning. Such things are on record, and are too well authenticated to be refuted." 
               "That is the only way in which Inez could have learned it, though she insists that she was not sleeping. Since she has recovered from the flightiness she showed when she first woke up, she has been quite calm. She has taken food, and shows a desire to give me as little trouble about herself as possible. But she declares that last night, before she attempted to leave the house, she fell into a sort of trance that was neither sleeping nor waking. While in that condition, she saw a steamer lying close by a thickly wooded shore. Among the people that landed there was a slender boy, on whom her attention was at once magnetically fixed. He loitered among the men, seemingly careless of observation tion, though he wore a cloth cap drawn low down over his forehead, and his travelling-shawl was held closely over the lower part of his face. 
               "This boy gradually got clear of the crowd, entered the woodland alone, and through its solitary shadows Inez felt compelled to follow him. He walked steadily forward till he came to an illuminated house, in which it was evident some festival was going on. The youth crouched down behind a clump of shrubbery, and some time elapsed before he showed himself again. 
               "Then, a solitary figure came bare-headed down the pathway, near his place of concealment, in whom Inez recognized Godfrey Fenton. He passed on, but returned in a few moments; like a flash the boy sprang up, discharged a pistol at his breast, and she saw him fall dead. 
               "Inez thinks she fainted after that, and she has no recollection of her attempt to escape from the house. In the confusion of her mind this morning, she could not recall all the phases of her vision; though through all she had a distinct impression of Godfrey's murder, and for a season believed herself its perpetrator. But she has grown calmer, as I told you, and she can now clearly describe what passed before her while she was in that clairvoyant state." 
               "Did she obtain no glimpse of the boy's face?" asked Denham, with eager interest, for in spite of his incredulity this narration deeply impressed him. 
               "She saw it imperfectly at the moment the pistol was raised. She says that he was fair, with singular light eyes, that flashed as with phosphorescent fire as the glare of a neighboring lamp fell upon them. Does not that description apply well to Nina Gordon's eyes, and to her we must look for the solution of last night's work. I am more determined than ever on having her steps followed from the hour of her arrival in Natchez till the deed was accomplished. She must have obtained her disguise there, and the clerk in the store the things came from will be likely to remember the fact of a young girl purchasing a suit of boy's clothes. If her beauty made its usual impression, he will be able to describe her." 
               Denham changed color, and looked so uneasy that his sister exclaimed: 
               "I do believe, Guy, that you are afraid such a confirmation of my suspicions may indeed be found. You look very strangely." 
               "Do I? Well, I am tired, and I begin to feel very hungry, for I have scarcely touched food since this time yesterday." 
               "Poor fellow! no wonder that you feel badly. I have ordered for dinner such dishes as you particularly like, and you shall have the best cup of coffee afterwards that Kitty can make." 
               "Will Miss Lopez be well enough to appear at the table? though I suppose not." 
               "No; I shall send her dinner in to her; but after we have dined, I have promised her-what do you think? I can't imagine now how she wrought on me to consent to such a thing, but somehow I could not resist her passionate entreaties to take her to Silvermere, that she may look once more on poor Godfrey. I see from your face that you think I was wrong to agree to such a thing; but if you had seen the poor girl, and heard her words, you could no more have resisted her than I did." 
               Denham gravely said: 
               "My dear Anna, I am really shocked at the thought of Miss Lopez going there to make a scene, after all the family have gone through with. You must recall your promise-indeed you must." 
               "I am sure that Inez will make no scene. She is quite composed now, speaks as rationally as you or I. She has pledged me her word that no one shall be annoyed or disturbed by any act of hers, and I think I can trust her. She has wonderful power of self-control for one so young and so bitterly tried. I must take her to Silvermere, Guy, for I could not answer for the consequences if she were disappointed now." 
               "Far worse consequences may follow if you persist in this wild scheme. Think what a trial it will be to her. She may be unable to repress the cries that distress may wring from her, and-and-Dear sister, pray do not go with this young lady. It is simply madness in her to wish to expose herself to such an ordeal as she must pass through there." 
               "If you could see how firm and self-possessed she is since I gave her my promise, you would think differently, Guy. I must risk it, at all events, for I have given my word to Inez, and I cannot recede from it now." 
               This was so decisively said that Denham saw remonstrance would be useless. So he remained silent, though he had many painful misgivings as to the result of this mournful visit. 
               A servant came to announce dinner, and they went out to it together; but in spite of Denham's assertion that he felt the want of food, he did very poor justice to the tempting delicacies served up especially for him. 
               Mrs. Langley left him over his coffee and went to Inez. 
               She had finished the dinner, of which she had forced herself to partake that she might have strength to go through with what lay before her that afternoon, and she was now sitting beside the fire, looking very pale, but perfectly composed. She looked up and quietly said: 
               "Your brother has returned from town. Jane told me what had taken him there. If I had known that Mr. Denham was in danger, I would have gone in and told my vision to the magistrate. It might have done him some service. But I am glad he did not need it. It would have been very painful to me to go into a crowd at this time." 
               "Nor would I have permitted it, Inez. You have enough to bear without attempting such a thing as that. Guy underwent examination, but of course the charge was dismissed. After thought was allowed them, no one who knows my brother would believe him guilty of such a crime as this." 
               "I am most thankful that all is well thus far; and now, how long before we set out on our sad pilgrimage? I am quite calm; I only ask to stand beside Godfrey once more; to pray over him for the repose of his soul, and then I shall be ready for the life that awaits me. I shall find peace in religious observances, for I shall seek the refuge that is always open to those of my faith. I have quite made up my mind to that." 
               Mrs. Langley looked almost with reverence on the saintly repose of the face she had once known bright with animation and happiness, glowing with the love that had been so cruelly outraged. She stooped forward, and kissing her pale brow, gently said: 
               "You are almost an angel now, Inez, and all the vows you could take would scarcely make a better or nobler woman of you." 
               "I shall not take the vows that bind a nun, because in doing so I must renounce the control of my property, and I wish to retain that as a means of doing good myself. It would doubtless pass into abler hands than mine, but my life must have some object. I could not content myself without one; so I shall become a lay sister, and dedicate my life to good works. If I have failed to find happiness myself, I may become the medium of bestowing it on others, and in doing so I do not despair of finding consolation-in time, peace." 
               Mrs. Langley pressed her hand, and after a pause said: 
               "My brother has some doubts about the propriety of this visit, Inez. He fears that you have undertaken more than you will be able to go through with calmly. Are you quite sure that your fortitude will not desert you when the final trial comes? It will be very painful to you to stand beside poor Godfrey for the last time." 
               "It would be far more painful to let them bury him out of my sight without looking on him once more. If I did not feel sure that I can repress every audible expression of anguish, I would not ask you to take me to him. Dear Mrs. Langley, I have your promise, and you cannot, you dare not break it to so forlorn a creature as I am. I have so yearned to look upon Godfrey's face once more, that even a sight of his cold and senseless clay will be precious to me. I know that the spirit which shone through it has gone to another world, where he will await my coming, for since it passed away his voice has distinctly said to me: 
               "'Inez, you are my true wife, and I loved you best, though I gave my hand to another.'" 
               Mrs. Langley gave her a half-startled glance, fearing that her mind was wandering again, but the ineffable tranquillity of the face reassured her. There was something heavenly in the resignation stamped upon it, and she no longer feared to expose Inez to the painful ordeal she so earnestly desired to pass through. She softly said: 
               "I will no longer doubt your strength, Inez. I have ordered the carriage to be at the door in half an hour, and at the end of that time I will return for you." 
               She left the room, and Inez knelt down beside her chair and fervently prayed for strength and composure in the task before her. The yearning desire that possessed her to look once more on him she had so tenderly loved, would not be put aside, and she felt that strength would be granted her to take a last farewell of his cold remains, without betraying the mortal anguish that lay cradled in her heart. 
               Inez thought not of the comments of others-cared not for them. She was going to take her last look at the face of him she had believed almost a demi-god; and false as Fenton had proved himself to her, she knew that he had been the one love of her life. 
               When the carriage drove to the door, Mrs. Perkins brought her young lady's bonnet and shawl. She looked very grave and apprehensive, but ventured on no further remonstrance, for Inez had already heard as much from her as she could venture to utter. The nurse was afraid that, if this yearning wish was thwarted, Inez might grow wild again, and the poor woman was haunted by the dread that she might become melancholy mad as her mother had been before her death. 
               When Inez was ready to go out, she kissed Mrs. Perkins, and softly said: 
               "You need not be anxious on my account, Jane. I shall come back to you as calm as I go. Nothing can now move me from the composure I have conquered-yes, conquered through the divine spirit of prayer." 
               She passed out, and, looking after her with suffused eyes, her nurse murmured: 
               "Yes, that is the difference between her and her mother. She lays her burden on the Lord, who is able to help her, but Miss Susy fought against hers. She rebelled against what she had to bear, till she lost her mind, poor thing. I begin to hope that it will be better with her child, bad as things looked this morning." 
               During the drive to Silvermere, Inez scarcely spoke. She sat with her hands clasped tightly together, her black veil drawn over her face-seeing nothing, hearing nothing till the carriage entered the grounds around the place. 
               With a convulsive shudder, she suddenly exclaimed: 
               "It is the same place I came to last night! I can now convince you of the reality of my vision by pointing out to you the spot on which Godfrey fell. That clump of bushes on the left hand of the road sheltered the murderer. Oh, Mrs. Langley, let us not pass over the spot stained by his life-blood." 
               Her companion instantly called to the driver to stop the horses, and open the door. She said: 
               "As we wish to visit the house as privately as possible, it will be better at any rate not to drive to the door. We will get out and walk around to the other side of the drive." 
               Inez was glad to feel the cool air blowing on her face; it restored to her the self-command which had been sadly shaken by the recognition of the place she had so lately visited in spirit. 
               The two ladies moved silently forward, and entered the house. Dr. Manton was sitting in the hall reading, and after Mrs. Langley had whispered a few words to him, he preceded them to the door of the room in which the body of Fenton lay. 
               On their entrance, another young man who was watching beside the dead, arose, and the two gentlemen left the apartment together, closing the door behind them. 
               On a couch draped with white, reclined a marble form beautiful as Apollo, and, alas! as rigid as the sculptured form of the god. His shroud was wrapped around him as a Roman toga, and on his brow a chaplet of evergreens was placed. In his cold hands a spray of Life Everlasting lay, placed there by some tender friend, as a symbol of the immortality of the soul that had passed from the things of Time in so sudden and awful a manner. 
                
               There was no trace of suffering on the white stillness of the face, and Inez approached and looked down upon it with calmness almost as stony as that of the dead. She kissed the brow, cheeks, and lips; and then kneeling, with her hands clasped over the pulseless breast, she silently prayed for forgiveness for him, strength for herself. 
               Mrs. Langley watched her with awe and reverence. Never before had she been so deeply moved; but the tears she wept were more for the living heart so awfully stricken than for the lifeless one beside it. 
               Suddenly a side-door opened, and a from bowed with grief entered the darkened room, seemingly unconscious that it was occupied; and, with a gasp of dismay, Mrs. Langley recognized her aunt. Mrs. Markland held her handkerchief pressed to her face; she moved wearily to the side of the couch opposite to Inez, and, sinking on her knees, wailed forth: 
               "Oh, my son! my son! how shall I bear to give you up? to see you taken to the darkness of the grave? Would that I could have died for thee!" 
               She bowed her head and moaned as if her heart was breaking, unconscious of the presence of any one near her till the cold hand of Inez was laid softly on the one she had thrown over Fenton's breast, and a gentle voice said: 
               "Mourn not as one without hope, for your lost one is this day with the angels. Such wrongs as he may have committed on earth are condoned by the blood of our Blessed Redeemer. The Lamb of God, who was slain for the sins of the world, is mighty to save. Have faith, and He shall bring consolation to your broken heart as He has already brought it to mine." 
               With a nervous start the mourner lifted her head and looked into the face of the speaker. She recognized it at once from a miniature of Inez she had been shown by her son, and in a gust of sudden penitence Mrs. Markland arose, moved toward the trembling girl, and, taking her in her arms, in a voice of anguish cried: 
               "Can you forgive me?-you whom I have so deeply injured? Pardon-pardon for the wrong I forced him to commit. Inez Lopez, know you as the betrothed of my son-as the one love of his heart. He appealed to me in every way to win my consent to your union; but I, blinded by my own wilful desire to see another his wife, urged him on in the dishonorable path he pursued. Blame not my dead boy, for he was true to you in his heart." 
               "I know he was," replied Inez, with strange calmness. "I have communed with him in spirit since his death, and he told me so. At your command he gave his hand to my rival, but the tie is broken now, and in death he belongs alone to me. I have been praying for the repose of his soul, and throughout my life, at the same hour of the evening, I will kneel at the throne of grace and renew my petitions for mercy to him and to myself. That God will hear me I feel assured, and in the fulness of time, I shall be re-united to my loved and lost one." 
               As Mrs. Markland listened to these words, a strange stillness came over her lately turbulent grief. For the first time, a ray of consolation penetrated to her rebellious soul, and she laid her head on the shoulder of Inez and shed the tears which had hitherto refused to fall. 
               She at length found voice to say: 
               "God has sent a comforter to me in the person of the last one I could have expected to prove such. Inez, stay with me; be my daughter, and on you I will lavish the affection I have hitherto given my lost one. I shall love you because he did." 
               Inez tenderly kissed her brow and softly said: 
               "I will call you mother, if you will permit me to do so, and I will cherish for you the reverence of a child for a parent, but I cannot remain with you. My duties call me elsewhere. I must seek such change as will remove the past from me, not bind me more closely to it. Adieu, madam. I am glad that we have met, but it is for the first and last time. Our paths cannot be the same, though we are linked together by the sad memory of him who is gone. Much as he was to you, he was even more to me; but in the certainty that he is safe in the better land, I give him up to the ministrations of the angels that wait about the throne of God forever. Kiss me once, mother of my spirit bridegroom, and let me go upon my lonely way." 
               Awed and melted, Mrs. Markland pressed her lips to those of Inez. The pale girl stood a moment over the dead, with her hands tightly locked together, and her eyes fixed upon his features, as if trying to stamp them indelibly upon her memory. 
               She suddenly turned away, took the offered arm of Mrs. Langley, and moved from the room like one walking in a dream. 
               They found the carriage on the spot on which they had left it, and, without exchanging a word, the two ladies returned to Ashwood. 
               Denham had watched most anxiously for their arrival, and he came out as soon as he heard the sound of approaching wheels. As he assisted Inez to alight, he caught a glimpse of her face, and its pale composure reassured him as to what had happened during their absence. 
               The strength of the poor girl seemed to have deserted her, for she leaned helplessly upon his arm; and when Mrs. Perkins came to meet her, she lifted her in her arms and carried her to her bed. 
               Mrs. Langley closely followed them, and administered some restorative drops which she hoped would cause Inez to sleep. After whispering a few words of tender enouragement, she went to give her brother an account of what had happened of the strange scene that had passed beside the dead body of Fenton. 
               She ended her recital by saying: 
               "We are told about 'entertaining angels unawares,' and if one ever assumed mortal form, it is that of Inez Lopez. I have never seen such tenderness and firmness in any creature before. Even Opal, with all her bewitching charms, seems but a creature of earth beside her." 
               "I hope the interview will be of service to Aunt Gertrude. She was inconsolable when I saw her this morning," replied Denham, as if anxious to avoid hearing the name of Opal pronounced. "I said what I could to soothe her, but evidently without effect." 
               "No wonder, when she is suffering from the first bitterness of this blow. Had she cared less for her own wishes, and consulted the happiness of her idol before them, Godfrey would now be living, unstained by the dishonor she admits she almost forced upon him; and that wretched girl would never have sought to wreak her vengeance upon him. Guy, I must tell you that when we came toward the house at Silvermere, Inez refused to pass over the spot on which the blood of Godfrey had been shed. She recognized the localities as those seen in her vision, and pointed out the clump of cedars from which the assassin fired." 
               Denham listened with bent brow and compressed lips. He presently spoke, with some abruptness: 
               "I am willing to admit the reality of this hallucination, Anna; and perhaps some importance may be attached to what Miss Lopez states with reference to Godfrey's murder; but I cannot see that it implicates Nina Gordon in any way. Inez knew her well, and even in the disguise of a boy she must have recognized her." 
                
               His sister searchingly regarded him, and she slowly said: 
               "This is the second time to-day that I have remarked this unwillingness to suspect Miss Gordon. Why should this be so? She has no claim on you, and there is every reason why you should satisfy your doubts as to whether she was the chief actor in this tragedy or not. In justice to her, you should set my suspicions at rest if you believe her to be innocent. Do you believe that, Guy? I ask you a plain, straightforward question, and I demand from you an explicit reply." 
               Denham arose and paced the length of the floor several times. Pausing near his sister, he finally said: 
               "My dear Anna, reflection has convinced me that it will be a most cruel act to breathe on this young stranger's name the suspicion of so foul a crime. I cannot follow up Miss Gordon's steps from the time she left Silvermere, without clearly showing to the world that I believe her to be guilty. If she is not so, think what such an accusation would be to her; how surely it would blight her life. Do not ask me to take any steps against her, for I recoil from the thought of doing so. Since we talked together this morning, I have decided that it will be inexpedient to attempt it." 
               Mrs. Langley listened with impatient surprise, and she decisively replied: 
               "Since you refuse to do this much justice to yourself, from an absurd feeling of chivalric respect for Miss Gordon's sex, I shall myself take the necessary steps to convince the world of her criminality. If Inez did not recognize her under such a disguise, that is no proof that Nina was not the assassin. I still adhere to my own opinion, and I warn you that I shall act upon it as soon as possible. Since you will not move in the affair, I will go to Natchez and inquire in every clothing store there if a young girl answering to her description purchased a suit of gray clothes and a dark cap, for that was the dress Inez described." 
                
               Denham earnestly replied: 
               "My dear sister, I entreat that you will do no such thing. I-I had far rather live down the charges against me than be instrumental in dragging this young girl before a criminal tribunal, even if she is guilty." 
               Mrs. Langley listened incredulously. 
               "Do I hear aright?" she asked. "Is it Guy Denham who asks me, his sister, to permit him to bear the stain of this fearful crime, when I hold in my hand the clue to its perpetrator? Why should you wish, at your own expense, to screen the wretched creature who certainly perpetrated it? What madness possesses you, Guy, to speak as you did just now?" 
               He took her hand in his own and gravely said: 
               "Anna, it is the desire to spare others, not to save Miss Gordon, that prompts me to declare that nothing shall induce me to point her out as the criminal, nor shall you do it with my consent." 
               "Others?-what others? Are you losing your senses, Guy? So far as I know anything about her, this girl has no one to mourn over her lapse from the right. She stands alone in the world, and that of itself would have protected her from me if your good name were not so deeply implicated. I shall not wait for your consent. I shall immediately telegraph to New Orleans to have her arrested on her arrival there, and brought back here for examination." 
               "Oh! Anna, Anna, will nothing make you listen to reason?" asked Denham, in great agitation. "For God's sake, do nothing of the kind. It will lead to such ruin and misery to those we love and respect as you cannot even imagine." 
               Completely mystified, Mrs. Langley gazed at him a few moments in silence, and then quickly said: 
               "There is something beneath this that I do not understand stand. You care nothing for the girl, yet you are trembling with agitation at the threat of her arrest. What is she to Mr. Hastings, and what confidence has he given you concerning her?" 
               "Why should you suppose that he has given me any?" he evasively replied. 
               "My instinct tells me that he has, and it rarely is at fault. If there is anything to be urged as a reason for screening her, you know that you may trust me, Guy; but I must know the ground we stand on." 
               "There is a reason, Anna, but I scarcely feel justified in revealing it to you. Can you not be satisfied with the assurance that it is necessary to spare Nina Gordon?" 
               "No-I cannot, and will not. What you, in your unselfish disregard of your own interests, may consider cause enough to spare her, I may regard in a totally different light. If you have anything to tell, I am willing to listen patiently; to give due weight to all you may say, and to pledge you my word that the confidence shall be held sacred from the knowledge of others." 
               Denham reluctantly replied: 
               "There seems to be no alternative left me. I do not think that you will ever be tempted to betray what I must confide to you, Anna; for in so doing, you would strike a most fearful blow at those whom you have long regarded as the best of friends. Come near to me, and let me whisper in your ear the secret confided to me by Mr. Hastings this morning, amid such a tempest of emotion as moved me to the depths of my soul. You force me to tell you, or I should never have breathed it to mortal ears." 
               Mrs. Langley leaned eagerly forward. She changed color as the words left his lips, and gazed at him several moments in blank astonishment and dismay. At length she found voice to say: 
                
               "It is incredible! His daughter! How did he dare to bring her beneath his wife's roof without letting her know in what relation Nina stood to him? He!-a man respected by every one, too! I can hardly believe it, though you assure me of it on his own authority." 
               "It is but too painfully true. Mr. Hastings was wrong in the course he took, but he has been too bitterly punished for you or me to sit in judgment upon him. Anna, I declare to you that such pity as I felt for him when he made that confession has never moved my heart toward any other creature. He has been weak-wicked perhaps; but he is utterly broken down and most wretched, and mine shall never be the hand to throw the first stone at him. I had far rather bear such suspicions as must still cling to me, than clear myself by exposing the hideous skeleton that has so long dwelt in his house. Mr. Hastings believes as you do, that Nina destroyed the man who had jilted her and married her sister. Surely that is punishment enough for him to bear." 
               Denham anxiously regarded her, but Mrs. Langley relieved his fears by saying in a gloomy tone: 
               "I see-I comprehend that you must permit her to escape for the sake of those so nearly connected with her. I know what would follow exposure. Mrs. Hastings would never forgive the concealment so long practised by her husband. She would separate from him, and little as he deserves consideration, I am myself unwilling to save your fair name from taint by sacrificing him to prove to the world how falsely you have been accused. But, Guy, if it were not for the hope that you may some day claim your reward in gaining the hand of Opal, I would not consent to compromise you, even for the sake of her father." 
               "Don't speak of that now, Anna. I dare not even dream of such happiness in the future, for a union between us would only give fresh impetus to the slanders of others. I will put self aside, and do my duty to my neighbor without looking to any future result to myself. In the years to come, if God in His mercy enables me to clear myself before the eyes of man, I may once more admit into my heart the sweetest and brightest hope that ever dawned upon it." 
               Mrs. Langley took his hand, and solemnly said: 
               "That eternal justice will reveal all in its own good time, I firmly believe. Such noble self-abnegation as this must meet its reward even in this world. My lips are scaled as to Nina Gordon's guilt; we must bear the burden laid on us as we best may, trusting and hoping that the time will come to prove your innocence to all who may doubt it, and open the way for you to gain the hand of her you love. You can wait; Opal is little more than a child yet, and by the time she is old enough to become your wife you may find yourself in a position to win her as such." 
               "Thank you, dear. I believe that you will take the same view of this sad affair that I do, but I am not the less grateful to you for doing so. I must cause efforts to be made to discover the murderer of Godfrey, but I shall be very careful not to set the detectives on the right track. Nothing can come of it of course, but it will serve to show others that I court investigation and am willing to have everything laid bare, so far as I am individually concerned." 
               Mrs. Langley arose, and sadly said: 
               "I must retire to my own room to think over all this, and reconcile myself to the humiliating defeat I must endure. It is hard that I should hold the fate of the guilty one almost in my hand, yet allow her to escape the punishment she merits; and leave her, perhaps, to commit some other outrage as flagrant as this. Such a wretch is capable of anything, and I scarcely think that we have heard the last of Nina Gordon. Well may that hoary-headed old man shrink and cower before the creature he is so unhappy as to claim as his child." 
               She left the room, and Denham remained absorbed in thought. In spite of the uncertainty of the future-of the darkness of the present-the tender hopes which had sprung into new life beneath the words of his sister came to strengthen him for the inevitable probation he must endure before he could, with any degree of certainty, hope to win the dearest treasure of his life. 
               Opal was free-was again within his reach-and he would despair of nothing that would open the way to a future union with her. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               NINA STRIKES HER LAST BLOW UPON A BREAKING HEART. 
               THE funeral of Fenton took place on the Sunday after his death. An immense concourse of people followed his remains to the family burying ground on his mother's place. 
               Guy Denham appeared with Mrs. Markland as one of the chief mourners, and every one present remarked how confidingly the bereaved mother clung to him. Many marvelled that it should be so; for, in spite of the verdict given in his favor, there were those who insisted that he alone was the guilty one, and but for Mrs. Markland's desire to screen from punishment so near a relative of her daughters, Denham would have been indicted for the murder. 
               He heard much of this, and writhed under it as only so high-toned a nature can under such grievous wrong; but never for one moment did he waver in the course he had marked out for himself. 
                
               Active efforts were made by the detectives employed to discover the assassin, but without any other result than to fix the belief in the minds of many that Denham alone had any interest in getting Godfrey Fenton out of his path. In vain did it become known that he had positively refused to accept from his aunt the estate she had purchased for her son. That was declared but a blind. After a sufficient time had elapsed to enable him to bring forward his pretensions, he would compensate himself for so small a sacrifice by securing the hand and fortune of the youthful widow of his victim. 
               Such was the gossip of the outside world; but those most deeply concerned in it appeared anxious to remain as far aloof from it as possible. The two families whose affairs occupied the attention of the whole community lived in the strictest seclusion for many weeks after the tragic night of the bridal. 
               Mrs. Langley and her brother were the only guests received either at Silvermere or Magnolia, and they were always welcomed at both houses as messengers of consolation. 
               Inez, accompanied by Mrs. Perkins, set out for New Orleans the day after the funeral. She was calm and sad, and quite decided as to her future life. She had written to the good priest under whose care she had travelled, and Father Espana met her on her arrival in the city, and took her at once to the Ursuline Convent, in which she was for the present received. It was her intention to visit Europe with a party of nuns who were going back to France; and, after a year or two of probation in some religious house there, she might, or might not, decide to assume the black veil. 
               Such was the substance of the letter she sent back to Mrs. Langley. A postscript was added by Mrs. Perkins, stating that the health of her young lady was better than she dared to hope after all she had gone through, and her mind perfectly clear except on one subject. Inez still maintained that she held constant communion with her dead lover; and through the consolation derived from that source, she declared she was able to sustain her courage for the practical duties to which she had dedicated her life and fortune. 
               As the weeks passed on, and nothing resulted from the investigations of the police, Mr. Hastings began to cast aside a portion of the dread that had almost made his life a burden to him; but he was so changed that his nearest friends could scarcely recognize in the prematurely aged man the strong and healthy elderly gentleman of a few months back. 
               His spirits had utterly deserted him, and he resorted more than ever to the artificial stimulants, the use of which his wife so strongly deprecated. But she no longer had the power to avert the evil; he refused to listen to her remonstrances, and seemed indifferent to the reproaches she uttered. He once gloomily replied: 
               "It cannot last much longer, Laura. You will soon be rid of me and the trouble I give you, so let me have my own way at the last. If I hurt myself, I alone am to blame; and if you knew all, you would understand that I must dull the gnawing pain at my heart by the use of stimulants. It is impossible for me to do without them." 
               Mrs. Hastings looked into his face, saw there the ravages of the few past weeks, and, with sudden dread, asked: 
               "What is it, William? Why are you so changed since that dreadful night? Godfrey's death, terrible as it was, should not break you down thus. There must be something beside that on your mind, yet you conceal it from me. I am your wife; I have the right to know what so deeply concerns you." 
                
               "My dear Laura, you know all that is good for you to know. My burden, such as it is, must be borne by myself alone. When I am gone, perhaps you may learn the cause of my depression, and you will not have very long to wait. But while life lingers in my heart, I shall guard from your knowledge the secret that so heavily oppresses me. It is best so, Laura, as you will some day admit." 
               "Oh! William, you do not love me, or you would not speak thus," she exclaimed. 
               Mr. Hastings sadly replied: 
               "It is because I do love you; because I prize my home, saddened as it is, that I refuse the confidence you ask. When I am dead, should you chance to learn all, as perhaps you may, you will understand why I spared you the knowledge of that which could only render you more unhappy than my present reserve does. You will forgive me then, Laura, for I shall be beyond the reach of blame." 
               Mrs. Hastings was chilled and frightened. She tenderly said: 
               "Don't talk of dying and leaving me, William. Keep your secret if it is so vital to you to do so; and if you will only endeavor to brighten up a little, I will promise not to make an effort to pry into it." 
               He took her hand in his own, and gently said: 
               "You have been a loving and true wife to me, Laura, though you have sometimes sought to domineer over me with too royal a spirit; but I should have borne that better, knowing as I did my own unworthiness to claim you as my own at all. I have been a wretched sinner, and the punishment of my evil deeds has fallen on me in this world. I am bearing it now, and no one can help me; the heart alone can know its own bitterness." 
               He turned from her with a heavy sigh; and his wife, oppressed and bewildered by his words, left him again alone. She plainly saw that, unless something could be done to restore his mind to calmness, the end, as he himself said, must soon come, and she shrank with dread from the thought of losing him. 
               Mrs. Hastings summoned to her side the clergyman who had officiated on the occasion of the marriage, hoping that, through his means, consolation for the mysterious sorrow that was dragging her husband to the grave might be found. But Mr. Hastings refused to see him or to hold communion with him in any way. He dared not confess to Mr. Winston the cause of his depression, and he declared that he could pray for the forgiveness of his sins without the aid of any theologian. 
               The only thing that seemed to cheer him was the visits of Guy Denham; and if he failed to call every day at Silvermere, a messenger was sent to summon him to the presence of Mr. Hastings. With Denham he could talk freely of the past, and he seemed to find a strange consolation in recalling every trivial incident connected with his early days, and in dwelling on the hopes he had centered in the child, over whom he had never ceased to watch, although she was so widely separated from him. 
               Denham felt the deepest compassion for him; he saw that the weakness which had prompted him to deceive the woman he had so passionately loved still clung to him, and demonstrated itself in the downward path he was treading. Guy fully comprehended that the strain on body and mind could not last much longer. In any sudden access of emotion, the link that bound him to life might snap forever, and he tried to guard him from it in every possible manner. 
               Though so often at Silvermere, Denham had seen Opal but once since the night of her hapless bridal. She was clad in the deepest mourning, and looked sad enough to have induced him to believe that she was grieving over the loss of her bridegroom, had not the tell-tale flush that came to her cheek and the sudden light that flashed into her eyes as he drew near her, proved to him that he was as welcome as in those old sweet days before Godfrey Fenton came to throw himself upon her path, and gain her unwilling consent to give him her hand. 
               But these outward tokens of emotion were instantly repressed; and with grave reticence she returned his salutations, and immediately retired to her apartment to chide her own heart for the sudden bound it gave when Denham once more stood before her; to weep over her inability to feel as if every earthly hope was buried in the grave of Fenton. 
               Opal hated herself for feeling as if rescued from falling over the brink of the precipice on which she had so lately stood, and believed herself wicked in not lamenting Godfrey's death with that abandonment of feeling which should have been felt by a widow so suddenly and so awfully bereaved. 
               But, in spite of her most strenuous efforts to be miserable, after the first shock of Fenton's fate passed away, Opal found her heart lighter than it had been for weeks before her inauspicious marriage, and she gave up the struggle with the conviction that she was the most ungrateful of women. Poor Godfrey had loved her so dearly! and here she was almost happy in the thought that she was freed from the yoke she had thoughtlessly assumed before she had time to feel what a heavy burden it might become. 
               From childhood Opal had been very much attached to Mrs. Langley. She had confided to her all her girlish troubles; and, in the sad seclusion of her present life, the old habit resumed its sway. She confessed to her friend the state of her feelings with regard to what she owed to the memory of Fenton's devotion, yet which she could not force herself, by any mental discipline, to pay. 
               Mrs. Langley listened with interest to the artless confidence; and, after a few moments' reflection, asked: 
                
               "Would it wound you deeply, Opal, to know that from you, Godfrey merits no such mental suttee as you seem to think his due? Tell me the plain truth, my dear." 
               "Of course I will, Mrs. Langley, as far as I understand it myself. Since I am so hard and cold that I cannot grieve over poor Godfrey as I ought, I scarcely think I should be wounded by finding out that he cared for somebody else, as that is what you mean, I suppose." 
               "That is precisely what I mean, Opal. I have hesitated about telling you of that poor girl, and her long pilgrimage hither, to find desertion and despair awaiting her at the end of her journey. But the ingenuous expression of your feelings has determined me to tell you all, and leave you to form your own opinion as to the sincerity of poor Godfrey's protestations." 
               Opal regarded her with a half-startled look, and faintly said: 
               "Go on, if you please. If there is anything to be told, it is not right to keep me in the dark about it." 
               Mrs. Langley sat down beside her, passed her arm around her, and, in low-measured accents, gave her the history of Fenton's engagement to Inez; of her journey to Natchez to find him on the eve of marriage with another; also of the confession of Mrs. Markland over the dead body of her son, that she had urged him on to the union she wished him to make; and, finally, the departure of Inez for New Orleans, in heart-broken resignation to the doom that had fallen on her faithless idol. 
               As she listened, all Opal's sympathies went forth toward the wronged and unhappy girl who had been so heartlessly deserted when Fenton believed her fortune lost to her, and she fully understood why she had herself been preferred before Inez Lopez. Contempt and anger surged up in her heart toward her recreant lover, but they were speedily quenched in the thought that all the wrong he had committed had been terribly atoned for by the loss of his life within a few hours after he had secured the bride for whose wealth he had paid so heavy a price. 
               She was silent a long time after Mrs. Langley ceased speaking, and then said: 
               "It is a sad tale, but I am not sorry that I have heard it. 'Vengeance is mine, and I will repay.' Those awful words come to me as the solution of what has lately happened here. As to myself, I am most thankful that I have been saved from learning this as Godfrey Fenton's wife. It could not long have been concealed from me, and I must have shrunk away from the man who could play the part he did toward me even while his heart was filled with the image of another. Godfrey is dead, and I will respect the sanctity of the tomb, but I will no longer try to make myself miserable because I cannot grieve over his loss as his widow should. If I dared, or my mother would permit me to do such a thing, I would lay aside this 'mockery of woe,' for when the heart is not in sympathy with black robes, I see no propriety in wearing them." 
               "That would be going too far, Opal. Wear the outward symbols of respect for the man to whom you gave your hand, and afford the carping outside world no cause for gossip. I have told you this sad story to remove from your heart the self-accusing spirit that rendered you unhappy, for I could not bear to see your bright face clouded by the struggle that was going on within you." 
               "Thank you. I only wish that I had known this before; it would have saved me many wretched hours. I only consented to accept Godfrey because he led me to believe that he was sincerely attached to me, and I have thought myself base and ungrateful when I could not grieve over his loss as a bereaved bride should. I am glad that the struggle has ended, even by knowing that he was not worthy to be deeply lamented by me. I do not think that Mrs. Markland has treated me quite well, either; but I will not betray to her the knowledge I have gained. In me she shall always find an attentive and affectionate daughter-in-law. I feel the deepest sympathy for her, for she must now bitterly accuse herself as the cause of the wrong Godfrey committed against the unhappy girl who acted as an angel of forgiveness toward her." 
               "That is right, dear. Aunt Gertrude is too deeply stricken to awake any other feeling than compassion in your tender heart. She will never cease to mourn Godfrey's death, though I can see that she is beginning to turn to her younger children for comfort. She is far less stern and exacting with Dora and Jenny than she has hitherto been. In other days I have felt hardly toward her myself on account of her unjust treatment of my brother, but she has made noble reparation, and I have now no feeling for her but affection and respect." 
               From that day Opal became her former sweet and gentle self. She devoted as much of her time as possible to her failing father, and sought to brighten his sad life by her cheerful companionship. 
               The days passed on in monotonous quiet, and still no tidings came from Nina. Mr. Hastings began to look for them with restless impatience. She had promised to write when she had anything to say that was of interest to him, yet she had failed to do so. 
               Spring had opened, and all nature was bright with rejuvenated life. The trees waved their boughs, clothed with tender green, in the warm, sunlit air, and flowers bloomed in beauty, while the birds carolled their sweetest songs through the woodland; but the awakening of so much life and beauty only more deeply depressed the doomed man who had ceased to find joy in anything. 
                
               A weight of apprehension he could not shake off, kept the spirits of Mr. Hastings at their lowest ebb, and he watched for the arrival of his letters from town with a feverish eagerness that was pitiful to behold. 
               One bright afternoon in May, Denham came back from Natchez with a letter for Mr. Hastings, which bore the Norfolk postmark. He was alone in his library when his visitor entered, and the first glance he gave at the superscription of the letter, blanched his face to the hue of death. 
               He faintly gasped: 
               "It is from Anna Moore! It is nineteen years since I have looked upon her writing, and what can she have to say to me now? Oh, heaven! what new anguish is in store for me!" 
               Denham would have left him to read the letter alone, but he detained him by saying: 
               "Don't leave me, Guy. Lock the door to prevent any one from intruding on us, and stay by me. I may need you, for I feel very faint and ill." 
               Denham turned the key in the lock, and offering him a glass of water, soothingly said: 
               "Pray compose yourself, dear sir; the letter may contain little to agitate you after all." 
               Mr. Hastings shook his head drearily, and continued to hold the envelope in his hand as if dreading to open it. At length with an effort he tore it apart and drew forth a sheet of closely-written paper. With dilating eyes he read the following lines: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "WILLIAM HASTINGS, you blighted my young life, and now you have filled the measure of your wrongs by betraying my painful secret to the being I am so unfortunate as to claim as my child. Nina is here!-in this town-and she has found means to inform me of the cruel want of faith of which you have been guilty. 
                            
                           "She is worthy to claim as her father the man who practiced so shameful a deception on the woman who loved and trusted him, as I once did you, for she threatens me with exposure if I do not give her a larger sum of money than it is possible for me to raise without the knowledge of my husband. 
                           "Through all these years I have never had the courage to reveal to him my wretched past, and if he now becomes aware of it I am firmly convinced that he will put me from him-that he will take from me my young children, thus leaving me desolate indeed. 
                           "You may think, because I gave Nina up so readily, that the maternal instinct cannot be very strong in my heart, but it is not so. I recoiled from her, because she was the daughter of the man who had so bitterly wronged me, but for these little helpless ones I have all a mother's clinging love, and to be severed from them will be a fatal blow to me. 
                           "I demand of you that you shall send me without delay the money to bribe this wretched creature to silence. I ask it as my right, since you have exposed me to this misery and humiliation. 
                           "Nina has forced her way into my presence, once when she knew my husband to be absent; she reproached me with deserting her in her infancy, and the things she uttered were too dreadful to be borne, though in one respect I find that you have done me justice. You confessed to her that while I lived with you as your wife, I believed you to be bound to me by every legal tie. That much I thank you for, but you will scarcely believe me when I tell you that she threatens to bring forward that shameful record and attempt to prove that you were my lawful husband, thus fixing upon both of us the charge of bigamy. 
                           "She declared to me that she would do anything to remove from herself the stain of illegitimacy, and fix it on the daughter of your present wife. Oh! William, why have you laid this new sorrow upon me? Have I not borne enough at your hands, without being thus persecuted by this wretched girl, who seems as destitute of feeling as she is of principle. 
                           "Nina has but one thought-her own interest, and her greed of money is insatiable. She admits that you have given her ten thousand dollars, and she demands as much more of me as the price of her silence. Appeals to her mercy were vain; she only answered them by saying: 
                           "You would not give me a mother's love, but you shall provide for me as your daughter. Your husband is rich; give me what I ask, and I will leave you to such peace as so great a hypocrite may find in the home of as good a man as every one says your husband is. 
                           "Think what I felt while listening to such words from the lips of my own daughter! I could only rid myself of her by promising to do what I could for her, but I asked for time in which to raise the money she insists on having. 
                           "She granted me a month's grace, but she finds means to show herself to me every day. I cannot look from my window on the street that I do not see her walking slowly to and fro, and our neighbors begin to notice and talk of her as an escaped lunatic. 
                           "If you do not release me from this persecution, I shall do something desperate. 
                           
                              ANNA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               With a deep groan Mr. Hastings dropped the letter and sunk back upon his seat; he faintly gasped: 
               "Read it, Guy. Do what you can to save the writer-I-I am going-going--" 
               In extreme alarm Denham loosened his neck-tie and sprinkled water over his face but after a few gasping sobs the broken-hearted man sunk into immobility and his features rapidly settled into that calm rigidity which tells its own story to him who has once looked on death. 
               In that hour of supremest anguish the penalty of wrongdoing was paid, and the spirit had gone to meet its award at a higher tribunal than that of earth. 
               When convinced that life was indeed extinct, Denham put the letter in his pocket to prevent it from falling into the possession of Mrs. Hastings or her daughter. He then unlocked the door and ordered a servant to go for Doctor Wiseman and bring him to the assistance of his master as speedily as possible. 
               Denham placed the worn form upon the couch, and, aided by Chloe, who hastened to the library on hearing of Mr. Hastings' seizure, every effort was made to restore animation, though he had from the first no hope of success. 
               Mrs. Hastings and her daughter had driven over to Magnolia that afternoon to spend a few hours with Mrs. Markland, and on their return they were met by a messenger bearing the tidings of the sudden illness of the husband and father they had left in his usual health. 
               By the time they reached home the physician was already there, and in a brief space of time the sad conviction came to them that all was over. 
               We pass over the sad days that followed. At first Mrs. Hastings was inconsolable, for she had loved her husband as truly and tenderly as such a woman is capable of loving; and Opal tried to arouse herself from her own grief to comfort her mother under the sad loss they had sustained. 
               Guy Denham read the letter, as the dying words of Mr. Hastings had commanded him, and he soon decided on the course he must pursue. 
               When the funeral was over, and Mrs. Hastings had in some measure regained control of her grief, Denham sought an interview with her to unfold to her what must now be told if he would save the suffering woman who had written that last appeal to the author of her misery. 
               In the course of his confidences on this subject Mr. Hastings had said to him that after his decease, if any necessity arose for this course, Guy must inform his wife of the relationship of Nina to himself. He could see no other alternative now, and with many misgivings Denham proceeded to lay before Mrs. Hastings as much of her husband's early history as it was necessary for her to know in the present position of affairs. 
               She wept bitterly as she listened, and seemed to have but one remorseful thought which swallowed up all resentment for the long deception he had practised on herself. 
               "To think," she sobbed, "that I was jealous of her! that I made him miserable while she was in this house, and she was his own daughter! Oh! William! William! if I only had you back again! If I could only show you how sorry I am for the hard words I have said and done, I should be happy-happy! Why did he not tell me, Guy? What induced him to withhold his revelation till after he was gone?" 
               "He thought it best to do so," replied Denham, evasively; "and I have spoken of these things to you, Mrs. Hastings, because something must be done for the unhappy mother of Nina, to prevent her from being ruined by her own child. She is respectably married, and Nina demands money of her to prevent exposure both of her and of your deceased husband. You are rich and liberal-you would pay handsomely sooner than have this disgraceful story become known, or the near connection of such a girl as Miss Gordon with your own daughter suspected." 
               She uttered an exclamation of horror. 
               "I would not have it known for half my fortune! Make terms with her, Guy; I will give you authority to draw on my merchant for as much money as you may need, though I have already settled ten thousand dollars on this girl. As much more will probably buy her off altogether, though she is to understand that she is never to intrude her claims on me again." 
               "I can easily settle that," replied Denham. "Half the sum you have named will enable me to rid you effectually of Miss Gordon. If you will give me an order for five thousand dollars, I will pledge you my word that she shall never annoy you again." 
               Mrs. Hastings wrote the order, Denham put it in his pocket, and when he was alone again he sat down and wrote the following letter to Nina: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              ASHWOOD, MAY 12,18-.
                            
                           Three days since, Mr. Hastings was laid in his grave, brought to his death by a letter from your mother which is now in my possession. From that I learn that you have persecuted the unhappy lady who wrote it, in the hope that you will be able to extort money from her. I have but few words to say to such a woman as you are, Miss Gordon, and they shall be to the point. I have in my possession such evidence as brings conviction to my own mind that you destroyed Godfrey Fenton, using my pistol which you took from a window in the library at Silvermere, intending to fix the stigma of the murder on me.
                            
                           I will state to you the grounds of my belief in your criminality, and you can judge for yourself what chance of escape will remain to you if I become your accuser. 
                           You purchased in Natchez a suit of boy's clothing made of gray cloth, and a dark fur cap. The boat on which you embarked for New Orleans lay several hours at the cotton landing only a mile from Silvermere on the night on which the murder was perpetrated. The road between the two places was well known to you, as I am aware that you rode over it more than once while you were a member of Mr. Hastings' family. 
                           You walked from the landing wearing the disguise you had purchased, over which a dark travelling shawl was wrapped. You entered the grounds around Silvermere, and concealed yourself in the shrubbery, watching a favorable opportunity to commit the fatal deed you meditated. One soon offered, for Fenton unfortunately came out and walked down the carriage drive. You shot him to death, and dropped the weapon you had used that it might be found and identified as mine. 
                           These are facts that I can establish, for I have secretly ascertained the house at which the disguise you used was purchased, and the clerk who waited on you can identify you. 
                           I have borne the humiliation of being accused of your crime. I still bear the suspicion that will always follow me till the truth can be proclaimed, and I have spared you because I would not have the position you hold toward Mr. Hastings and his daughter become known to the world. 
                           Your father confided to me the whole of that sad story, and thus prevented me from taking such steps for your arrest as I had contemplated. I offer you two alternatives. Leave this country at once, and never return to it, keeping in your own possession the secret of your parentage. Release your unhappy mother from your persecutions, and accept the sum of five thousand dollars, which, with the ten thousand already settled on you, shall be placed to your credit in the house of Baring & Brothers in London. 
                           That is the utmost limit of what shall be done for you; and if you do not at once accept these terms, I will have you arrested on the charge of wilful murder, and, regardless of consequences to you or others, I will pursue you to the utmost extremity of the law. 
                            
                           On the reception of this, telegraph to me immediately in these words-"Your terms are accepted," or take the consequences, for I am terribly in earnest. I give you ten days of grace, and if I do not hear from you at the end of that time, it will be too late to save yourself. 
                           
                              GUY DENHAM.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               He took the letter himself to Natchez, and posted it. As he had anticipated, on the evening of the tenth day the telegram came, and two weeks later Denham found the name of Nina Gordon among the list of passengers who had embarked on a European steamer. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               A SEA VOYAGE. OLD FRIENDS RE-UNITED. 
               THE shock of her father's sudden death seriously affected both the health and spirits of Opal, and Mrs. Hastings aroused herself from the indulgence of her own grief to devise some means of bringing back cheerfulness to her drooping child. 
               The listless dejection into which the young girl had fallen threatened the most serious results, and Dr. Wiseman advised change of scene as the only remedy. 
               Mrs. Hastings remembered how much pleasure Opal's anticipated tour to Europe had afforded her, and she determined to take her to Paris, remain there two years, and allow her daughter the benefit of masters to complete her imperfect education. They would then travel another year, and by that time she trusted that the memories of the few last months would cease to leave their sad impress on the mind of her daughter. 
                
               Mrs. Hastings had an uncle living in Paris-the youngest brother of her mother-with whom she had kept up a straggling correspondence for many years past. M. Latour was a wealthy banker, and to him she now wrote to engage apartments for her, and make such arrangements for her reception as would prevent her from feeling as a stranger in a strange land. 
               Opal assented to this proposal with some gleam of her former brightness, though she soon sunk again into the dreamy apathy from which she found it almost impossible to arouse herself. 
               When Mrs. Markland heard of the proposed tour, she declared that she would accompany them, taking Dora and Jenny with her. They could be placed at boarding school, and receive such educational advantages as could not be commanded near their home; so it was settled that the two families were to embark in the latter part of June, and Guy Denham was to act as agent for the estates they left behind them. 
               At the end of two years, he and Mrs. Langley were to join his aunt in Paris, and travel with the whole party through the most interesting portions of Europe. 
               With many regrets, Denham saw his fair idol depart; but he knew that it was best for them both that the sea should roll between them. He could not be near Opal and not betray the engrossing passion of his soul; yet he felt that, situated as he was, it would be unjust to her to seek her in any way while the cloud that hung over himself precluded all thought of a union between them. 
               Adoringly as Denam loved her, he dared not give strength to the doubts of his innocence which were still expressed by others, by becoming the husband of Godfrey Fenton's widowed bride. He believed that Opal loved him; that one cause of her dejection was the certainty in her own mind that, until the assassin was revealed, a union between them was impossible; so he armed his soul with endurance, and made such business arrangements as were necessary both for his aunt and Mrs. Hastings. 
               Mrs. Langley and himself accompanied them to New Orleans, and saw the party embark on a French steamer under the protection of a merchant of that city who was going to Europe as the agent of the firm of which he was a member. 
               Opal promised Mrs. Langley to write to her regularly, and so they parted. 
               The voyage to Havre was prosperous, and the transit from there to Paris was rapidly and safely made. M. Latour had been warned of the addition to the party, and they found delightful apartments engaged for them, with such domestic service as they would require. 
               M. Latour, a handsome, grey-haired man of sixty, met his niece at the railroad dpot and conducted her to her new residence. He was a bachelor, and lived en garon, as he explained to her, or he would have received them in his own establishment. 
               The sea voyage had already benefited Opal, and she looked on the novel scenes around her with something of her former vivacity. A few weeks were given to the objects of interest to be found in the city and its vicinity, and then the two younger girls were settled in their pension. Opal commenced under competent masters the course of study she intended to pursue, and the three ladies led together a quiet, but very pleasant life, visited constantly by M. Latour, and occasionally by a few of his friends whom he thought worthy to be received by them. 
               Opal wrote frequently to Mrs. Langley, giving her vivid pictures of what she saw, and, from her letters, her distant friends gained the impression that her mind had recovered its elasticity, and hope again threw its halo over her young and sanguine heart. 
               In these epistles there was always a message for Denham, and these evidences of unabated interest in himself afforded new food to the passion that had grown with his growth and strengthened with every hour of his life, hopeless as a future union between them seemed to be. 
               The two years of separation passed over with leaden feet to him, but at length the glad hour came in which he could embark for the land that held the being most dear to him on earth. He could think of nothing, dream of nothing but the happiness of beholding Opal once more, and he put far behind him the dreadful thought that, loving her as he must ever do, he dared not attempt to make her his own. 
               Fortune had dealt kindly with Denham in the two past years. By some lucky speculations he had nearly trebled the fortune bequeathed to him by his cousin, and in addition to this, the large salary allowed him by his aunt and Mrs. Hastings had been left to accumulate. Denham felt that he was rich enough for every rational purpose. He was glad to be independent in fortune, as every one should be, but he felt as if all the gold of Midas could never bring joy to him unless he could find means to erase from his name the blot that rested on it, and claim Opal Hastings as the partner of his life. 
               Reckless of future suffering to himself, he was about to throw himself within the sphere of her enchantments again; but to see her-to listen to the music of her voice-to bask in the soft light of her eyes-would be such supreme happiness to him that he was willing to risk all his future peace to attain it. 
               During those two years nothing had been heard from Nina Gordon, save that the money deposited to her credit in London had been drawn. Where she was, or whither she had gone, was a profound mystery, though Denham vaguely hoped that retributive justice would yet overtake her, and the truth be proclaimed to the world, without betraying the connection between the criminal and the Hastings family. 
               At long intervals Mrs. Langley received letters from Inez. She had taken up her abode at Rome, assuming the dress and performing the duties of a Sister of Charity, though by a special dispensation she was permitted to do so without taking the vows of a run. She devoted her large means to works of benevolence, and she wrote that she had found that peace which passeth all understanding, and no longer wept over the wreck of her early dream of love. 
               To see Inez again was one of the strongest inducements to Mrs. Langley to undertake a voyage across the Atlantic, for she had a great dread of the sea. Inez declared that she never intended to return to the land in which she had suffered so much, and her friend was willing to risk the dangers of shipwreck so vividly portrayed to her fancy, to behold again the girl who had so deeply interested her. 
               Mrs. Langley's fears seemed to bring their own fulfilment, for their voyage was unusually tempestuous; and after many days of tossing to and fro upon the unruly waves, the cry of land was hailed with delight by all on board the ship. It was the coast of France that was dimly visible, and a few hours later Denham and his sister were glad to find themselves safe on terra firma again. 
               After a few hours rest, they set out for Paris, and on the evening of a brilliant day in June they arrived at the lodging of their friends. Apartments had been secured for them in the same house, and it had been settled that after the brother and sister had seen the lions of the city, the whole party, including Mrs. Markland and her daughters, should set out on their projected tour. 
                
               The travellers were ushered into a reception room, the walls of which were nearly lined with mirrors, and the next instant a young creature, bright with health and happiness, came flying in to welcome them. 
               "Oh, Guy-dear Guy-dearest Mrs. Langley, I did not dare hope to see you soon among us. Your letter only came yesterday telling us that you had actually embarked, and hoped to be here this week. But mamma has secured apartments for you, and you will live with us." 
               She threw herself on Mrs. Langley's bosom, while she held out one of her hands to Denham. He carried it impulsively to his lips, and Mrs. Langley kissed her again and again. She then held her off from her, gazing with fond admiration on the lovely face, with the old fluctuating gleam of color lighting up the pure pearliness of her complexion. 
               In the two past years Opal had developed into perfect womanhood, and the rounded contour of her exquisite form, the refined elevation of soul expressed in her eloquent face gave the crowning charm to her rare loveliness. 
               Mrs. Langley delightedly exclaimed: 
               "How wonderfully you have improved, my dear! you really seem transfigured. I thought you charming before, but you are irresistible now." 
               Opal laughed, blushed, and glanced half-shyly at Denham, who still held her hand clasped in his own while he gazed on her in a trance of rapture. 
               She brought him to his sober senses again, by softly withdrawing her hand and archly saying: 
               "I am afraid Guy does not agree with you; he seems struck dumb by disappointment. But I have done my best, sir critic, and if I am not a genuine Parisienne, it is not my fault, nor yet that of my mother." 
               Denham recovered himself, and hastened to say: 
               "I am only so much dazzled and enchanted by the vision of loveliness that has burst upon me that I have no words in which I can adequately express my feelings. You have improved, indeed, Opal; but I do not believe that anything could make you so artificial as a genuine Parisienne is bound to be. You are the same creature of nature and impulse that I have known and admired from my boyhood." 
               "Admired? Oh, Guy, if that is all, you had better go back to your own home and leave me to forget the past!" 
               Was the thought that came to the heart of the fair listener; but she only smiled, and said: 
               "Tardy praise is better than none. I warn you that my love of approbation is excessive; and, from those I highly regard, I expect-appreciation." 
               "You must always have that, and more, from me-and from my sister," he added, as he became conscious how much his words implied. 
               At this crisis Mrs. Hastings came in, followed by Mrs. Markland and her daughters; and such a welcome as the travellers received was worth even the stormy voyage across the ocean from which they had just escaped. 
               The happy party gathered around the supper table that night, and Denham rejoiced to see that his aunt had recovered her former tranquillity of manner, and he felt sure that Mrs. Hastings had ceased to mourn the loss of her unhappy husband. Dora had grown into a dark-eyed houri of seventeen, and he was glad to see that the pride of Mrs. Markland was as great in her loveliness as it had once been in the fair promise of her idolized son. 
               The programme of the proposed tour was determined on, and the hours sped by on wings of light. At a late hour they separated to meet again the next morning over an early breakfast. After it was over Opal and Dora set out with the new-comers to commence a survey of the wonders of Paris. The month allotted to the city and its vicinity passed by so rapidly that two at least of the party were almost unconscious of the flight of time. 
               In visiting works of art, and spots famous in history, Opal found new delight in the society of one so capable of lending a new interest to them as she found Guy to be. He was a good scholar, an extensive reader, and possessed that appreciation for all that is grand or beautiful, which most deeply charms the heart of an impulsive and enthusiastic girl. 
               Opal listened to him as to an oracle, and thought his criticisms worthy to be printed in letters of gold. To her he was wisest, best, and she did not scruple to shew him in what high esteem she held him. Opal felt sure that Denham loved her, and she knew that to no other would she ever again give the hand to which he was too delicate to put forth any claim till he could do so in the sight of men, without one voice to condemn him as the perpetrator of the deed which had restored her freedom to her. 
               So long as Opal felt the sweet assurance of his affection, she was contented that it should be so. If fate forbade a closer union, they could be fast and devoted friends, and Opal believed that she could be happy in being ever near him-in daily seeing him, even if she could never become his wife. 
               For a season Denham, too, was happy in the mere delight of her presence; but the passion that daily gained strength soon rendered him restless and wretched. He wanted her for his very own, to be all in all to him, yet he saw no means of bridging the gulf the accusation against himself as the assassin of her bridegroom had opened between them. 
               At times he felt tempted to abjure his country forever: live far away from those who had so persistently asserted his guilt, and accepting the happiness he had only to put forth his hand to grasp, give up his native land for its dear sake. 
               But the bitter thought came that even in his self-imposed exile the insinuations so derogatory to himself might be whispered. The voice of scandal might even implicate her fair name in the charges against himself, and Denham shrank from the temptation as a sin against the woman he so adoringly loved. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               A DECLARATION, AND BETROTHAL. 
               TO the travellers, the months that followed brought new impressions in their ever-changing scenes. They visited every locality most worthy of note in the countries through which they passed, and lingered at many a shrine hallowed by tender or heroic associations. 
               The two young girls attracted much attention; for their letters of introduction afforded our party an entrance to agreeable society in several cities in which they made a brief sojourn. They all spoke French with fluency, and they saw and enjoyed all that was best worth seeing in their tour. 
               A German baron, who boasted of his sixteen quarterings, and a French marquis of the ancient rgime, laid the offering of their hands and hearts at the feet of la belle Americaine, as Opal was called wherever she appeared; but the baron was nearly old enough to be her grandfather, and the marquis had lost his fortune in one of the many revolutions of his native land. Much to their surprise, Opal declined bearing the title of either, for they had supposed that no American girl would be insensible to such a temptation. 
                
               With a mingled feeling of gratification and despair, Denham saw her turn from all others to himself with that frank freedom which their long attachment warranted. She could never be his, he thought, then why did he selfishly wish her to continue to cling to himself when she might, in time, learn to forget him, and find happiness in a congenial union with some good and noble man. 
               That bright, sweet nature was formed for domestic happiness. As a wife, a mother, Opal would be the delight of her home, the dispenser of happiness to all around her, yet he was leading her away from what might be to doom her to a life of celibacy, for he could never marry her, he feared. He saw no chance to prove his innocence of the crime laid to his charge, and unless that were done, he could never ask Opal to give herself to him. 
               So long as no pretender worthy to win her appeared in the field as his rival, Denham repressed every outward indication of the struggle going on within him, but at length a harder trial came. 
               At Baden they met with a young Englishman of gentle birth, ample fortune, and gifted with the handsome person and sterling qualities of the best class of his countrymen. From the first evening of his acquaintance with Opal, Percy Egerton devoted himself to her, and soon showed in every way that he intended to win her consent to become his wife, if it were possible to do so. He would not be discouraged by her coldness, and he perseveringly followed her from place to place, till it became evident that he was desperately in earnest. 
               Mr. Egerton spoke to Mrs. Hastings; he gave her satisfactory proof that he was the possessor of many thousands a year in his own right, and was the next heir to one of the oldest baronetcies in England, to which was attached an ample rent roll. He ended by requesting permission to win her daughter as the sharer of all this grandeur, and Mrs. Hastings, dazzled and charmed with the proposal, undertook to prepare Opal to receive it favorably. 
               She sought an early opportunity to speak on the subject with her daughter, and she was surprised by the prompt refusal Opal gave. 
               "But, my dear," remonstrated her mother, "you will never have a better offer than this. You must marry some time, and to become Lady Egerton at no distant day will be a fine thing for you. You will take a good position in the best English society, be introduced at court, have every desire of your heart gratfied." 
               "All save one, perhaps," replied Opal, with a sigh. "There would be no love in the contract, save on one side, and I will not wrong this noble young man by giving him my hand without my heart." 
               "But, Opal, I see no reason why you should not love Mr. Egerton. He is handsome, well-bred, intelligent, good-tempered, and desperately in love with you. What else is necessary to enable a girl to be happy with the man she marries?" 
               "Mamma, did you reason in that way when you accepted my father? No, you loved him truly and exclusively, or you would never have given yourself to him. Such affection as should hallow the marriage bond I cannot give to Mr. Egerton, and therefore I decline his addresses. I wish you to make him understand that he is no longer to pursue me; for I begin to find his lover-like demonstrations insupportable." 
               Mrs. Hastings looked searchingly at her and asked: 
               "Why should they be so, Opal? There is no rival, I am sure; for, since poor Godfrey's death you have seen no one in whom you seem to take much interest, save Guy Denham, and you must know that with him a union is impossible possible. He feels it to be so himself; nor would I consent to such a thing while the shadow of a doubt rests on him. Understand, my love, that I believe him as innocent of that awful deed as you or I are. I have proved that by my treatment of him; but even if you prefer him to all others, a gulf is fixed between you, and, knowing that, you surely will not sacrifice such brilliant prospects as are opening before you, and live on unwedded, cultivating a sort of platonic friendship that can never end in marriage. You are too sensible a girl for that, Opal." 
               Her daughter listened with paling cheeks and clouded brow. She sat silent many moments, but she finally said: 
               "Mamma, you do not mean to be cruel, but you are so. Let it suffice that I cannot accept Mr. Egerton, not indeed any other man whom I do not love with all the strength of my soul. Once already have I given my hand where I knew my heart did not go. I now comprehend the wickedness of which I was then guilty, and I refuse to commit it again. I was young and thoughtless when I consented to marry Godfrey, and I will not repeat the error of my girlhood. Dismiss Mr. Egerton, if you please, for I can never be won to become his wife." 
               Opal arose as she ceased speaking, and hurriedly left the room. After reviewing all that had passed between them, Mrs. Hastings made up her mind that some energetic step must be taken to bring her daughter to her sober senses. She would appeal to Denham, ask his assistance to further the cause of his rival, and thus convince Opal that he cherished no such forlorn hope as she felt assured was the source of her daughter's refusal to become Mrs. Egerton. She rang her bell and sent a message to him, requesting him to come to her as soon as possible, as she had something of importance to consult him about. 
               In a few moments Denham entered the room and sat down awaiting her communication, half fearing its nature, for he was aware of the interview which had lately taken place between Mrs. Hastings and the handsome Englishman. She plunged at once into the subject that was uppermost in her mind by saying: 
               "I have sent for you, Guy, to ask you to try and bring Opal to reason. She positively refuses to accept the most unexceptionable offer that any girl could have; yet she has no reason to give except that she is not violently in love with the young man. You can guess to whom I refer, as Mr. Egerton has made no secret of his preference for my daughter." 
               "Really, Mrs. Hastings, this is asking a great deal of me. I entreat that you will spare me such an ordeal as that. I have a horror of match-making, and Opal herself is surely the best judge of what will conduce to her own happiness." 
               "I don't think she is; and I believe that a few words from you will have more weight with her than all I can urge in favor of the match." 
               "Why should you imagine that, Mrs. Hastings? I do not flatter myself that I possess such influence with your daughter; and if I had it, I will be frank enough to say that I should shrink from using it." 
               "No, you would not, if you believed it right to do so, Guy. I know you to be an honorable and high-toned man, and I therefore appeal to you in a way that would be impossible with another. Your relations toward Opal are very peculiar and painful. I have long known that you are attached to her, and if a union between you were possible I would gladly give my consent to it. But you know better than any other how slight a prospect exists that you can ever be united to her. I ask you, for her sake, to show her how vain such a fantasy is; how ruinous to her future prospects. You cannot wish to keep her unmarried; she can never be yours, and I ask you to be generous enough to convince her of this by advocating the interests of the noble young man who now seeks her as his wife." 
               Denham started from his seat, and paced the floor in a whirl of conflicting feelings language would be feeble to depict. What he had himself thought and felt was here set forth before him in plain language, and he clearly saw his duty before him. It was a bitter struggle, but he conquered his own tortured heart, and, pausing before the expectant lady, hurriedly said: 
               "You are right, madam. I am selfish to permit any thought of my own feelings to stand in the way of Opal's best interests. Since you wish it, I will speak to her. I will set clearly before her the advantages of this marriage, and thus far, at least, convince her that I have no hope of winning her myself. That, I believe, is all that you require me to do?" 
               Mrs. Hastings took his hand in her own, and earnestly, almost tenderly, said: 
               "I have asked much of you, Guy, but not more than you will have strength to perform. If it could be, I would give her to you; but you know it cannot, and my child must not let her youth pass from her in the indulgence of a vain dream that can have no fruition. God bless you and sustain you under this trial, for I know it will be a heavy one to you." 
               "How heavy you nor any other mortal creature may ever understand," was the hoarse reply; and Denham hastily rushed from the apartment, to seek in his own for firmness and help in the cruel ordeal to which he had consented. 
               He must ask Opal not only to give himself up, but to bestow her hand on another; and at moments he felt as if death were preferable to the fulfilment of the task he had undertaken to perform. But his word was pledged, and he would redeem it at any cost to himself. 
               They were at that time in Venice, and in the afternoon he had engaged to go out with Mrs. Hastings and her daughter to visit some object of interest in the City of the Sea. The rest of the party preferred going to St. Marks, and Denham felt assured that the opportunity to speak alone with Opal would be afforded him by her mother. 
               At the last moment, when he and his fair companion were seated in the gondola, an excuse came from the elder lady, saying that she did not feel quite well, but insisted that the young people should go without her. Opal would have returned to her mother at once, but Denham gently detained her, and said: 
               "There is no impropriety in going alone with me, Opal. I am your brother, you know, and I have something to say to you at your mother's request. She has remained behind that I may have an opportunity to speak with you in private." 
               She sunk back on the seat with a vivid blush upon her cheeks; but it faded into sudden paleness as she read the pained expression of Denham's face. For what purpose had her mother contrived this interview between two persons so intimately associated with each other for months past? Had Guy at last spoken of the passion she knew he cherished for her, and won her mother's consent to address her? Yet his sad face seemed to contradict such a supposition as that. 
               The suspicion that Denham intended to act as the advocate of another never once entered her mind. There was a long silence, which was inexpressibly painful to him-ecstatically happy to her; for, if Denham broke through the reserve he had so long imposed on himself, she would show him how lightly the opinions of the outside world were valued by her in comparison with the happiness they might find together. She believed in him, she trusted him, and all the rest was of little consequence in the estimation of her truly womanly heart. 
               At length Denham spoke in a constrained tone: 
               "Opal, your mother has been talking with me about yourself and Mr. Egerton. She requested me to use in his favor such influence as she fancies I possess with you. I shrank from doing this, for I think you understand best what will be for your own happiness. But Mrs. Hastings would take no refusal, and I promised to place before you all the advantages of such a marriage. I--" 
               A cold hand was suddenly laid on his own. Opal's eyes were raised with a look of doubt and pain in them that went to his inmost heart. She faintly said: 
               "Stop, Guy. Don't ask me to make my mother's heart glad at the expense of all I hold dear in life. I could never have believed that you would accept of such an embassy as this to me." 
               Touched, bewildered, maddened for the moment, Denham suddenly wound his arms around her, and passionately cried: 
               "I would sooner die than see you give yourself to any other than myself; but, oh! my darling!-my heart's best treasure!-I can never hope to make you mine, wildly as I love you. I must not listen to the selfish promptings of my own heart, Opal; must not induce you to remain single for my sake. Pardon this outburst. I have done what I had pledged my own heart not to do; but in this moment I am very, very weak." 
               She suffered her head to rest a moment on his heaving breast; then, extricating herself from his embrace, she tenderly said: 
               "It is better so, Guy. I love you; let that console you, though we may never be able to overcome the obstacles to a perfect union. We can, at least, live in that hope; and that is better to me than the mockery of happiness my mother asks me to accept in a union with a man who deserves better of me than to give him a loveless hand. No earthly power shall again induce me to impose on myself the marriage bond with any other than yourself. I understand my own heart now, and I know that from my childhood I have preferred you before all others. I became the bride of Godfrey Fenton because my parents so earnestly desired it; but having yielded my own wishes to theirs in one instance gives me the right to act now for myself." 
               In spite of all his previous self-tormenting, Denham was, for a few moments, transcendantly happy, and the rapturous thanks he uttered filled the heart of Opal with a fulness of joy that, for a season, rendered her oblivious of everything save the presence of the one she loved, the tender protestations he was pouring into her ears. 
               But soon a bitter pang struck to the hearts of both, as the remembrance of their actual position returned to them, and in a tone of anguish Denham exclaimed: 
               "What cruel fate threw this blight upon our lives? We may live for each other, but apart, and I need you so much as the brightener of my life, as the sweet companion of my days." 
               "We shall never be widely separated, Guy. You can see me every day even after my return home; we can be the best of friends, always relying on each other, and waiting till God brings about some means of clearing you from that cruel charge. That He will do it yet, I feel the firm assurance, and till that day comes I can trust and hope." 
               "But in the meantime our youth may pass away-all the brightness of life be gone! Oh, my darling, it is asking too much of you to devote your beautiful youth to a hope that may prove vain at last. Aid me to be generous, Opal. Give me strength to relinquish you to a brighter lot than that." 
               She looked in his face and smiled tenderly and sadly, as she gently replied: 
               "You influence me to do nothing, Guy. My own heart alone prompts me to the course I have determined on. I shall live for you alone, whether our future union is possible or not. If you knew how much I suffered when I placed between your life and mine a barrier that I believed to be impassable, you would understand how impossible it is for me to do such a thing again. I am the betrothed of your soul, as you are of mine, and I can better live on in the hope of a future union with you, than in the gilded shackles my mother would induce me to assume. You may kiss me once, Guy, as the seal of our compact, and I pledge to you my promise that no living man shall take that kiss from my lips, till you are entitled to claim it as the husband of my choice." 
               Opal lifted her fair face, colorless as marble, in spite of the words she had just uttered, and Denham reverently and tenderly pressed his lips to hers. Then holding her a moment clasped in his arms, he fervently said: 
               "As I hope for happiness in Heaven, Opal, I will be true to this blissful compact. After what has just passed between us, no cloud of jealous suspicion can ever enter my heart. We may live on for years, unable to redeem the troth we have so solemnly plighted, but I begin to believe that even that will be better for you than giving your hand to another." 
               "It will be far better; and now let us return to the palazzo. In my present state of feeling, I cannot pay the visit we contemplated. To all others we will be as brother and sister still, keeping in our own hearts the certainty that nothing but death shall finally separate us. Tantalus-like, we can live on hope till the day arrives in which you can claim me as your bride in the face of all the world. That it will come I have faith to believe. 'The mills of the gods grind slowly'-you know the rest; and we will trust that for us it has some significance." 
               At the command of Denham the gondola returned on its course, and they went back to the palazzo in which they had their temporary abode. 
               He sought an interview with Mrs. Hastings, and in some confusion informed her that his embassy had utterly failed. She seemed greatly annoyed and disappointed, but with a sigh said that she expected no better from Opal's obstinate opposition to her wishes. 
               After a long conversation with her daughter, Mrs. Hastings reluctantly undertook to convey Opal's refusal to her suitor, and this she did so effectually that Egerton abruptly left Venice and set out for his own country. 
               A few days later our travellers set out for Rome, where they designed spending the Easter holidays to witness the religious festivals of the season. 
               After the explanation between Denham and Opal, both seemed happier than before, and the young girl by her affectionate attentions to her mother, seemed to wish to atone for the disappointment she had inflicted on her. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               A FAIR SAINT. HOME AGAIN. 
               IN the ancient portion of Rome a lofty palazzo stands, in its grand dilapidation, a monument of the past, and an object of undying interest to the historian and antiquarian. During the middle ages it had been the residence of one of the great feudal chiefs, who made the city a scene of riot and discord, and in more civilized days it had been the scene of many a grand gala over which youth and loveliness presided. 
               One wing of modern date was still in good preservation, and in its lofty frescoed rooms a young stranger had found a pleasant home. Wealth had enabled her to collect around her such comforts and elegancies as her tastes and habits demanded, and on a bright morning in early April she sat beside a vine-wreathed window, through which the soft air fluttered, lifting the paper on which she was writing. 
               She was still very young, though the dignity born of suffering sat on her lineless brow and breathed through the repose of her figure. She wore a black robe of some soft lustreless material, gathered in at the waist by a silk cord from which a rosary depended. 
               A white lawn coif fitting closely to the head, entirely concealing her hair, would have been fatal to the beauty of almost any other face, but on her it seemed to bring out the statuesque regularity of her features and show them in all the purity of their perfect outlines. 
               An expression of elevated repose rested on every line-of repose won through bitter suffering, but only the more sublime for that. No eye could dwell on Inez Lopez without returning again and again to scan her noble lineaments, and try to understand the story that serene, yet saddened face, so plainly told. 
               A Brussels carpet, of delicate hues softly blended together, covered the centre of the marble floor; and on two cushions placed on the balcony in front of the window, on which the sun was shining, reposed an ancient poodle and a brindled cat. 
                
               Bijjer and Don Bobtail had been the companions of all Inez' wanderings; and the former had evidently fallen into the "sere and yellow leaf" of canine existence. 
               After spending a few months in Paris, Inez had travelled to Rome with some friends she had made; Father Espana came there to reside, and through his efforts she obtained permission to assume the dress of a lay Sister of Charity, without taking on herself any vows beyond obedience to the Church, and a pledge to use her ample resources for the benefit of the suffering people to use her ample resources for the benefit of the suffering people that swarmed everywhere within the ancient capital of the Csars. 
               Beautiful was the unselfish and devoted life she led. She made her weekly rounds among her pensioners; visited the hospitals; read and prayed with the sick and dying; and in all respects was an angel of mercy to those among whom she had elected to cast her lot. 
               A few noble women, devoted like herself to works of charity, were her only associates, and very rarely did she leave her own home to visit them. Her heart was in her work, and only in ministering to others did she find that perfect content which is life's best blessing. 
               In one corner of the apartment, a small dais had been erected, on which was placed a chair of carved ivory surmounted by a cross, over which hung a wreath of immortelles; across the seat of this lay a strip of embroidery, from the centre of which gleamed the words: 
                     "Sacred to the shade of the loved and lost!"
                  
                
               Before this shrine, at the same hour in which Inez had stood with Godfrey Fenton's mother beside his lifeless from, she daily knelt and prayed fervently for the repose of his soul. 
               Then the singular hallucination came to her that he appeared visibly before her, seating himself in the chair and smiling down on her the sweet assurance that her prayers were not in vain; and she went back to her labors comforted and encouraged, to bear meekly the heavy cross that had been laid upon her. 
               This may have been madness; but, if it was, Inez derived strength and consolation from it, and no other evidence of unsoundness of mind could be found in her life or actions. 
               A door on one side of the apartment was suddenly opened, and a fat, comfortable-looking woman came in, carrying in her hand a small tray on which a cup of cocoa was placed, and beside it lay a sealed letter. The face of Mrs. Perkins radiated with delight as she said: 
               "Here is something better than the cocoa for you, Miss Inez. This letter is from Mrs. Langley. It bears the Naples postmark, and I am sure she will soon be here now." 
               A faint gleam of color came for an instant to the cheek of Inez, but she broke the seal of the missive with that quiet calmness which had become the rule of her life. After glancing over its contents, she said: 
               "You are right, Jane. The whole party was to set out for the Holy City immediately, and they may be in Rome now. Mrs. Langley knows my address, and she will come to me as soon after she arrives as possible. I have no wish to see any other member of the party, but if I can detain her with me a few days, I shall be very glad. The room I ordered to be prepared for her is quite ready, I believe." 
               "Oh yes, ma'am. It has been ready ever since you heard she was coming. But I'll go in and put fresh flowers in the vases, and tidy up everything again. It'll be a blessed privilege to hear my own tongue spoken again, for the furrin lingo I listen to here does try my ears." 
               "I am sure you always speak English with me, Jane, and you have learned to understand the people here very well." 
                
               "Oh yes, ma'am, I can sputter away at their jargon so they know what I mean too; but it aint like hearing my own people talk in the tongue I learned in old Long Island." 
               "Do you wish to go back there, Jane? Because if you do, as necessary as you are to me, I will not be so selfish as to detain you near myself, if you are not perfectly contented to remain. Should you desire it, you can avail yourself of this opportunity to return to the United States." 
               Mrs. Perkins flushed, and hastily exclaimed: 
               "Leave you, Miss Inez! do you think that I could do such a thing as that? I'd rather never hear another word of English spoken than to go away from you. I'd rather talk the 'talian gibberish even to you than go back and never see you again. Don't talk that way, child, for you know that I wouldn't give you up for any thing in this world." 
               "I truly believe that, Jane, and I only said what I did to try you. I was writing to Mrs. Langley when you came in, but now it will be useless to go on. I think I will go out and walk on the terrace awhile." 
               She drank a portion of the cocoa, put on a black hood that screened her face from the sun, and went out beneath the shadows of the clustering trees to quell the excitement the thought of meeting any one connected with the painful past had awakened. 
               A few hours later, calm and serene as if no earthly emotion had ever ruffled her soul, Inez stood upon the terrace before which the carriage containing Mrs. Langley stopped, to welcome her to the home she had made for herself among a strange people. 
               Her friend came alone, for she understood that a meeting with any of her travelling companions would be painful to the recluse. She sprang from the vehicle, bounded up the flight of marble steps, and clasping Inez to her breast, exclaimed: 
               "How glad I am to see you once again! and how well you are looking! I declare, Inez, the peace of heaven seems to have settled on your face." 
               "It has found an abiding place in my heart, which is better," was the gentle reply. "I am most happy to welcome you to my home, Mrs. Langley, and I hope to make it so pleasant to you that you will linger with me a few days. Your other friends can spare you for a season to one so lonely as I am." 
               "Oh yes, they can, or they shall, which is the same thing. They can do well enough without me for a while, and I intended, when I came, to remain till to-morrow at least. I have brought my satchel with me, and am prepared for every emergency." 
               "So much the better. Send the driver back with a message telling them not to expect you so soon as that. Now I have you with me, I intend to detain you as long as I possibly can." 
               A few lines were hastily written and sent back to the hotel to Denham, informing him of Mrs. Langley's intended stay; and the two ladies sat down to a delicious supper, served in Mrs. Perkins' best style, for she was housekeeper and provider for the small yet elegant establishment of her young mistress. 
               A cordial greeting passed between herself and the newly-arrived guest; and, after Mrs. Perkins had attended to her evening duties, she came in and sat down near the two ladies, listening to the pleasant sounds of her own language, and occasionally joining in the conversation with the respectful familiarity of an old and faithful dependent. 
               On that first evening of re-union, they talked mostly of the past; but Inez also gave a sketch of her adventures since she left America. She spoke of her present life as so consonant to her taste and wishes; she looked so calm and perfectly at peace while she did so, that her mercurial friend was constrained to believe her, though she scarcely understood how Inez had attained to such serene composure of soul after the tempestuous experience of other days. 
               On the following morning, soon after breakfast, a small open carriage was driven to the door, in which the two ladies took their places. Inez drove herself, while the lad in attendance perched himself on the seat behind. She had promised to take Mrs. Langley on one of her daily rounds, that she might understand the life she led, and more fully appreciate the sources of consolation she had found. 
               They drove into the narrow streets in which the wretched and destitute congregate; visited houses in which suffering and death were found-and, in all, Inez was known and welcomed as the saving evangel of those perishing creatures. Aid, both material and spiritual, was afforded; and she left the recipients of her bounty, loaded by them with blessings spoken in the impassioned language of their land. 
               They then visited the principal hospitals, to the officers of which Inez was known, and by whom she and her friend were treated with marked respect. 
               When they were again together in the little sitting-room at the palazzo, Mrs. Langley sighed softly and said: 
               "I see that you have indeed devoted your life to good works, Inez; but it seems to me that you were intended for something better than making yourself a minister of good to others." 
               "What could be better?" asked Inez. 
               "I don't exactly mean better, but-but for something that would afford you a personal object in life. Is your heart so wedded to that sad past that you have lost all desire for such things as usually form the happiness of our earthly existence ence? Pardon me, my dear, if I wound you; but you know that I am blunt by nature, and I must speak openly of what moves me at the moment." 
               "You do not wound me, dear friend; but I thought, after our morning's experience, you would understand that I have found my life-work, and am happy in performing it. 'The poor you have always with you,' said the divine Master, and I am trying to act up to the precepts he gave us. Your last question I will answer frankly. I am dead to earthly love as women understand it. My heart is buried in that faraway grave, and yonder chair is the mausoleum I have consecrated to the sacred past. Kneeling before it, I daily commune with the spirit of him who is gone, and this visionary being is dearer to me than any living presence can ever again become. Women marry every day, and fulfil the duties of wife and mother; then why should you grudge to the poor one who is willing to devote all the energies of her being to the alleviation of their woes? I have found my niche, and I intend to remain in it, though I think you are mistaken in believing me superior to the lot I have chosen. With my views, I consider no vocation more exalted." 
               "I acknowledge that, yet I cannot bear to see you a minister of grace to others, while none minister in their turn to you." 
               "There you are mistaken. I daily find my reward in more ways than you think. God has been very good to me; for in place of the yearning desire to secure my own happiness, He has given me peace in seeking to promote that of others. Can you not see for yourself that I have found it?" 
               "I see upon your brow the light of the angel spirit within, and I, in my worldliness, will say no more to disturb it. Go on your way, Inez, scattering blessings as you pass, for I feel that the spirit of Christ, the Redeemer of men, is indeed with you." 
                
               Inez kissed her and fervently replied: 
               "I trust that it is. I have striven to find the true Comforter, and I believe that he has been sent to me. But you are tired with our long jaunt, and I will leave you to rest awhile before dinner is served." 
               Three days passed away, and Mrs. Langley found that Inez led by no means an idle life. Besides her visits to the houses of the poor, at stated hours she received applicants for advice or assistance, and few were turned from her door without receiving aid of some kind. 
               She had collected a good library together, and was engaged in the study of Italian literature. Her knowledge of Spanish and Latin had enabled her to master the language in a short time, and she now not only spoke well the golden Tuscan, but understood the patois of the common people. 
               Inez was at that time reading Dant in the original, and she gave her own translations of some of its grandest and most terrific portions, which Mrs. Langley preferred to any version of the great Italian poet with which she was familiar. 
               On the last evening of the visitor's stay, Inez asked with some hesitation: 
               "Do you think it will be painful to Mrs. Fenton to see me? I have a yearning desire to look upon the woman who bears that name, though if I understood you aright, she did not willingly assume it." 
               "I am as certain she did not as I am sure she did not love him. I think that Opal will be gratified to see you. She knows the whole of Godfrey's story as connected with yourself. I told the poor child, because she was breaking her heart over the impossibility of mourning his loss as she believed she should. I will further tell you that Opal and my brother have long loved each other; and I am sure that when she gave her hand to Godfrey to please her father, she preferred Guy before him. But she was too young to know what she was doing; now they understand each other; and if my brother could only clear himself from the accusation of being Godfrey's assassin, they would be united at once. I will inform Opal of your wish to see her, and bring her with me the next time I come." 
               "Thank you; only let me know beforehand, that I may prepare myself to receive her calmly. I do hope that the cloud will be cleared from Mr. Denham's name and all end happily for them." 
               "I hope so indeed; but unless that wretched girl finds the doom she merits, and has time for confession before she goes to meet the reward of her crime, Guy must always bear its stigma, save in the minds of those who know how noble and true he is. What shall I say to Aunt Gertrude for you? Perhaps she may wish to see you." 
               Inez hastily replied: 
               "No, no-I cannot see Mrs. Markland again; it would be too painful. I think she will understand my feelings and will herself shrink from opening old wounds by a meeting with me." 
               "Perhaps you are right. I will bring Opal hither, and I know that Guy will wish to see you once at least before we leave Rome." 
               "When you come to bid me farewell you may bring Mr. Denham with you, but not before." 
               Inez accompanied her guest to the door of the hotel in which her friends had taken up their quarters, and then returned to the seclusion of her own home, brighter and happier for the pleasant days they had passed together; but she was conscious of no wish to break through the uniform tenor of her life and return to the world she had virtually renounced. 
               Opal listened with deep interest to the account Mrs. Langley gave of her visit, and so great a desire to see the young saint she described was awakened in her heart, that she herself asked if it would not be possible to induce Inez to receive her. Mrs. Langley hastened to say: 
               "For once my eloquence has had its due effect, for I have been trying to arouse just such a desire in your mind. Inez requested me to bring you to visit her. She has no jealous feeling toward you, for she knows that you never really rivalled her in the heart of Godfrey. The poor child insists that he comes back to her in spirit and assures her that he loves her still, although he has passed the portals of the grave. Impossible as such a thing is, the hallucination consoles her, and I could not find it in my heart to combat the visionary belief." 
               "It would have been cruel to attempt such a thing. It is settled then that I can go with you when you make your next visit." 
               Two days later Mrs. Langley sent a note to Inez warning her that on the following evening she would come to her, accompanied by Opal. She prepared for them a little feast of fruit and wine, and then awaited their arrival with that serene composure which had become the habit of her mind in the years of self-discipline through which she had passed. 
               When the carriage drove up to the entrance, she went out to receive them, took Opal in her arms, tenderly kissed her, and then ushered them into the house. 
               The eyes of Inez wandered occasionally to the fair face of her guest, but she did not make her uncomfortable by looking too closely at her, and a stranger would never have imagined that there was anything peculiar in the relations of these two beautiful women toward each other. 
               Opal was the more embarrassed of the two, but she soon shook the feeling off and conversed with her usual freedom and ease. The graceful vivacity of her manner evidently charmed her hostess, and with a sigh she thought it had been by no means a difficult thing for her fickle lover to be sufficiently fascinated by this attractive creature to consent to gratify his mother's wishes without doing any great violence to his own feelings. 
               But Inez did not resent that now. Fenton's tragic end had atoned for all the wrong he had committed both against herself and her unwilling rival. 
               The fruits were enjoyed, the wine tasted, and then the gathering shades of twilight warned the visitors that it was time to depart. Inez took the hand of Opal in her own and said: 
               "I am glad to have met with you, Mrs. Fenton. You bear the name I once thought would have been my own, but you are more worthy to do so. That you may yet exchange it for that of the man you prefer, is my most earnest prayer. God can bring good out of evil, and to Him will I carry my petitions to sweep away the clouds that dim your horizon and give you that happiness you both deserve to win." 
               "If, as we are told, 'the prayers of the righteous availeth much,' I am sure that yours will be answered. I shall feel as if an angel is interceding at the throne of grace for me and mine," and Opal bent forward and kissed Inez on cheeks and lips. 
               The two did not meet again during her stay in Rome, though Mrs. Langley went constantly to the secluded house of the young recluse, and spent with her every hour she could spare from other engagements. 
               Our travellers saw the illumination of St. Peters; listened to the chanting of the wonderful Miserere; and visited every object of interest in and around the city. Their sojourn lasted till the latter days of May, and then they began to turn their thoughts toward their native land, with a yearning desire to behold its hills and valleys again. 
                
               On the evening before their departure, Denham went with his sister to visit Inez, and bid her farewell. She received him with grateful sweetness, conversed with him freely and earnestly of her plans and occupations, and when he left, Denham was impressed with the conviction that she had found the true sphere for which nature had designed her, and was happy in the lot she had chosen. 
               On parting she took his hand said: 
               "You were kind and thoughtful for me, when I sorely needed a friend, Mr. Denham, and I shall never forget it. Unlikely as such a thing seems, chance may throw into my hands the power to serve you; and I need scarcely say that I shall most eagerly avail myself of it, should such a thing happen. I trust that all will yet be well with you, and love and peace dwell together in the home you will yet be able to make for yourself." 
               "Thank you, and God bless you for that kind wish, Miss Lopez," replied Denham, and he followed his weeping sister into the carriage and was borne away. 
               Mrs. Langley wiped away her tears, and said: 
               "Is it not a shame that such a being as that should be lost to society? to the friends who would so tenderly cherish her!" 
               "My dear Anna," he gently replied, "she has found what is better for her own contentment in the lot she has chosen. A life so active for good must be twice blessed. As to myself, I feel as if I had been holding communion with an angel." 
               On the following day they left Rome. At one of the seaport towns they embarked on a steamer for England, and the summer months were spent in travelling through that country and Scotland. In the early part of September they set sail for New York, at which port they arrived after a pleasant sea-voyage. 
                
               After a few weeks sojourn there, our travellers went by rail to Cincinnati, descended the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, and once more stood upon the soil of their native State. 
               When the three families were again settled in their respective homes, the old habits of social intercourse were resumed, and a day seldom passed without a meeting between Opal and Denham. 
               No lover-like words were ever exchanged between them, but both felt that they were not needed. In many quiet ways the strong attachment that bound them in one common bond was evinced, and although Opal became a belle, and a distinguished member of the circle in which she moved, never for a moment had her lover cause to doubt the singleness and purity of her devotion to himself. 
               Time glided on, yet no vindication of Denham's name came, to render their union possible, and he began to despair of such a result; though Opal never lost her faith that in the good providence of God he would yet be cleared from all participation in the crime of which many still believed him guilty, and be able to claim her hand. 
               Four years were added to those they spent in Europe, and it was now more than seven years since Godfrey Fenton met his fate, and yet that event to all save Denham and his sister seemed as mysterious as ever. 
               They alone possessed the clue, yet they forebore to proclaim the truth for the sake of the girl they so tenderly loved. 
               Opal, in the full maturity of womanhood, was more beautiful, more lovable than ever; with gentle firmness she maintained her right to independent action with reference to her own personal affairs, and, much as she was admired, her mother saw with pain and annoyance that she would permit none of her adorers to approach her in the character of a wooer. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               CONFESSION, AND ATONEMENT. 
               FOUR years later, yet a day seems scarcely to have passed over the placid face of Inez Lopez. 
               She has just risen from the shrine before which her afternoon devotions are offered, and an expression of seraphic calm is upon her chiselled features. 
               A knock was heard upon her door, and her venerable friend, Father Espana, entered the apartment. He looked both sad and weary, and Inez hastened to offer him a seat and some refreshment. He waived the latter away, and said: 
               "I have no time to care for the wants of the body now. I came hither to take you with me to the bedside of a countrywoman of your own, who needs one of her own sex beside her. She does not speak Italian, and my English has become so rusty that I could scarcely understand her delirious mutterings. I suppose she understands French, but in her present half-demented state she refuses to use it. I know that you will come with me to her bedside." 
               "Of course I will, Father. But tell me something of this poor woman. Where did you find her, and how did she come to need your help?" 
               "I found her in the cottage of Beppo, the poor fellow whose wife and children you aided last year when he lay so ill with fever. She was run over on the Corso, and so severely injured, that she was taken up insensible by him and another man. Beppo took her to his own home, and then came to me to obtain an order for her removal to the hospital. I went to her at once, and found her suffering intensely from the internal injuries she had received. I used all my medical skill in her behalf, and she seems grateful for the kindness extended toward her; but she is evidently a great mental sufferer, and I came for you to visit her in the hope that you may be able to learn something of her past life, and discover what can best be done for her relief. She is not a Catholic, and she refused to listen to the religious consolation I would have offered her." 
               In a few moments Inez was ready to accompany him, and she entered the vine-clad cottage of the peasant with a presentiment that her soul was to be stirred to its inmost depths by what she should find there. 
               The wife of Beppo received her with warm smiles of welcome, though her face grew sober enough as she led the way into the poor little room in which the stranger lay. 
               She was half sleeping, and her pallid face rested on the pillow, surrounded by heavy masses of light, silky-looking hair, that fell in wild confusion around it. Nearly all their early beauty had faded from those wan features; dark circles were around the hollow eyes; and the closed lips wore an expression of stern hardness that revealed much of the inner nature of the sufferer. 
               Inez repressed the involuntary shiver that shook her frame, and a mental thanksgiving arose to Heaven as she recognized in that changed and wasted creature the evil genius of her own life, and that of others who were dear to her. 
               Nina Gordon-for she it was-brought to such a pass as this, could waken in her tender heart no other emotion than compassionate sympathy, and the hope grew strong within her that her prayers had been answered, and to her would be vouchsafed the task of leading that erring soul to repentance, and confession of the crime she had so recklessly committed. 
               On their way to the cottage, Inez had learned from the priest that no hope of recovery remained, though Nina might linger many days yet. It was better so, for in the interval she might be induced to undo the evil she had wrought to others, as far as was now possible. 
               Her mind was at once made up to have Nina removed to her own house, where she would herself watch over her, and use every effort in her power to bring her into a fit state of mind for the great change that awaited her. 
               She suddenly started from her unquiet sleep, unclosed her wild eyes, and cried out in English: 
               "Where am I? Why do I suffer so much? Oh the pain-the pain that tortures me! Give me something to relieve it. Are you monsters that you see a human creature suffering the pangs of the Inferno, yet find nothing to soothe her to forgetfulness? Give me something to make me sleep, or I shall die. I am not fit to die. Do you hear that? I am not ready to face the Judgment, and all the prayers that could be uttered over me when I am gone, will never change my doom! Save me! save me! or I perish-body and soul-body and soul!" 
               Her voice sank away into a wailing whisper, and the compassionate tones of Inez spoke in reply: 
               "All that is possible shall be done for you. You shall not die in your sins if I can prevent it, Nina." 
               The sick woman started up, threw back her hair from her brow and gasped: 
               "That is my name!-those are the accents of my native tongue, uttered by a voice that sounds strangely familiar. Who are you? Whence do you come? A religieuse! Ah! I remember. I know you now, Inez Lopez, and I had rather be found by any other one than by you in my present state of abasement. Go away-leave me to my fate! I will not have you standing beside me, gloating over my sufferings!" 
               "Poor unfortunate!" murmured Inez, "little do you know me if you dream that I could do so inhuman a thing as that. I came to succor you-to save you, if it is possible to do so-and you must submit to be ministered to by me, for you have near you no other friend who will care for your welfare." 
               "How do you know that? I may have friends enough if I choose to call on them; but I don't-nor will I be indebted to your charity for the life that is scarcely worth saving, unfit as I am to give it up. But it is easier to die than to be beholden to you for help. Go away, I say; your presence maddens me. If you are a saint, I am too miserable a sinner to be benefited by your ministrations." 
               Nina sank back, exhausted by her own violence; and Inez, believing that her presence at that time would only increase it, glided from the room, and spoke earnestly with the priest, who was waiting to hear her report of the sick woman. 
               She ended by saying: 
               "You can devise some means of removing her to my house without letting her know whither she is going. I know this woman, and I must have her where I can watch constantly over her. I must find means to win from her a confession before she dies. When I can do so without fear of interruption, I will explain to you how important her revelations will be." 
               "It will not be difficult to carry out your wishes," replied Espana. "I will have a powerful anodyne administered to her, and under its influence she can be taken to your palazzo on a litter. When she finds herself tenderly cared for, she may feel some gratitude to the generous hand that is so ready to succor her in her forlorn condition. Poor unfortunate! A few more days, and she will be beyond all care, yet she raves of dying as if the grave is more terrible to her than the life of privation she has, of late, evidently lived." 
                
               That night, Nina, in a death-like sleep, was carefully conveyed to the chamber prepared for her beneath the roof of the rival whose happiness she had wrecked; and she again awoke to consciousness to find herself surrounded by the comfort and elegance she had once so highly prized. 
               She was quite calm this morning, and in a better frame of mind than on the preceding day. Her physical sufferings were less severe, and she looked around the pleasant room with a faint feeling of gratitude toward her who, she felt assured, had caused her to be removed to this comfortable place of rest. 
               How welcome it was after her long and bitter struggle with want and wretchedness, she most keenly felt, though all resentment against Inez was not yet dead. Inez had gained the heart of the man she had so fatally loved; she had won from her the fortune she hoped to secure, and the old bitter memories crowded thick and fast upon her, again stirring up all that was evil within her. She rebelled against the fate which had brought to her the humiliation of becoming a pensioner on the bounty of Inez Lopez, and she finally started up, intending to made an effort to escape-to die upon the highway, if no other succor came, for she could not bear this heaping of coals of fire upon her head-upon that brain which had plotted so much mischief, worked so much wo to the angelic being who had forgiven all and only sought to sustain her enemy through the dark hours that must precede her passage to the shadowy land. 
               Her feet touched the floor; a spasm of pain seized her, and she fell fainting beside the bed. A woman hastily entered from the adjoining room; she lifted the emaciated form in her strong arms, laid it back upon the couch and hastened to apply restoratives. 
               With a long, shuddering sigh Nina regained consciousness, and her eyes fell on the face of Mrs. Perkins, who was chafing her hand and bathing her face with lavender. She drew away with a shiver, and faintly said: 
               "That will do. I am better now. I wish to go away from here at once. I am sure that Miss Lopez has had me brought to her own home, and I will not stay in it. If I am weak and miserable, I will have my own way in that." 
               "But where will you go to, Miss Gordon?" asked the nurse, bluntly. "Have you any friends to look after you? Miss Inez thought not; so, like an angel as she is, she took you in herself. This is her house, thank the Lord for it; and if you're what you ought to be, you'd thank Him too for bringing you where the best care will be taken of you." 
               "I don't want her care, and I won't have yours either," was the fractious reply. "Do you suppose that I have forgotten or forgiven the injury you did me with your old mistress? or that I can submit to be taken care of by you? I had rather die on the roadside than be so bitterly humiliated." 
               Mrs. Perkins composedly said: 
               "Well, I should think that all you've gone through would have killed out such nonsense as that. We aint such heathens as to turn a dying woman out of doors, even if she is mad enough to insist on going. You've got to stay where you are, and be nursed like a Christian, whether you wish it or not. I stayed near you because I could speak to you as you could understand, but if you insist on it, the 'talian gal that waits in the house can take my place." 
               But one sentence in this long tirade seemed to make any impression on Nina, and with dilating eyes she asked: 
               "Why do you call me a dying woman? I am better this morning-I am not fatally injured, and I shall soon be well again." 
               "That ain't the opinion of Father Espana, and he knows a great deal about medicine. But Miss Inez has sent for the best surgeon in Rome, and when he comes he'll tell you what you may expect. I am looking for him every moment, and there's the sound of wheels now. I'll go and see if it's the doctor, and don't you go to getting out of that bed again, for you couldn't get away from here, even if such a wild thing would be allowed by my young lady." 
               Nina was exhausted by the attempt she had already made; the weakness of her body came to dull the force of her opposition, and she passively submitted to lie quiet till Mrs. Perkins came back, accompanied by a dark, shrewd-looking man who spoke to her in French. 
               The physician made minute inquiries as to the cause of the injury she had received, examined her condition very carefully, questioning her about her own sensations. Nina answered him readily, and seemed eager to learn what his decision would be, but he gave no outward sign of the conclusion at which he had arrived, and she at length earnestly asked: 
               "Shall I live, Doctor?" 
               He evasively replied: 
               "We shall see-we shall see. Life and death are not in my hands, you know. I can only do my best for you, and leave the issue with God." 
               "I have no God," was the abrupt reply. "I believe in none, and if there is one, He will do his worst with a wretch like me. Don't come near me again, for I don't want any one to attend to me who cannot give me a plain answer to a straightforward question." 
               The physician looked sternly at her a few seconds, and his lips unclosed to pronounce the words of doom that trembled on them; but compassion arose, and shaking his head, he said: 
               "You must come to a better frame of mind than that. I shall not come back-it will not be necessary to do so, as I can leave my directions with the friend who sent for me to see you." 
               Nina would have detained him to question him further, but he waved his hand and hastily left the room. At the door he found Inez anxiously awaiting his report. 
               "I hope that the sick woman is nothing to you, Miss Lopez," he said. 
               "No relation, if that is what you mean; but she is a countrywoman of my own, who was known to me in other days. You can speak the truth to me without reserve, Dr. Benetti, and it is important that I should know it." 
               "I am glad she's no relation, though I do not know why I should have supposed such a thing. You are one of the noble souls who do good deeds for their own sake, and she-Well, no matter what she is. The woman is doomed-all the skill in Europe cannot save her. There is an internal hemorrhage which will end in mortification in a few hours. After that the end soon comes. Good morning, senorina." 
               Dr. Benetti entered his carriage, drove rapidly away, and Inez went into her own apartment to reflect and arrange some plan of action through which Nina might be brought to make the confession she was so anxious to secure. 
               Inez was expecting Father Espana and she watched for his appearance with much solicitude. He came at length and she laid before him the sad history of her unfortunate guest, and asked his advice as to what was to be done. 
               After a few moments' thought he said: 
               "I will go in to her, tell her of the doom that is impending over her, and try and turn her thoughts to atonement for her wicked deeds. When she learns that all hope for her is over, her terror of death may induce her to repent and make confession of her sins. My dear daughter, I trust that your merciful kindness to your cruel enemy will meet its reward." 
                
               "Oh, Father, only get from her the confession of her crime, and I can forgive her all the evil she wrought me; I can pray earnestly for her sinful soul." 
               The priest was presently admitted into Nina's room. She supposed he had come in his medical capacity, and she feverishly said: 
               "I hope you can tell me more about my condition than the doctor who was with me not long ago. He would give me no satisfaction, and I must know whether I am to live or die." 
               Espana gravely and sadly replied: 
               "My daughter, I am a physician of souls, and I come to you in that capacity. Does that answer your last query?" 
               Her eyes dilated; her voice arose to a wild cry as she exclaimed: 
               "A priest to shrive me! I have not come to that yet! I am not going to die! Life is strong within me. I feel it beating in every pulse-quivering in every drop of my blood! Don't try to frighten me, for I am not going to die!" 
               "Alas! my daughter, death is the inevitable doom of all mortal creatures, and to you it must speedily come. If there is any weight upon your sinful soul, hasten to purge it away while there is yet time. I have come to prepare you for the fate that awaits you." 
               A frightful spasm convulsed her features, and Nina became half insensible. When restoratives had been applied, and the power of speech returned, she raved wildly, commanding him to leave her presence, and declaring that nothing should induce her to have a Romish priest beside her in the solemn hour of departure. 
               Father Espana went forth sad and dejected, certain that in the present state of her mind nothing could be done; but, before leaving the house he said to Inez: 
                
               "As death approaches this violence will pass away, and she will become more tractable. I will come again in a few hours, and make an effort to bring her mind into a better state for the awful change that approaches. When this poor unfortunate sinner finds herself sinking, she may put forth her hand to cling to the church as her only ark of refuge." 
               "I will pray without ceasing that it may be so," replied Inez; and may hours were spent before her shrine asking for mercy and repentance for the departing soul, her supplications only interrupted by an occasional visit to the door of Nina's room to hold whispered colloquies with Mrs. Perkins as to the condition of the patient. 
               In the evening Nina slept heavily from the effects of the drops left for her by Dr. Benetti, and Inez sat beside her bed while she lay unconscious, asking forgiveness for this sinful being, and for such repentance as would wring from her a detail of the crime she had committed. 
               When she awoke and asked for water, Inez withdrew to one side, and suffered the Italian maid who had taken Mrs. Perkins' place to give it to her. 
               She soon fell asleep again, and the anxious watcher feared that she might pass from life to death before the important confession was made. 
               Late in the evening Nina awoke quite free from pain, but so fearfully weak that for the first time the dim shadow of approaching death loomed before her. She lay for a long time with half closed eyes, trying to think-to make up her mind to the inevitable; for she now felt the assurance that the priest had spoken the truth. Her life was ebbing fast from her, and she began to recognize the providence which had brought her to the notice of Inez. It pointed the way to the only atonement yet in her power, and in that hour she remembered the promise once given to Opal that she would do what she could to promote her happiness. 
               She had partially redeemed that promise, she thought, in releasing her from Godfrey Fenton by her fearful act, and she must now complete her work by clearing the name of the man she knew her sister loved, by confessing her own agency in the assassination. 
               It took many hours to bring Nina to this decision. She faintly said to Mrs. Perkins, who had resumed her place beside her: 
               "Give me a cordial to sustain me. Nothing can hurt me now. Ask Miss Lopez to come to me. I can bear to see her now, and I have something to say to her." 
               The message was quickly conveyed to Inez; and after a brief delay she came in, looking anxious and a little nervous. Nina at once spoke: 
               "Come near to me, Inez, and accept my thanks for what you have done for me. Many would have turned from me as from an unclean thing; but you are a good Christian woman, and you have not shrunk from me, although I did so much toward ruining your earthly happiness." 
               "I have forgiven you, Nina," Inez tremulously replied. "Ask God to pardon you, make such reparation as is left to you, and all may yet be well with you." 
               "Do you believe that? I wonder if that is cant, or the vital truth that so deeply concerns one in such a strait as I am. Christ pardoned the thief upon the cross, we are told, and perhaps there may be mercy for such as I am. Sit down near me. I must explain to you how I came to be reduced to such misery as you found me in; but first I will tell you of what more deeply concerns those in whom I know you are interested. Listen to me patiently if you can." 
               "Do not fear that I shall interrupt you, Nina. I am quite ready to hear all that you may wish to say." 
                
               At a sign from Inez, Mrs. Perkins went into the adjoining room, the door of which opened near the head of the bed. She found there Father Espana, accompanied by a notary who understood English. This man had been diligently sought for, and he now sat, pen in hand, ready to take down the confession of the criminal in the next apartment. 
               They could distinctly hear every word uttered by Nina, and, with a thankful heart, Inez knew that the precautions she had taken to secure legal evidence of the confession about to be made had not been in vain. 
               The cordial Nina had taken gave her strength to speak clearly, and she gave a concise statement of every incident connected with the murder of Godfrey Fenton. She had found the pistol of Denham lying in the library window, and appropriated it that suspicion might be diverted from herself and fastened on him. 
               All the incidents she related tallied exactly with the vision Inez so accurately remembered, and Guy Denham was cleared of all knowledge of the crime of which he had been accused. 
               When this was ended, Inez softly arose and closed the door of communication. With the subsequent career of Nina those witnesses had no concern, and what she might further say must only be between themselves. 
               When she returned to her seat, Nina asked: 
               "Are you willing to hear what I have to say of myself after that time?" 
               "Yes; willing and most anxious to know how you came to be as-as I found you." 
               After a pause, Nina went on: 
               "Guy Denham knew my guilt, yet he refused to clear himself by accusing me, because he loved Opal. She is my half-sister, for we had the same father." 
                
               Inez made a slight exclamation, but Nina did not seem to notice it. 
               "My father brought me beneath his own roof, and there I learned the relationship between us, and also the name of my mother. I would have carried my wickedness so far as to ruin her, and break up the little peace she had found in a union with a good man who took her as his wife without knowing that I had ever existed. But she was saved by the intervention of Guy Denham. A letter came to me from him containing such evidence of my guilt that I was forced to accept the terms he dictated. My father was dead, and I had nothing more to expect from him. A large sum of money that had been settled on me, with several thousands more added to it, was placed in the hands of a London banker subject to my orders, and I was forbidden to remain in the United States. 
               "I went to New York, took passage on the first European steamer that sailed, and as my evil fortune would have it, Wilkins, the wretch who stole the will you afterwards recovered, was on the same ship. He had obtained a large reward from your father for the restoration of the stolen property; he had swindled his clients out of money he had collected for them, and was on his way to Europe to enjoy his ill-gotten gains. 
               "I do not know what the attraction was that drew me toward him,-the evil in our two natures, perhaps,-but so it was that I accepted his attentions, listened to his flatteries, and finally consented to share with him the wealth he declared to me he had secured. 
               "He represented to me that Mr. Lopez had paid him fifty thousand dollars for the will, and it was not till long afterwards that I knew how the greater portion of his wealth had been obtained. I felt as if I needed a protector. I was but a young girl, and one over whom a fearful charge hung, and I believed that he loved me well enough to stand between myself and danger. Besides, I was reckless-I wanted the prestige of fortune, and I believed he could give it to me; and it was some satisfaction to know that, after all, so large a share of Mrs. Hawks' estate would be enjoyed by me, in spite of her efforts to cut me off from it. 
               "I did not love Wilkins-I despised him; but he had a strange power over me, which led me to do whatever he willed me to do; and, when we landed in Liverpool, I went to a church with him, and we were married. 
               "My husband pretended to settle my money on myself, but it was frauduelntly done, and that is why I am a pauper now, dependent on you for a shelter. For five years, we led a gay and dashing life; we travelled in almost princely style, spending as recklessly as if no end could come to our resources. 
               "Wilkins added a syllable to his name, and, as Major Wilkinson, of the United States army, he eluded the search that was made for him by detectives sent from New York for that purpose. But he had grown careless; and, believing himself quite safe after the lapse of so long a time, he took less pains in disguising his appearance. 
               "A man, who had tracked him like a sleuth-hound, came up with us at Milan; my husband managed to evade him, even after he was arrested, and fled, taking with him nearly every article of value belonging to both of us. He left me stripped of money and jewels, but I scarcely regretted his flight. 
               "I had long known how base and contemptible a wretch he was, and I had learned almost to hate him. I congratulated myself that my money was safe, for I had always drawn the interest from it for my personal expenses, and I wrote to the bankers in whose hands it had been placed to send me a remittance. 
                
               "I was overwhelmed by receiving from them proofs that every dollar belonging to me had been drawn by my unprincipled husband. The settlement made on me was a sham, for he had always held the control of my fortune himself, and only paid me the income arising from it, to prevent me from suspecting his villainy. 
               "When this news came, I was at a loss whither to turn for assistance. There was a considerable bill against me at the hotel, for Wilkins had not settled any portion of it before he left, and I had nothing but my wardrobe left to me. 
               "Fortunately, some valuable laces had eluded my husband's search when he robbed me of my jewels, and these I sold for much less than their value. With the money thus obtained, I paid the landlord's bill, and came on to Rome alone. 
               "To that city I believed Wilkins had fled, and I hoped to find him and compel him to restore to me some portion of the money of which he had defrauded me; but I never intended to live with him as his wife again. 
               "He evaded me as he had the detectives, and I never found any trace of him. I have been in Rome for the last two years, living God knows how! The fine clothing I possessed went, piece by piece, to the pawnbrokers, till nothing of value was left. I have lived among the very poor, endured privations that I should once have shrunk from as the bitterest degradation, and, at last, I came to beggary. 
               "I had nothing left with which to purchase a morsel of food, and I went on the Corso to ask alms. A carriage was drawn up on one side, in which four persons were seated-they were speaking in my own tongue,-and I went up to them, held out my hand, and asked for charity. 
               "A voice that I knew exclaimed: 
                
               "'Good Heavens! that is Nina Gordon.' 
               "Then I looked up at them, and saw Adolphus Bates, with the wife he married, and, opposite to them, was Kitty, with Albert Jenkins beside her. I knew that he was her husband, for she said to him: 
               "Oh, Albert dear! give her something; I knew her, and loved her, once.' 
               "I did not stop to hear more. Maddened, blinded, desperate, I dashed away from the carriage, and attempted to cross the crowded drive-careless of what might happen to me. A pair of spirited horses had taken fright, and were rushing onward with frantic speed. I was thrown down, trampled on, and taken up lifeless. 
               "The poor peasant who rescued me from instant destruction took me to his own cottage, and sent for the priest, who brought you to my assistance. God, in his mercy, led you to me! and I am now glad that he ordered it so. Since I must die, I will, at least, clear the fame of the man who spared me so long, though he did not do it for my own sake. Guy Denham is innocent and-that is all. My life work is ended!" 
               Nina sunk back faint and exhausted, and Inez hastened to administer a restorative, at the same time saying all that her gentle heart prompted, to console the unhappy creature so providentially thrown on her compassion. 
               She lingered till the following day, and, through the persuasions of Inez, she finally consented to accept the ministrations of Father Espana. Nina was baptized, received the last sacraments of the Church, and died! trusting that for her the words of Scripture might prove true,-"Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be made white as snow." 
               She was buried in consecrated ground, and a plain marble tablet placed over her grave on which the name of "Nina" was simply inscribed. 
                
               Inez immediately wrote an account of those events to Mrs. Langley, and inclosed in her letter a certified copy of Nina's confession. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               CONCLUSION. 
               PREPARATIONS for a magnificent bridal were in progress at Magnolia. Dora Markham was on the eve of marriage with Edward Wallis; and, with some vexation, Mrs. Hastings saw a girl so much younger than her own daughter about to assume the state of a wife, while the beautiful Opal devoted herself to a dream that, she believed, would end in nothing. 
               Mrs. Hastings was becoming very impatient and dissatisfied with the state of affairs between her daughter and Denham, and she had determined to speak decisively with them both on the subject, when he made his next visit to Silvermere. 
               But, fortunately for the peace of the long-tried lovers, that visit brought with it a very different result from the one she anticipated. Denham came over in a radiant glow of delight. He found Mrs. Hastings and Opal together in the library; and, regardless of her mother's presence, he rushed toward his betrothed, clasped her in his arms, and, pressing his lips to hers, said: 
               "Opal, I take back as your husband, the kiss given me so long ago. You are mine-mine! and I am this day the happiest creature that the world contains." 
               In some confusion, Opal extricated herself from his arms, and breathlessly asked: 
                
               "What is it, Guy? What has happened to give us our happiness at last?" 
               "Nina Gordon is dead. She confessed at the last the crime she had committed. Inez Lopez was with her at the time of her decease, and she has sent over such proof of Nina's guilt as must clear me in the eyes of all men. I shall go to Natchez at once to have them published, and to obtain the license for our marriage, for I must make you my own without further delay. There is the letter of Miss Lopez to my sister. I will read it aloud, and then you will understand what has occurred." 
               The interest with which both ladies listened may be well imagined; and when all was clear, Opal whispered: 
               "I knew it would be so, Guy. My trust has never wavered, but God is very good to us. I can scarcely yet believe that Nina was the criminal, for I have never before suspected her." 
               "Through all these years I have known that she was the assassin of Godfrey; but for your sake, Opal, I would not expose her." 
               "For my sake? I do not understand, Guy." 
               He whispered a few words in her ear, and she regarded him with dilating eyes, which soon began to fill with tears as she tenderly murmured: 
               "Poor Papa! poor, unhappy Nina! how I pity them both! But to you, my noble and true love, I can never be sufficiently grateful for bearing this heavy burden that you might save us from the humiliation and suffering we must have endured had this story become known." 
               "I shall be repaid for all that, Opal, if you will consent to give me your hand at once. Dora is to be married tomorrow night; we will be united in the morning, and attend the bridal afterward. Shall it not be so, dearest?" 
               She blushed slightly, but gently said: 
                
               "I can refuse you nothing, Guy. Have it as you will." 
               Mrs. Hastings here spoke: 
               "If Opal hesitated, I should insist on compliance with your wish, Guy. You deserve your reward, and you shall have it; meet my daughter at the Episcopal church in Natchez to-morrow morning at ten o'clock, and the ceremony can be performed with no one but your sister and myself as witnesses. After the tragic conclusion of our last wedding, I should not care to have another celebrated in this house." 
               Denham expressed his rapturous thanks, and all the necessary preliminaries were soon settled; he then set out for Natchez, to have his vindication published far and wide, and to arrange with the clergyman the quiet wedding which was to come off on the next morning. 
               The day was bright and balmy on which our lovers were united, and in the evening Opal appeared at Dora's wedding in bridal lace, and pearls; and her fair loveliness contrasted with the dark, piquante face of her sister-bride. 
               Wallis and Dora went North on a tour; but Denham, with his long-coveted darling, settled down at Silvermere, too happy in their union to care about seeking any change for the present. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS. 
             
               BEST COOK BOOKS PUBLISHED. 
               Mrs. Goodfellow's Cookery as it Should Be, Cloth, $1 75 
               Petersons' New Cook Book, Cloth, 1 75 
               Miss Leslie's New Cookery Book, Cloth, 1 75 
               Widdifield's New Cook Book, Cloth, 1 75 
               The National Cook Book. By a Practical Housewife, Cloth, 1 75 
               The Family Save-All. By author of "National Cook Book," Cloth, 1 75 
               Mrs. Hale's Receipts for the Million, Cloth, 1 75 
               Miss Leslie's New Receipts for Cooking, Cloth, 1 75 
               Mrs. Hale's New Cook Book, Cloth, 1 75 
               Franeatelli's Celebrated French, Italian, German, and English Cook Book. The Modern Cook. With Sixty-two illustrations. 
               Complete in six hundred large octavo pages, Cloth, 5 00 
             
             
               WORKS BY THE VERY BEST AUTHORS. 
               The following books are each issued in one large duodecimo volume, in paper cover, at $1.50 each, or each one is bound in cloth, at $1.75 each. 
               The Initials. A Love Story. By Baroness Tautphus, 1 50 
               Family Pride. By author of "Pique," "Family Secrets," etc 1 50 
               Self-Sacrifice. By author of "Margaret Maitland," etc 1 50 
               The Woman in Black. A Companion to the "Woman in White," 1 50 
               A Woman's Thoughts about Women. By Miss Muloch, 1 50 
               Flirtations in Fashionable Life. By Catharine Sinclair, 1 50 
               Rose Douglas. A Companion to "Family Pride," and "Self Sacrifice," 1 50 
               False Pride; or, Two Ways to Matrimony. A Charming Book, 1 50 
               Family Secrets. A Companion to "Family Pride," and "Pique," 1 50 
               The Morrisons. By Mrs. Margaret Hosmer, 1 50 
               Beppo. The Conscript. By T. A. Trollope, author of "Gemma," 1 50 
               Gemma. An Italian Story. By T. A. Trollope, author of "Beppo," 1 50 
               Marietta. By T. A. Trollope, author of "Gemma," 1 50 
               My Son's Wife. By author of "Caste," "Mr. Arle," etc 1 50 
               The Rich Husband. By author of "George Geith," 1 50 
               Harem Life in Egypt and Constantinople. By Emmeline Lott, 1 50 
               The Rector's Wife; or, the Valley of a Hundred Fires, 1 50 
               Woodburn Grange. A Novel. By William Howitt, 1 50 
               Country Quarters. By the Countess of Blessington, 1 50 
               Out of the Depths. The Story of a "Woman's Life," 1 50 
               The Coquette; or, the Life and Letters of Eliza Wharton, 1 50 
               The Pride of Life. A Story of the Heart. By Lady Jane Scott, 1 50 
               The Lost Beauty. By a Noted Lady of the Spanish Court, 1 50 
               Saratoga. An Indian Tale of Frontier Life. A true Story of 1787, 1 50 
               Married at Last. A Love Story. By Annie Thomas, 1 50 
               The Quaker Soldier. A Revolutionary Romance. By Judge Jones, 1 50 
               The Man of the World. An Autobiography. By William North, 1 50 
               The Queen's Favorite; or, The Price of a Crown. A Love Story, 1 50 
               Self Love; or, The Afternoon of Single and Married Life, 1 50 
               Cora Belmont; or, The Sincere Lover. A True Story of the Heart, 1 50 
               The Lover's Trials; or Days before 1776. By Mrs. Mary A. Denison, 1 50 
               High Life in Washington. A Life Picture. By Mrs. N. P. Lasselle, 1 50 
               The Beautiful Widow; or, Lodore. By Mrs. Percy B. Shelley, 1 50 
               Love and Money. By J. B. Jones, author of the "Rival Belles," 1 50 
               The Matchmaker. A Story of High Life. By Beatrice Reynolds, 1 50 
               The Brother's Secret; or, the Count De Mara. By William Godwin, 1 50 
               The Lost Love. By Mrs. Oliphant, author of "Margaret Maitland," 1 50 
               The Roman Traitor. By Henry William Herbert. A Roman Story, 1 50 
               The above books are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each. 
             
             
             
               WORKS BY THE VERY BEST AUTHORS. 
               The following books are each issued in one large duodecimo volume, in paper cover, at $1.50 each, or each one is bound in cloth, at $1.75 each. 
               The Dead Secret. By Wilkie Collins, author of "The Crossed Path," 1 50 
               Memoirs of Vidocq, the French Detective. His Life and Adventures, 1 50 
               The Crossed Path; or Basil. By Wilkie Collins, 1 50 
               Indiana. A Love Story. By George Sand, author of "Consuelo," 1 50 
               The Belle of Washington. With her Portrait. By Mrs. N. P. Lasselle, 1 50 
               The Bohemians of London. By Edward M. Whitty, 1 50 
               The Rival Belles; or, Life in Washington. By J. B. Jones, 1 50 
               The Devoted Bride. A Story of the Heart. By St. George Tucker, 1 50 
               Love and Duty. By Mrs. Hubback, author of "May and December," 1 50 
               Wild Sports and Adventures in Africa. By Major W. C. Harris, 1 50 
               Courtship and Matrimony. By Robert Morris. With a Portrait, 1 50 
               The Jealous Husband. By Annette Marie Maillard, 1 50 
               The Refugee. By Herman Melville, author of "Omoo," "Typee," 1 50 
               The Life, Writings, Lectures, and Marriages of Fanny Fern, 1 50 
               The Life and Lectures of Lola Montez, with her portrait, on steel, 1 50 
               Wild Southern Scenes. By author of "Wild Western Scenes," 1 50 
               Currer Lyle; or, the Autobiography of an Actress. By Louise Reeder 1 50 
               Coal, Coal Oil, and all other Minerals in the Earth. By Eli Bowen, 1 50 
               The Cabin and Parlor. By J. Thornton Randolph. Illustrated, 1 50 
               Jealousy. By George Sand, author of "Consuelo," "Indiana," etc. 1 50 
               The Little Beauty. A Love Story. By Mrs. Grey, 1 50 
               The Adopted Heir. A Love Story. By Miss Pardoe, 1 50 
               Secession, Coercion, and Civil War. By J. B. Jones, 1 50 
               The Count of Monte Cristo. By Alexander Dumas. Illustrated, 1 50 
               Camille; or, the Fate of a Coquette. By Alexander Dumas, 1 50 
               Six Nights with the Washingtonians. By T. S. Arthur, 1 50 
               Lizzie Glenn; or, the Trials of a Seamstress. By T. S. Arthur, 1 50 
               Lady Maud; or, the Wonder of Kingswood Chase. By Pierce Egan, 1 50 
               Wilfred Montressor; or, High Life in New York. Illustrated, 1 50 
               The Old Stone Mansion. By C. J. Peterson, author "Kate Aylesford," 1 50 
               Kate Aylesford. By Chas. J. Peterson, author "Old Stone Mansion," 1 50 
               Lorrimer Littlegood, by author "Hary Coverdale's Courtship," 1 50 
               The Red Court Farm. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "East Lynne," 1 50 
               Mildred Arkell. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "Red Court Farm," 1 50 
               The Earl's Secret. A Love Story. By Miss Pardoe, 1 50 
               The Adopted Heir. By Miss Pardoe, author of "The Earl's Secret," 1 50 
               Lord Montague's Page. By G. P. R. James, 1 50 
               The Cavalier. By G. P. R. James, author of "Lord Montagu's Page," 1 50 
               Cousin Harry. By Mrs. Grey, author of "The Gambler's Wife," etc. 1 50 
               The Conscript. A Tale of War. By Alexander Dumas, 1 50 
               The Tower of London. By W. Harrison Ainsworth. Illustrated, 1 50 
               Shoulder Straps. By Henry Morford, author of "Days of Shoddy," 1 50 
               Days of Shoddy. By Henry Morford, author of "Shoulder Straps," 1 50 
               The Coward. By Henry Morford, author of "Days of Shoddy," 1 50 
               The above books are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each. 
               The Wandering Jew. By Eugene Sue. Full of Illustrations, 1 50 
               Mysteries of Paris; and its Sequel, Gerolstein. By Eugene Sue, 1 50 
               Martin, the Foundling. By Eugene Sue. Full of Illustrations, 1 50 
               Ten Thousand a Year. By Samuel C. Warren. With Illustrations, 1 50 
               Washington and His Generals. By George Lippard 1 50 
               The Quaker City; or, the Monks of Monk Hall. By George Lippard, 1 50 
               Blanche of Brandywine. By George Lippard, 1 50 
               Paul Ardenheim; the Monk of Wissahickon. By George Lippard,. 1 50 
             
            The above books are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $2.00 each. 
          
          
             
            PETERSON'S MAGAZINE 
            CHEAPEST AND BEST OF ALL! 
            Splendid Offers for 1872. 
            This popular Monthly Magazine gives more for the money than any in the world. It has the best colored fashions, the best original stories, and the best engravings of any lady's book. Great and costly improvements will be made in 1872, when it will contain 
             
               ONE THOUSAND PAGES! 
               FOURTEEN SPLENDID STEEL PLATES! 
               TWELVE COLORED BERLIN PATTERNS! 
               TWELVE MAMMOTH COLORED FASHIONS! 
               ONE THOUSAND WOOD CUTS! 
               TWENTY-FOUR PAGES OF MUSIC! 
             
            All this will be given for only TWO DOLLARS a year, or a dollar less than Magazines of the class of "Peterson." Its THRILLING TALES AND NOVELETTES Are the best published anywhere. All the most popular writers are employed to write originally for "Peterson." In 1872, in addition to its usual quantity of short stories, FIVE ORIGINAL COPYRIGHT NOVELETS will be given, viz: BOUGHT WITH A PRICE, by Ann S. Stephens; THE ISLAND OF DIAMONDS, by Harry Danforth; ONCE TOO OFTEN, by Frank Lee Benedict; LINDSAY'S LUCK, by Miss F. Hodgson; and A WIFE, YET NOT A WIFE, by the author of "The Second Life." 
            MAMMOTH COLORED FASHION PLATES 
            Ahead of all others. These plates are engraved on steel, TWICE THE USUAL SIZE, and contain six figures. They will be superbly colored. Also, several pages of Household and other receipts; in short, everything interesting to ladies. 
             
               TERMS-Always in advance: 
               One copy, for one year $ 2 00 
               Five copies, for one year 8 00 
               Eight copies, for one year 12 00 
             
            SUPERB PREMIUM ENGRAVING! 
            Every person getting up a club of five at $1.60 each, or eight at $1.50 each, will be entitled to an extra copy of the Magazine for 1872, and also to a copy of the superb parlor mezzotint (size 24 inches by 18), "Five Times One To-Day," which, at a store, would cost four dollars. 
            Specimens sent gratis, to those wishing to get up Clubs. 
            Address, CHARLES J. PETERSON, No. 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
          
          
             
            MRS. EMMA D. E. N. SOUTHWORTH'S WORKS. 
            Each Work is complete in one large duodecimo volume. 
             
               A NOBLE LORD. Sequel to "The Lost Heir of Linlithgow." 
               THE LOST HEIR OF LINLITHGOW. 
               THE FAMILY DOOM; or, THE SIN OF A COUNTESS. 
               THE MAIDEN WIDOW. Sequel to "The Family Doom." 
               CRUEL AS THE GRAVE. 
               THE PRINCE OF DARKNESS. 
               THE MOTHER-IN-LAW. 
               THE DESERTED WIFE. 
               THE CHANGED BRIDES. 
               THE BRIDE'S FATE. SEQUEL TO CHANGED BRIDES. 
               TRIED FOR HER LIFE. A Sequel to "Cruel as the Grave." 
               THE BRIDE OF LLEWELLYN. 
               THE GIPSY'S PROPHECY. 
               THE FORTUNE SEEKER. 
               THE LOST HEIRESS. 
               THE CHRISTMAS GUEST. 
               THE BRIDAL EVE. 
               THE THREE BEAUTIES. 
               FAIR PLAY; OR, THE TEST OF THE LONE ISLE. 
               HOW HE WON HER. SEQUEL TO "FAIR PLAY." 
               THE FATAL MARRIAGE. 
               THE HAUNTED HOMESTEAD. 
               LOVE'S LABOR WON. 
               THE MISSING BRIDE. 
               LADY OF THE ISLE. 
               THE WIFE'S VICTORY. 
               THE TWO SISTERS. 
               FALLEN PRIDE; OR, THE MOUNTAIN GIRL'S LOVE. 
               INDIA; OR, THE PEARL OF PEARL RIVER. 
               VIVIA; OR, THE SECRET OF POWER. 
               THE CURSE OF CLIFTON. 
               THE DISCARDED DAUGHTER. 
               THE WIDOW'S SON. 
               ALL WORTH ABBEY. 
               RETRIBUTION. 
             
            Price of each, $1.75 in Cloth; or $1.50 in Paper Cover. 
            Above books are for sale by all Booksellers. Copies of any or all of the above books will be sent to any one, to any place, postage pre-paid, on receipt of their price by the Publishers, 
            T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, 306 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 
          
       
   
