
    ----CITATION----
        Cooke, John Esten, (1830-1886). Pretty Mrs. Gaston, and Other Stories .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6154 wright2-0624
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         

            
               
                  MR. JOBSON PROTESTS. (Frontispiece. See page 24.)
               
            
         
         
            
               Pretty Mrs. Gaston,
               AND OTHER STORIES.
            
            BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE, AUTHOR OF "THE VIRGINIA COMEDIANS,"
               "SURRY OF EAGLE'S NEST," "DR. VAN DYKE," ETC., ETC.
            ILLUSTRATED.
            
               NEW YORK:
               ORANGE JUDD COMPANY,
                  
                     245 BROADWAY.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by the ORANGE JUDD
                  COMPANY, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
            
         
         
            TO THE CRITICS (radiant in ribbons and roses) who sat under the evergreens
               and read this history, "PRETTY MRS. GASTON" is respectfully dedicated.
         
         
         

            CONTENTS.
            
               PRETTY MRS. GASTON. 
                     CHAPTER 1.—Love and Beggary. 9
                     
                     CHAPTER 2.—An Eccentric. 13
                     
                     CHAPTER 3.—Mr. and Mrs. Ormby. 20
                     
                     CHAPTER 4.—Mr. Jobson Protests. 24
                     
                     CHAPTER 5.—A Fox-Hunt and What Followed It. 27
                     
                     CHAPTER 6.—The Crisis in A Young Man's Life. 35
                     
                     CHAPTER 7.—Mr. Jobson Consults with Dr. Harrington. 41
                     
                     CHAPTER 8.—A Nest of Doves. 45
                     
                     CHAPTER 9.—Harrington Feels His Way. 54
                     
                     CHAPTER 10.—George Cleave and His "Little Sister." 59
                     
                     CHAPTER 11.—The Result of Breaking One's Leg. 68
                     
                     CHAPTER 12.—Mr. Brown. 74
                     
                     CHAPTER 13.—Which Brings Up the Narrative. 79
                     
                     CHAPTER 14.—Mr. Daintrees Makes an Elaborate Toilette and Visits The
                        Hollies. 83
                     
                     CHAPTER 15.—In the Swamp. 88
                     
                     CHAPTER 16.—Beside the Fire in the Swamp. 91
                     
                     CHAPTER 17.—The Physician in Spite of Himself. 97
                     
                     CHAPTER 18.—Harrington Announces His Intention to Leave Waterford. 104
                     
                     CHAPTER 19.—The Woes of Daintrees. 109
                     
                     CHAPTER 20.—How Harrington Declared that He Had Grown Ten Years Younger.
                           114
                     
                     CHAPTER 21.—Allan Gartrell, Esq. 119
                     
                     CHAPTER 22.—What Money-Trouble Brings Some Men To. 123
                     
                     CHAPTER 23.—Mr. Gartrell and His Friend Mr. Brown. 128
                     
                     CHAPTER 24.—Jack Daintrees Entertains Some Friends. 135
                     
                     CHAPTER 25.—The Lawyer and the Lumber Agent. 140
                     
                     CHAPTER 26.—What Occurred at The Hollies on a Summer Night. 146
                     
                     CHAPTER 27.—What Occurred at Bay View. 155
                     
                     CHAPTER 28.—Mr. Brown Pronounces Sentence. 161
                     
                     CHAPTER 29.—Skirmishing at The Hollies. 165
                     
                     CHAPTER 30.—A General Engagement. 170
                     
                     CHAPTER 31.—The Cypress Leaf—and the Sunshine. 178
                     
                     CHAPTER 32.—Mr. Brown Departs. 183
                     
                     CHAPTER 33.—Which Treats of the Mysterious Movements of Mr. Jobson. 189
                     
                     CHAPTER 34.—Waiting. 195
                     
                     CHAPTER 35.—In Conclave. 198
                     
                     
                     CHAPTER 36.—Mr. Brown Begins. 202
                     
                     CHAPTER 37.—Mr. Brown Continues. 205
                     
                     CHAPTER 38.—Mr. Brown Concludes His Explanation. 210
                     
                     CHAPTER 39.—And the Curtain Falls upon the Comedy. 221
                     
                  
               
               ANNIE AT THE CORNER. 
                     CHAPTER 1.—From a Window. 224
                     
                     CHAPTER 2.—A School Girl. 232
                     
                     CHAPTER 3.—Two Rivals. 238
                     
                     CHAPTER 4.—Parting. 243
                     
                     CHAPTER 5.—The Return. 247
                     
                     CHAPTER 6.—A Woman. 252
                     
                     CHAPTER 7.—The Old House. 258
                     
                     CHAPTER 8.—At the Corner. 264
                     
                     CHAPTER 9.—Conclusion. 270
                     
                  
               
               THE WEDDING AT DULUTH. 273
               
            
         
         
            ILLUSTRATIONS.
            
               Mr. Jobson Protests. Frontispiece.
               
               "I Am a Beggar, Marian—a Beggar!" 11
               
               Annie Bell Stopped and Turned Round—a Statue of Surprise. 50
               
               "Oh! Mr. Daintrees!" 91
               
               "Good Morning, Sir!" Said Marian Rising. 125
               
               "His Health!" 131
               
               "No Offence is Meant by Either Gentleman, I Am Sure." 137
               
               Cries Were Heard One or Two Hundred Yards in Front of The Hollies.
                     153
               
               "Your Father, Miss ——?" 158
               
               The Prying Moon—What It Lingered upon Now. 176
               
               The Individual Resembling a Bull-dog Had Listened. 219
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Pretty Mrs. Gaston, and other stories
            
               PRETTY MRS. GASTON.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  LOVE AND BEGGARY.
                  ON an autumn afternoon, some years ago, a young girl was standing before her
                     mirror in an upper chamber of Bayview, an old house on the western bank of the
                     Chesapeake, making her toilet, evidently for a ride on horseback.
                  She was about seventeen, had very large blue eyes full of candor and sweetness,
                     a delicate complexion, lips that seemed always smiling, and a figure slender,
                     supple, and undulating. You might have called her a beauty as she stood before
                     her mirror with her graceful arms raised, and the small hands balancing the
                     brown felt riding-hat on her braids.
                  Having arranged her hat to her satisfaction, she took a riding whip with an
                     ivory handle and a pair of buff
                     gauntlets from the table, and went down stairs supporting her long skirt on her
                     left arm. In front of the portico a groom was holding two horses, one with a
                     lady's side-saddle. At the door a young gentleman was waiting for her.
                  The character of some human beings is read at a glance without trouble. The
                     person who had come to ride out with Miss Marian Ormby might have been
                     described as the "average young man." He was well-shaped, well-dressed, had a
                     handsome, if not very intellectual face, and smiled naturally,
                     which is a distinct gift.
                  The greeting exchanged between the two young persons, and the manner in which
                     the gentleman assisted the lady to mount her horse, indicated relations of an
                     intimate character. It required, in fact, but a very small amount of
                     perspicacity to understand that they were engaged—since there was not only
                     fondness, but confidence and tranquillity.
                  The countenance of the young gentleman had glowed suddenly as the girl came
                     out; but as they rode down the hill and into the fields beyond the great gate
                     enclosing the grounds this glow disappeared, and the face became gloomy.
                  Thereupon followed this dialogue:
                  "What is the matter, George?"
                  "The matter, Marian?"
                  "You seem to be troubled, and are actually pale."
                  "Well, I have something to trouble me——"
                  He stopped, sighing. The young lady looked at him more attentively.
                  "I never saw you so dispirited. Is anything the matter? Tell me, George!"
                  "Marian—I am—it is hard to tell you."
                  
                     
                        "I AM A BEGGAR, MARIAN—A BEGGAR!"
                     
                  
                  "I have the right to share your troubles if you have any."
                  The gentle and caressing voice touched him. He said with a deeper sigh than
                     before:
                  "Do you know whom you are engaged to?"
                  
                  "I believe I do!"
                  It was pleasant to hear the little laugh and to see the faint blush.
                  "I supposed at least that the name of the gentleman was—Mr. George Cleave, of
                     Cleaveland."
                  "Cleaveland is not mine."
                  "Not your own?"
                  "I am a beggar, Marian—a beggar! I only found it out last night, and have come
                     to tell you all about it, and—and—ask you for some advice and—comfort,
                     Marian."
                  Now as Mr. George Cleave was at this time aware of only a part of the
                     circumstances leading to the critical change in his worldly affairs, we shall
                     supply the omissions, and narrate fully if briefly what had happened, going
                     back to a chamber in the great mansion of Cleaveland three or four years before
                     the date of this history.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  AN ECCENTRIC.
                  HAMILTON CLEAVE, Esq., possessor of Cleaveland, one of the amplest estates in
                     that part of Virginia, returned home one evening through a heavy rain after a
                     ride over his property, and on the next day took to his bed and sent for his
                     family physician.
                  The physician did not make his appearance until evening, when the
                     disease—pneumonia—had made gigantic strides.
                  "Well, Doctor? What do you think?" said Mr. Cleave.
                  The doctor looked dispirited, and made an evasive reply. He remained all night,
                     and in the evening of the next day Mr. Cleave asked again, this time in a much
                     weaker voice:
                  "What do you think now, Doctor?"
                  "I regret to say that you are very ill, Mr. Cleave."
                  "I know that. I wish you to speak plainly. I am going to die, am I not?"
                  The doctor hesitated.
                  "Speak plainly."
                  
                  "I am sorry to say, Mr. Cleave, that your condition is critical—very critical
                     indeed."
                  "Is there a chance for my recovery?"
                  The doctor made no reply; whereupon Mr. Cleave moved his head feebly and
                     said:
                  "I know what I wanted to know now. Oblige me by sending a servant to Mr. Marks,
                     my legal adviser."
                  Having uttered these words with entire nonchalance, the sick man closed his
                     eyes and seemed to be reflecting.
                  Mr. Marks promptly made his appearance, and the old planter requested him to
                     take his seat at the table and write his will.
                  "I will state briefly my wishes in reference to the disposal of my property,
                     Mr. Marks. There are three persons only who have any claims upon me—my nephew,
                     George Cleave, who is at college; a second nephew, Allan Gartrell, now in
                     Paris, I believe; and Annie Bell, the daughter of an old friend, adopted by
                     me."
                  "Yes, Mr. Cleave."
                  "I wish the Cleaveland property here, with all the personal estate, to go to
                     George Cleave, who has nothing, and my 'Free Hill' farm to go to Annie Bell,
                     with all the personal effects, as in the first instance."
                  "And Mr. Gartrell, sir?"
                  "No part of my real estate. He is well provided for—his father left him an
                     ample property. I give him, however, as a mark of my regard, the certificates
                     of railway and other stock, which you will find in the drawer of that desk in
                     the corner."
                  "Any further directions, Mr. Cleave?"
                  "None, sir."
                  "The Cleaveland property, real and personal, to your nephew, Mr. George Cleave;
                     the Free Hill estate and personalty to Miss Annie Bell; the railway and other
                     certificates of stock to Mr. Allan Gartrell?"
                  Mr. Cleave nodded and closed his eyes. Half an hour afterwards Mr. Marks
                     said:
                  "I have finished. Shall I read the paper, Mr. Cleave?"
                  "If you please."
                  The lawyer read it slowly.
                  "Correct," was the sole comment of the sick man.
                  "I have left a blank for the name of your executor."
                  "I will add it later."
                  On the next day the will was executed, two friends who came to see Mr. Cleave
                     officiating as witnesses. In the evening they were gone, and the doctor only
                     was present.
                  "Doctor," said Mr. Cleave feebly, "where is Annie?"
                  "Down-stairs, sir."
                  "Poor thing! she will be alone now. And George—I wish George would come!"
                  "He has been sent for, Mr. Cleave, and will arrive, I hope, to-night."
                  "As soon as he comes, say I wish to see him, and—stop, Doctor; I have executed
                     my will, but——"
                  The voice ceased for an instant.
                  "She will have no home," he went on in a faint, dreamy voice. "If I could only
                     bring about——"
                  He stopped again.
                  "Doctor," he said in a moment, "you are a friend, and have often visited me here. Have you
                     observed George and Annie?"
                  "I have frequently seen them, Mr. Cleave."
                  "Do you think them fond of each other?"
                  "I think I have observed that they were quite fond."
                  The dying man seemed much gratified by these words.
                  "If George would only come," he said; "all depends on that now——"
                  He lay for an hour after this without moving or speaking; his eyes closed, his
                     breathing faint and irregular. Then he opened his eyes and said:
                  "I wish you—to tell me, Doctor—how long I have to live! It is important that
                     you should speak plainly."
                  It was evident that the dying man had some fixed design, and the physician knew
                     that he would insist upon a response.
                  "I regret to say, Mr. Cleave," he replied, "that you are sinking steadily.
                     Before midnight, I fear."
                  "That is enough. Do me the favor to go to the window, Doctor, and listen if you
                     hear George coming. The noise of the carriage wheels may be heard."
                  The physician went and listened. The wind was sobbing without, but no other
                     sound disturbed the silence.
                  "I hear nothing, Mr. Cleave."
                  "Then no time is to be lost. Do me the kindness to seat yourself, Doctor, and
                     write from my dictation a codicil to my will."
                  The old physician was accustomed to obey Mr. Cleave, who always insisted on
                     things. He sat down, drew a sheet of paper to him, and dipped the pen in the
                     ink.
                  What Mr. Cleave dictated in the clearest, briefest, but most definite manner
                     was a codicil to his will to the effect that the estate of "Cleaveland," with
                     all pertaining to it, should go to his nephew George Cleave only on condition
                     that he should marry Annie Bell before he was twenty-five years of
                        age. This condition failing, the estate was to go to Allan
                     Gartrell—but the said George Cleave was meanwhile to have possession.
                  The physician listened with some astonishment, but mechanically wrote what the
                     patient dictated.
                  "Read it, Doctor."
                  The codicil was read.
                  "Accurate. Give me the paper and a pen."
                  He affixed his name, and had just done so, when his head fell, and he dropped
                     the pen.
                  "Mr. Cleave!"
                  The paper escaped from the dying man's hand and fell to the floor.
                  The physician called loudly for the sick man's nurse, an old house-keeper, who
                     ran at the call. When she reached the chamber Mr. Cleave was dead.
                  An hour afterwards the physician set out to ride home, his mind so oppressed by
                     the death of one whom he had greatly esteemed that he had entirely lost sight
                     of the codicil to the will. A singular event followed. A heavy rain storm had
                     arisen, accompanied by thunder and lightning—the aged doctor was exposed to it
                     during his long ride, and an acute attack of fever followed, which resulted ten
                     days afterwards in his death. In his last hours when he was nearly speechless,
                     he seemed desirous of making some
                     communication—probably to speak of the codicil—but his broken words were not
                     understood, and he died without making any statement.
                  A fatality indeed seemed connected with this singular document. The aged
                     house-keeper of Mr. Cleave had proceeded after his death to "set the room to
                     rights" her eyes blinded by tears, and seeing on the floor what appeared to be
                     a piece of waste paper, had picked it up, folded it neatly, and placed it in a
                     book, which she had afterwards consigned to the book-case in the library. It
                     was thus effectually lost—to be discovered only three years afterwards by
                     George Cleave, who had arrived an hour after his uncle's death.
                  He had been sitting in the library at twilight smoking and his cigar had gone
                     out. Looking for a piece of waste paper to relight it, he had seen what
                     appeared to be a book-mark in a volume in the book-case, drawn it out, lit one
                     corner of the paper in the fire, and was about to apply his cigar to the flame
                     when some writing on the paper attracted his attention, and he extinguished it.
                     He then obtained a light, read the paper—he must marry Annie Bell, then
                     residing with a Mrs. Gaston in the neighborhood, or surrender Cleaveland.
                  This was the discovery which George Cleave announced to Miss Marian Ormby, to
                     whom he was engaged to be married, as they rode out together on this autumn
                     evening.
                  It is unnecessary to repeat their conversation. It was gloomy enough. Cleave
                     lamented bitterly his idle and luxurious life since taking possession of
                     Cleaveland—he might have established himself in his profession of the law—he
                     had been criminally indolent—he could not drag down Marian, even if Mr. Ormby
                     consented, and it was certain that he would never consent! So the youth went
                     on, refusing comfort.
                  But the "weaker vessel" consoled the other. He had nothing? He was alone and
                     poor? No, he had herself, and what did she care for
                     wealth? She would live with him in a cabin! the brave girl said with flushed
                     cheeks, and eyes glowing through tears. And her father would consent—George
                     must tell him all—they could wait if necessary until he established himself in
                     his profession, she would wait for him just as long
                     as he wished, and all would be well—unless—unless——
                  The young lady laughed.
                  "Unless you would rather marry Miss Annie Bell!"
                  It is unnecessary to repeat the reply of George Cleave to these words, or
                     describe his proceeding. A little gleam of joy broke through the gloom—they
                     rode back—and Cleave returned to his own house to concoct a statement of
                     affairs for the eyes of Ormby père.
                  
                  Alas! two young and throbbing hearts, strong only in love and faith were
                     matching themselves against that horny and ossified something passing for a
                     heart beneath the ruffles of Mr. J. Ormby.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER III.
                  MR. AND MRS. ORMBY.
                  TOWARD noon on the day after the ride, Mr. Ormby, a portly gentleman of about
                     sixty, came out of his library at Bayview, took his gold-headed cane from its
                     corner, put on his hat, and descending to the smooth gravel walk in front of
                     the house, began walking slowly to and fro.
                  Mr. Ormby's walk was peculiar, as indeed was the whole carriage of his person.
                     He held his chin aloft, with his gold-headed cane beneath his left arm, and
                     seemed to take the surrounding landscape under his protection. From time to
                     time he turned his head slowly from side to side, bestowed a glance of
                     seignorial complacence upon the fertile fields before him, and cleared his
                     throat in a grave and dignified manner, indicative of landed proprietorship and
                     self-esteem. He might have been described indeed as overpowering the face of
                     nature, as he overpowered his company.
                  Having walked slowly to and fro in front of the house for a quarter of an hour,
                     Mr. Ormby paused, cleared his throat, and was about to reënter the mansion,
                     when a servant rode up the hill and respectfully delivered a letter.
                  "Eh? Eh?" said Mr. Ormby. A note? And from my young friend at Cleaveland."
                  With dignified deliberation he opened the letter, placed upon his venerable
                     nose a pair of gold spectacles, and began the perusal of the document. No
                     sooner, however, had he read two or three lines, than he lost his air of
                     composure, glared at the paper, and turning very red in the face,
                     hastened—actually hastened—into the house.
                  In the hall he stopped, fixing his eyes again upon the paper. Then he crumpled
                     it in his hand, and went hurriedly to announce its contents to Mrs. Ormby.
                  This lady was seated in her chamber—a mild and rather feeble looking personage
                     in a black alpaca dress, a lace cap, spectacles, and apparently about the age
                     of Mr. Ormby. She was slowly netting some article of worsted work, and raised
                     her eyes, with an air of disquiet, as Mr. Ormby entered.
                  "Here's a pretty business, Mrs. Ormby! a pretty business!" exclaimed Mr. Ormby;
                     "I am astounded, madam—fairly astounded!"
                  "Yes, my dear," said Mrs. Ormby with gentle acquiescence.
                  "You always say, 'Yes, my dear,' madam!" said Mr. Ormby, now very red in the
                     face, "and never wait to hear what is said to you! As I have observed, madam,
                     this is a pretty business! Here is a letter from young Cleave—he has found a
                     new will of his uncle's—he is to marry
                     Miss Bell, the young woman residing with her cousin, Mrs. Gaston, at The
                     Hollies, or the fine estate of Cleaveland goes to Gartell, the other
                     nephew!"
                  "Yes, my——," began Mrs. Ormby, looking startled. Then she stopped, gazing in a
                     feeble way at Mr. Ormby.
                  "The young man—I refer to Mr. George Cleave," said Mr. Ormby, walking about in
                     an excited manner, "writes to inform me of the discovery of the new will—a
                     codicil—he makes no concealment—acts honorably in the affair—and it is due to
                        him that I should be equally candid, Mrs. Ormby!"
                  "Yes, my dear," said Mrs. Ormby, except that the "dear" was inaudible. She
                     gazed at him in a vague and helpless way, not having the remotest idea of what
                     Mr. Ormby meant by being "equally candid."
                  "I shall be plain I say, madam; and much as I regret it, inform young Cleave
                     that his engagement with Marian can not—hem!—under the
                     circumstances—hem!—continue!"
                  "Oh Mr. Ormby!"
                  It was the most original observation made for many months by the excellent
                     lady.
                  "Eh! Eh!" exclaimed the now irate gentleman, "you object then! You oppose me!
                     You wish your daughter to marry a beggar!"
                  Mrs. Ormby subsided meekly to netting.
                  "Of course, madam," continued Mr. Ormby with extreme dignity,
                     "Miss Ormby, of Bayview, can not be expected to unite herself with a young
                     person who has no estate and no means of marrying. It is only necessary sary to
                     state the fact, madam—ahem! It is painful, extremely painful—but it is my
                     duty—I owe it to my daughter!"
                  "Poor George!" muttered Mrs. Ormby.
                  "What's that, madam?"
                  "Yes, my dear."
                  Mr. Ormby raised his head with dignity.
                  "I am pleased to see that you agree with me, Mrs. Ormby! I shall therefore
                     write to young Cleave the result of this conversation. His obvious course is to
                     follow the wishes of his uncle, and pay his addresses at once to Miss Bell. I
                     will therefore proceed to write, madam."
                  And Mr. Ormby, far more agitated than he appeared, left the room to go to his
                     library, Mrs. Ormby subsiding feebly in her chair, the netting-needles resting
                     on her lap.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  MR. JOBSON PROTESTS.
                  GEORGE CLEAVE was engaged in conversation at Cleaveland with Mr. Jobson,
                     attorney-at-law from the neighboring town of Waterford.
                  Mr. Jobson was a thin and wiry old gentleman, with short hair, a piercing pair
                     of eyes behind huge spectacles, a reticent expression—and had the habit of
                     looking at the person to whom he was speaking out of the upper portion of his
                     eyes, above his glasses. He wore a suit of rusty black, and seemed to carry
                     about with him the odor of law-books bound in calf, and dusty papers tied with
                     pink tape, with which was mingled the perfume of the old-fashioned Scotch snuff
                     spilt upon his coat-sleeves.
                  Mr. Jobson had been engaged for fully half an hour in a silent examination of
                     the codicil to Mr. Hamilton Cleave's will, and now quietly laid the document on
                     the table, helping himself thereafter to a large pinch of snuff out of a black
                     box.
                  "I understand you to ask my professional opinion of this paper, Mr. Cleave, and
                     whether it is valid and binding in law?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "It is of no force or effect whatever, and I hope you have taken no steps of
                     any sort consequent upon its discovery."
                  "Of no force? Explain yourself, Mr. Jobson!"
                  "Look at it. In whose handwriting is it?"
                  "It seems to be dictated—that is to say, is not in my uncle's writing; but the
                     signature is his own."
                  "I do not know that, but grant so much. His signature is the only one."
                  "The only one?"
                  "There are no witnesses."
                  "Is that necessary?"
                  "Absolutely necessary. If written throughout by your uncle's hand the paper
                     would be valid without witnesses. Written by the hand of another, witnesses
                     signing in his presence and in the presence of each other, are
                     indispensable."
                  George Cleave took up the paper, and scanned it thoughtfully.
                  "That is beyond all doubt my uncle's signature," he said.
                  "I think it more than probable."
                  "And he must have designed this paper to be binding, else he would not have
                     signed it."
                  "Granted, if you choose."
                  "Then, Mr. Jobson, I consider myself bound as a gentleman not to contest
                     it."
                  "Not contest it!" exclaimed Mr. Jobson.
                  "Certainly not, sir."
                  
                  "Not contest a paper of no earthly validity! Surrender the finest property in
                     the county under a paper like this, not worth the ink it was written with!"
                  Cleave shook his head.
                  "I know you are my friend, Mr. Jobson, but your advice is bad. You acknowledge
                     that the only flaw in this paper is the omission of a legal formality; it is
                     plain, nevertheless, that my uncle intended to execute the
                     codicil—I have nothing to do with his motives, and I will carry out his
                     intentions."
                  "Give up the property?"
                  "Yes, sir. I can not offer myself to Miss Bell, and I know she has not the
                     least wish to marry me. The only thing, therefore, is to write to
                     my cousin Allan Gartrell—I will give you the address of his banker in
                     Liverpool. I wish you would do so, and say that I am ready to surrender this
                     estate to him."
                  Mr. Jobson burst forth into exclamations and remonstrances, but the young man
                     insisted.
                  "Well," said the old lawyer at length, "your father was my best friend, and
                     here his son is about to ruin himself. Give me a few days to think of
                     it—something may turn up—there ought to be a compromise at the very least, if
                     there is to be no contest."
                  Mr. Jobson groaned.
                  "My young friend," he added with pathetic solemnity, "if business was conducted
                     in the way you conduct it the world would not go on for a
                     day!"
                  And with this last protest Mr. Jobson went away—groaning.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  A FOX-HUNT AND WHAT FOLLOWED IT.
                  A FEW miles from Bayview toward the interior, stood "The Lodge," the bachelor
                     stronghold of one of the most popular gentlemen of the county. The name of this
                     gentleman was Mr. John, or "Jack," Daintrees, and, perhaps, the adjective
                     "bachelor" applied to his residence was a little inappropriate. Mr. Daintrees
                     was a widower of some years' standing; but then he was childless, extremely
                     jovial in his tastes, and led the life of a rollicking bachelor and fox-hunter,
                     keeping open house at The Lodge, where everybody was welcome. 
                  The Lodge was what is called a "hip-roofed" house, of moderate size, built of
                     wood, overshadowed by tall elms, and extremely bright-looking and comfortable.
                     It was perfectly plain at the first glance that no ladies lived at The Lodge,
                     which had a free and careless bachelor-look about it; but Mr. Daintrees was an
                     excellent manager, was well to do, and surrounded by every comfort; and his
                     bachelor entertainments, thanks to accomplished servants, were the talk of the
                     county.
                  
                  The tastes of Mr. Daintrees were soon seen. About the lawn extending in front
                     of the house ran twenty or thirty tawny fox-hounds, dragging their blocks, and
                     hastening to caress their master whenever he appeared; and the stables, which
                     were kept in perfect order by an old gray-headed negro groom with an army of
                     young Africans under him, boasted quite a number of thoroughbred horses, upon
                     which Mr. Daintrees was accustomed to follow the hounds.
                  The interior of the mansion was old-fashioned and well appointed. The walls,
                     covered with a light, gray paper, were hung round with hunting scenes and
                     pictures of English race-horses in plain walnut frames. The fireplaces were
                     large, and for half the year roared with great hickory logs, making the
                     apartments of The Lodge a pleasant sight to behold—especially the dining-room,
                     when Mr. Daintrees assembled around his mahogany table, dark with age, and
                     decorated with decanters, his bachelor friends. In the hall a spreading pair of
                     deer's antlers did duty as a coat and hat rack; and behind the front-door hung
                     a hunting-horn, the spoil of some mighty ox, the small end carved to set well
                     to the lips of the blower, and around the larger end a silver band, on which
                     was carved, "John Daintrees, The Lodge."
                  Mr. Jack Daintrees was about forty, with rather a full figure, a ruddy and
                     smiling face, a fine forehead, fine eyes, and dressed rather jauntily. He was
                     the perfection of good-humor and hospitality, gay in his address, and
                     universally popular with ladies of all ages. He did not affect youth, and,
                     indeed, was accustomed to speak of himself as an old fellow who had done with
                     the vanities of life; but in spite of these disclaimers he was welcomed
                     everywhere by the youngest of the young ladies, who laughed delightedly at his
                     gay jests, and with marked attention by those of more advanced age, with
                     pretensions still—under favorable circumstances—to matrimony.
                  On the morning when we visit The Lodge, Mr. Jack Daintrees rose at daybreak,
                     and descended to his breakfast-room dressed in full hunting-costume—short coat,
                     top boots, and jockey cap; for on this day Mr. Daintrees proposed to follow the
                     hounds in company with several of his friends who had spent the night with him.
                     The breakfast-table was set, a cheerful fire blazing, and Dan, his old black
                     groom, was waiting to report.
                  A rapid consultation took place on the subject of the horses, Dan went out and
                     Mr. Daintrees proceeded to ring a huge bell, which brought down-stairs his
                     half-dozen guests, fresh and full of ardor for the hunt.
                  Mr. Jack Daintrees had a jest for everybody, and mixed with an experienced hand
                     a jorum of peach brandy and honey, which was passed around. Then a hearty
                     breakfast was dispatched; the horses were led out; Mr. Daintrees blew a
                     resounding blast upon his horn, swung around his shoulder by its green cord;
                     and the gay party set out after the hounds toward a neighboring copse, where a
                     gray fox had been seen on the preceding day.
                  Fifteen minutes afterwards the hounds were in full cry, and the chase had
                     opened under the most favorable auspices.
                  
                  Three hours passed. The fox, evidently old and gray, had taken straight across
                     the country, and now the gay companions of the morning were dispersed. One of
                     them had rolled in a ditch, the horses of nearly all the rest had given out or
                     fallen behind, and only Mr. Jack Daintrees and one other had kept up. The
                     personage in question was Dr. Ralph Harrington, a young physician, who had
                     settled down a year or two before at Waterford, and who combined out-door
                     amusements with his professional pursuits in the most harmonious manner.
                  Dr. Ralph Harrington impressed you at the first glance. He was about
                     twenty-eight, tall, very erect, with a face full of intellect, a somewhat
                     satirical expression of the lips, dark eyes, which looked calmly into your own,
                     and carried himself generally with an air of lazy good-nature. A shrinking want
                     of confidence in himself did not strike strangers as a very marked
                     characteristic of Dr. Ralph Harrington; but he was popular, nevertheless; was
                     justly regarded as an able physician, and had already secured an excellent
                     practice.
                  During the fox-hunt, Dr. Harrington had kept up with the foremost, and now
                     found himself far ahead of all but his friend Jack Daintrees. They were riding
                     neck and neck. The fox had gone on in a straight course for nearly ten miles,
                     had then doubled and came back by Cleaveland, and was passing between The Lodge
                     and The Hollies, the home of a fair neighbor of Mr. Daintrees, when the hunters
                     saw emerge from a woodland road a small sorrel ridden by a young lady. The gay
                     little animal had evidently been inspired by the cry of the hounds, and was
                     going at full speed now upon their track—a proceeding which seemed to afford
                     intense delight to his mistress. She was a young girl of about eighteen, with a
                     complexion all roses, red lips which seemed made for smiling, and dancing eyes
                     across which some brown ringlets were driven by the rapid motion. Eyes, lips,
                     ringlets, all were indicative of gayety and enjoyment.
                  In three bounds the small animal bore the young lady to the side of Mr.
                     Daintrees, who cried:
                  "Miss Annie! Take care!"
                  "No, no, don't stop Brownie!" was the quick protest.
                  "He is running away!"
                  "No, indeed, Mr. Daintrees! He is only—following the hounds!"
                  "A heroine!" cried Mr. Daintrees, "and I see you have command of him, Miss
                     Annie. Let me introduce my friend, Dr. Harrington—Miss Bell!"
                  Dr. Harrington and Miss Bell exchanged a polite salutation with their heads
                     while going at full gallop; and then, as if between sportsmen there was no time
                     for ceremony, they went on at high speed as before. Dr. Harrington was
                     evidently much impressed by his new acquaintance. It was very plain that Miss
                     Annie Bell was an excellent rider, and she cleared two or three fences in a way
                     which filled her companions with admiration. Unluckily her good fortune
                     deserted her at the fourth obstacle. Her small steed descended into one of
                     those ditches which are common in the tide-water region; did not recover
                     himself, and Miss Annie Bell would inevitably ably have rolled beneath the animal had not Dr.
                     Ralph Harrington, who cleared the obstacle at the same moment, passed his arm
                     around her and saved her from falling.
                  Mr. Daintrees had shot ahead, and as this scene took place, his horn was heard
                     sounding the death. A few minutes afterwards he galloped back, holding up the
                     tail. Suddenly he stopped. He saw before him a graceful but unexpected
                     tableau—Dr. Ralph Harrington standing by his horse, and supporting the young
                     lady of the ringlets in his arms.
                  "My dear Miss Annie!" exclaimed Mr. Daintrees.
                  "Don't be uneasy! I'm not hurt in the least, sir!"
                  And the ringlets quickly receded from Dr. Ralph Harrington—their owner uttering
                     a laugh.
                  "Well!" said Mr. Jack Daintrees. "Here's an adventure for you! A fox-hunt, a
                     lady come to grief, and a rescue! But—oh! what will Mrs. Gaston say, my
                        dear Miss Annie?"
                  "She shall not scold you, Mr. Daintrees, you have had nothing to do with it;
                     and besides it is nothing, I have only sprained my ankle."
                  "Only sprained your ankle! that is too bad. What on earth are we to do?"
                  There was but one thing to do. The Lodge was seen across the field, not more
                     than a quarter of a mile away, and to The Lodge the young lady was slowly
                     conducted, her companions gallantly supporting her as she limped along, and
                     leading their horses. It was quite encouraging to see what a jest she made of
                     her accident, with what grace and agility she got over a fence which
                     interposed, and when she drew near the mansion of Mr. Daintrees she exclaimed
                     with a delighted laugh:
                  "I knew I should be at The Lodge some day. What a fearful bachelor den it
                     is!"
                  "Well, walk into the parlor, Miss Annie," said Mr. Daintrees. "I am not a
                     spider and you are not a fly, and you will come out safe and sound. Now to
                     write to Mrs. Gaston. I am in deadly terror of her, but it must be done."
                  "She is an awful person indeed!" said Miss Annie Bell, subsiding into a chair.
                     And then Mr. Daintrees, who owing to his preference for the saddle had no
                     species of carriage whatever, wrote and dispatched a note to The Hollies,
                     sending back the young lady's pony by the bearer.
                  An hour afterwards a family carriage rolled quickly up to the door of The
                     Lodge, and a lady's voice exclaimed:
                  "Where is Annie?"
                  "She is quite well, madam," said Mr. Daintrees hastening forth to receive his
                     guest. "A slight sprain only, a mere nothing."
                  And Mr. Daintrees gallantly supported the lady as she issued from her carriage.
                     Mrs. Gaston might have aroused the gallantry of a less susceptible person than
                     Mr. Jack Daintrees. She was a lady of about thirty-five, with a plump and most
                     graceful figure, blue eyes, brown hair in braids, and a neck so round and white
                     that the bow of pink ribbon holding the delicate lace collar resembled a rose
                     on a snow-drift. There were red roses too, in the pretty Mrs. Gaston's
                     cheeks—for this lady had an
                     unconquerable habit of blushing—and a little shrinking, timid smile never left
                     her.
                  In half an hour Mrs. Gaston had observed all the ceremonies peculiar to ladies
                     upon such occasions; that is to say, she had clasped Annie in her arms, kissed
                     her with animation, examined the sprained ankle, and scolded the victim mildly
                     for her imprudence. Mrs. Gaston then gently rose, said with her shrinking smile
                     that she must go, and with the assistance of the two gentlemen, Miss Annie
                     Bell, limping and laughing, was conducted to the carriage.
                  "After all your den is not such a fearful place, Mr. Daintrees," said Miss
                     Annie as she got into the carriage. "You must come and see us, and return our
                     visit at The Hollies."
                  Mrs. Gaston said in her turn that they would be very glad to see Mr. Daintrees
                     and Dr. Harrington, and then the carriage rolled away.
                  Dr. Ralph Harrington stood gazing after it, and then turned with his air of
                     satire mingled with lazy good-nature to Mr. Jack Daintrees.
                  "Daintrees, my dear fellow," he said, "this looks something like an
                     adventure."
                  "Most romantic—and delightful, my dear Harrington!"
                  "Well, improve it," said his friend.
                  "Improve it?"
                  "Court the widow, Jack! She'll suit you exactly!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  THE CRISIS IN A YOUNG MAN'S LIFE.
                  THE worthy Mr. Ormby had retired to his library after paralyzing Mrs. Ormby in
                     the manner which we have described, and seating himself at his writing-table of
                     carved walnut with a green cloth top, had essayed to answer George Cleave's
                     letter.
                  Having commenced three several epistles, he finished by tearing up all, and
                     leaning back in his large arm-chair with a blank and dissatisfied expression,
                     began to reflect. His position was truly embarrassing. It was impossible to
                     write and say to a young gentleman whose pretensions to his daughter's hand he
                     had tacitly recognized, "Sir, you have lost your property, and as you are now
                     poor, your engagement to my daughter must terminate;" and yet with Mr. Ormby's
                     views, it was impossible, however he might word his reply, to say in reality
                     anything else. He had firmly resolved ten minutes after receiving Cleave's
                     letter that the engagement should end. How he was to bring it to
                     an end, now, was the puzzle.
                  For a long time the worthy Mr. Ormby reflected with knit brows, looking a little ashamed. At last he
                     resolutely took up his pen, selected another sheet, and concocted the following
                     note:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "SIR—I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
                                 communication of to-day on the subject of the late Mr. Cleave's
                                 testamentary disposition of his estate, and to express my regret
                                 that the discovery of the wishes of the deceased in connection with
                                 Miss Bell should have taken place after so long a period of time.
                                 As the friend of the late Mr. Cleave, and if you will permit me to
                                 add, as the friend of yourself, I would suggest, as your most
                                 advisable course under all the circumstances, a prompt compliance
                                 with the terms of the instrument referred to. Miss Bell is, I am
                                 informed, a young lady of amiable disposition and great personal
                                 attractions, and I have no doubt would readily be brought to see
                                 the propriety of the arrangement in question.
                              "In reference to that portion of your communication which relates
                                 to a prolongation of the engagement—of which I am now distinctly
                                 informed for the first time—with my daughter, I regret to be
                                 compelled from a sense of duty to say that I am wholly unable to
                                 comply with your request. I refrain from entering at large upon my
                                 views upon the subject, and shall only say that Miss Ormby is still
                                 much too young to assume responsibilities so serious as those which
                                 are imposed by matrimony. In regard to the desire expressed on your
                                 part that the engagement of which you inform me may continue
                                 indefinitely, I am reluctantly obliged to say that in my opinion it
                                 would only result in unhappiness, and to inform you, frankly and
                                 distinctly, that it can not continue. This, I beg to add, is my
                                 fixed and irrevocable decision.
                              "Regretting the unpleasant character of this communication, which a
                                 sense of parental duty renders unavoidable,
                              
                                 "I am, sir, your ob't, humble serv't,
                                 J. ORMBY."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Having dispatched this letter, Mr. Ormby rang and directed the servant who came
                     at the summons to inform Miss Ormby that he wished to see her in the library.
                     It was not without emotion that he awaited her appearance. He was a wilful and
                     imperious person, this Mr. Ormby, but not a cold or really harsh man; and now
                     said to himself that he was acting for his daughter's good—that her marriage
                     with an impoverished young man could result in nothing but suffering, and that
                     it was his duty to prevent their union at whatever expense of feeling.
                  Marian came in and took the seat which Mr. Ormby pointed out. She was trembling
                     a little, and the color had faded from her cheeks. Mr. Ormby cleared his throat
                     elaborately, and entered directly upon the subject, announcing in plain terms
                     that the engagement with George Cleave must be broken off.
                  At this abrupt announcement, Marian trembled visibly, and in broken words
                     protested. Thereat Mr. Ormby grew hard and stern. It was then her purpose, he
                     said, to resist the will of her own parents—to oppose her caprice to their
                     authority. She had no such desire, the poor girl replied, but—but—she could
                     not—could not—give up George!
                  
                  At these words Mr. Ormby knit his brows, and directed an imperious look at his
                     daughter. So it had come to this! he said. He was to be defied by his own
                     child, when he was actuated only by an anxiety to secure her welfare! He, an
                     old and gray-haired man, was to yield his judgment to a girl's!
                  It was possible, as she thus opposed him, that she designed to wed Mr. George
                     Cleave with or without the consent of her parents! Was that her design?
                  "Oh no, sir; I will never do so," faltered the young lady. "I can assure you of
                     that much; but do not ask me to give up George—it would break his heart—and my
                     own too."
                  At the end of an hour Mr. Ormby had proceeded no further than this. The young
                     lady declared that she would never marry without the approval of her parents,
                     but again and again—she could not give up George! The interview then
                     terminated, and she went to her chamber, from which she was summoned an hour
                     afterwards by the intelligence that George Cleave had called to see Mr. Ormby,
                     but finding that he had ridden out, had asked for her.
                  Marian went down, and they remained for two hours shut up in the drawing-room.
                     When she came out her eyes were red with weeping, and as she went up the
                     staircase she uttered a sob. She had told the young man of the promise made her
                     father, that she would never marry without his consent; and as he was, now at
                     least, bitterly opposed to their union, it would be better, Marian said, that
                     he, George, should cease his visits for some time, and thus avoid inflaming
                     still further Mr. Ormby's displeasure.
                  Thereat George Cleave had grown indignant, and intimated that she too was about
                     to desert him. A few sobs and tears only replied to this cruel charge—the young
                     lady seemed to regard it as unworthy of further notice. Then George Cleave
                     rose, permitted his wrath and wretchedness to get the better of him, and
                     terminated the interview—returning to Cleaveland full of indignation and
                     despair.
                  He held out for three days, and then went again to Bayview and asked for
                     Marian. The reply was that the young lady was too unwell to see him. He then
                     stayed away two days, when he repeated his visit. Marian had had another
                     wretched interview with her father—had been driven step by step to make the
                     cruel promise that she would simply decline seeing him if he came again—and did
                     so.
                  A week afterwards George Cleave came once more. He was so thin and pale now
                     that he was scarcely recognizable. Was Miss Ormby at home? She was confined to
                     her chamber, and Mrs. Ormby was also unwell. Mr. Ormby? He had ridden out, but
                     left a letter for Mr. Cleave. The young man took it, and read:
                  "Mr. Ormby presents his respects to Mr. Cleave, and begs that he will
                     discontinue his visits to Miss Ormby, as they are disagreeable both to Miss
                     Ormby and to her family."
                  When George Cleave read this note his head grew dizzy and his pulse throbbed.
                     He looked from the letter to the
                     servant, and then again at the letter. Then his pale face slowly filled with
                     blood, and his eyes habitually so frank and kindly grew cold and stern.
                  "So be it!" he muttered.
                  He then slowly mounted his horse, and rode back to Cleaveland, where he sat
                     down, gazing at the floor in a sort of stupor of wrath and despair. He was
                     still plunged in this apathy, when the door opened, a firm step advanced toward
                     him, and a cheery voice exclaimed:
                  "How are you George!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  MR. JOBSON CONSULTS WITH DR. HARRINGTON.
                  A WEEK or two after the fox-hunt and dinner at The Lodge Dr. Ralph Harrington
                     was seated about dusk in a cane-bottomed chair, in his office, on the main
                     street of Waterford, smoking a cigar and musing.
                  His surroundings were commonplace and prosaic. In one corner of the room stood
                     an old set of shelves containing an array of dusty bottles; on the mantel-piece
                     was a skull which, owing to the fact that some visitor had thrust a cigar into
                     its mouth, presented rather a jocose than a tragic appearance; and on a table
                     in the centre of the office lay piles of medical books and journals. The floor
                     was covered with a rag carpet, intended evidently for use instead of ornament;
                     the iron fender was very old and rusty; and a pair of tongs—the legs dislocated
                     and crossed with a bacchanalian air—leaned rakishly in one corner of the
                     fire-place, where burned a cheerful fire.
                  Dr. Harrington puffed lazily at his cigar, looking around him as he did so.
                  
                  "This is homeless enough," he muttered, "and I miss the old folks at home—and
                     the young folks too. Even Daintrees is better off. I am glad I went on that
                     fox-hunt and met with that small sort of adventure. Annie Bell? Well, Miss
                     Annie Bell came near being a beauty——"
                  He had left the door open a little. A voice behind him said:
                  "Then you have heard about that paper, Doctor?"
                  Harrington turned round and saw Mr. Jobson, who came in and sat down.
                  "Glad to see you, Mr. Jobson. What paper?" said Harrington.
                  "You have not heard of it then. I thought as you mentioned Miss Bell—but I will
                     tell you all about it. You are a friend of George Cleave's, and something must
                     be done in his affairs. I think you can help."
                  "If I can do anything for George I'll certainly do it," said Harrington; "I
                     went to college with him—he's as fine a fellow as I know. Tell me about this,
                     Mr. Jobson."
                  Mr. Jobson proceeded to inform his companion of the discovery of the codicil,
                     and of George Cleave's resolution.
                  "He is resolved not to contest the paper," he added, "and will not hear of
                     paying his addresses to Miss Bell, which results, I suppose, from his
                     engagement, which I have heard spoken of, with Miss Ormby."
                  Harrington shook his head.
                  "His engagement in that quarter is broken off. I heard the news this morning,
                     and now I know the reason son. Ormby Senior has found out that poor George is
                     or will be penniless—was there ever such a strange incident as the discovery of
                     that paper!—and George is shown to the door."
                  Mr. Jobson nodded.
                  "Then he may be induced to think of Miss Bell."
                  Harrington reflected for a moment, and then said:
                  "I'm afraid not. George Cleave is not that sort of person. As long as Miss
                     Ormby is not to blame and remains faithful to him he would not look at another
                     woman. Do you know anything about that?"
                  "Nothing," returned Mr. Jobson.
                  Harrington rose, and standing with his back to the fire, puffed thoughtfully at
                     his cigar.
                  "I'll tell you what I'll do, Mr. Jobson," he said at length, "I'll go and see
                     George and talk the matter over with him. Perhaps we can devise some way of
                     getting him out of this ugly scrape. I don't know how it is in your profession,
                     but in mine a patient's condition is often more favorable than it appears at
                     the first glance. What must that queer old gentleman, Mr. Cleave, think of this
                     eccentric arrangement I wonder?—hum! hum! hum!"
                  Mr. Jobson rose.
                  "You have struck out the right course, Doctor, and just the proceeding I meant
                     to suggest. George Cleave instructed me to write to Gartrell to say that the
                     estate would be surrendered to him immediately, but I don't mean to be in any
                     hurry about it. The thing is absurd. A compromise is the least, but I am even
                     against that."
                  
                  "You are for fighting it out in a chancery suit, Mr. Jobson?" said Harrington
                     laughing.
                  "I am," said Mr. Jobson emphatically, "to the death."
                  "To the death? A bad programme for a doctor to assist in, Mr.
                     Jobson! but I intend to assist, and to make my diagnosis of the case to-morrow
                     morning!"
                  With which understanding they parted.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  A NEST OF DOVES.
                  WHILE engaged in the operation of shaving, on the following morning, Ralph
                     Harrington made the affairs of George Cleave the subject of his reflections,
                     and, after full consideration of everything, determined to open his campaign by
                     a reconnoissance first in the direction of The Hollies.
                  "I know the state of things with Cleave," he said half aloud, as he carefully
                     wiped his razor; "but I would like to discover, if I can, the strength and
                     position of the enemy. Yes, I'll go to The Hollies."
                  Having decided upon this course, Dr. Ralph Harrington proceeded to breakfast at
                     the village inn where he took his meals—his sleeping apartment being in the
                     same building with his office—and then mounting his horse, with his
                     professional saddlebags behind him, set out for The Hollies, which he reached
                     about noon.
                  As he entered the handsome grounds of Mrs. Gaston's residence, the lazy,
                     satirical smile habitual with him came to the face of Dr. Ralph Harrington; for
                     there, affixed to a drooping bough, was the favorite steed of Mr.
                     Daintrees.
                  
                  "My friend Jack don't mean to let the grass grow under his feet," he muttered;
                     "he has come to visit the fair chatelaine of this castle, and I think he shows
                     his taste!"
                  The Hollies was in fact a charming place—a veritable nest of doves, all
                     flowers, grass, and verdure. All about the locality was fresh, bright, and
                     attractive. The house was a species of cottage, but a cottage of very
                     considerable size, and stood in the midst of beautiful grounds. Along three
                     sides of the building stretched a graceful veranda, edged with ornamental
                     scroll-work above, and supported by slender, white pillars; and from this
                     veranda two or three flights of steps descended to the sward as smooth as
                     velvet; a number of cedars, ash-trees, and two or three great holly trees were
                     scattered here and there, with fantastic "rustic seats" beneath them; and on
                     every side were seen capriciously-shaped beds of autumn flowers; lattice-work
                     trellises covered with creeping plants in bloom, and ornamental baskets running
                     over with moss, ferns, and variegated asters; a gravel carriage-way, as white
                     and smooth as a walk, ran around the green circle; a neat coach-house and
                     numerous outbuildings were in rear; a grove served as a background, with an old
                     garden next to it. The Hollies, you could see, was the residence of a lady, and
                     a lady exceedingly "well to do!"
                  The surroundings, indeed, of the fair Mrs. Gaston accurately represented her
                     "circumstances" and her tastes. She was the widow of a gentleman who had
                     resided in a neighboring city, and on his death, finding town-life distasteful
                     to her, she had purchased The Hollies, made great improvements in it, and lived
                     in the utmost comfort upon her investments. She had shrunk at first from the
                     idea of living alone, and had nearly given up her project, when Mr. Cleave's
                     death had left Annie Bell homeless. Then Mrs. Gaston saw the means of
                     extricating herself from her embarrassment. Annie's mother had been a distant
                     relation of her own, and having come to look at The Hollies just as Mr. Cleave
                     died, Mrs. Gaston had ordered her carriage driven over to Cleaveland, and
                     brought Annie back with her to live at The Hollies. This event had taken place
                     three or four years before, when Annie was fourteen or fifteen, and from that
                     moment the two became inseparable. Annie promptly developed into a young lady
                     of unbounded gayety, whose entrance into a room was like the sudden gleam of
                     sunshine; and she ran about, laughed, teased "Auntie," as she called Mrs.
                     Gaston, from morning to night, and took command of The Hollies in the most
                     arbitrary manner. Everything, indeed, was subjected to Miss Annie Bell's sway.
                     The servants smiled when she appeared, and did not cease smiling when she
                     scolded them. The old gardener deferred to her, groaning his protests against
                     the new "book" way of doing things, but submitting. The dogmatic old coachman
                     actually permitted her to lecture him upon the subject of horses; and as to
                     Mrs. Gaston, that mild, gentle, and affectionate creature had yielded without a
                     struggle to her fate. Annie teased her, lectured her, scolded her, informed her
                     that she was the most ridiculous little auntie that ever lived; and then putting her arm around the waist
                     of the pretty Mrs. Gaston, would drag her forth to look at the flowers—sole
                     passion in the tranquil lives of these two attractive specimens of feminine
                     humanity.
                  Dr. Ralph Harrington dismounted just inside the grounds, and was approaching
                     the house over a neat gravel walk when Miss Annie Bell came out with a
                     watering-pot in her hand and a sun-bonnet on her head. She stopped suddenly as
                     her eyes fell upon the visitor, but came forward at once, limping a little as
                     she walked.
                  "I am very glad to see you, Doctor!"
                  She held out her hand as she spoke, and added smiling:
                  "And Auntie will be as much pleased as myself."
                  Dr. Ralph Harrington took the small hand and bowed over it.
                  "Will somebody else be disposed to welcome me as cordially, Miss Bell? If I am
                     not mistaken I recognize the horse of one of my most esteemed friends, Mr.
                     Daintrees, of that bachelor den, The Lodge."
                  Harrington spoke in a tone of lazy amusement which seemed to agreeably impress
                     Miss Bell. She burst into a frank fit of laughter, and then assuming an
                     extremely demure expression of countenance, said:
                  "Mr. Daintrees has called, I believe, on business, and I have come out to water
                     my flowers. I hope you will excuse my toilet——"
                  "No excuses, I beg, Miss Bell. I am flattered at being received as a friend. No
                     bad effects from your accident, I trust? Do you know that I am much mortified
                     at not having been called in as your physician? Surely you need the services of
                     an old and experienced gentleman like myself even yet?"
                  Miss Bell began to laugh anew.
                  "No indeed, sir," she replied. "I am getting well without medicine. I am very
                     glad I did not break my neck, for which I am indebted to you."
                  Harrington bowed.
                  "You exaggerate my heroic services, Miss Bell. Permit me to relieve you of that
                     watering-pot."
                  He took the watering-pot from her hands, and directed by Miss Annie Bell, who
                     seemed in no degree averse to the interview, thus tête-à-tête under the trees, proceeded to water the asters. At
                     the end of a quarter of an hour they had become extremely sociable, and Dr.
                     Harrington said casually:
                  "This is sad news about my friend George Cleave—I think you know him—he has
                     been jilted by Miss Ormby."
                  Annie Bell stopped training a creeping plant on one of the trellises, and
                     turned round—a statue of surprise.
                  "George! Jilted by Marian Ormby!"
                  Harrington, watching his companion closely out of the corners of his eyes, said
                     quietly:
                  "I do not know what you young ladies mean when you employ the term
                        jilted, but men mean by it that a gentleman who has been
                     engaged to a lady and is then discarded is jilted."
                  "George jilted by Marian Ormby!" repeated Miss Annie Bell, too much astonished
                     apparently to discuss the etymological or social significance of the term.
                  
                  "Yes," said Dr. Ralph Harrington quietly. "He was engaged to be married to Miss
                     Marian, and Miss Marian is not going to marry him. I believe the reason is that
                     there has been some discovery of another will or something of Mr. Cleave, Sr.,
                     giving his property to a Mr. Gartrell. So you see there's no chance for poor
                     George."
                  
                     
                        ANNIE BELL STOPPED AND TURNED ROUND—A STATUE OF SURPRISE.
                     
                  
                  Annie Bell stood perfectly silent and motionless, looking at her companion.
                  "Is it possible you heard nothing of all this?" said Harrington.
                  "Not one word."
                  "I thought news flew faster in a country neighborhood! Yes, George is jilted,
                     and what is worse—or at least very bad—he is ruined. I am sorry to see, Miss
                     Bell, that you seem to take it so much to heart."
                  "Take it to heart? Oh! Dr. Harrington! Poor George! You do not know how much I
                     love him! Oh! oh! I do not care about Marian Ormby. I always said she was not
                     worthy of him. He is the noblest fellow! I was brought up with him, and I love
                     him like a sister; and now he is jilted and ruined!"
                  Annie Bell completely lost sight of her companion, and burst into an honest
                     flood of tears, which, unlike the result of crying generally, made her look
                     extremely pretty.
                  "He shall have Tree Hill," she suddenly added. "I will go and tell him so this
                     very day. He is better entitled to it than I am. Dr. Harrington, I
                        hate this Marian Ormby who has presumed to jilt my
                     brother George!"
                  A somewhat singular circumstance followed this outburst. The quiet, easy,
                     jocose, self-possessed Dr. Ralph Harrington suddenly colored. Something had
                     plainly made his heart beat.
                  "I am as much attached to George Cleave as you are, Miss Bell," he said. "He
                     was the closest and best friend I had at college. I am going to see him this
                     very day, and will carry any message you may desire to send him."
                  Annie Bell looked into her companion's face with the open, frank, ardent glance
                     of a true-hearted woman, and said impulsively:
                  "Tell him that he shall not be ruined as long as I have anything in the world, that he shall have
                     every foot of Tree Hill; and tell him that I love him a thousand times more in
                     his trouble than I ever loved him in his prosperity."
                  Before Annie Bell was aware of his intention, Dr. Ralph Harrington seized one
                     of her small hands and pressed it closely to his lips.
                  "Pardon me!" he said in hurried tones, very different from his ordinary manner,
                     "it is not often that I meet persons like yourself, Miss. Bell. Mr. Cleave is
                     fortunate. I am going now to tell him that in his disappointment and misfortune
                     he has something which is better than what the world calls good fortune—that he
                     has your heart."
                  Mr. Jack Daintrees came out of the house a moment after these words were
                     uttered, and Dr. Ralph Harrington grew suddenly commonplace.
                  "Please present my compliments to Mrs. Gaston, Miss Bell. I am truly rejoiced
                     to find that you have sustained no ill effects from your accident. Why,
                     good-day, my dear Daintrees! I thought I knew your horse. You are going? So am
                     I, and we will ride together."
                  And after bowing low to Annie, Harrington went and mounted his horse, in which
                     proceeding he was imitated by Mr. Daintrees.
                  As they rode out of the grounds together, Harrington turned to his companion,
                     and, surveying him with rather satirical glances and a wicked smile, said:
                  "I thought something would come of your interview at The Lodge with the fair
                     madam, my dear Daintrees!"
                  "Ah! bother!" said Mr. Daintrees, "what an idea!"
                  "Such things will happen," said Ralph Harrington philosophically, with his lazy
                     smile; "but beware, my dear Daintrees. You are both young and impressible. Now
                     to the news of the moment. This is a bad business of poor Cleave's, which it
                     seems Miss Bell had not heard—his discardal. Suppose we take the youth in hand
                     and heal his wounds. Have you a fox-hunt in perspective? Nothing like life and
                     movement for a lacerated bosom."
                  "The very thing!" said Daintrees. "I am going out with the hounds on the day
                     after to-morrow. Come yourself and bring George—my favorite of all the
                     youngsters. Remember—on the night before."
                  "I will; if not, we will be with you before sunrise."
                  They had reached the forks of the road where they were to separate.
                  "A last word, my dear Daintrees," said Harrington. "I am in a match-making
                     humor to-day, I believe. I am about to turn completely around. Why not court
                     the fair widow?"
                  But Mr. Daintrees shook his head.
                  "I am not a marrying man, and——"
                  "There, my dear Daintrees, that is enough. It will take place in six months.
                     Invite me—I will be your first groomsman!"
                  And Dr. Ralph Harrington rode on, laughing.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  HARRINGTON FEELS HIS WAY.
                  AS Harrington rode up the long avenue stretching from the tall gateway to the
                     imposing front of the great Cleaveland house, he looked at the facade of the
                     mansion, bright in the mild sunshine of the autumn afternoon, and muttered:
                  "It will never do for George to be turned out of these excellent headquarters,
                     if he can help it, and I think he can. He is right, I suppose—at least it's
                     just like him—not to contest a paper expressing plainly, if not legally, his
                     uncle's wishes in the disposition of the property; but why should he not marry
                     this pretty little rose-bud of The Hollies? That would suit exactly; and Mr.
                     Gartrell would find himself disinherited in his turn. Well, I am on a strange
                     errand. I am going to try to marry off Miss Annie Bell, when, if I consulted my
                     own sentiments, I would—pshaw! what folly! I am like Jack Daintrees—or unlike
                     him—not a marrying man!"
                  He dismounted, knocked with the butt of his riding-whip on the finely carved
                     door, entered without waiting, and called out, as he opened the drawing-room
                     door:
                  "How are you, George?"
                  Cleave rose.
                  "My dear Harrington, I am very glad to see you. The fact is, I was moping."
                  If Cleave had said raging internally, he would have come nearer
                     the truth. His brow was lowering and his lips set. Indignation at his treatment
                     at Bayview had quite supplanted his first sentiment of despair.
                  "A moment, my dear George," said Harrington, after shaking hands and sitting
                     down. "How long since have you learned to use my surname instead of my
                     Christian name? At college I was Ralph, as you were
                        George."
                  "Well, Ralph, pardon me, my dear friend; the fact is I am out of sorts."
                  "And I am not surprised."
                  "You?"
                  "I never criticise the proceedings of the ladies," said Harrington, "but I must
                     say that your treatment by——shall I go on?"
                  "Speak plainly and frankly."
                  "Well, your treatment by Miss Ormby is strange—to say the least. She's
                     charming, I acknowledge that, but I am your friend and will say that she has
                     behaved most singularly—has she not?"
                  Cleave's face darkened.
                  "She has thrown me away like a worthless kid glove."
                  "Meaning that the little hand that wore the glove is not for you, George, any
                     longer, eh? Well, believe me, old fellow, it won't hurt long or amount to much,
                     and I have come in good time to bind up your wounds. Tell me all about it."
                  
                  Cleave asked nothing better. His indignation required some outlet. He related
                     everything, and finished by saying:
                  "So you see the whole affair is over, and I am perfectly willing that it should
                     be!"
                  Harrington looked at the flushed face, the disdainful lip, and the sparkling
                     eyes of his friend.
                  "Now is the time," he said to himself; "there's nothing like taking the ball at
                     the rebound. Pique is the trump card!"
                  "Well, George," he said with an easy smile, "your treatment has been precisely
                     such as everybody says it has been—the whole neighborhood is talking about it
                     and pitying you, old fellow. I confess I should not like, myself, to be
                        pitied; but then nobody blames you. That must be some
                     consolation to you."
                  Cleave became suddenly irate. All the pride of his nature was outraged.
                  "No one shall pity me!" he said.
                  "Spoken like a man! and there is an adage that as good fish swim in the sea as
                     were ever caught out of it. You have missed your mark this time, George;
                     feather your shaft and shoot in some other direction."
                  Cleave shook his head.
                  "No, I thank you," he said still irate; "I've enough of the sex for the
                     present."
                  "And you won't marry? Well, I think you are right, old fellow. Nothing like the
                     life of a bachelor, as I had the presumption to say to a little beauty I saw
                     to-day. I mean Miss Bell at The Hollies, and by the by I was enough of a gossip
                     to allude to this confounded discovery of Mr. Cleave's new will and your bad
                     luck with Miss Ormby. You should have heard Miss Bell thereupon, my dear
                     fellow. She burst into tears, exclaimed: 'Dear George!' and
                     protested that Miss Ormby was 'a goose' or something of that sort for
                     discarding you; it was either 'goose' or 'mercenary.' Miss Bell then added that
                     you were the only brother she had, and that you should never want as long as
                     she had anything."
                  Cleave's face colored a little.
                  "Annie is the best girl I know," he said; "and I will go and thank her. I have
                     not been there for a month."
                  Harrington had reached his aim with less difficulty than he had
                     anticipated.
                  "Well, you could not do a more appropriate thing, George," he said rising, "and
                     I have never seen anybody whose sympathy and affection would console
                        me more than Miss Bell's. She is a treasure of beauty,
                     goodness, and sweetness. You see even cynical Ralph Harrington can be earnest
                     sometimes! and now I must go, old fellow; no, thank you, I can't stay."
                  Harrington shook hands, drew on his gloves, and moved toward the door.
                  "By the by, George, Daintrees invites you to a fox-hunt at The Lodge day after
                     to-morrow. I am going and took the liberty of saying that you would come. Don't
                     decline. We'll have a good run and a jolly dinner."
                  Cleave refused and then accepted. It was arranged that Harrington should call
                     by Cleaveland early on the morning
                     fixed, and they should proceed together to The Lodge; after which the visitor
                     took his departure.
                  Harrington rode on slowly for about a mile in profound thought. Then a singular
                     smile came to his lips—a smile, half lazy, half satirical, and not without a
                     tinge of melancholy.
                  "Well," he muttered, "it is hard to account for the actions of the human
                     species. Here I am trying to bring about a match between Cleave and a young
                     lady, which young lady, if I am not mistaken, I am beginning to fall in love
                     with myself!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  GEORGE CLEAVE AND HIS "LITTLE SISTER."
                  AFTER the departure of Ralph Harrington George Cleave fell back into his mood
                     of anger and melancholy—weary of himself, of life, of his past, present, and
                     future. The sight of the familiar objects around him was quite hateful to him,
                     and he muttered:
                  "How am I to get through this stupid, wretched, dragging day! I'll go to The
                     Hollies, I believe. I want a little sympathy, and am certain to find it there!
                     At least the ride will divert me from this eternal brooding, and the only thing
                     for me now is to forget."
                  He ordered his riding horse, and slowly mounted with a weary air, very
                     different from his habitual vivacity. Once in the saddle, however, he went on
                     at full gallop, and about sunset reached The Hollies. Let us precede him.
                  Annie Bell having bestowed a little nod of amicable farewell upon Dr.
                     Harrington and Mr. Daintrees—which movement caused her ringlets to momentarily
                     obscure her vision—had hastened into The Hollies, and met Mrs. Gaston at the
                     door.
                  
                  "Oh! my dear little auntie!" she exclaimed. "I have a good joke to tease you
                     about at last! Mr. Daintrees! Who would have imagined such a thing! He's going
                     to be my 'Uncle Jack,' I hope!"
                  "What a goose you are, Annie!" replied Mrs. Gaston, with a faint little blush
                     which made her look extremely pretty. "You know very well Mr. Daintrees came to
                     inquire about your sprain!"
                  "And never looked at me! Besides, he said he came on
                     business—business!"
                  "I had quite forgotten—there was a message from Mr. Jobson about the small
                     tract I wish to purchase."
                  "And so Mr. Daintrees is not going to become my Uncle Jack after all!" said the
                     small witch, pretending to sigh and look disconsolate.
                  "What an idea! I should be much more rational if I were to ask if Dr.
                     Harrington came with the view of proposing to become my
                     nephew."
                  "Dr. Harrington!"
                  "Why not?"
                  "Propose for me!"
                  Mrs. Gaston smiled and said:
                  "You forget your romantic adventure, and that he saved your life, Annie. You
                     have only to read love romances, my dear, to find that these incidents
                     generally lead to—catastrophes."
                  "You are certainly dreaming—yes, dreaming and talking in your sleep!" exclaimed
                     Miss Bell; "and of all the absurd little aunties that ever lived——"
                  "Why, you really are blushing, Annie!"
                  "Fiddle-dedee!" exclaimed the girl, pirouetting upon the point of her slipper,
                     and carrying the smiling Mrs. Gaston with her in her rotary motion by means of
                     the arm around the fair widow's waist. "I am not blushing in the least, having
                     the best conscience in the world, madam, and nothing to blush for. Dr.
                     Harrington!"
                  "You were talking very confidentially with him, my dear. I saw you
                     through the window."
                  "It was all about George! Oh! the dreadful news, Auntie! Come and sit down, I
                     must tell you all about it. Marian Ormby—hateful thing—has jilted him, and a
                     new will is found giving Cleaveland to Allan Gartrell!"
                  "Is it possible?"
                  "Yes, indeed; Dr. Harrington told me. Oh! poor, poor George! To think, Auntie!
                     he is all alone by himself at Cleaveland—jilted and ruined! Marian
                     Ormby!—presume to jilt George!—I wish he would ask
                        me. I would marry him in a minute, whether Cleaveland was his
                     or not!"
                  Thereupon Annie burst into tears and ran up-stairs, forgetting her sprained
                     foot. When she came down to dinner her eyes were swollen, and it was not until
                     about sunset that she resumed her cheerfulness in some degree, and went out to
                     look again at her dear flowers.
                  Mrs. Gaston joined her, and the setting sun bathed the attractive figures in
                     its mild light—Annie, a slender, graceful little sprite, with rosy cheeks and
                     glossy brown ringlets; her companion, pink, plump, with a bow of ribbon half
                     hiding her pretty neck, and on her lips the modest, shrinking smile which they
                     habitually wore. George Cleave and his
                     misfortunes again became the topic of conversation, and Annie had just
                     exclaimed impetuously, with tears in her eyes, "Any girl might be
                     proud to marry my dear George!" when the dear George in question rode into the
                     grounds, and dismounting came to meet his cousin—for such was Mrs. Gaston, as
                     we have said—and his adopted sister. The young man was received by both with an
                     affectionate kiss—his habit in boyhood—and was struck, in spite of himself, by
                     the beauty and emotion of Annie.
                  "I see, Cousin," he said gloomily, although he attempted to utter a light
                     laugh, "that you and Annie have heard of my misfortunes! Well, I am not going
                     to marry—anybody; and I am quite ruined. You see, I have come home
                     for comfort."
                  "And you shall have it, George!" Mrs. Gaston said with impulsive affection. "We
                     have heard of everything, and it made our hearts bleed for you, my dear."
                  George shook his head, and said proudly:
                  "You must not take it so seriously, Cousin. I am not as much distressed as you
                     may think. And now come and let us sit down on the porch. I will tell you and
                     my little sister everything."
                  Half an hour afterwards Cleave had narrated all, not omitting, as Harrington
                     had done, the singular condition in the codicil.
                  "You see, I am to marry you, Annie," he said laughing, "or give up
                     Cleaveland!"
                  Annie colored a little, but suddenly laughed in her turn, and exclaimed:
                  "Well, then, sir—why not keep Cleaveland?"
                  "Annie!" exclaimed Mrs. Gaston.
                  "What, Auntie?" said Miss Annie demurely.
                  "You must remember, my dear, that although you call George your brother, he is
                     not related to you, and that he may accept your liberal proposal!"
                  General laughter followed this speech, and the slight cloud of embarrassment
                     which had succeeded the young lady's audacious speech was dissipated.
                  "You are two very ridiculous young people," said pretty Mrs. Gaston, smiling
                     and blushing; "and now come in to tea."
                  Cleave remained until eleven o'clock, and then was easily persuaded that The
                     Hollies was a much more cheerful place than Cleaveland whereat to spend the
                     night. The hours passed in the society of these two charming persons had indeed
                     proved an inexpressible comfort to him. This young man was not of that stern
                     and resolute stuff of which novelists construct their "heroes." He was
                     warm-hearted, honest, impulsive, and easily impressed. He was unhappy, and the
                     faces full of affectionate sympathy were a balm to him.
                  He and Annie had indulged indeed in something like a tête-à-tête, Mrs. Gaston pretending to have her housekeeping to
                     attend to. She accordingly remained for some time in the adjoining apartment,
                     rattling spoons and ranging the silver service with unusual deliberation on the
                     polished mahogany sideboard. From time to time she glanced through the
                     half-open door at George and Annie, seated side by side upon a sofa, in
                        confidential conversation; and the
                     pair brought to the pretty face of Mrs. Gaston a covert smile.
                  Had the fair widow suddenly conceived a domestic plot—arranged the scenes of a
                     little comedy in which George and Annie should perform the chief parts, with a
                     marriage for the denouement? Match-making is said to be a weakness of all good
                     women past thirty; and here seemed to be suddenly presented to Mrs. Gaston an
                     opportunity to indulge this darling propensity. There was in her eyes
                     absolutely no objection whatever to such a match, and everything to recommend
                     it. She loved George sincerely; and by marrying Annie he would preserve his
                     estate. It was true that she, Mrs. Gaston, would lose her little companion—but
                     the widow was a most unselfish person. She had often reflected with anxiety
                     upon Annie's future, in case of her own death; had resolved not to oppose any
                     suitable match which offered itself—and here was the opportunity of securing
                     the happiness of her dear Annie. That such was the plan of Mrs. Gaston,
                     subsequent events seemed to indicate.
                  George fell asleep that night at The Hollies, surprised to find that he had
                     actually passed a happy evening. Annie had certainly grown a beauty,
                     suddenly—what a tender and sympathetic smile she had! what a luxury it was to
                     have a little sister who looked at him with those large, soft,
                     beautiful eyes, weighed down by tears as she spoke of his troubles!——and (with
                     the eyes, which were fast shut in the next room, still looking at him) George
                     fell asleep.
                  He remained at The Hollies on the next day until noon; and then promising to
                     repeat his visit, took his leave. Instead of going back to Cleaveland, however,
                     he rode to Waterford, and entered Ralph Harrington's office just as that
                     gentleman was compounding a prescription.
                  "Why, what is the matter, my dear fellow?" said Harrington; "if I were called
                     upon to express a physiological opinion I should say that you had grown about
                     five years younger since I saw you yesterday."
                  "I have been riding, and that gives color and good spirits, you know,
                     Ralph!"
                  Cleave laughed almost gaily. Harrington looked at him.
                  "You have been to The Hollies," he said.
                  "How do you know that?"
                  "From your face; and the angels there have consoled you."
                  This was said rather ruefully, but Harrington quickly resumed his lazy smile
                     and said:
                  "Well, why don't you pay your addresses to Miss Bell?"
                  "I court Annie?"
                  "Why not?"
                  "We are like brother and sister."
                  "Without, however, being in the least related. Well, what of that? All the
                     better. Why shouldn't you court her? To speak by the card, old fellow, she is
                     the finest girl in the county; you will make her a present of Cleaveland on the
                     day of your marriage; she will marry you, I think, and perhaps the Ormbys will
                     then realize the fact that they have been a little hard on you."
                  Cleave's cheek flushed red.
                  
                  "No," he said, "the thing would be disgraceful, Ralph. To offer myself to Annie
                     to retain possession of this property! I would rather starve!"
                  "Come," said Harrington, "don't act on sublimated grounds. Or if you are a
                     shrinking, sensitive, timid young person, fearing the gossip of shallowpates
                     more than a good conscience, surrender Cleaveland to Gartrell. But that need
                     not prevent you from asking the little beauty of The Hollies to become Mrs.
                     Cleave."
                  "What do you mean, Ralph?"
                  "I mean that you are a full-grown man in perfect health, have your profession,
                     and have as perfect a right to propose for the hand of Miss Annie Bell, as if
                     you were the possessor of a quarter of a mile of buildings in the heart of
                     Broadway."
                  Cleave did not reply.
                  "Look at the affair in a business point of view," continued Harrington: "Miss
                     Bell has the estate of 'Free Hill,' and whether you are rich or poor can want
                     nothing, which is something in this ticklish matter of matrimony, George! It
                     will not be an unfair offer—your income against Miss Bell's. Go and court her.
                     It will make the Ormbys furious; and you will be happy in spite of them."
                  The pride and pique of the young man were touched, and responded. His face
                     flushed; and Annie's smile came to his mind.
                  "Well," he said, "I am going to make a foolish speech. I will think of what you
                     say, and if I give up Cleaveland no one can say I was mercenary."
                  "Certainly not."
                  "We will talk over this again, Ralph."
                  "All right. Think of it and try your luck. And, stop!—if you fail I think I'll
                     try myself!"
                  "Are you in earnest, Ralph? It is not possible that you——"
                  "Are jesting for my private amusement here among my gallipots? Certainly I am!
                     Do you think if I cared anything for the fair one that I would be giving you
                     all this good advice?"
                  Harrington laughed heartily; lit a cigar in the laziest manner; and it was not
                     until the door had closed on Cleave that his face grew a little gloomy, and he
                     muttered:
                  "This goes a little harder against the grain than I supposed!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  THE RESULT OF BREAKING ONE'S LEG.
                  A SOMEWHAT curious but perfectly natural revulsion now took place in the
                     feelings of Dr. Ralph Harrington, and he became convinced that he was
                     proceeding in a very absurd manner in thus endeavoring to persuade his friend
                     Cleave to change his fealty, and transfer his affections from Miss Marian Ormby
                     to Miss Annie Bell. Was it not highly discreditable in himself to thus
                     coöperate in an affair which must reflect so little honor upon his friend?
                     Could he justify his conduct, even as a friend of Miss Bell, whom he sought
                     thus to push into what must be, in substance, a mercenary match?
                  In other words, Dr. Ralph Harrington had, in the most rapid and unexpected
                     manner, fallen in love with the young beauty of The Hollies; and it was with
                     rather rueful feelings that he set out early on the appointed morning to
                     accompany Cleave to the fox-hunt. He foresaw that the subject of Miss Annie
                     Bell would be dwelt upon, and he was not mistaken. He found George Cleave
                     ready, and they rode on toward The Lodge.
                  "After all, Ralph," said the young man, who had again become rather gloomy; "I
                     don't see if I fancy Annie, and she fancies me, why—if I surrender
                     Cleaveland——" There he stopped.
                  "No reason," was the brief reply of Harrington, in a somewhat curt tone of
                     voice.
                  "I need something to divert my mind—I am wretched enough. Yes, I'll take your
                     advice, I think, and 'try.'"
                  At that moment Ralph Harrington experienced very unchristian sentiments toward
                     his companion. "To divert his mind!"
                  "Well—try!" he grunted.
                  George Cleave was too busy with his own thoughts to observe the tone of his
                     friend.
                  "There will at least be no deception or false professions in the matter,"
                     Cleave added.
                  And as they were now in sight of The Lodge, the conversation ceased.
                  An extremely gay company had assembled, and Mr. Jack Daintrees did the honors
                     of his breakfast-table in the most cordial and jovial manner. Then there was a
                     great tramping of feet, jingling of spurs, and blowing of horns, to which the
                     hoarse bay of the hounds came as an echo. The fox-hunters mounted; the dogs
                     were unleashed; even the game was started from a copse near at hand; and the
                     chase opened with ardor.
                  Four hours afterwards a light country wagon moved slowly and carefully through
                     the gateway of The Hollies, and this wagon contained the nearly inanimate form
                     of George Cleave. In attempting to clear a wide ravine not far from The
                     Hollies, his jaded horse had fallen short of the opposite bank, clung to the
                     edge a moment with his fore feet, and
                     ended by falling back, rolling over his rider, and kicking him so severely as
                     to produce a serious and most painful fracture of the bone of one of his legs.
                     Dr. Ralph Harrington had been at some distance from the spot, riding with a
                     reckless spur, as he had been observed to do throughout the entire hunt. Seeing
                     his friend fall, he had stopped suddenly, however, hastened to his aid, and
                     extricating him from his dangerous position, had promptly rendered him
                     professional assistance. A light wagon was passing, and this had been engaged
                     to convey the young man to The Hollies, not a mile distant, which the vehicle
                     soon reached, escorted by Dr. Harrington.
                  The ladies duly went through all the forms of exclamation, agitation, sympathy,
                     and George was taken to bed. Dr. Harrington then proceeded to set the limb, to
                     apply the bandages, and administer an anodyne. George Cleave, who had opened
                     his eyes during the bandaging process, now closed them again, and under the
                     effect of the anodyne fell into uneasy slumber.
                  Harrington then went down-stairs, and found himself subjected to an agitated
                     cross-examination upon the incident and the extent of the danger.
                  "There is no serious danger, my dear madam," said the young physician, "if
                     proper care is taken, and the case be treated with attention. As Mr. Cleave is
                     my intimate friend I shall spare no efforts to effect a speedy cure. The only
                     danger is in the event of amputation which—to be frank—may become
                     necessary."
                  This was sad comfort; and Mrs. Gaston and Annie received ceived the
                     announcement with some silent tears. Then the doctor took his leave, promising
                     to call again at night.
                  George slept until sunset, and then opened his eyes. Mrs. Gaston and Annie were
                     in the room. It was a cordial to him to see their faces full of love and
                     sympathy, and the smile of his friend Ralph was soon added.
                  "You had a bad fall, George," said Ralph Harrington cheerily, "but you are
                     doing excellently. Your leg is fractured, but not a compound fracture. You see
                     I tell you the worst, and think I can promise that you'll be in the saddle
                     again in a month or two."
                  "Oh no, Doctor! no!" exclaimed Mrs. Gaston, "George must not be imprudent! and
                     you must not deprive us of him; you know he will be such a comfort to us this
                     winter!"
                  Dr. Harrington carefully avoided looking toward Annie, but he listened acutely.
                     Annie said nothing. But there were tears in her eyes, and she was looking, he
                     soon saw, with a face full of sad sweetness at the invalid.
                  A month after these events George Cleave had risen from his sick bed, put on a
                     handsome dressing-gown, lined with red silk and decorated with a golden cord
                     and tassel—made for him by his two guardian angels—slowly descended to the
                     drawing-room; and one evening about twilight was sitting beside Annie on the
                     sofa, holding Miss Annie Bell's hand.
                  The expression of the young lady's face was singular. It was sorrowful, tender,
                     a little angry, with a decided expression of pique, and, with the rest, mingled
                        an hesitating, doubtful, altogether
                     agitated look, which had evidently been occasioned by some statement from her
                     companion.
                  "So Dr. Harrington advised you, did he, George?"
                  "Yes, Annie."
                  "You are then close friends?"
                  "He's the best friend I have in the world."
                  Annie turned her head aside a little, and said in a low voice:
                  "I am not very sure that he proved himself such on this occasion. There is
                     nothing in me to make it worth any one's while to think of me, George!"
                  The young man responded by protestations which it is unnecessary to repeat.
                     Then he calmed down, and said earnestly:
                  "If there is nothing in you, Annie, what is there in me? I am a
                     poor, unhappy fellow, not worth attention, and I am sure I do not know why you
                     and cousin should have thought me worth troubling yourselves about; better have
                     let me die of my hurt. I am nobody—all my merit is that I love you dearly, and
                     I think without you I would rather die now!"
                  "O George!"
                  "What have I to live for without you? I am poor, very poor—for I shall give up
                     Cleaveland. I have written to Allan Gartrell, and I have before me no future
                     but one of dull, hopeless, cheerless toil to make my bread. I am no fit match
                     for my dear Annie—I know that—but I must tell you all the same that I love you
                     with my whole heart. I am so lonely and unhappy—even Ralph Harrington in his
                     solitary office is twice as fortunate as I am——"
                  "And he urged you, George, to—address me?" faltered Annie.
                  "Yes, yes, warmly."
                  Annie flushed to the roots of her hair.
                  "He thought it would be the happiest event of my life, and urged me when I
                     objected—I must 'try' at all events. Well, Annie, I have tried. I
                     have told you how much, how dearly I love you! that I am very unhappy and need
                     your dear smile to brighten my life! Tell me at least that you love your poor
                     George a little!"
                  He stopped, blushing and faltering. The night descended. There was no light in
                     the room but that from the wood fire, before which, in the homely country
                     fashion, a tea-kettle was simmering. The whole apartment was a picture of
                        home, and George Cleave and Annie Bell were sitting close
                     beside each other—the excellent Mrs. Gaston having carefully remained
                     up-stairs. Annie began to pout a little. Then she cried silently. George Cleave
                     drew her pretty head with its glossy ringlets toward him, and leaned his pale
                     cheek against her roses. Then he turned her face toward him, and Miss Annie
                     permitted herself to be kissed.
                  When Mrs. Gaston came down at last, coughing elaborately and rattling the knob
                     of the door before entering, Miss Annie Bell went up-stairs, and George Cleave,
                     with a face lit up by his happiness, said:
                  "Cousin, Annie and I are engaged, and hope you will give your consent!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  MR. BROWN.
                  ONE summer evening in the year succeeding these events Dr. Ralph Harrington
                     came out of his office, and placing upon the door a card containing the words
                     "Will return in half an hour," locked the door, and went over to the village
                     tavern to tea.
                  Harrington was considerably thinner, and not so ruddy, which may have been
                     attributable to the sultry weather. His step was not so firm and jaunty, and
                     his lips had lost their lazy smile of easy good-humor, betraying formerly his
                     health of body and tranquillity of mind. A close inspection indicated other
                     changes. His eyes had black semi-circles beneath them, and their expression was
                     uneasy and even painful. The mild and friendly light had faded from them as the
                     smile had faded from the lips. There was nevertheless no indication of weakness
                     in the face or figure. The walk was deliberate, the muscles of the countenance
                     were firm, and the air of the man cool and composed. Something had evidently
                     preyed upon his mind; but the resolute Ralph Harrington was as resolute as
                     ever.
                  He went to the tavern, and was just entering when the stage from the railroad
                     station nearly twenty miles distant—for Waterford was out of the great routes
                     of travel—clattered up to the door. It was a heavy old-fashioned vehicle, with
                     the baggage behind, beneath a leathern apron. The jaunty driver cracked his
                     whip, touched his off leader, rosetted and gallantly prancing, and the stage
                     drew up at the door of the tavern enveloped in a cloud of dust, from which
                     emerged two or three passengers.
                  Among these one attracted the attention of Harrington. He was a portly
                     personage of fifty-five or sixty, and wore a brown travelling suit and a tall
                     black beaver hat. The face under the hat was rubicund and jocose in expression,
                     but a certain keenness in the glance of the stranger seemed to contradict this
                     easy and careless demeanor. He flourished a large polished cane with the air of
                     one well to do and used to taking his ease; and bestowed upon the group of
                     village wiseacres at the door of the tavern an amiable smile, which seemed to
                     say, "Well, here I am, my friends; you see before you a gentleman of
                     respectability and means—nothing underhanded, all above board!"
                  When the landlord bowed and presented the portly gentleman with a pen, pushing
                     at the same time the register before him for his signature, the portly
                     gentleman said, smiling:
                  "Ah yes!"
                  And he inscribed upon the page the name and address:
                  "John Brown, New York."
                  As he laid down the pen, Mr. Brown's face expanded into a more amiable smile than before, and
                     gently caressing his chin with his fat hand, he said to the landlord:
                  "Can you inform me, my friend, how far Mr. Allan Gartrell lives from this
                     place?"
                  "But a short distance, sir," was the reply. "His place is called Cleaveland,
                     and a very fine place it is. I will have you driven there if——"
                  "Yes, yes, thank you. To-morrow. A little purchase of land is in view. The
                     timber is said to be very fine on the river, and a lumber company in New York,
                     whose agent I am, wish to make arrangements with Mr. Gartrell—but this will not
                     interest you, my dear sir. A very fine place you have here! I particularly
                     admired your new church—hem!—and now, my friend, a room, and some supper if
                     convenient."
                  The landlord bowed to his respectable guest, gave an order to a servant, who
                     ducked his head with the elaborate politeness of the American "help" when there
                     is a prospect of coin, and Mr. Brown disappeared, leaving the wiseacres to
                     discuss him. He had kindly furnished them with a few data, as the reader has
                     seen—taking compassion upon their painful ignorance. He was Mr. Brown, of New
                     York, agent of a lumber company who wished to purchase timber land from Mr.
                     Gartrell, proprietor of Cleveland; and the village worthies discussed this
                     interesting fact for half an hour, agreed that Mr. Brown was a respectable old
                     fellow, evidently well to do in his circumstances; then they proceeded to
                     muddle their brains with toddy at the bar, and retired.
                  Harrington had found his eyes persistently wandering toward Mr. Brown. He was
                     puzzling himself with a detail which seemed to have escaped the village
                     critics—the queer glance from Mr. Brown's eyes now and then; a glance which
                     seemed to contradict flatly the apparent bonhomie and carelessness of the rest of his personal demeanor.
                     What did that glance mean? Never was anything more piercing.
                  "Well," he muttered listlessly, "here I am worrying my mind with a matter of no
                     earthly importance to me, and probably indulging in nothing but a foolish
                     fancy. I'll go up and see George. I've not met him to-day."
                  And Harrington sauntered out and then up-stairs—not walking with his old
                     elastic step, but heavily and firmly.
                  On the next morning Mr. Brown made his appearance at breakfast, the picture of
                     health, enjoyment, and good-nature. He smiled on everybody, called the servants
                     by their names, and having finished his meal, declared audibly that it was
                     excellent. An hour afterwards he was on his way, in the landlord's open
                     carriage, toward Cleaveland, which he reached in about two hours.
                  "A fine place; a very fine place, indeed!" said Mr. Brown as they drove up the
                     long avenue. "Mr. Gartrell is indeed a fortunate individual."
                  "Yes, sah," was the reply of the darky driver, from whom Mr. Brown had
                     extracted on the way every known detail in reference to the owner of
                     Cleaveland.
                  The carriage stopped before the great portico, and the driver got down, walked
                     up the broad steps, and knocked. A servant in elegant livery appeared. Was Mr.
                     Gartrell at home? Mr. Gartrell was at breakfast—information which the liveried servant furnished in a
                     somewhat supercilious tone.
                  "Give him my respects, and say Mr. Brown, of New York, has called to see
                     him."
                  The servant hesitated, but ended by carrying the message. In five minutes he
                     came back with the message that Mr. Gartrell was at breakfast—Mr. Brown could
                     call again.
                  Mr. Brown smiled, but did not make any reply.
                  He put his hand into his breast, drew out a visiting card, took a pencil from
                     his waistcoat pocket, and wrote upon the card.
                  "Give this to Mr. Gartrell," he said to the servant, who took the card, went
                     in, and closed the door.
                  "Will you go back to Waterford, sah?" said the driver.
                  "Not yet, my friend," was the smiling reply; "perhaps Mr. Gartrell may see me
                     after all."
                  Mr. Brown had already descended from the vehicle, and was taking out his
                     purse.
                  "I know Mr. Gartrell will not turn me away, after all," he said, with his
                     eternal smile; "here is the amount of my indebtedness to your master, my
                     friend, and something for yourself."
                  The money was received with bows and grins.
                  "I will remain with Mr. Gartrell, probably, to-night. You can go back."
                  And Mr. Brown composedly walked up the broad steps, flourishing his cane. A
                     moment afterwards he had passed through the broad door, which the same servant
                     opened, and it closed behind him.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  WHICH BRINGS UP THE NARRATIVE.
                  THE fine estate of Cleaveland had come into possession of Mr. Allan Gartrell
                     early in the spring.
                  Dissatisfied with the course proposed by Mr. Jobson—that is to delay action,
                     contest, compromise, do anything rather than quietly give up the
                     property—George Cleave had decided the whole matter by ascertaining from Mr.
                     Gartrell's letters to his uncle the address of his banker, which proved to be
                     Liverpool; written him fully, announcing his intention of surrendering
                     Cleaveland, and then a second time to make quite sure; and the letters had been
                     followed two or three months afterwards by Mr. Gartrell's sudden
                     appearance.
                  It may excite some surprise that, having become engaged to Annie, Cleave had
                     not reconsidered his resolution and retained the property. He was unable to do
                     so. He attained his twenty-fifth year on the very day before his engagement
                     with Annie, and was debarred by the terms of the codicil from retaining the
                     estate. He therefore surrendered it to his cousin, who thanked him with great
                     cordiality, and very faintly suggested that he should remain at
                     Cleaveland—which George politely
                     declined—and on the next day he was installed in Mr. Jobson's office, preparing
                     himself for the practice of the law. He had collected some small resources,
                     which enabled him to live for the present at the village tavern; and, not
                     greeting his change of fortune as seriously as persons of more "strength of
                     character" might have done, the young man had resolutely gone to work,
                     permitting himself no pleasures but a visit every few days to Annie at The
                     Hollies.
                  Harrington had ceased to visit there. His practice, he said, took up all his
                     time. He went, it is true, to The Lodge, to see Jack Daintrees from time to
                     time; but The Hollies he declared was a little out of his way, and he was a
                     creature of habit—he hoped no one would think him unsociable. In other words,
                     Dr. Ralph Harrington had conceived an ardent and now entirely hopeless love for
                     Annie Bell. He had discovered the fact, as we have seen, precisely at the
                     moment when it was too late—the accident which befell George Cleave had brought
                     about the rapid and unexpected denouement of the comedy—and Harrington had
                     retired in despair, shutting up his misery in his own heart. He had entirely
                     ceased to allude even to the inmates of The Hollies in his conversation with
                     Cleave. He turned the subject with a light laugh—or an attempt at such—when
                     George introduced it; declared that he was too old to occupy his mind with such
                     things; congratulated his friend in a somewhat stiff and unsympathizing manner,
                     George thought, and then introduced some other topic.
                  "Decidedly," Cleave would say after such interviews, "Ralph has changed his
                     whole character, and I don't know what to make of him."
                  The weeks passed on thus—Cleave assiduously studying—when one morning, not long
                     before the visit of Mr. Brown to Waterford, one of the gossips casually alluded
                     to the fact that Mr. Allan Gartrell was paying his addresses to Miss Ormby of
                     Bayview.
                  This statement was made by one of the fair sex—an old maid residing at the
                     tavern with her brother, a merchant of the place. It stung George Cleave to the
                     quick, and he turned suddenly to the speaker—they were at table—and said:
                  "That must be a mere idle report, Miss Smith."
                  "Oh, no indeed!" giggled Miss Smith; "it is certainly so. He goes there every
                     day; and I heard all about it from Mrs. Jones, who heard it from Miss
                     Primby—and she was at Bayview, and knows it, Mr. Cleave!"
                  George Cleave went away from the table, and going up to his room, did not make
                     his appearance again during the whole day. When he came forth on the next day
                     he was quite pale, and did not utter a word to any one, even to Harrington.
                  The day afterwards, a lady visiting at The Hollies repeated the same
                     intelligence in the hearing of Annie—adding that she had her own doubts,
                     however, of the truth of the report, as young Dr. Ralph Harrington was also a
                     frequent visitor at Bayview, and had the reputation of being a suitor of Miss
                     Ormby's.
                  Thereat Miss Annie Bell flushed to her temples, after which her color faded
                     suddenly, leaving her cheeks white.
                  
                  "Is it possible?" said Mrs. Gaston, who had not observed the agitation of
                     Annie; "Dr. Harrington is so little of a lady's man that his visits are
                     probably professional ones to some member of the family."
                  But this matter-of-fact explanation was promptly discarded by the lady-gossip.
                     No, indeed!—Dr. Harrington's visits were to Miss Ormby, and wholly
                        un-professional! There was no trusting these quiet people, like
                     Dr. Harrington! They were more given to such things than any other class!
                  And the lady-gossip flowed on in ceaseless garrulity for an hour, supplementing
                     her facts with her imaginations.
                  Annie had glided out of the room soon after the allusion to Dr. Harrington, and
                     gone up to her chamber. She walked with heavy steps, and her face—thinner and
                     paler than when we saw it last—was quite agitated. She gained her chamber, sank
                     down upon a low coach, leaned her cheek upon the pillow, and, covering her face
                     with her hand, sobbed out:
                  "Oh me!—oh me!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  MR. DAINTREES MAKES AN ELABORATE TOILET AND VISITS THE
                     HOLLIES.
                  MR. JACK DAINTREES had carefully gone over his face with his razor three
                     distinct times, but not yet satisfied with his personal appearance, applied a
                     new covering of shaving cream, strapped his razor anew, and again mowed down
                     the refractory remnants of his beard. He then passed his hand over his face,
                     found the surface like satin, seemed satisfied, and proceeded to array himself
                     in full visiting costume.
                  When he went to the door where his riding horse, a fine animal, with a coat as
                     glossy as silk, stood awaiting him, Mr. Jack Daintrees was the picture of a
                     gallant, and he proceeded to vault into the saddle with the activity of
                     eighteen.
                  Now why had Mr. Jack Daintrees, that incorrigible fox-hunter and careless
                     bachelor, indulged in all this personal adornment? Why had he shaved thrice and
                     then a fourth time to eradicate every ungraceful hirsute remnant? Why had he
                     selected his best coat, his most gorgeous waistcoat, his tightest boots, and
                     drawn his pantaloons so closely at the
                     waist that he was red in the face?
                  Let us follow Mr. Daintrees, and perhaps we shall discover the meaning of this
                     coquettish care for his personal appearance. He rode away, turned toward The
                     Hollies, and after half an hour's ride found himself in sight of that female
                     Paradise—one mass of flowers and foliage now, and quite a picture.
                  Mr. Daintrees rode on, congratulating himself as he looked at the sky that he
                     was near shelter. It was late in the afternoon, and the heavens were overcast
                     with black clouds. One of those violent thunder-storms which burst upon
                     Virginia in the month of August was evidently approaching, and Mr. Jack
                     Daintrees had reached that period of life when human beings carefully consider
                     the disagreeable results of exposure to a torrent of rain, with the additional
                     risk from lightning. The demon of rheumatism had indeed more than once seized
                     on the limbs of the gay and jaunty Jack, he had a horror of lumbago. He
                     therefore cantered on with visions of a charming evening in the society of a
                     certain lady at The Hollies, with alabaster lamps diffusing a romantic light,
                     the rain pouring without, his horse housed comfortably in the stable, whither
                     country etiquette would have him quickly led, and he, Mr. Jack Daintrees,
                     compelled by circumstances over which he had no control, to pass the night in
                     that nest of doves, The Hollies!
                  Mr. Daintrees rode in, dismounted, and went to the door, at which he gave a
                     modest knock.
                  It was opened in a moment by Annie, who had been listlessly reading a magazine
                     in the drawing-room. Annie was not so rosy as when we saw her last, and a
                     settled sadness dwelt in the sweet eyes, once so bright and laughing.
                  "Walk in, Mr. Daintrees, I am very glad to see you," she said; "I really
                     believe I was moping."
                  "Moping!" exclaimed Mr. Jack Daintrees, "is it possible that a young bird of
                     paradise like yourself, Miss Annie, ever mopes!"
                  "Yes, indeed."
                  "You should leave that to the old gentlemen—like myself," said Mr. Daintrees.
                     "What were you reading?"
                  They had taken their seats in the drawing-room, and Mr. Daintrees was waiting
                     for—the rest of the household.
                  "Oh! only this magazine," said Annie. "There is a love story appearing in it—it
                     is very dull. I really hate love stories!"
                  "Is it possible? At your age, and under the circumstances."
                  A covert smile accompanied these words.
                  "I should think," added Mr. Daintrees, "that they would appeal with peculiar
                     force to—to—a young lady who is engaged to be married!"
                  Annie became very red, and then the color all faded.
                  "I am sorry aunt is not at home, Mr. Daintrees," she said with a sort of
                     desperate feeling that something must be said, and anxious only to turn the
                     conversation. She certainly succeeded. The words fell upon Mr. Jack Daintrees like a death knell. All the
                     charms of The Hollies faded and grew colorless.
                  "Not at home? ah? I am sorry. She is probably out visiting?"
                  Mr. Daintrees was actually confused, and began to stammer. Annie was too sad,
                     it seemed, to notice the fact; and that spirit of fun which formerly made her
                     laugh at everything, had plainly deserted her.
                  "Auntie went to Waterford to do some shopping," she said. "Uncle Jake drove her
                     in the carriage. It is nearly time for her return, I think."
                  Mr. Daintrees looked through the window. The sky was as black as night—the
                     night itself was coming—and long zigzags of lightning began to flicker from the
                     horizon to the zenith, followed by low mutterings.
                  "A storm is coming; Mrs. Gaston will be exposed to it, I fear——"
                  He stopped suddenly.
                  "And the Swamp!" he added quickly; "does she know that the rains have swollen
                     it nearly to the level of the trestle bridge?"
                  "They must have passed over it."
                  "Yes, yes—certainly! But this storm will raise the waters in a quarter of an
                     hour. She may run serious risk!"
                  Mr. Daintrees rose quickly.
                  "I'll tell you what I will do, Miss Annie!" he said; "I'll ride as far as the
                     Swamp—it is only a mile or two for that matter—and take a look at it. If it is
                     dangerous I will warn your aunt not to attempt it!"
                  Annie was now seriously alarmed.
                  "Oh, yes! Mr. Daintrees, I wish you would!" she exclaimed. "I quite forgot! Do
                     go—but you will be drenched!"
                  Mr. Jack Daintrees rushed forth, exclaiming gallantly—
                  "In the service of the ladies!"
                  Let us redeem the character of Mr. Daintrees, however, from the charge of utter
                     thoughtlessness and indifference to his elaborate toilet. He captured on his
                     way to the door a long water-proof cloak, of light brown material, which he
                     declared might be needed by Mrs. Gaston, mounted his horse, and setting the
                     spurs into his sides, rode away at a gallop, waving his hat to Annie with all
                     the grace of a lover.
                  There was but one circumstance that detracted from the gallant and romantic
                     character of this proceeding—the fact that Mr. Jack Daintrees, bestriding with
                     his portly limbs his flying steed, with his coat skirts floating backward in
                     the cool gusts of the approaching storm, bore a close resemblance to a
                     personage of history, or rather poetry—his namesake, Jack Gilpin, riding his
                     famous race.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  IN THE SWAMP.
                  "THE SWAMP," to which Mr. Daintrees had alluded, was one of those sluggish
                     streams frequently met with in Tidewater Virginia, the despair of
                     agriculturists and roadmakers. In the dry season it was simply a lazy,
                     lingering thread of muddy water which stole along through the grass-covered low
                     grounds; but so low was the surface that the least rain swelled this slight
                     current, made a dozen others, then covered the whole save where a sort of
                     island here and there rose, and made the passage well nigh impossible.
                  On the road to Waterford a long wooden bridge, raised a few feet above the
                     bush-grass on trestles, had accordingly been constructed; and on this somewhat
                     rickety structure vehicles of all sorts could pass over the treacherous
                     ooze.
                  Unfortunately, heavy rains had recently taken place, and the swamp was greatly
                     swollen. Mrs. Gaston had passed over the bridge in the morning when the water,
                     now completely covering the swamp, except in certain spots, was within a foot
                     of the roadway. The driver had declared it safe, as indeed it proved, but it
                     was equally certain that an additional rain-storm would seriously endanger the
                     bridge.
                  Jack Daintrees thought of all this as he hastened on, his horse frightened and
                     flying along as the thunder rumbled overhead. Would Mrs. Gaston attempt to
                     cross? Would she arrive in time? Might not the storm burst before——?
                  The bridge was in sight—a long, low, insecure affair, lashed by the now
                     galloping waters of the whilom lazy, lingering swamp. The tall grass, nearly
                     submerged, dashed to and fro in the current, the hanging boughs of some trees
                     on a small island at the middle of the bridge dipped to the water; the swamp
                     was on a frolic, and—worst of all—Mrs. Gaston's coach was seen approaching the
                     bridge.
                  At the same moment the rain dashed down, and the waters seemed to rise before
                     Mr. Daintrees's eyes. He spurred upon the bridge, which tottered and groaned
                     beneath his horse's feet; made signals to the driver of Mrs. Gaston's carriage
                     not to venture upon it; reached the middle—and saw the carriage coming on
                     rapidly over the bridge beyond.
                  The catastrophe followed. Scarcely had the vehicle reached the island when the
                     bridge behind gave way. Mrs. Gaston threw open the door and leaped out,
                     exclaiming, "Oh! Mr. Daintrees!" in an accent which sent a thrill of joy
                     through the bosom of that gentleman—when the crowning event of this eventful
                     day came to put the finishing touch to everything. Mrs. Gaston had leaped from the carriage while it was in
                     motion—the old driver, in his excitement, had not been aware of the fact, and
                     had continued his way, entering on the last half of the bridge—all at once, as
                     he was near the shore, that too sank under the vehicle; and it was only by
                     violent lashing that old Jake, plunging through grass, water, and mud,
                     succeeded in forcing his way up the bank to firm ground.
                  Mrs. Gaston and Mr. Jack Daintrees were on an island in the middle of the
                     swamp—the bridge was washed away on the right and the left—the storm was
                     roaring down, the lightning setting the darkness on fire, the thunder
                     discharging its big guns; and the "weaker vessel," overcome and sobbing with
                     terror, clung unconsciously to the "lord of creation," who supported her
                     heroically with his encircling arm!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  BESIDE THE FIRE IN THE SWAMP.
                  "OH! Mr. Daintrees!"
                  "Don't be alarmed, my dear Mrs. Gaston! don't be alarmed!"
                  "But—oh! we shall be drowned!"
                  
                     
                        "OH! MR. DAINTREES!"
                     
                  
                  "I think not," said Mr. Daintrees, "and I hope for your sake more than for my
                     own—yes! more than for my own,"
                     repeated Mr. Jack Daintrees resolutely, as if some one had contradicted him,
                     "that no harm will happen to one—hem!—one whom—I regard as my best friend."
                  "Oh! indeed it is I who need a friend! Just look! The water is rising!"
                  "But the storm is ceasing!" said Mr. Daintrees.
                  "There is no serious, real danger then!"
                  "I can't say that, madam; but one thing I can say, that whatever that danger
                     may be I am determined to share it with you."
                  A grateful look repaid him. It was heroic in Mr. Daintrees. For might he not
                     have mounted, plunged into the current, and gained—as novelists say—the
                     opposing shore?
                  "I have long felt," said Mr. Daintrees, "that our fates were or ought to be
                     united, my dear Mrs. Gaston! See how the very elements combine to throw us
                     together! We are here alone together on a lonely island in the midst of a
                     raging current, and—but be not uneasy. I will rescue you or share your
                     fate!"
                  Whether Mr. Daintrees had been reading romances or not, we cannot say; but at
                     least he was in earnest. His earnestness, indeed, was so great
                     that—unconsciously, no doubt—he drew the graceful form of Mrs. Gaston toward
                     him, looked at her with deep devotion, and said:
                  "Let me wrap you in this cloak!"
                  It was an abrupt descent from the idea of perishing together; but an agreeable
                     descent it seemed to Mrs. Gaston. She permitted herself to be enveloped in the
                     waterproof, withdrew in a quiet manner from Mr. Daintrees's arm, and said:
                  "But oh! Mr. Daintrees—what shall we do?"
                  Having ceased to enjoy the pleasure of supporting his fair companion, and
                     seeing no prospect of a renewal of that romantic proceeding, Mr. Daintrees
                     looked at the "situation" in a strictly business-like light, and said:
                  "Let me reflect a moment, my dear madam, and think what is best. First, there
                     is no prospect of the swamp falling even sufficiently to carry you over behind
                     me—that is, not to-night; and you see night has come. We must therefore be
                     rescued—you at least."
                  "You can call to Uncle Jake!"
                  "My dear Mrs. Gaston, you fill me with admiration! I knew the treasures of your
                     heart—ahem—and now I find your good-sense equally admirable. Jake!"
                  The last word was uttered in a stentorian voice, and Jake responding, he was
                     directed to hasten to the house of a neighbor and procure assistance. Jake
                     promptly obeyed. He unhitched one of the horses, mounted, and was heard
                     clattering off in the darkness.
                  "And now, for your comfort in the meantime! The night is growing chill!" said
                     Mr. Daintrees.
                  He took from his pocket a match-case, for so old a smoker never was without
                     that convenience; collected some dry sticks and dead limbs, lit them, and soon
                     a cheerful blaze soared aloft, lighting up the wild and gloomy scene. The rain
                     had ceased, and the storm had muttered away into the distance; but the angry
                     waters of the swamp were seen and heard roaring around them; drift-wood dashed by with dangerous velocity;
                     there was even some reason to doubt whether the small patch of firm land
                     occupied by Mrs. Gaston, Mr. Daintrees, and his horse, would not be
                     overflowed.
                  "If it should be, madam," said Mr. Daintrees, "there is but one course to
                     pursue. I will mount and swim to shore with you in my arms!"
                  Mrs. Gaston blushed. She presented a very handsome spectacle at the moment. She
                     was half-reclining, wrapped in the water-proof, by the blaze, her fair hair all
                     in disorder on her handsome neck, her small feet peeping from her wet skirt,
                     and her whole attitude shrinking, timid, confiding. Mr. Jack Daintrees was
                     nearly overcome!
                  "If we are saved," said Mrs. Gaston, with her little glance and blush, "I shall
                     owe you my life!"
                  And Mrs. Gaston with her pretty hand put back a curl from her pretty face.
                  Mr. Daintrees was overcome!
                  "If I could only be permitted to take charge of that beloved life!" exclaimed
                     Mr. Daintrees, seizing the hand. "If I was only worthy—if such presumption
                     would not make you laugh at me——!"
                  "Oh! Mr. Daintrees!" murmured pretty Mrs. Gaston.
                  "Am I wrong—indelicate—to speak of this on such an occasion—when we are thus
                     alone together on this deserted isle?" said Mr. Daintrees. "Only tell me,
                     dearest madam—only speak one word—and I will stop at once!"
                  But Mrs. Gaston seemed too much agitated to speak the word—where at Mr.
                     Daintrees thrilled with joy.
                  "I am not presumptuous then!—you do not forbid me!—I may hope then——!"
                  Mr. Daintrees looked the picture of joy.
                  "Then I may take charge of the fate of one——"
                  A sudden halloo from the shore made them start, and looking up, they saw the
                     blaze of torches.
                  "Only one word!" cried Mr. Daintrees, "only one word!"
                  Mrs. Gaston raised her eyes, looked at Mr. Daintrees for precisely the one
                     hundredth part of one second, and then permitting the long lashes to fall upon
                     her cheek, said in a whisper, with a blush and a smile:
                  "I would rather say that word—if I am to say it—at The Hollies!"
                  A resounding shout came, drowning Mr. Daintrees's rapturous response; hammers
                     were heard constructing a raft of drift-wood, and precisely one hour afterwards
                     Mrs. Gaston was placed upon this impromptu contrivance; it was pushed through
                     the water, which proved not to be very deep, and Mr. Jack Daintrees having
                     plunged through on horseback, they were all soon safely on shore.
                  Mrs. Gaston then got into her carriage—which had sustained no injury—thanked
                     her kind neighbor, Mr. Page, who had come with all his men so promptly to her
                     rescue; and then, with the last mutterings of the storm still resounding,
                     rolled away toward The Hollies.
                  Mr. Daintrees had determined to return homeward, and had said with an air of
                     common-place politeness:
                  
                  "I shall do myself the pleasure of calling to-morrow, madam, to ascertain if
                     you have caught cold."
                  The astute Mr. Jack Daintrees had supposed that he would thus compel Mrs.
                     Gaston to say: "I shall be very glad to see you."
                  Mrs. Gaston simply replied—but with the ghost of a side-glance at Mr.
                     Daintrees—
                  "Thank you, sir!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  THE PHYSICIAN IN SPITE OF HIMSELF.
                  HALF a mile from The Hollies Mrs. Gaston was startled by an exclamation from
                     the old driver, and the carriage suddenly stopped.
                  "What is the matter?" she exclaimed.
                  "It is nobody but me, Auntie," said a voice in the darkness, and Mrs. Gaston
                     recognized Annie, who came and opened the door before the old coachman could
                     descend for that purpose.
                  "Why, Annie! my dear child!" exclaimed Mrs. Gaston as the young lady entered
                     the carriage, "what could have made you come out? you are soaking
                     wet!"
                  "I was so uneasy about you, Auntie! I could not sit still! So I just walked out
                     and went on until——"
                  "With nothing on your head, and only this scarf around you! And your feet are
                     wringing wet! Oh! my dear child."
                  "It is nothing, Auntie. But how did you get over, and where is Mr.
                     Daintrees?"
                  
                  The carriage had continued its way, and Mrs. Gaston having wrapped Annie in her
                     own shawl, related her adventures, accidentally omitting any allusion to the
                     somewhat peculiar character of her interview with the proprietor of The
                     Lodge.
                  "That was just like Mr. Daintrees!" exclaimed Annie; "he is the best friend we
                     have!"
                  "Do you like him, my dear?"
                  "Indeed I do—and so do you, my little auntie," returned Annie with a slight
                     laugh.
                  Mrs. Gaston blushed in the darkness and said:
                  "Well, you know, my child—one can not help regarding as a friend a gentleman
                     who comes so frequently! Ever since your accident last year, Mr. Daintrees has
                     been very intimate with us, and has called every week."
                  "Every week!" exclaimed Annie with a momentary return of her constitutional
                     gayety; "Every day you might say! But I won't tease you, Auntie, I am so glad
                     you are safe, and I love you very much, and I believe I will kiss you!"
                  An embrace followed, then Annie suddenly coughed.
                  "You have taken cold, Annie!"
                  "A little, I'm afraid, Auntie. But it is nothing!"
                  It proved to be something, and by no means a slight something. The young lady
                     had become drenched, her feet saturated in the mud and water of the high road,
                     and on the next morning she complained of a pain in her side, and was ordered
                     by Mrs. Gaston to remain in her chamber.
                  "Why what a nervous, fearful, and absurd little auntie you are!" she exclaimed;
                     "why should I not go down?"
                  "You may be sick."
                  "I sick!" what an idea! And how do you think The Hollies will get
                     along without me, madam?"
                  "It will get along very well. I will take care of the flowers, and if George or
                     anybody comes I will try to entertain them."
                  "George?"
                  "Yes, you know he will certainly come, as he has not been here for two
                     days."
                  A singular expression came to Annie's face, and she said quickly:
                  "Well, I suppose you are right, Auntie, and I will remain in my room."
                  Mrs. Gaston looked at the speaker who had thus promptly yielded, but Annie's
                     face was impenetrable. The fair widow therefore left the young lady, and went
                     to send up her breakfast.
                  Annie had no appetite, and coughed a good deal.
                  About noon Mrs. Gaston became a little uneasy, and thought of sending for a
                     doctor, when Mr. Daintrees and George Cleave made their appearance—they had
                     reached. The Hollies by accident at the same moment.
                  Mr. Daintrees looked a little crestfallen—the presence of George was
                     unlucky—and as the young man seemed to be in no haste to retire, Mr. Daintrees,
                     utterly disappointed in the object of his visit, rose, took leave, and went
                     away maligning his bad fortune. George remained for an hour or two, expressing
                     much regret at Annie's
                     indisposition, but not as much as Mrs. Gaston thought he ought to have
                     expressed. At length he too went away, promising to return.
                  Toward evening Annie's cough seemed worse, and she had some fever. Mrs. Gaston
                     then became alarmed, and, without telling Annie, wrote a note to Dr. Williams,
                     her old family physician at Waterford, requesting him to come and see the
                     invalid.
                  "If Dr. Williams is absent, request Dr. Harrington to come," she said to the
                     servant.
                  And toward evening Dr. Harrington made his appearance, Dr. Williams having been
                     called to some distance to see a patient.
                  Mrs. Gaston stood for a moment looking at Ralph Harrington, whom she had not
                     seen for a long time. It was impossible not to be struck with the contrast
                     between his present and his former self. All his jaunty air had disappeared;
                     his cheeks were thin, and he looked wan and old.
                  "Why, what is the matter, Doctor!" exclaimed the lady.
                  "The matter, madam?"
                  "You are so much thinner and paler!"
                  Harrington smiled—it was rather a sad smile.
                  "Our profession is exacting, madam—night riding will tell upon the health. Miss
                     Bell, I hope, is better?"
                  He very plainly desired to change the subject, and after informing him of
                     Annie's symptoms, Mrs. Gaston went up to announce the doctor's presence. The
                     young lady was lying in a morning wrapper upon a pile of pillows, with her hair
                     in some disorder, and her flushed cheek resting upon one hand.
                  "Dr. Harrington has come, my dear," said Mrs. Gaston. "Shall I invite him
                     up?"
                  "Dr. Harrington!" exclaimed Annie, turning redder than before.
                  "Yes, my child. Dr. Williams was absent."
                  "Dr. Harrington!"
                  "Do you object to seeing him? It is nothing. His visit is purely professional,
                     and——"
                  "Dr. Harrington!"
                  Each of these exclamations had been uttered as it were unconsciously.
                  "I can understand your feelings, Annie," said Mrs. Gaston. "The doctor has been
                     heretofore a young gentleman visitor in your eyes, and his new character
                     startles you. But you need medical advice——"
                  "Oh! no, no, Auntie!"
                  "I really must insist, my dear."
                  She went firmly toward the door.
                  "At least wait a few minutes, Auntie—my toilet! Think of my toilet!"
                  Mrs. Gaston closed the door. No sooner had she done so than Annie rose quickly,
                     ran to the mirror, bound up her hair, and had just completed these preparations
                     and taken a seat upon a sofa when Mrs. Gaston and Dr. Harrington made their
                     appearance.
                  Ralph Harrington was scarcely able to assume his professional coolness, but he
                     did assume it, and said quietly:
                  
                  "I am sorry to find you unwell, Miss Annie; a trifle, I hope. Allow me to feel
                     your pulse."
                  "Oh! it is nothing, I assure you!" she exclaimed with a forced laugh. "Auntie
                     is absurdly uneasy whenever I have a finger-ache!"
                  She held out her hand, and Dr. Harrington touched the blue vein on the wrist
                     with his index and middle fingers.
                  "A little fever," he said, "resulting from simple cold. You will be well, I
                     hope, to-morrow, Miss Annie."
                  Mrs. Gaston's countenance indicated the immense relief afforded her by these
                     words.
                  "Then there is no danger of pneumonia, Doctor?"
                  "None at all, madam, and you may dismiss all fears."
                  "How happy you make me!" exclaimed the lady; "and George will be as glad as I
                     am. Will you tell him on your return, Doctor? He was here this morning."
                  A singular expression came to Harrington's face. He inclined his head rather
                     stiffly, and said:
                  "I will, with great pleasure, madam."
                  He then rose, and said:
                  "I will leave a prescription. Can I write it downstairs, madam?"
                  "Yes, Doctor."
                  Harrington turned toward Annie and their eyes met. For an instant they remained
                     motionless, gazing at each other, and a slight tremor passed through the young
                     lady's frame. Harrington's pale face flushed; his lips opened, but no words
                     issued from them. He simply bowed, and went out with Mrs. Gaston.
                  As the door closed, Annie's head fell upon the arm of the sofa, and she burst
                     into tears.
                  On the next morning Dr. Williams made his appearance at The Hollies. He had
                     been to see a patient ten or fifteen miles from Waterford, he said, when about
                     midnight Dr. Harrington had reached the house and informed him of Miss Bell's
                     indisposition, expressing a wish that, as he, Dr. Williams, was the family
                     physician of Mrs. Gaston, he would treat the case.
                  "A mere cold, my dear madam," he said to Mrs. Gaston, after feeling Annie's
                     pulse; "and Miss Annie will be well in three days."
                  The interview had taken place in the parlor, whither Annie had insisted upon
                     going. Had she expected Dr. Ralph Harrington? An hour after the departure of
                     the old physician, Annie was looking out of the window when she saw George
                     Cleave ride into the grounds. Her proceeding thereupon was singular. In the
                     morning she had declared herself perfectly well. She now rose quietly and
                     said:
                  "Auntie, I believe I feel a little badly, and would rather not see any company.
                     Will you tell George?"
                  Having made this request, Miss Annie Bell strolled out of the room. Once in the
                     passage she began to walk rapidly. Then as Cleave approached the house she flew
                     up-stairs, and disappeared in her chamber, closing the door behind her.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  HARRINGTON ANNOUNCES HIS INTENTION TO LEAVE WATERFORD.
                  THREE days after these scenes, Dr. Ralph Harrington was walking up and down in
                     his office, about twilight, smoking a cigar and evidently reflecting. His habit
                     of smoking had grown upon him of late, and he was seldom without a pipe or a
                     cigar between his lips.
                  The slow and measured promenade to and fro had continued for some time, when
                     the door opened and George Cleave came in.
                  "Take a seat, George," said Harrington; "you'll find a cigar on the table."
                  He then continued his walk, Cleave seating himself but declining the cigar.
                  "I am glad you came, old fellow," said Harrington, "as I want to talk with
                     somebody. I am going to leave Waterford."
                  Cleave turned his head quickly.
                  "Leave Waterford?"
                  Harrington nodded.
                  "The fact is, I can't afford to stay. I am not doing as well as I think I can
                     do elsewhere. Sorry to go, but I am compelled to."
                  Cleave's countenance, at this announcement, expressed the greatest
                     consternation and regret.
                  "You can't be in earnest, Ralph!" he exclaimed. "Why, you are succeeding better
                     than any young doctor in the country—everybody says that! It is absurd to be
                     going away. Leave Waterford? You astonish me!"
                  Harrington shook his head.
                  "Can't stay," he said coolly. "Every man must look out for his career, my dear
                     fellow. I am only dragging along here, losing my best years. I don't like to
                     leave you, kind friends all, but I must pull up stakes, my son!"
                  Harrington spoke in his habitual tone of lazy indifference, and seemed to be
                     smiling. Cleave looked at him as well as the dim light would permit. He was
                     quite thin and pale, but all his old spirit of brave resolution was plainly in
                     him.
                  "What's the use of staying?" he added. "I have some talent they say, and some
                     day I may wish—to marry. What probability is there of making sufficient income
                     for that here? True, marriage is not the chief end of existence, but then the
                     fancy takes a man with almost absolute certainty before he's forty, to indulge
                     in that dangerous luxury, and it may seize upon me!"
                  The slight accent of irony, satire, whatever word expressed it, was plainer in
                     the voice.
                  "True, I don't think of it now," Harrington added again, "but—but here I am
                     boring you, old fellow. I must go."
                  
                  Cleave had listened without a word. It was perfectly evident that he was
                     watching the speaker.
                  "Well," he said quietly, "let us not speak any further of this at the moment.
                     To come to another subject—my own affairs."
                  "Your affairs?"
                  "If anybody goes away, I think it ought to be me."
                  "You? What an absurdity! You are the luckiest fellow I know, George. You are
                     engaged to be married to—to the woman you love—and you know my opinion of
                     her."
                  "You forget my poverty."
                  "That's nothing."
                  "Which proves, Ralph, that you are the most consistent of reasoners. Just now
                     you argued triumphantly, in your own estimation, that money was necessary to
                     marriage, and you must go elsewhere to make money."
                  "The case is different."
                  "It is the same. But to cease that discussion, I want to speak of my own
                     affairs, as I said."
                  "Well, speak, George."
                  "I am going to request Miss Annie Bell to terminate our engagement."
                  "What?"
                  Cleave repeated his words.
                  "Well," said Harrington, a little agitated, "wonders never cease!"
                  He had stopped abruptly in his promenade at George's words. He now resumed his
                     deliberate walk.
                  "Is it possible," he said, "that you are going to a young lady to say, 'I love
                     you no longer, and can't marry you?'"
                  "No, I am going to say, 'You love me no longer, and
                     wish to be released from an engagement which you regret.'"
                  Harrington shook his head. When he spoke, his voice faltered a little.
                  "Take care, George. This is a ticklish business. What reason have you to think
                     Miss Bell is anxious to be off?"
                  "A hundred reasons, which it is unnecessary to state—among the rest, that she
                     avoids me whenever she can do so; is everything that an engaged young lady
                     ought not to be; and only does not speak because she
                     shrinks from an apparent breach of faith!"
                  Harrington continued to walk up and down in silence.
                  "Well," he said at length, in a low tone, "and you—what will you
                     do, my dear fellow? Blow out your brains?"
                  Cleave did not reply for some moments.
                  "Do you remember what you told me the other day about Marian Ormby?" he said at
                     length in a very low voice.
                  "What was that?"
                  "That she had acted under constraint in breaking off with me—had been forced by
                     the tyranny of her father to deny herself when I came?"
                  "Well, yes—and I said more; that the poor thing was breaking her heart at the
                     prospect of being forced to marry this Mr. Gartrell, whom she abhors."
                  
                  George Cleave nodded.
                  "Now, then, you ought to know whether I am willing or unwilling to be off with
                     Annie. The simple fact is, that engagement was an awful blunder. I was piqued,
                     angry, wretched, and at The Hollies I found consolation; Annie took
                        pity on me—that's all. The crowning misfortune is that—I love Marian
                     Ormby more than ever."
                  Harrington knit his brows, but could not suppress the joy in his eyes.
                  "And you are going to say so?"
                  "Yes."
                  "To—Annie?"
                  "Yes."
                  Harrington controlled the throbbing of his heart by an effort, and said:
                  "Well, the interview, I think, will be curious; something like a story book!
                     You must act after your own views, George; I can't advise you. Suppose you come
                     and tell me the result?"
                  "I will, most certainly."
                  The darkness had come. Harrington's cigar glowed quickly and nervously, puff by
                     puff.
                  "It will interest a cool, careless old fellow like me to hear how it turns out,
                     George," he said.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  THE WOES OF DAINTREES.
                  THROUGHOUT the whole following day George Cleave was in the most absent frame
                     of mind conceivable, and his eyes would remain fixed for hours together upon
                     the same page of the law-book which he was reading—even upon the same
                     sentence.
                  He sat in one corner of Mr. Jobson's office, where his studies were prosecuted.
                     Before the great green-baize table sat Mr. Jobson.
                  Mr. Jobson raised his head.
                  "I don't like this Mr. Gartrell," he said aloud, addressing the walls of his
                     office; "and who is this Brown?"
                  Cleave raised his eyes.
                  "What did you say, Mr. Jobson?"
                  The old lawyer rose.
                  "I say, I don't like your cousin, Mr. Allan Gartrell; and I don't like Brown!
                     Brown is still there. What is he doing there?"
                  This was a poser. George smiled and said:
                  "He is agent of a lumber company, I believe, and came to buy timber."
                  
                  "He is nothing of the sort, my dear sir," said Mr. Jobson, knitting his brows
                     and wiping his pen. "There is some mystery about Brown, and I wish to heaven we
                     had not given up that estate."
                  Mr. Jobson said "We." His feeling toward George was really paternal now, when
                     the young man's fortunes were under a cloud; and he had attempted vainly to
                     induce him to come and live with him—the amount for his board and lodging to be
                     paid when convenient; say in twenty years—without interest.
                  "Very well," said Mr. Jobson, after gazing with extreme sternness upon an
                     opposite book-shelf where the demon of dust seemed to have taken up its reign;
                     "I'll say no more at the present time on the subject of Gartrell
                        and—Brown. I am now going to see Mrs. Gaston. There is just
                     time to return before dark."
                  "You have business with her, Mr. Jobson?"
                  "Yes; to read her the rough draft of a deed for some land she is about to
                     purchase."
                  George closed his book.
                  "I will go with you."
                  The ghost of a smile flitted across the parchment face of Mr. Jobson.
                  "Your business, I suppose, will be with—the other members of the family."
                  "Yes," said George quietly.
                  Mr. Jobson groaned.
                  "To think that you might have kept Cleaveland if you had only arranged that
                     affair in time!" he said.
                  Everything was an "affair" with Mr. Jobson.
                  "There was not time," returned Cleave in the same quiet tone; "and now as you
                     are getting ready, I'll order my horse and go with you."
                  The sun was sinking toward the woods as Mr. Jobson and George rode up to The
                     Hollies, where masses of foliage, flowers, and emerald sward were bathed in the
                     rich, red light. They saw a horse at the rack—and George smiled. They
                     dismounted and entered—there was Mr. Jack Daintrees, who had not arrived more
                     than three minutes before them. Mrs. Gaston had not had time since his arrival
                     to come down-stairs.
                  When Mr. Jack Daintrees beheld the forms of the two visitors, a muttered
                     exclamation might have been distinguished by any one in his immediate vicinity;
                     and an expression of the deepest gloom diffused itself over his countenance.
                     The reason was that Mr. Jack Daintrees was the victim of misfortune, the sport
                     of fate, a puppet in the unrelenting hand of destiny. Day after day he had
                     vainly essayed to secure that much-desired private interview with Mrs. Gaston.
                     What had that fair lady said, beside the fire in the swamp? Why, that if she
                        had to utter a certain "word" ardently desired by Mr.
                     Daintrees, she should prefer to utter it "at The Hollies! What had
                     the "glance of her eye" indicated as she rolled away homeward on that night? An
                     unmistakable intention not to say "No!"
                  And ever since that stormy but brilliant moment, Mr. Jack Daintrees had been
                     struggling to secure the desired interview—and incessantly something had
                     occurred to prevent it; Annie's sickness, George's visits, a severe headache under which Mrs. Gaston
                     labored—always something! On this evening, Mr. Daintrees had regarded his
                     success as certain. No one had preceded him; Annie was well; the servant said
                     Mrs. Gaston was quite well; and Mrs. Gaston had sent word that she would be
                     down in a few minutes.
                  And now!—Here was George, and the hated Jobson! Jobson on "business," no doubt!
                        Business at such a moment!
                  When Mrs. Gaston made her appearance in a few minutes, clad in an exquisite
                     evening dress, with a bow of pink ribbon clearly relieved against her pretty
                     neck, a white rose in her braided hair, and a faint smile just dimpling her
                     blushing cheeks, Mr. Jack Daintrees experienced sensations which were too deep
                     for words, and felt a violent desire to fall upon Mr. George Cleave and Mr.
                     Jobson, and put them to death then and there!
                  Mr. Jobson having bowed stiffly and exchanged a few commonplaces on the subject
                     of the weather, said:
                  "I have come as you requested, madam, but rather late, I am afraid. The deed
                     you wish proved a more difficult matter than I supposed. It will require your
                     attention for two or three hours, I fear."
                  Mr. Daintrees nearly groaned aloud. He glanced round. The sun was on the
                     horizon, and its last rays darted through the window. George and Annie had
                     disappeared—with the view of looking at the flowers—and Mr. Daintrees was
                     plainly de trop. With a heavy heart and the
                     most plaintive of expressions, he rose, declaring that as he had simply called
                     to inquire after Mrs. Gaston's ton's health on his way home—which was a fearful
                     falsehood—he would continue his ride, doing himself the pleasure to call
                     again.
                  What thereupon did Mrs. Gaston do? Mrs. Gaston sent Mr. Jack Daintrees away
                     with a bosom expanding with joy. The fair lady rose, gave him her small hand,
                     pressed his own—actually pressed it—blushed, and murmured sotto voce, unheard by Mr. Jobson:
                  "I am sorry that—you can not—stay."
                  A glance accompanied the words which flooded the soul of Mr. Jack Daintrees
                     with happiness unspeakable. He bowed low over the hand, threw an expression of
                     sad and uncomplaining tenderness into his eyes, and went away in triumph.
                  George and Annie were nowhere to be seen.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  HOW HARRINGTON DECLARED THAT HE HAD GROWN TEN YEARS
                     YOUNGER.
                  PRECISELY at midnight George Cleave opened the door of Ralph Harrington's
                     office, and entered, closing the door after him. Harrington was half reclining
                     in an arm-chair, smoking as usual. Through the window streamed a flood of
                     moonlight—the only light in the apartment.
                  "Well, old fellow," said Harrington with an unwonted tremor in his voice, "here
                     you are, and you have had the luck to catch me just as I was going to turn in.
                     Sit down!"
                  Cleave did so, and replied:
                  "Let us leave all sorts of pretences, Ralph, and have no concealments! You know
                     you were waiting for me, and that you are dying to know the result of my
                     interview at The Hollies!"
                  Harrington attempted a short laugh.
                  "What a suspicious fellow you are, my boy! I dying to know how
                     affairs have turned out yonder between you and your sweetheart? What have I to
                     do with it beyond mere friendship for you; the simple desire, certainly a
                     natural one in a friend, to see you well out of this—love snarl?"
                  Cleave looked at his friend, whose face utterly belied his words.
                  "My dear Ralph," he said, "do you think that I am like the persons spoken of in
                     the Scriptures, who have eyes and see not, ears and hear not? You have grown
                     pale and thin; your voice, once so strong and hearty, has lost its old tones. I
                     can see and hear that. But let us leave this subject for the present."
                  "Most willingly. The fact is, George, you are dreaming!"
                  Unfortunately Harrington's face and voice completely justified Cleave's
                     criticisms. The face was agitated and the voice shook a little.
                  "What you allude to, George," he added, "is easily explained. I am overworked,
                     and nothing pulls a man down like loss of rest. The inhabitants of this
                     agreeable neighborhood insist on being taken sick invariably in the night; and
                     I have no sooner turned in, congratulating myself upon at least one night's
                     rest, than a ring comes at my night bell, and there I'm in the saddle for a
                     ride of ten miles, perhaps!"
                  "I thought we had agreed to drop the discussion of that point, my dear
                     Ralph."
                  "True; excuse me."
                  "Let me tell you about my interview with Annie."
                  "Well," said Harrington in a low voice, "let us hear about that."
                  
                  "Everything was explained, arranged, and ended in an hour. I walked out with
                     Annie, and when we were out of sight of the house in the grove, made a clean
                     breast of it, Ralph. I told her that it was perfectly plain that she regretted
                     her engagement; that reflection and observation had convinced me that she had
                     promised to marry me from compassion and pitying tenderness for me in my
                     forlorn condition; and that such a union, on such a basis, would prove
                     miserable to us both—a blunder which could never be righted. As her friend and
                     adopted brother, therefore, I released her from her engagement."
                  "Yes," said Harrington.
                  "Then came the reply, Ralph. I won't repeat Annie's words, words full of
                     affection and uttered in her frank, true, earnest voice. In the most delicate
                     but the plainest manner, she informed me that I had truthfully read her heart;
                     perhaps it would be better to terminate the engagement—was I sure
                     that it would not distress me? She hoped not? She loved me dearly!——then came
                     some tears, and renewed assurances of affection which, as they were simply of
                        sisterly regard, I can allude to, Ralph."
                  "You did not allude then to Marian?" came in the same low voice from
                     Harrington.
                  Cleave colored and tried to laugh.
                  "I did not utter her name. Why say to Annie, 'I am too much attached to some
                     one else to wish my engagement with you to continue?' Her own disinclination
                     was reason enough."
                  "You are right."
                  "I am glad you think so."
                  "So—your engagement with Miss Annie is definitely at an end?"
                  Harrington could not suppress a tremor of the voice, through which broke forth
                     a great and sudden joy.
                  "Completely at an end, and I assure you, Ralph, I feel all the satisfaction of
                     a man who has extricated himself from a false position."
                  "And—Miss Bell?"
                  "I am compelled to say, unflattering as the avowal is to myself, that Annie
                     could not conceal her happiness!"
                  Harrington was silent, but Cleave could hear him drawing long breaths.
                  "There was no sort of doubt about my little sister's
                     satisfaction," added Cleave, "and I assure you she never looked so beautiful,
                     and she is beautiful."
                  "Very beautiful!" muttered Harrington.
                  "And now I have the pleasure of knowing that my visits will not make her run
                     up-stairs to avoid me, I shall always have a charming little friend to tell my
                     troubles to—to go to for consolation. You should try, yourself, to secure such
                     a friend, Ralph."
                  "I!"
                  "Why not? What for instance would be more rational than that you should give
                     Annie the opportunity of brightening two people? You are pining
                     away here for want of female society. Come! ride with me to-morrow to The
                     Hollies."
                  "I!—to The Hollies!"
                  "Why not?"
                  
                  Harrington's face filled with blood.
                  "The family are your excellent good friends. Their smiles will cheer you."
                  A strange agitation passed through the frame of the young physician. Joy was
                     infusing itself like a subtle essence into his life.
                  "I will—I will think of it, George," he said.
                  Cleave, in spite of his own sadness, could not suppress a smile.
                  "You may as well pass your time as agreeably as possible before—you leave
                     Waterford."
                  Harrington turned suddenly and exclaimed:
                  "Why should I be playing a part with you, George? Why am I making a fool of
                     myself? Now that I know your engagement is broken, I can tell you what perhaps
                     you know—that I love the very ground she walks upon! That I have
                     been breaking my heart about her!"
                  "Well—that is now useless, Ralph; and listen!—try if you can't arrange with my
                     little sister to be—my brother-in-law!"
                  Harrington thrilled suddenly.
                  "I don't dare to think of it! Let us speak of your affairs,
                     George. I am going to Bayview to-morrow, and I will tell somebody there all
                     about you. Don't despair! Patience, and shuffle the cards!"
                  Harrington uttered a laugh so young and joyful that it sounded like a
                     boy's.
                  "I believe you have made me ten years younger, old fellow!" he exclaimed.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  ALLAN GARTRELL, ESQ.
                  ON the morning after this interview between Harrington and Cleave Mr. Allan
                     Gartrell came out of his fine mansion of Cleaveland, drew on a handsome pair of
                     riding gauntlets, mounted a superb horse held respectfully by his groom, and
                     set off at a rapid gallop in the direction of Bayview.
                  Allan Gartrell, Esq., was what is called a "fine-looking man," about
                     twenty-eight, with a ruddy countenance indicative of high living, a vigorous
                     person, and English side whiskers, black and curling. Mr. Gartrell might have
                     been called a "fine-looking man," though his appearance was rather rakish, and
                     the only thing that detracted from his personal charms, was an ugly-looking
                     scar upon his right temple. He was clad in the height of the fashion, and had a
                     joyous air which seemed the result of a good conscience and a good digestion.
                     He went on rapidly humming the air of a little French song, and in due time
                     reached Bayview, from which, as Mr. Gartrell entered, issued Dr. Ralph
                     Harrington.
                  Harrington's frequent visits to Bayview had aroused that gossiping report that he was paying his
                     addresses to Marian. His business was much more prosaic. A valued servant had
                     been taken sick, some time before, and as Mr. Ormby had conceived a great
                     dislike to old Dr. Williams, Dr. Harrington had been sent for, and had
                     continued to attend the sick servant.
                  The two men coolly saluted each other with that indefinable reserve which
                     clearly indicates all want of sympathy. Each felt that the other was not to his
                     taste. Harrington did not fancy Mr. Allan Gartrell, and Mr. Allan Gartrell
                     seemed to understand the fact perfectly. They therefore bowed coolly, the
                     physician departed, and the last new-comer entered.
                  Opening the library door with the air of a man entirely at home, Mr. Gartrell
                     found himself face to face with Mr. Jobson, who was sitting with one leg
                     crossed over the other, his spectacles on his nose, a paper in his hand, and
                     engaged in conversation with Mr. Ormby. A single glance at Mr. Ormby was
                     sufficient to show that that gentleman was in an extremely gloomy state of
                     mind. His brow was lowering, his general expression downcast. He rose hastily
                     as Mr. Gartrell came in, and greeted him with some confusion, adding that he
                     would probably find the drawing-room more pleasant—Miss Ormby would—there Mr.
                     Ormby stopped, clearing his throat.
                  Mr. Gartrell bowed and smiled. He was evidently a gentleman of tact.
                  "Don't let me disturb you, my dear sir. I really beg pardon, business is
                     business, and," he added with a light laugh, "I must say, at the expense of
                     politeness, that I would rather see Miss Ormby than even two such worthy
                     gentlemen as yourself and Mr. Jobson, Mr. Ormby!"
                  The old lawyer did not respond to this pleasantry. He looked at Mr. Gartrell
                     out of the upper part of his eyes above his spectacles, and said nothing.
                  The airy Mr. Gartrell did not or would not see the lawyer's cool glance. He
                     sauntered into the parlor, and having summoned a servant, who was directed to
                     inform Miss Ormby of Mr. Gartrell's presence, Mr. Ormby returned to the
                     library, closing the door carefully behind him.
                  "And the decree is now final, decisive, not to be assailed? Good heavens, sir!"
                     said Mr. Ormby, losing all his habitual pomposity.
                  "Entirely," replied Mr. Jobson, "the motion for a new trial has been overruled,
                     and I consider it my duty to say, Mr. Ormby, that an appeal will result in
                     nothing; the slight remnant of your property which the plaintiff in this action
                     is willing to release will go, if you appeal, and that I understand you to say
                     is all you can look to for the support of your family."
                  "The sole means left! and that a mere pittance!"
                  Mr. Ormby sank back in his seat, the picture of despair.
                  "Is there no hope?" he exclaimed.
                  "None, I am truly sorry to say, Mr. Ormby. It is my duty to tell you that there
                     is no means whatever of preventing the sale of Bayview, and your only course is
                     to accept the proposition of Mr. Russell, surrender the property, and take what
                     he offers you. There may be a moderate sum after the payment of the debt, and I
                        would suggest to you the purchase
                     of the small house and grounds near Waterford. You will then have a home, if an
                     humble one."
                  Mr. Ormby covered his face with his hands and groaned. He was at last face to
                     face with ruin. He had heavily encumbered his estate nearly twenty years
                     before, the interest had accumulated from year to year, and his creditor had at
                     last demanded payment, and Bayview must go.
                  Mr. Ormby remained silent for half an hour, during which time Mr. Jobson
                     closely scanned the paper which he held.
                  "There is no hope whatever," the lawyer said at length, "and I had better
                     inform Mr. Russell's counsel that his proposition is accepted."
                  "Wait till to-morrow!" groaned Mr. Ormby; "I will then call and see you. I must
                     reflect. Perhaps—yes, yes!" he added eagerly. "Wait until to-morrow, Mr.
                     Jobson!"
                  And again he murmured the word "perhaps—" looking as he did so toward the
                     drawing-room.
                  Was he thinking of Mr. Gartrell?
                  Mr. Jobson bowed and took his leave. As he disappeared, Mr. Ormby rang for a
                     servant.
                  "Tell Mr. Gartrell that I should be glad to see him before he goes," he
                     said.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                  WHAT MONEY-TROUBLE BRINGS SOME MEN TO.
                  THE interview between Mr. Gartrell and Marian Ormby on this morning was of a
                     painful character—so painful that we shall spare the reader a detailed account
                     of it.
                  For some time now Mr. Gartrell had been the avowed suitor of the young lady.
                     When he made his appearance and took possession of Cleaveland, Mr. Ormby had
                     visited him, invited him to Bayview—and this invitation Mr. Gartrell had
                     promptly accepted. A week afterwards he repeated his visit, expressed himself
                     delighted with the place, the house, the elegance of everything at Bayview—and
                     thereafter his visits became still more frequent, and it was perfectly obvious
                     that these visits were paid to Marian Ormby.
                  The poor girl was pale and thin, but very beautiful; and Mr. Gartrell no doubt
                     concluded that a young lady of such attractions, high position, and worldly
                     advantages as the only child of the wealthy Mr. Ormby would make a most
                     appropriate mistress of the Cleaveland establishment. He, therefore, coolly
                     proposed himself to Mr. Ormby as his
                     future son-in-law, received a response approving of his proposition; then he
                     redoubled his attentions, and on this morning offered himself in an impassioned
                     speech to the young lady.
                  Marian flushed to her temples and promptly refused him. Up to this moment she
                     had struggled against her father's despotic authority in silence; had listened
                     in a sort of dumb despair to his arguments in favor of Mr. Gartrell, and had
                     not flatly refused obedience. Awed and crushed well nigh by this tyrannical
                     will, she had not dared to rebel; but now when the question of actual union
                     with one whom she absolutely disliked was presented to her she discarded every
                     other thought, and gave Mr. Allan Gartrell a "No!" so distinct and unmistakable
                     that he colored with anger.
                  "Well, madam!" he exclaimed, "I see I need say no more! I will, therefore, bid
                     you good morning!"
                  "Good morning, sir," said Marian, rising and slightly inclining her pale
                     face.
                  Mr. Gartrell went out of the drawing-room, and was about to leave the house in
                     a rage, when a servant in the hall gave him the message from Mr. Ormby. He
                     hesitated, a singular expression of cunning came to his face, and he went into
                     the library.
                  An hour afterwards Mr. Allan Gartrell came out of the library, and going to the
                     place where his horse stood mounted and rode away.
                  Then Mr. Ormby, who had been standing at the window of the library looking
                     after him, rang the bell; a servant came and Mr. Ormby said:
                  "Say to Miss Ormby that I wish to see her."
                  Marian promptly came; the door closed, and with the exception of some stifled
                     sobs from the library, no sound for the next hour disturbed the stillness at
                     Bayview.
                  Then the door again opened, the girl came out looking as pale as death and went
                     up-stairs, and Mr. Ormby made 
                        "GOOD MORNING, SIR," SAID MARIAN, RISING.
                      his appearance behind her, red, flurried, gloomy, and indeed the
                     picture of despair.
                  "There was no other course!" he muttered. "No other course!"
                  And taking his stick from its place in the corner, from the force of long habit, he went through the
                     front door, and out upon the lawn, trembling, breathing heavily, and indeed
                     appearing to be about to suffocate.
                  What had taken place in these two interviews? In this world—outside the pages
                     of romances—men are not entirely bad as they are not entirely good. Mr. Ormby
                     was a mixture, and—driven to the wall by his pecuniary troubles—allowed the bad
                     to get the mastery of him for the time. He had learned from Mr. Gartrell the
                     result of the interview with Marian; pooh-poohed the idea of abandoning the
                     affair in consequence of the mere caprice of a girl; assured the suitor that a
                     few words from himself would set matters to rights, and dismissed Mr. Gartrell
                     with the assurance that he might call again in two days, when all the trouble
                     would have disappeared.
                  Mr. Ormby loved his daughter, and believed perhaps that he was acting for her
                     real welfare. Her union with Cleave he regarded as out of the question, her
                     marriage with Gartrell even at the expense of some disinclination as the better
                     course; she would be the mistress of a fine establishment, and not be dragged
                     down with his own falling fortunes. So he sent Mr. Allan Gartrell away with
                     that understanding—not alluding even to his money difficulties, and sending for
                     Marian proceeded to "use his parental authority."
                  Let us pass over this interview as over the first. When Mr. Ormby had
                     demonstrated his good-sense and real affection by urging the marriage with
                     Gartrell, and Marian declared that nothing would ever induce her to take such a
                     step, Mr. Ormby grew angry and insisted. When Marian exclaimed that she could
                     not and would not, Mr. Ormby, more angry than before, threatened her with his
                     parental displeasure. When she still refused, he bade her go and reflect upon
                     his words, and prepare to obey him.
                  Marian had then gone to her room, flushed and trembling, and Mr. Ormby no less
                     flushed and trembling even more had walked out to indulge his wretchedness
                     where no eye could see him.
                  Once in her chamber, the unfortunate young lady sat down, leaned her elbow on
                     the arm of her chair, her forehead in her hand, and remained for more than an
                     hour, gazing with fixed and vacant eyes upon the carpet. What was passing in
                     her mind? No sound escaped from her lips to indicate the current of her secret
                     thoughts, but the laboring bosom as she drew long breaths, the flushed cheeks,
                     and the tearless eyes fixed in that vacant stare seemed to indicate that she
                     was slowly approaching some resolution from which she shrank, but which every
                     instant gathered strength.
                  When at length she rose and looked around her with a vague, yearning, piteous
                     glance, these words issued from her lips:
                  "Nothing else is left me!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXIII.
                  MR. GARTRELL AND HIS FRIEND MR. BROWN.
                  WHEN Mr. Allan Gartrell reached Cleaveland after his return from Bayview, he
                     beheld the portly Mr. Brown slowly promenading upon the great portico in front
                     of the mansion, flourishing his cane, swinging his shoulders, and gazing around
                     him with a smile full of friendly good-humor.
                  Mr. Brown seemed to have found his quarters at Cleaveland agreeable, and not to
                     contemplate an early departure. He had, indeed, the air of a gentleman
                     perfectly satisfied with his surroundings, in no haste to change them and
                     entirely "at home." As he gazed upon the fertile fields extending in front of
                     the great mansion perched upon its lofty hill, and allowed his idle glance to
                     wander to the distant river seen through a vista of the woods, his appearance
                     was that of a wealthy landed proprietor, not ill-pleased at surveying his ample
                     possessions.
                  As soon as Mr. Gartrell's horse's hoofs resounded upon the avenue a groom
                     appeared, and was ready to receive his horse, which the rider abandoned to him,
                     walking rapidly thereafter up the broad, marble steps.
                  Mr. Brown had walked half the length of the portico, and was now between the
                     two middle pillars which rose on each side of the steps. His cane was held
                     perpendicular, the ferule resting upon the porch; his ample waistcoat protruded
                     in front; his head, surmounted by its tall, black, beaver hat, was slightly
                     bent toward one shoulder, and Mr. Brown smiled.
                  "Ah! ah!" said Mr. Brown in a jocose voice. "So here we are, my young friend!
                     We have been riding abroad to see our sweetheart?"
                  "Yes," said Mr. Gartrell, cutting some atoms of dust from his elegant boots
                     with his ivory-handled riding-whip, "and a cursed slow business it has been, my
                     dear Brown!"
                  "Slow, eh?" said Mr. Brown inquiringly.
                  "With the young lady at least," said Mr. Gartrell walking toward the front
                     door. "The fact is, my dear friend, I have been flatly refused—think of
                        my being refused!"
                  "It is incredible!"
                  "But luckily, the paterfamilias intervened—declared that the damsel's views
                     were not his views, that young ladies never knew their own minds—and the affair
                     is where it was before or in a better condition. Mere maiden modesty, you see,
                     on her part."
                  "So you are going to be a married man after all, eh? my dear Gartrell?"
                  "I think so."
                  "You are going to be the happy mate of this handsome damsel—you say she is
                     handsome."
                  
                  "Yes, very."
                  "And the owner of her papa's acres, since he has no other children."
                  Mr. Gartrell knit his brows and was silent for a moment.
                  "I really don't know about that, or at least what the extent of the said acres
                     will be. I had an interview with papa—a lawyer was there when I arrived. Do you
                     know, Brown, the fancy strikes me that the old man is embarrassed."
                  "Embarrassed?"
                  "Yes, and that will never do."
                  Mr. Brown smiled sweetly.
                  "You are right, but perhaps you are mistaken."
                  "It is possible, but come in. This is dry talk, and I'm as thirsty as a fish.
                     Any one called?"
                  "Nobody, my dear Allan; let me call you by your first name! I yearn to do so.
                     My affection for you, my dear Allan! but you will laugh at me. Come, I think
                     you said champagne! 'Tis my favorite beverage."
                  Mr. Gartrell laughed a rather reckless laugh, and led the way into the superb
                     dining-room, where a silent and respectful servant quickly opened a bottle of
                     champagne, and then another, and then another.
                  It was an interesting spectacle to behold Mr. Brown partaking of this liquid.
                     He held out his glass, watched the sparkling beverage flowing into it, raised
                     the glass as the liquid foamed to the brim, said: "Thank you, my friend!" to
                     the servant; and then, having first inspected the color of the wine by holding
                     it up between his eye and the light, permitted it slowly to disappear down his
                     ample throat.
                  "How obliging in your late worthy uncle to provide this charming vintage for
                     his dear nephew, yourself," said Mr. Brown smiling; "excellent man! his taste
                     in wines was irreproachable."
                  "He never thought of me, my dear Brown," said Mr. 
                        "HIS HEALTH!"
                      Gartrell, laughing; "my cousin George was his favorite, as you no
                     doubt know. A good boy, my cousin George! His health!"
                  And Mr. Gartrell emptied his second bottle and grew red in the face. Mr.
                     Brown's countenance was not flushed. That gentleman never changed.
                        Sometimes— after his fourth or
                     fifth bottle—he grew solemn and gave serious advice; he never grew tipsy, which
                     Mr. Gartrell was now becoming.
                  "By the by, Brown," said Mr. Gartrell, "I met Mr. Daintrees, a gentleman of the
                     neighborhood, to-day, and he invited me to dine with him, with some friends,
                     tomorrow."
                  "Ah?" said Mr. Brown.
                  "I accepted, and told him that I had a very dear friend on a visit to my
                     house—I said a very dear friend, Brown!"
                  "Why not? And I am invited?"
                  "You are invited!" said Mr. Gartrell, with imposing solemnity, steadying
                     himself by grasping a corner of the table.
                  "How gratified I feel!" said Mr. Brown, laying his hand upon his waistcoat and
                     smiling.
                  "You ought to be, you know, Brown," said Mr. Gartrell in a voice which had
                     grown a little thick—"for the first time, you are moving in good society,
                     Brown—your origin, Brown, is—excuse me, Brown—your origin, you know, is—low!
                     Anybody can see that."
                  Mr. Brown laughed heartily.
                  "You are right, my dear friend," he said, "and I am only too proud to associate
                     on equal terms with so elegant a young gentleman as yourself."
                  Mr. Gartrell staggered slightly, and suddenly scowling, observed:
                  "Curse you—Brown—you are always laughing at a man!"
                  "Laughing, my dear fellow? Not in the least. Why should I laugh?"
                  "You had better not—I'd punch your old nob, Brown! What do you mean by laughing
                     at me, I say?"
                  And Mr. Allan Gartrell poured out another glass of champagne, which he drained;
                     after which he burst into loud laughter.
                  "Vive la joie! old fellow!" he exclaimed.
                     "What a jolly good thing it is to have you here, Brown! You are my best
                     friend—I love you, Brown; I love you like a brother!"
                  Mr. Brown wiped his eyes with a yellow bandanna handkerchief.
                  "Don't talk so, my dear friend!—you move me to tears!"
                  "Fact! And you—take an interest—I—that is you—jolly good fellows—every one—ha!
                     ha!"
                  After which Mr. Gartrell permitted his head to decline upon the arm of his red
                     velvet chair, and muttering inarticulately slept.
                  Mr. Brown placed his glass upon the table and gazed at Mr. Gartrell for some
                     moments in silence. His expression was singular, and very difficult to
                     describe. He ended by nodding his head slowly about six times, smiling sweetly,
                     and leaving the apartment.
                  As he did so, a servant came into the hall bringing the letter bag. There were
                     but two letters, one for Mr. Gartrell on some neighborhood business—a fact
                     which Mr. Brown ascertained after the departure of the servant, by adroitly
                     opening it without in the least tearing the envelope, and then re-sealing it skilfully—and
                     one to himself. This he read with close attention, as also a paper enclosed in
                     it; after which he drew from his pocket a match-case, lit a match, and
                     carefully burned the letter.
                  "Well, the game is in my own hands now," he said. "Shall I play my trump?"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIV.
                  JACK DAINTREES ENTERTAINS SOME FRIENDS.
                  WHEN Mr. Jack Daintrees invited his friends to a bachelor dinner at The Lodge
                     he prepared for that festivity with the utmost care. On the present occasion
                     his saddle of mutton was superb, his old ham beyond all praise, his fowls
                     puffed out with fat, and his wines and stronger drinks adapted to the most
                     fastidious palates.
                  It was Mr. Daintrees's habit to give about four dinners a year, and to invite
                     every gentleman of the neighborhood. On this occasion, as we have seen, he had
                     included Mr. Gartrell, whom he scarcely knew, and Mr. Gartrell's friend, Mr.
                     Brown. These gentlemen arriving late completed the party, and the convives having duly observed the bad ceremony of
                     drinking toddy on their arrival, sat down to dinner; after which they adjourned
                     to the drawing-room, and lighting cigars, began to play whist.
                  A bowl of punch had been brewed in a huge variegated China affair, an heirloom
                     in the Daintrees family, as was the antique silver ladle used to fill the
                     glasses; and this inspiring liquid
                     soon began to tell upon the tongues and in the faces of the guests. They
                     laughed, uttered an hundred jests, and a gay hubbub ensued, which all at once,
                     however, became stilled—the company gathering around a table in one corner,
                     where Mr. Allan Gartrell and a wealthy young planter of the neighborhood were
                     playing a game of cards to themselves.
                  On the table before them lay a large pile of bank-notes, and the figures "100"
                     on a number of these notes indicated that the players were playing for high
                     stakes. The group around them was striking. The gentlemen of the party, unused
                     to such betting, lost sight of their jests and fixed their eyes intently upon
                     the players. Every face was earnest, and more than one person protested in a
                     low voice at this introduction of so exciting a mode of playing into the quiet
                     assemblage of friends and neighbors. One personage only seemed to be highly
                     amused at the proceeding, and this personage was Mr. Brown. He stood with the
                     thumb of his right hand inserted in the armhole of his ample waistcoat; a quiet
                     smile upon his face; his eyes fixed steadily, without winking, upon Mr.
                     Gartrell; with a slight drawing down of the corners of his lips, which was very
                     striking.
                  Suddenly the young planter threw down his cards, exclaiming:
                  "I'll play no more! You have the devil's own luck, sir!"
                  He rose from the table, turning red and then pale. The amount which he had lost
                     exceeded two thousand dollars, received on that day from the sale of his
                     wheat.
                  Mr. Gartrell quietly thrust the bank-notes into his pocket, rose in his turn,
                     and approaching the speaker, said:
                  "What do you mean by that expression, sir?—that I have played unfairly!"
                  The young planter was about to reply when a solid 
                        'NO OFFENCE IS MEANT BY EITHER GENTLEMAN, I AM SURE."
                      figure interposed between him and his adversary—the figure of Mr.
                     Brown; and that gentleman said quietly:
                  "No offence is meant by either gentleman, I am sure."
                  
                  Half turning to Mr. Gartrell Mr. Brown added with a peculiar shutting down of
                     his eyelids, and a glance, keen, penetrating, and rapid as a flash of
                     lightning,
                  "Am I wrong?"
                  Gartrell could not sustain the glance. His eyes fell and he muttered,
                  "No offence meant!"
                  "Honor is satisfied," Mr. Brown said coolly; "and now, Mr. Gartrell, as it is
                     late, shall we return, sir?"
                  Gartrell looked moody and reluctant; but a second glance from Mr. Brown decided
                     him. He bowed stiffly to the company and went out with his companion,
                     accompanied to the door by the hospitable Mr. Daintrees.
                  No sooner had the two horsemen gotten out of sight of the house than Mr. Brown
                     said:
                  "How much did you win, my dear young friend?"
                  "Two thousand dollars."
                  "The old trick?"
                  Mr. Gartrell was silent a minute.
                  "Well, yes—you are the very devil for keen eyes, Brown?"
                  "That is my reputation, my dear sir; and now I'll trouble you to hand me the
                     roll of notes—a mere loan which, of course, I will repay."
                  "Hand you the notes!"
                  "If agreeable."
                  Mr. Gartrell burst forth into imprecations, in the midst of which Mr. Brown
                     uttered a few quiet words in a very low tone. These words seemed to produce a
                     remarkable effect upon Mr. Gartrell. He ceased to rage, uttered an expiring
                     growl, and drew forth the banknotes, which he handed to his companion.
                  Mr. Brown's proceeding thereupon was not complimentary. He carefully counted
                     the notes and said:
                  "Eighteen hundred—now for the other two!"
                  Mr. Gartrell drew them from his sleeve with a low curse, and they were politely
                     taken by Mr. Brown, who placed the entire amount in his breast-pocket—revealing
                     as he did so the handle of a small revolver.
                  "Well, that is done with, my dear friend," said Mr. Brown; "and now let us
                     talk. I must lecture you a little on your imprudence."
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXV.
                  THE LAWYER AND THE LUMBER-AGENT.
                  WHEN Mr. Brown rose on the following morning, and after an elaborate toilet
                     descended to the breakfast-room, he was the picture of smiling enjoyment, and
                     beamed on all around him with serene good-humor.
                  Not seeing his host, he inquired in a friendly manner of the silent and
                     respectful dining-room servant whether his master had risen, and receiving the
                     information that Mr. Gartrell had breakfasted an hour before, and ridden out to
                     see the manager of his estate, Mr. Brown smiled once more, said, "Well, James,
                     I find I must breakfast by myself," and proceeded to partake of that meal with
                     an excellent appetite.
                  Mr. Brown then rose, and uttering a little sigh of content, strolled forth upon
                     the portico, looking around him with a pleased expression upon the
                     landscape.
                  "My young friend Gartrell has a really admirable property here," soliloquized
                     the worthy Mr. Brown, indulging as he did so in his blandest smile; "how
                     fortunate he is! what a fine thing it is to be born with a silver spoon in
                     one's mouth! I think my young friend must have made his appearance in this
                     world with a roll of bank-notes in his infantile grasp! And that reminds me—I
                     think I have about me something of that description!"
                  Mr. Brown inserted his hand between his ample waistcoat and his shirt, deftly
                     unbuttoned a secret belt which never left him, and drew forth the bank-notes
                     won on the day before by Mr. Gartrell. These he now proceeded to count; after
                     which he quickly restored them to their hiding-place.
                  "All right, as I supposed," he said; "my door was locked as usual during the
                     night, but accidents sometimes happen!"
                  Mr. Brown then went into the hall, put on his tall, black hat, took his large
                     cane, and coming out again proceeded to walk to and fro upon the long portico,
                     with the air of a gentleman enjoying and endeavoring to promote still further a
                     mild digestion. He had gone twice the length of the portico and had turned to
                     continue his promenade, when the sound of hoofs upon the avenue attracted his
                     attention. He looked up, saw a person on horseback, and this person dismounted
                     and came up the steps, saying as he did so, in a stiff and formal voice:
                  "Mr. Brown, I believe?"
                  "At your service, sir," said Mr. Brown with a polite air; "may I ask——?"
                  "My name is Jobson—attorney-at-law from Waterford."
                  "Ah! my dear sir, I am really delighted—have often heard of you—and as a
                     gentleman of the highest character. Walk in, Mr. Jobson."
                  Mr. Brown waved his hand in a cordial way; ushered Mr. Jobson into the drawing-room; and they
                     seated themselves in two easy chairs by the centre-table. Mr. Jobson looked
                     more wiry than usual, and his glance was piercing and suspicious. Mr. Brown on
                     the contrary was all smiles and sweetness—a bland good-humor expanded itself
                     over his full and smiling countenance, and his portly figure, even.
                  "I called to see Mr. Gartrell on business, sir," said Mr. Jobson.
                  "I regret to say that he is temporarily absent," said Mr. Brown.
                  "Humph!" said Mr. Jobson.
                  "But perhaps I might take his place, my dear sir," said Mr. Brown. "The
                     proposal may surprise you, but I am an old and intimate friend of young Mr.
                     Gartrell. I may say I am quite well acquainted with his private affairs, and I
                     think I may add, Mr. Jobson, that he seldom takes any business step, if I am
                     near, without consulting me."
                  Mr. Jobson's glance had not lost its suspicion, but there was a smiling
                     frankness in Mr. Brown's manner which affected him in spite of himself.
                  "Well, sir," he said, "I don't know that what I have to say to Mr. Gartrell is
                     very confidential; and as he is governed so much by your advice, I will proceed
                     to speak of the business that has brought me."
                  "Do so, my dear sir," said Mr. Brown. "I appreciate your confidence."
                  "You are probably aware, sir," continued Mr. Jobson, "of the somewhat
                     extraordinary character of the late Mr. Cleave's will or rather of a codicil
                     subsequently discovered. In his will this estate was left to Mr. Cleave,
                     Junior, his nephew; in the codicil it was made, however, a condition that Mr.
                     Cleave, Junior, should marry a Miss Bell before his twenty-fifth year or
                     surrender the property to another nephew, Mr. Allan Gartrell."
                  "I had heard of the codicil, my dear sir."
                  "Well, sir, there was one defect in it. It was not worth the paper it was
                     written upon, for there were no witnesses to the instrument—it was waste paper;
                     and yet young Mr. Cleave, acting from a mistaken sense of delicacy, surrendered
                     the estate, and is now nearly penniless!"
                  At this statement Mr. Brown lost all his smiles, and looked at the speaker with
                     unaffected astonishment.
                  "Is it possible!" he said.
                  "Yes," said Mr. Jobson, "and Mr. Gartrell takes the estate; supplants Mr.
                     Cleave with a young lady, Miss Ormby, to whom he was engaged to be married;
                     sees his cousin sunk in poverty without a care; and does not give a thought to
                     the fact that Mr. Cleave might have had this codicil set aside by simply moving
                     his finger, in any court in this commonwealth."
                  "Humph! humph! humph!" said Mr. Brown; "I am sorry to say, Mr. Jobson, that
                     this makes out our friend Mr. Gartrell something like—I must say
                     it—a—rascal!"
                  Mr. Jobson rose in his chair, exclaiming:
                  "I honor you, sir! Yes, it was a most discreditable proceeding in Mr.
                     Gartrell—most discreditable—and I
                     have come here to-day, without Mr. Cleave's knowledge or consent, to say to Mr.
                     Gartrell that he is bound in common honesty to release to his cousin a portion
                     of this property—to make some fair compromise; it is not yet too late, I meant
                     to tell him, to file a bill in chancery and open upon this whole question!"
                  Mr. Brown listened in silence. His face was thoughtful, and he slowly scraped
                     his cheek with his fat fingers. Then he shook his head.
                  "Mr. Jobson," he said, "you are an honest man."
                  Mr. Jobson grunted a slight acknowledgment.
                  "Shall I give you some advice?"
                  "What is that, sir?"
                  "Leave this affair—to me."
                  "To you, sir?"
                  "To me. I will have something to say to you on the subject within—let me
                     see—within, say the next ten days."
                  Mr. Jobson looked suspiciously at the speaker, but Mr. Brown's countenance was
                     impenetrable.
                  "Upon one or two points," continued that gentleman, "I should be glad to have
                     some information. Miss Ormby, you say, was engaged to be married to Mr.
                     Cleave—why does she marry Mr. Gartrell?"
                  "Her father is forcing her to do so."
                  "Why?"
                  "Mr. Cleave is poor and Mr. Gartrell is rich."
                  "Ah, yes! what a rascally affair!" said Mr. Brown with great candor; "and I
                     will find Miss Ormby at—that is to say, she resides at her father's?"
                  "Certainly."
                  "There is also another young lady concerned in this whole affair, sir; a Miss
                     Bell, I think it is?"
                  "Yes, the adopted daughter of Mr. Cleave, Senior, whom he wished his nephew to
                     marry."
                  "She is also a resident of this neighborhood?"
                  "She lives at The Hollies, the residence of her cousin, Mrs. Gaston, some miles
                     from this place."
                  "The Hollies, eh? I can find it, I suppose."
                  "You wish to see Miss Bell?"
                  Mr. Brown smiled sweetly and appeared to remember himself.
                  "Not necessarily, my dear sir; not necessarily. I am an old gentleman, you
                     see—quite alone in the world—and I like young faces. Well, I believe this is
                     all. And now, while I think of it, you have probably heard of my errand to this
                     neighborhood; can you inform me, my dear sir, of the price of
                        lumber in this country?"
                  When Mr. Brown uttered the word lumber his face assumed an
                     expression of the highest enjoyment, and his sweet smile gradually expanded
                     into an unmistakable grin. When Mr. Jobson gave him a matter-of-fact reply to
                     his question, he propounded others on the same subject, listened with the same
                     air of enjoyment, and finally uttered a brief, husky but highly expressive
                     laugh.
                  When Mr. Jobson took his leave at length, weary of waiting for Mr. Gartrell,
                     that strange laugh was still in his ears.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXVI.
                  WHAT OCCURRED AT THE HOLLIES ON A SUMMER NIGHT.
                  IT was an exquisite night, and The Hollies was bathed in a flood of moonlight
                     which slept upon the trees weighed down with deep green foliage, on the sward
                     as smooth as an emerald sea, and on the flowers which, grouped in clusters
                     everywhere, seemed to open their fresh leaves and variegated blooms to the
                     sweet and caressing airs of the summer night.
                  The Hollies was, indeed, a picture. The white trellises gleamed in the mellow
                     splendor, the white gravel way around the circle resembled a band of silver,
                     and some rustic seats scattered here and there beneath the great cedars and
                     hollies cast picturesque shadows, reproducing on the grass the outlines of
                     their gnarled and fantastic forms.
                  It was one of those nights, and one of those scenes, too, which seem made for
                     lovers; and some personages who had either reached or were approaching the
                     fairy land of love were enjoying its tranquil splendors.
                  On the portico sat Mrs. Gaston not far from Mr. Jack Daintrees. But—oh!
                     horror!—an excellent lady of the neighborhood with her two charming daughters,
                     respectively ively thirty-four and thirty-eight, had called to spend the
                     evening, and was crazing the unfortunate and tantalized Mr. Daintrees with all
                     the gossip of the day. Mr. Daintrees said nothing. He was engaged in
                     calculating how long this thing could continue—whether there was any
                     possibility of its ceasing before midnight. Long experience told him that there
                     was little or no probability thereof; and with gloomy eyes he gazed most
                     enviously upon a couple seated upon one of the rustic seats, half in moonlight,
                     half in shadow.
                  These two persons were Ralph Harrington and Annie. The young lady was looking
                     at the moon with a coquettish smile upon her lips, and Harrington was leaning
                     his elbow upon the back of the rustic seat. He had his face turned toward her,
                     and the expression of his countenance was as timid as that of a boy approaching
                     his first avowal.
                  In three days this wonder had been accomplished by that ruler of the
                     world—love. Harrington was no longer recognizable. He had been easy, negligent,
                     prone to satirical comment, and rather too self-possessed and "jaunty" to
                     impress you with a very exalted idea of his modesty. He was now as shrinking as
                     a girl—was actually coloring; and Annie was smiling mischievously.
                  "I am glad to see your health and joy have come back! You look so beautiful as
                     you sit now in the moonlight!"
                  It was even more the tone than the words that brought the quick blush to
                     Annie's cheeks.
                  "And you too, sir," she said looking at him for a single gle instant and then back to the moon, "you too
                     look a great deal stronger than you did."
                  "I am happier!"
                  Annie said nothing.
                  "I was not happy, and it made me thin and pale. You do not know it—I hope you
                     never will—but unhappiness causes that."
                  "I know it," Annie said, "but we must not think of past troubles."
                  Harrington looked at her quickly. What lover ever lived who did not fancy that
                     the nothings uttered by the beloved one had a secret meaning?
                  "I have forgotten all about my distress," said Harrington blushing and
                     faltering. "You alone could——"
                  "And I," said Annie laughing, "have no recollection of my wetting or my cough,
                     or anything! I am happy to say that I never felt better than I do now—my
                     appetite is enormous—and Auntie says I am no longer in the least
                     interesting."
                  The reason why Miss Annie gave this prosaic turn to the conversation was that
                     she had not the least intention that Dr. Ralph Harrington should ask her a
                     certain question—which it was perfectly plain to her feminine instinct he
                     intended to ask—in so public a place, and so very soon after his resumption of
                     friendly visits at The Hollies. This young lady had indeed determined to lead
                     the young gentleman a long and weary chase—to tantalize him with doubt—nay, if
                     the fancy seized her, to refuse him—at first.
                  And the gay, the self-possessed, the satirical Dr. Ralph Harrington was like
                     wax in the hands of this little "country girl!" She laughed, looked over her
                     shoulder at him, out of the corner of her eyes, enjoyed exquisitely his blushes
                     and timidity, and when he was rendered desperate and seized her hand, then it
                     was that the young witch proved finally too adroit for her lover.
                  "There is Auntie calling us!" she exclaimed. "The ice-cream! the ice-cream! You
                     don't know how delicious it is! I mixed it myself—it is strawberry! The very
                     last!"
                  Then was beheld the spectacle of a fairy clad in the last fashion, flitting
                     through the moonlight toward the house, followed ruefully by a male figure
                     whose face was very much downcast. The fairy laughed a low laugh of triumph as
                     she disappeared up the steps; her companion blushed, and forgetting that he was
                     the cool, the self-possessed, the superior Dr. Ralph Harrington, looked as
                     awkward as a school-boy!
                  "As I told you, my dear Mrs. Gaston, there is no doubt about the fact that Miss
                     Quigby did encourage old Mr. Welby. Just to think! he is at least
                     sixty years of age, and what Miss Quigby could mean by setting her cap at such
                     an old gentleman, who has grandchildren as old as she is nearly and puts his
                     feet in flannel to drive off the rheumatism whenever it is the least cold, I
                     leave it to you, my dear Mrs. Gaston, to say, and I know you will think with me
                     that——"
                  This was the species of conversation which our friend Mr. Daintrees had been
                     listening to for precisely two hours and three quarters. His mind was slowly
                        giving way. He struggled against
                     the spell in vain. He endeavored to reflect upon other things, and not to
                     listen—useless. He swore internally, and might have done something desperate,
                     when Mrs. Gaston rose, and interrupting the ceaseless flow of words said
                     sweetly to her lady visitor:
                  "May I give you some ice-cream?"
                  The ice-cream had the desired effect. It checked the torrent. There is indeed
                     some occult property in country ice-cream, rich and pervaded by strawberries,
                     which on summer evenings temporarily paralyzes the oral powers of the most
                     talkative. Mrs. Gaston's was served in a great cut glass bowl, towering above a
                     slender stem, and the saucers were covered with flowers in their natural
                     colors, upon which the exquisite substance reposed in conscious loveliness. The
                     lady visitor and her daughters partook of three saucers each, and as they rose
                     thereafter and declared that they must really return home, a sudden gleam of
                     joy darted across the soul of Mr. Jack Daintrees.
                  His opportunity had come, or would come on the departure of these excellent
                     people. Fate at last was propitious. Even Dr. Ralph Harrington would not be in
                     his way. That gentleman had finished his ice-cream; invited Miss Annie to walk
                     with him in the moonlight, received for reply a polite regret that she could
                     not venture out so late just after being sick; and thereupon Dr. Ralph
                     Harrington, sad, but resigned and willing to await a more favorable
                     opportunity, took leave of the company, and rode away toward Waterford.
                  The crowning joy for Mr. Jack Daintrees succeeded. Mrs. Gaston's lady visitors
                     put on their bonnets; assumed, after the fashion of ladies, the air of persons
                     just on the point of departure; remained in that attitude conversing for half
                     an hour precisely; and at last, as the carriage had been waiting for some time,
                     entered upon the final ceremonies of feminine leave-taking. These consisted in
                     kissing Mrs. Gaston and Annie, and in saying they would be "so
                     glad" to see them—they "really must come soon," and then a brief
                     conversation of not more than a quarter of an hour followed as the visitors
                     descended the steps.
                  Never was Mr. Jack Daintrees more delighted than in offering his assistance to
                     the ladies on this occasion. He bowed with the sweetest smiles, gently pushed
                     the somewhat angular elbows of the three ladies as they got into the carriage,
                     closed the door with a sigh of delight, and saw the vehicle roll away with the
                     devoutest thanks.
                  At last! His hour had come! The carriage had rolled around the circle, passed
                     through the tall gateway which closed with a clang, and was heard rattling
                     away. Even Annie seemed to feel that it would be heartless in her to remain
                     down-stairs, and ran by Mrs. Gaston with a wicked smile upon her lips, which
                     brought a rosy blush to the face of the pretty Mrs. Gaston, exclaiming as she
                     did so:
                  "I must go and fix my hair, Auntie! It's tumbled down, and will take me—at
                     least an hour!"
                  Mr. Jack Daintrees could have embraced the speaker out of pure gratitude. But
                     he had no thoughts now for any one but the pretty widow. There she stood in
                        the moonlight with her rosy
                     cheeks, her pouting lips, her little white hand raising to those lips the small
                     lace handkerchief, while with the other hand, on which a diamond sparkled, she
                     rearranged the white rose in her hair.
                  To state that Mr. Daintrees was flooded, well nigh drowned in happiness, as he
                     gazed upon this figure, would be scarcely to express the whole truth. He was
                     the most fortunate of men! Who but must envy his lot? Had not a hundred glances
                     from those eyes informed him that he was not indifferent to their owner? Had
                     not he poured forth his love in the swamp? Had not his angel then glanced
                     sweetly at him, cast down her eyes, and when he besought her to utter but "one
                     word," replied with blushes that she would prefer uttering it "at The Hollies?"
                     What other meaning could she have than this, that the answer would be "yes?" It
                     was with such thoughts passing through his mind that Mr. Jack Daintrees now
                     approached the pretty Mrs. Gaston as she stood in the moonlight watching the
                     gate through which her visitors had just disappeared; and eager, ardent,
                     thrilling with the near approach of the supremely happy moment, stretched out
                     his hand to take the pretty hand of the widow.
                  It would please the writer of this page to leave the figures thus—to
                     discontinue the narrative—and to let fall the veil of convenance before Mr. Daintrees and Mrs. Gaston, leaving the rest
                     to the imagination.
                  But such a proceeding is impossible. Events occurred suddenly which must be
                     recorded. Fate rushed upon Daintrees.
                  Just as he stretched out his hand to take Mrs. Gaston's, cries were heard one
                     or two hundred yards in front of The Hollies, and the alarmed character of the
                     outcries in question was unmistakable.
                  "Oh me!" exclaimed Mrs. Gaston, "something has 
                        CRIES WERE HEARD ONE OR TWO HUNDRED YARDS IN FRONT OF THE
                           HOLLIES.
                      happened! An accident! Perhaps fatal! Do make haste Mr.
                     Daintrees——!"
                  Mr. Daintrees groaned. He was not an unamiable person, but he went somewhat
                     deliberately. In fact he met the
                     three lady visitors walking back toward The Hollies.
                  "Oh! my dear Daintrees! such a terrible accident! My poor
                     nerves!—just to think, and there is Mrs. Gaston running to meet us, and Miss
                     Annie! Oh! my dear Mrs. Gaston! it is a Providence that we were
                     not all killed! The wheel, my dear Mrs. Gaston! the wheel! It suddenly fell to
                     pieces with a crash! Thomas the driver says it was dished! What is
                     'dished?' I only know that we have mercifully escaped death!"
                  Having presented a very slight portion of the excellent lady's observations we
                     proceed to state in one sentence that the front wheel of the carriage had run
                     over a rock and broken to pieces, thereby disabling the vehicle.
                  The result was that the lady visitors were compelled to spend the night at The
                     Hollies—Mrs. Gaston promising to send them home on the next morning in her
                     carriage, if their own was irreparable. To this they consented, and having
                     seated herself comfortably in the drawing-room, the worthy old lady proceeded
                     to narrate once more, with every particular and at extreme length, her fearful
                     accident and providential escape.
                  Mr. Daintrees did not hear this narrative. Uttering a groan which might have
                     melted the heart of his bitterest enemy, he had taken his leave, and was—we are
                     sorry to say—swearing on his way back to The Lodge.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVII.
                  WHAT OCCURRED AT BAYVIEW.
                  ON the day after this scene, at about noon, Mr. Ormby was seated in his
                     library, reading a law-paper. The unfortunate man was the ghost of himself. In
                     a few days he seemed to have grown ten years older, and his appearance no
                     longer indicated, in the remotest degree, that patronizing feeling of
                     superiority which he had formerly indulged upon all occasions.
                  Pecuniary trouble and domestic discord had changed Mr. Ormby. He was sullen,
                     gloomy, gruff, and scowled when people spoke to him. The sale of Bayview seemed
                     unavoidable unless some means could be devised to satisfy, or at least
                     temporarily soften his inexorable creditor. But what means were possible to
                     him? His credit was utterly gone—he could not borrow upon real estate already
                     covered by a lien to the extent of its value—but one resource was left him; the
                     marriage of Marian and Allan Gartrell. If that could be effected, he would be
                     able to gain time. His creditor would indulge him a little longer, if hopes
                     were held out of payment, through the instrumentality of so wealthy a
                     son-in-law. That was the sole and
                     only means—the single barrier between him and utter bankruptcy; he owed it to
                     his family, to his daughter herself—the unhappy man reflected—to effect the
                     match: and Mr. Ormby, who had let the law-paper fall from his grasp, to indulge
                     in this train of gloomy thought, saw all at once through the window the
                     approaching figure of Mr. Allan Gartrell.
                  Mr. Gartrell was met at the door by Mr. Ormby, and conducted into the library,
                     where a prolonged interview took place between them. With a sort of sinking at
                     his heart Mr. Ormby perceived, or thought that he perceived, a decided
                     diminution in Mr. Allan Gartrell's anxiety to consummate the marriage with his
                     daughter. The truth was that Allan Gartrell, Esq., had spent some hours in
                     profound reflection, after hearing certain rumors of Mr. Ormby's pecuniary
                     troubles, and had come to the conclusion that perhaps it would not be so very
                     desirable after all to wed the daughter of a possible bankrupt. This he
                     dissembled, however, simply protesting against the employment of any means of
                     coercing the young lady's action—he could not consent, he said, to force
                     himself upon any family. To which Mr. Ormby responded that his
                     daughter was actuated simply by caprice—there could and would be no real
                     difficulty—and, leaving the matter in that ambiguous condition, Mr. Allan
                     Gartrell bowed and departed.
                  This interview drove the depressed, angry, and nervous Mr. Ormby well-nigh to
                     frenzy. Here was the rich suitor already suspicious and growing cool! He had no
                     doubt heard the rumor of the approaching sale of Bayview. Or if he had not
                     heard it, he would hear it! There was no time to be lost.
                  Thereupon Mr. Ormby rose nervously, jerked down the bell-cord, a servant ran,
                     and a message was sent to Marian that her father wished to see her in the
                     library.
                  Ten minutes afterwards the poor girl, as white as a ghost, and fearfully thin,
                     made her appearance, slowly dragging her steps toward her father. At sight of
                     her pale face his heart bled within him; but nerving himself with the coolness
                     of a ruined and despairing man, he announced his will—that she should prepare
                     to marry Mr. Gartrell in three days from that time.
                  Marian did not reply. She stood looking at the floor, and twisting backward and
                     forward in her thin fingers a paper which she was unconscious of holding—it was
                     a note written her by George Cleave during their engagement. When Mr. Ormby,
                     who had spoken in a low and hoarse, but determined voice, ended what he had to
                     say, reiterating his fixed will and order, Marian raised her eyes, fixed them
                     for a moment upon her father, seemed to understand in a dull sort of way that
                     the interview was over, and without speaking turned and went with the same
                     slow, dragging steps out of the room.
                  As she reached the hall, the sound of steps attracted her attention. She slowly
                     raised her eyes. At the front door stood a portly individual in an ample
                     waistcoat, grasping a stick, and wearing an enormous black hat. This gentleman
                     had been smiling benevolently. At sight of the young lady, with her frightful
                     pallor and her attenuated figure, all these smiles disappeared, and the face of Mr. Brown, for it was that
                     gentleman, grew cold and stern.
                  "Your father, Miss——?"
                  He uttered the words almost unconsciously, and Marian simply moved her thin
                     hand in a mechanical manner 
                        "YOUR FATHER, MISS——?"
                      toward the library. Then she dragged her slow steps up-stairs, and
                     disappeared.
                  Mr. Brown stood perfectly motionless for some moments gazing after her. His
                     expression was singular. It was a mixture of deep pity, indignation, and
                     sternness. All at once he heard a step; Mr. Ormby came out of the library, and
                     with a stiff bow Mr. Brown asked if he had the pleasure of addressing Mr.
                     Ormby.
                  "You have, sir," said Mr. Ormby with a temporary return of his habitual
                     hauteur. "May I ask the occasion of your visit, sir?"
                  "I wish to know if you have any timber upon this estate which you wish to sell
                     standing, and if so, on what terms you will dispose of it," said Mr. Brown,
                     eyeing his companion with a keen and fixed glance.
                  Mr. Ormby cleared his throat and was about to grasp at this offer, to secure
                     ready money. But a moment's reflection told him that the sale of the timber was
                     not practicable. It would alarm his creditor, and hasten harsh measures; in
                     addition to which, the proceeding would not be precisely honest.
                  "I have none for sale, sir," he said stiffly.
                  Mr. Brown bowed as stiffly, and said:
                  "I will then bid you good morning, sir."
                  With which words he went out and mounted his horse.
                  "That man's very look disgusts me!" he said. "To come into these sweet rural
                     scenes, as the poet says, and find such people! Well, I am a little tired of my
                     visit to Virginia. I will bring my business here to an end without loss of
                     time. That poor girl! and they are going to force her into a marriage that she
                     hates! Well! I won't swear; but they count without—John Brown!"
                  Having uttered these words John Brown rode on and disappeared.
                  
                  Marian did not come down to dinner, and only toward night glided into her
                     mother's room. The poor lady, who was completely overawed by her harsh husband,
                     had been unable to afford the girl any consolation or hope; and Marian did not
                     seem to expect any now. She sat down beside her mother on a cricket, leaned her
                     head upon the feeble knees, and drawing her mother's hand to her, placed it on
                     her head, holding it there for some time. During this time her lips moved, and
                     she seemed to be praying. At last she rose, stood for an instant gazing at her
                     mother with inflamed eyes, and then putting her arms around her, kissed her on
                     her lips, her cheeks, and her gray hair, and went slowly back to her chamber,
                     the door of which she closed behind her.
                  On the next morning, the young lady did not come down to breakfast, and Mr.
                     Ormby sent a maid to summon her.
                  The maid came back with a frightened face, and said that Miss Marian was not in
                     her chamber, and her bed had not been slept in.
                  "Not slept in!" cried the unhappy man.
                  "No, sir."
                  "Oh!"
                  And with a deep groan the miserable father let his head fall upon the
                     table.
                  Marian Ormby had indeed fled from her home—whither no one could divine.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVIII.
                  MR. BROWN PRONOUNCES SENTENCE.
                  ALLAN GARTRELL, Esq., after his interview with Mr. Ormby, had ridden toward The
                     Lodge to pay a visit to Mr. Jack Daintrees—one of the few gentlemen of the
                     neighborhood who had invited him to their houses. Not finding Mr. Daintrees at
                     home, Mr. Gartrell experienced a sensation of ennui, and returning to Cleaveland, proceeded to indulge in the
                     amusement of becoming tipsy, through the instrumentality of champagne—a large
                     supply of which he had discovered in the cellars of Mr. Hamilton Cleave.
                  The effort made by Mr. Gartrell to dispel his weariness had eminently
                     succeeded. At the end of his second bottle he became comfortably careless of
                     all human ills—had routed the fiend ennui—laughed, sang, and was ready to quarrel.
                  He had reached this point, and was contemplating in a muddled and hazy manner
                     the propriety of ordering up another bottle, when Mr. Brown, who had ridden
                     back through Waterford to see Mr. Jobson for a few moments, made his
                     appearance. The incident was greeted by Mr. Gartrell with great
                     satisfaction.
                  
                  "Take some champagne, Brown," said Mr. Gartrell in a thick voice; "I want a
                     little talk with you, my good Mr. Brown."
                  The gentleman thus addressed bestowed a penetrating glance upon Mr. Gartrell,
                     smiled according to his wont, and said:
                  "Champagne? With pleasure, my dear Gartrell. And conversation? Nothing could
                     please me better."
                  "Brown," said Mr. Gartrell scowling, "you are a fool."
                  This observation appearing even to the muddled intellect of Mr. Gartrell liable
                     to the criticism of being somewhat irrelevant, he proceeded to explain it by
                     the further statement that Mr. Brown was a "stuck-up puppy."
                  Mr. Brown bestowed upon the speaker a glance which he did not seem to observe—a
                     curious, very curious glance.
                  "A puppy, my dear Mr. Allan Gartrell?—and a fool too? Well, I was never before
                     regarded as a fool precisely; but come! we are talking in a friendly way—why am
                     I a fool?"
                  "You think you are master here!"
                  "Master?"
                  "You put on your cursed familiar airs! I say familiar! And I say I
                     have had enough of it, Brown!"
                  "You are then desirous that my visit should terminate, eh, my dear Mr.
                     Gartrell?"
                  "I am!" said Mr. Gartrell scowling.
                  "Very well," said Mr. Brown benevolently; "but it is not friendly in me to
                     leave you, without asking how you are getting on, my dear Gartrell. Your
                     matrimonial projects, I hope, are in good train. At Bayview, you know—all right
                     there, eh?"
                  "No, sir!" responded Mr. Gartrell with extreme hauteur, "they are
                        not all right. They are all wrong. The old man is trying to
                     hook me."
                  "To hook you?"
                  "I say to hook me! A miserable bankrupt! A penniless adventurer!" said Mr.
                     Gartrell.
                  Mr. Brown serenely sipped his champagne, smiling.
                  "You are unfortunate, my dear Gartrell," he said sweetly; "do you know that I
                     was prepared to lay any amount that you would make a good thing of that? But I
                     fear you are unlucky. Now I will tell you what perhaps you are ignorant of—that
                     I never back unlucky men. In fact, I am like the rest of the world; I am ready
                     to do my part to ruin them."
                  Muddled as was the brain of Mr. Allan Gartrell, he vaguely realized a hidden
                     menace in these words. He had finished his third bottle, however, and had grown
                     pugnacious.
                  "What do you mean by that, Brown?" he said.
                  "A mere jest, my dear friend," said Mr. Brown smiling, but watching his
                     companion keenly.
                  "Because if you mean to insult me, Brown——"
                  Here Mr. Gartrell grasped an empty bottle of champagne, and expressed his
                     feelings further by a volley of the most shocking expressions.
                  "Come, come, my dear sir," said Mr. Brown, laughing, but continuing to watch
                     his companion; "what is the use of
                     all this? Are we not the closest, dearest friends. Take care, my dear Mr.
                     Gartrell—let me assist you—you are, I fear, a little overcome by this excellent
                     beverage. Ah! here is James. James, Mr. Gartrell is a little unwell. Perhaps it
                     would be as well to assist him to a sofa in the drawing-room. These little
                     attacks are soon slept off."
                  And rising, with his sweetest smile upon his lips, while the grinning James
                     supported his staggering master to a sofa, Mr. Brown went out, put on his hat,
                     and walking up and down the portico, reflected deeply. At the end of an hour he
                     stopped, smiled slightly, and said:
                  "I am tired at last of trifling with this gentleman. His hour has come!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIX.
                  SKIRMISHING AT THE HOLLIES.
                  THAT nest of doves, The Hollies, on the night of this same day was a scene of
                     fairy enchantment—of moonlight, variegated lanterns, white muslin, jewels, rosy
                     cheeks, and sparkling eyes.
                  Pretty Mrs. Gaston was giving her annual party. The fair widow was an enormous
                     favourite with the young ladies of the neighborhood. It seemed the most natural
                     thing in the world to them to encircle her waist with their arms whenever they
                     were in her presence, and for some weeks before this graceful proceeding on the
                     part of the blooming young maidens had been followed regularly by the
                     exclamation, "Oh! Mrs. Gaston!—do give a party!—You
                     know you said you would!"
                  Kisses, bright glances, caressing words, and laughter succeeded; all attempts
                     to extricate herself from the fondly encircling arms were resisted, for the
                     very school girls tyrannized over pretty Mrs. Gaston; the victim could only
                     laugh, blush, declare that they were plagues; after which the evening for the
                     party was duly fixed, as the teazing maidens knew it would be.
                  When Annie was informed of her intention by Mrs. Gaston, the young lady glowed with joy, and,
                     forgetting all the dignity of eighteen, proceeded to clap her hands. Then she
                     rushed upon Mrs. Gaston, seized that lady in her arms, and having kissed her
                     rapturously declared that of all the little aunties that anybody had ever
                     possessed this small auntie was the paragon—the flower of flowers.
                  "Because you are to have a dance, you little witch!" said Mrs. Gaston; "did
                     anybody ever see such sly, interested creatures as you girls are!"
                  "Oh!" exclaimed Miss Annie, "Grandma is talking so demurely!
                        Girls!—I'd like to know if there is anybody younger than my
                     small auntie, in her feelings—and her face too!"
                  "Go away, you flatterer, I am an old woman and will never be able to keep you
                     young things in order. But what in the world are we to do for music? The piano
                     will not do."
                  This obstacle was promptly met. There was an excellent fiddle in the
                     neighborhood, and if he disappointed them, Mr. Daintrees, who was famous for
                     his skill as a performer on the violin, would play for them.
                  "Mr.—Daintrees?" said Mrs. Gaston, coloring a little, "but perhaps it would not
                     be agreeable to Mr. Daintrees."
                  Annie looked at pretty Mrs. Gaston, who at the moment was carefully polishing a
                     silver sugar-dish with a tea-cloth, after breakfast; and a mischievous smile
                     was seen upon the maiden's lips—heralding the approaching shaft.
                  "Not agreeable to Mr. Daintrees?" said Miss Annie, "I will make sure of that
                     gentleman, and warrant that it will be agreeable."
                  "You?"
                  "With one word."
                  "What do you mean, my dear?"
                  "I will tell Mr.—that is to say my future Uncle Jack——"
                  "Annie!"
                  "That—my little auntie requests him to play for us! Oh! how you
                     are blushing!"
                  And in the midst of declarations from Mrs. Gaston that she was "a goose," and
                     the "absurdest creature," Miss Annie made the breakfast-room ring with
                     laughter.
                  "You shall tell Mr. Daintrees nothing of the sort," said the lady with her
                     little timid smile; "and now as we have done washing up let us go and make a
                     list of persons to be invited."
                  It was quite a pretty group—the fair lady of thirty-five and the maiden of
                     eighteen bending down, with their handsome heads close together, over the sheet
                     upon which name after name was written. They had nearly exhausted the
                     neighborhood, when Mrs. Gaston said:
                  "Just to think! We have forgotten Dr. Harrington!"
                  Pretty Mrs. Gaston had her revenge, at last. Miss Annie Bell suddenly
                     colored.
                  "Pshaw!" she said, "of course he will come."
                  "Without an invitation? Fie! my dear, you must have a very bad opinion of Dr.
                     Harrington's manners. And now, as I have alluded to the subject"—Mrs. Gaston
                     paused an instant, assumed an innocent expression sion, and glanced with a slight smile at
                     Annie—"I think I have observed my dear, that—you have a positive antipathy to
                     Dr. Ralph Harrington!"
                  The fair lady had taken her revenge. The shaft went home, and the laughing Miss
                     Annie Bell betrayed unmistakable confusion. This was quickly succeeded,
                     however, by a burst of laughter, and the young lady exclaimed:
                  "You are right, Auntie! I can't bear your conceited friend! He is really
                     overpowering with his lofty airs—and you may invite him or not just as you
                     please. I assure you I don't care."
                  With a toss of her head the young lady added:
                  "If he comes to-day I will tell him so."
                  Mrs. Gaston raised her hand and pointed through the window.
                  "There he is, my dear, and you will have an excellent opportunity."
                  In fact, Dr. Harrington was riding in on his return from a professional visit.
                     Annie tried to break away from Mrs. Gaston, who mischievously held her
                     fast.
                  "Where are you going?—then you will not see him?" she said.
                  Miss Annie struggled.
                  "Let me go, Auntie!"
                  "Where are you going?"
                  "Can you ask!—going? I am going up-stairs to fix my hair, and to change this
                     horrid old thing I have on!"
                  The horrid old thing was a morning wrapper, and having changed it, the maiden
                     descended the stairs with a prim and demure air, humming a little song,
                     unconsciously as it were, to express polite surprise at the presence of the
                     visitor. Her polite air continued as she conversed—with every door wide open—on
                     the subject of the weather, appealing repeatedly to Mrs. Gaston, and thus
                     keeping that lady in the room. When Dr. Ralph Harrington suggested a walk in
                     the grounds, Miss Bell declined; when he made speeches indicative of a desire
                     to direct the conversation in another channel, Miss Bell "snubbed" him; and
                     when at last he departed, his face indicated anything but pleasure.
                  Miss Annie Bell's proceeding thereupon was singular. She concealed herself
                     behind the lace curtain of the drawing-room, peeped at the gentleman as he
                     walked around the circle and mounted his horse; continued to watch him with the
                     closest attention until he passed through the gate; and when he disappeared
                     this incomprehensible young lady burst into laughter—after which she sighed.
                     She then ran to the piano, and began to play a waltz, in the midst of which
                     Mrs. Gaston came in, and said:
                  "Well, my dear, did you have a pleasant visit from Dr. Harrington? I hope he
                     made himself agreeable?"
                  "Agreeable!" exclaimed Annie turning round on the piano stool; "he made himself
                     just as stupid!—Oh, Auntie, how stupid!"
                  "I hope you invited him to the party?"
                  "Y—e—s," said Miss Annie in a hesitating voice; "You know, Auntie, common
                     politeness required me to do that!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXX.
                  A GENERAL ENGAGEMENT.
                  THE Hollies on the evening of the party was, as we have said, a scene of
                     positive enchantment. As the moon did not rise until nearly midnight, Mrs.
                     Gaston had procured a number of variegated paper lanterns, which were suspended
                     from the drooping boughs of the cedars, among the burnished leaves of The
                     Hollies, and even high up amid the delicate leaflets of a willow beneath which
                     a rustic seat, conveniently in shadow, afforded a refuge for lovers seeking
                     privacy for their romantic interviews.
                  Seen by the mild and subdued light of the variegated lanterns, The Hollies was
                     a picture. The outlines of foliage were clear cut against the stars; the white
                     trellises gleamed; the nooks beneath the trees, where couples occupied seats,
                     were full of quiet laughter; the green circle glimmered; along the veranda
                     flowed to and fro a stream of promenaders, to hasten in when the notes of the
                     violin announced the "next set;" and all about The Hollies laughed and
                     sparkled, catching as they fled the joyous splendor of the hours.
                  The headlong violin rushed onward in a maze of cotillons, waltzes, polkas, and
                     galops, until supper was served, when the gay young people proceeded to the
                     apartment where Mrs. Gaston had exhausted her skill—quite famous in the
                     neighborhood—on her entertainment; and then, this agreeable ceremony being
                     over, the dancing recommenced; the honest old country house was full of a mirth
                     and laughter greater than before. And suddenly the full-orbed moon was rolled
                     into the sky, like a golden shield above the dreamy fringes of the trees.
                  From the house, the grounds, and the landscape let us pass now to a figure or
                     two and a scene which took place on this evening. The grace and beauty of a
                     neighborhood quite famous for such, had assembled at The Hollies on this
                     evening; but it may be fairly questioned whether any of the little beauties
                     were more beautiful than Annie—it might well nigh be added—than pretty Mrs.
                     Gaston.
                  How shall we describe the fair widow as she appeared on this evening? She was a
                     rose in full bloom, with all the freshness of the morning dew upon it! She wore
                     a dress of lilac silk and a little modest lace collar which was not whiter than
                     her neck. In her hair was a white rose, and red roses were in her cheeks—for
                     that habit of blushing which she indulged in the privacy of her family was all
                     the more observable now, when she was called upon to occupy the prominent
                     position of hostess. It was astonishing how popular that little blush made Mrs.
                     Gaston, and pleasant to see how the very little girls just "coming out" flocked
                     to her, and figuratively took her under their protection! They gathered about
                     her whenever she appeared—kissed her upon the least or upon no provocation; even the young gentlemen with
                     budding mustaches teased her to dance with them, and she was compelled to
                     hasten away, as the only means of resisting their solicitations.
                  It was doubtless with the view of extricating pretty Mrs. Gaston from these
                     annoyances that, during a cotillon which drew into its merry mazes nearly all
                     the company, Mr. Jack Daintrees gallantly arranged a light scarf around the
                     lady's shoulders, issued forth with her upon the veranda, and after a few
                     moments spent in persuasive reasoning, induced his fair companion to descend to
                     the sward, in order to enjoy the beauty of the full-orbed moon.
                  And Annie—what shall be said of Annie? Having nearly grown enthusiastic in that
                     previous portraiture, we fear we shall become absurd if we dwell long upon the
                     appearance of the little beauty of The Hollies. She was like a vision of youth
                     and joy. Her pure oval face was brushed by a few curls; her eyes sparkled with
                     supreme enjoyment; she wore a white muslin dress, over which fell a cloud of
                     what we believe is styled "illusion," looped up with pink rosebuds;—a little
                        bouquet du corsage—and from the falling
                     sleeves of her dress emerged two round white arms on which shone a pair of gold
                     bracelets.
                  The cotillon ended, and the couples scattered themselves over the lawn—leaving
                     only a few inveterate dancers to the headlong enjoyment of the galop. For some
                     time the young ladies who had gone out to the lawn with their partners were
                     seen strolling to and fro in the moonlight; then the couples disappeared one by
                     one; then the murmur of voices, mingled with "fairy laughter," was heard from
                     the rustic seats beneath the shadows of the trees—and the genius of flirtation
                     spread his wings above The Hollies.
                  At the risk of incurring the proverbial fate of eavesdroppers, let us listen to
                     what one of these couples are saying, on a gnarled and fantastic seat beneath
                     the drooping foliage of a great ash, which rises from some mossy rocks nearly
                     at the extremity of the grounds.
                  The speaker at the moment is a man, and his voice is firm and earnest. Not a
                     tremor interrupts the grave, strong accents, which are deep and low—his voice
                     is of that sort which comes from and speaks to the heart.
                  "I have told you everything, now, Annie, and you know me as well as I know
                     myself. I have intended to tell you this for a long time, but thought—why
                     should I? It is only to the woman a man loves that he can say such
                     things—and—and—why use any ceremony now? You know how dearly—how deeply—I love
                     you."
                  An inarticulate murmur, so faint that it might have been taken for the whisper
                     of the summer wind in the ash overhead, came from the listener—a young girl
                     with her head drooping, and her white hands opening and closing a little
                     variegated fan upon which her eyes were fixed.
                  "Every man's life comes to this at last," the speaker went on in a voice
                     growing deeper and more earnest as he spoke. "He may laugh, jest, make his
                     satirical comments on women, and amuse himself at their expense. Then, some day, he finds that he loves some one
                     with his whole heart and soul; and forgets his laughter, and—if he loves her as
                     he should—speaks to her as I have spoken to you!"
                  The earnest voice seemed to draw, against her own will as it were, the eyes of
                     the young lady to her companion's face. She raised her eyes, and for a single
                     instant they were fixed upon his own—her cheeks full of blushes, her bosom
                     heaving—then they fell again.
                  "I have concealed nothing," he went on. "I have told you my life—that I am only
                     a poor gentleman, but at least a gentleman, and I hope a Christian. I claim no
                     merit for that—to be indifferent, even, in such things has been from my very
                     childhood monstrous in my eyes. To live in this beautiful world, surrounded by
                     so many marvels—to have the love of a mother—of friends—to see the moon rise,
                     and the grass and flowers grow, and live through all like a dumb animal—that at
                     least I could not do! and in my hard life—it has been a hard one sometimes—I
                     can say, and I would say it to you only, that I have never
                     forgotten the prayers I learned with my head on my mother's knees."
                  He stopped for a single instant and then went on:
                  "I have said enough of this—far more than I intended to say. But I am loyal—I
                     say that proudly. I dare not conceal anything, and have opened my whole heart
                     to you. The rest you know. You know how we met first—how I tried and succeeded
                     in making George offer you his hand—how I found then that I loved you, and you
                     need not be told that the result was utter misery to me. I resolved not to come
                     near you, and the most wretched hour of my life was that visit to you when you
                     were unwell, and I was called upon to take in my own the hand—that belonged to
                     George Cleave. The rest followed—your engagement ended—I had the right to love
                     you then—I had not the right before, and I loved you, I love you, Annie, with
                     all the strength of my being! I am not a boy—I am a man, and a hard one, in
                     some things. I will conceal nothing from you—refuse me and I will not go and
                     drown my misery in drink, or coarse company, or give up my career. I will work,
                     and work harder than I ever did. I defy misery to crush me—it can not crush
                     Ralph Harrington!"
                  The head of the speaker rose with something proud and resolute in the very
                     poise of it. A moment afterwards it dropped.
                  "I am talking absurdly," he murmured; "it is because my thoughts rise to my
                     lips, and I mean to show you my very heart! I am blundering on all about what I
                     will do if you refuse me—but do not refuse me, Annie! I was only boasting,
                     perhaps—I think I should die without you!"
                  Two hands which were near each other seemed to approach, unconsciously, and
                     were clasped together. A little head with brown ringlets rose slowly, and a
                     pair of moist eyes were fixed with a long, earnest, trusting gaze upon his
                     own.
                  The lips of the beautiful girl uttered not the slightest sound; but in that
                     long, earnest look was written without room for doubt—"surrender."
                  
                  Suddenly the headlong violin within. The Hollies struck up a reel—the merriest
                     of all the reels since time began—and the whole moonlit lawn was quickly alive
                     with figures hastening in to take their places. The prying moon had witnessed a
                     number of romantic scenes—what it lingered upon now, the last of all, was the
                     spectacle 
                        THE PRYING MOON—WHAT IT LINGERED UPON NOW.
                      of a girl clasped in her lover's arms, her lips pressed to his own in
                     a long, lingering kiss.
                  "Only another moment, Annie!"
                  "I must go now—Ralph!"
                  And Miss Annie Bell, with cheeks the color of the red rose at her corsage,
                     flitted away, her little satin slippers gleaming in the moonlight.
                  "Mrs. Gaston! where is Mrs. Gaston!" cried a youthful gentleman, rushing forth
                     from the veranda. "She's engaged to dance the reel with me! Oh—h—h—! Mrs.
                     Gaston!"
                  What spectacle was it that then greeted the bright eyes of youths and maidens
                     whose attention had been attracted by the youthful gentleman's outcries? We
                     said that the moon had seen the last of the romantic couples, but were quite
                     mistaken. From a clump of shrubs, beyond which stood a rustic chair under a
                     holly, suddenly appeared—the pretty Mrs. Gaston and Mr. Jack Daintrees! The
                     former was blushing as she had perhaps never blushed before; the latter walked
                     with his head erect and triumphant. In fact we can only describe the demeanor
                     of Mr. Daintrees by saying that he resembled a warrior returning from a
                     successful campaign, in front of whom the bands are playing, "See the
                     conquering hero comes!"
                  How pretty Mrs. Gaston got through the reel that night was a mystery to
                     herself, and she never remembered anything about it afterwards. Fortunately her
                     habit of blushing served to explain the permanent roses in her cheeks, or the
                     rapid motion was credited with the phenomenon. Certain it is that everybody
                     admired Mrs. Gaston and Annie, as they went together from end to end of the
                     reel; and the hearts of Jack Daintrees and Ralph Harrington beat time to the
                     music.
                  For the "skirmishing at The Hollies" had been succeeded by "a general
                     engagement"—and an unconditional surrender.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXI.
                  THE CYPRESS LEAF—AND THE SUNSHINE.
                  IT was three o'clock in the morning and the revellers had begun to
                     disperse.
                  On the high road near The Hollies the moon was pouring its solemn splendor.
                  No sound was heard but the low sigh of the night wind in some shrubbery
                     skirting the road; but all at once a human sigh was mingled with the
                     inarticulate murmur of the foliage; and this low, piteous sigh issued from the
                     lips of a crouching figure, lost like a shadow in the shadow of the shrubs, and
                     shrinking lower as the guests went by in carriages or on horseback toward their
                     homes.
                  The shadow in the shadow scarcely moved. It was crouching, shrinking,
                     shuddering, and seemed about to faint and fall.
                  It had glided out of Bayview, and an hour past midnight, scarcely knowing in
                     what direction it went; tottered with weak steps across fields and through
                     forest paths, with the vague thought of going somewhere where—anywhere; and
                     going on and on, with the same faint, feeble, tottering steps, had sunk down
                     weak and powerless at the very gateway almost of The Hollies.
                  An hour afterwards Marian Ormby was in bed at The Hollies, with Mrs. Gaston and
                     Annie seated by her, holding her poor hands and weeping.
                  Ralph Harrington was standing at the foot of the bed, looking gravely at her.
                     It was he who had discovered the poor girl as he passed, the last guest of all,
                     on his way back to Waterford. Hearing a low sob in the shrubbery beside the
                     road, he had dismounted, gone to the spot, found Marian stretched nearly
                     lifeless on the ground, and had hurriedly questioned her, demanding an
                     explanation of her presence there. In a faint and broken voice she had tried to
                     give him this explanation. She was going—she meant to go—her aunt lived only a
                     few miles—then the poor girl burst into tears and hid her face in her
                     hands.
                  Ralph Harrington had no difficulty in understanding the whole mystery. Marian
                     had left her father's home to take refuge at her aunt's—had sunk down on the
                     way; a hot fever had seized upon her, he saw, and with gentle force he bore her
                     into The Hollies, just as Annie and Mrs. Gaston were extinguishing the
                     lights.
                  It was the cypress leaf that mingles fatally with the orange flowers of
                     life.
                  At daylight a note was dispatched to Mr. Ormby; and this note reached him an
                     hour after his discovery of his daughter's flight. Mounting his horse he rode
                     at full speed to The Hollies; and, without waiting to be announced nounced, abandoning all ceremony,
                     driven by the one passionate thought that his child was there, the unhappy
                     father, with his pride all broken in his breast, hastened up the staircase,
                     opened the door, beyond which he heard voices, and an instant afterwards was
                     holding Marian in his arms, kissing and fondling her with sobs and tears, and
                     promises to love and cherish her always if she would only live and love him. So
                     mighty is the father's heart under all the sordid trappings of a worldly
                     philosophy!
                  Mrs. Gaston had truly informed Mr. Ormby in her note that Marian had a very
                     dangerous attack of fever; and as the day wore on the fever gathered strength.
                     When night came the poor girl was delirious, and talked incessantly of George
                     Cleave, of her father, and of some one whose name she did not pronounce—from
                     actual disgust it seemed—who could have been none other than Mr. Gartrell. Then
                     her mind wandered to her night walk—to the scene on the highway—and so the sick
                     girl muttered on and on, watched by her friends, but more than all by Mr. and
                     Mrs. Ormby, whose very hearts seemed breaking.
                  Harrington had ridden to Waterford in the forenoon and returned to The Hollies
                     with Dr. Williams and—George.
                  The young man was quite pale and still. He sat on the veranda, his eyes fixed
                     upon the lawn, the scene so short a time before of mirth and laughter; and this
                     gaze was so immovable and apathetic that it was plain the youth was nearly
                     stunned. From time to time, as Harrington descended to mix some medicine, he
                     turned his head and fixed his eyes upon his friend's face.
                  "A fever, George—from exposure and agitation. Bad, to be frank with you—but not
                     serious—yet."
                  Harrington would then go up-stairs again; and so the day, then the night, then
                     the next day, and the next night passed, George Cleave remaining almost all his
                     waking hours upon the veranda listening. He had taken up his abode at The
                     Hollies, by Mrs. Gaston's request. He waited for the decision which he felt
                     would be life or death to his heart.
                  This decision came on the night of the third day. Marian fell asleep at dusk;
                     and Harrington sat watching her with a fixed, immovable gaze which indicated
                     plainly his profound anxiety. An hour passed, then another; there was still no
                     change, and the young physician grew more and more anxious, his gaze more fixed
                     and intense. At last he drew a long breath of relief. An almost imperceptible
                     alteration had taken place in the appearance of the sleeper. The hot blood in
                     her cheeks seemed slowly to retire; her pulse, when he lightly laid his finger
                     upon it, throbbed less violently, and toward midnight a slight, pearly moisture
                     diffused itself over the white forehead.
                  The crisis of the fever was passed. Harrington announced the fact to her
                     father, who had scarcely left her day or night.
                  "All depends now upon moral influences," added Harrington. "I have informed
                     you, Mr. Ormby, that the real origin of this attack was obviously mental
                        distress. If you are aware of the
                     cause of that distress, I advise you to remove it."
                  Mr. Ormby moved his head slowly up and down. As he did so, Marian opened her
                     eyes, and when her father came to her, she placed her arms around his neck,
                     smiled faintly, and kissed him.
                  He laid the thin cheek against his own, his eyes filled with tears, and he
                     whispered:
                  "Shall I go and tell—George—that your father and mother consent to—your
                     marriage with him?"
                  The sunshine in the poor girl's eyes rendered any reply unnecessary.
                  "I will go tell him now—this very moment. I am not so bad a father as you
                     think, my dear, my own Marian!"
                  And ten minutes afterwards George Cleave knew two things—that Marian would
                     recover, and that she would be his wife.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXII.
                  MR. BROWN DEPARTS.
                  WHEN Mr. Allan Gartrell woke after the slight attack of drowsiness consequent
                     upon drinking that moderate supply of champagne—only three bottles—which we
                     have alluded to, he stretched himself, yawned, experienced a slight headache,
                     and what was equally disagreeable, a vague, uneasy consciousness that he had
                     done something excessively imprudent.
                  What was this imprudence? Oh yes!—and Mr. Gartrell turned a little pale. He had
                     insulted his friend Mr. Brown; insulted him; had characterized him as a
                     "puppy," and, unless his memory was treacherous, had hurled, or been about to
                     hurl a bottle at his head!
                  The remembrance of this scene caused a slight perspiration to gather upon Mr.
                     Gartrell's forehead. It was plain that he had offered a gross indignity to his
                     dear friend, and having swallowed nearly half a tumbler of brandy to fortify
                     his shattered nerves, Mr. Gartrell rang the bell, to send for Mr. Brown and
                     apologize.
                  
                  "Tell Mr. Brown I will be glad to see him for a few moments," he said to the
                     servant, "and mind, you rascal! be polite! Mr. Brown is one of my best
                     friends!"
                  The servant did not go, whereupon Mr. Gartrell burst into vituperative epithets
                     demanding why he stood there like a calf.
                  "Mr. Brown is gone away, sir. He left a letter on the mantel-piece."
                  "Gone away!"
                  "He had the light carriage hitched up, and Joe drove him to Waterford, sir.
                     Afterwards, in the evening, Joe drove him, he says, to the railroad, and he
                     went away on the cars."
                  Mr. Gartrell seized the letter, forgetting in his agitation to utter a single
                     oath. It ran as follows:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "AMIABLE MR. ALLAN GARTRELL: Your unappreciated friend, Mr. John
                                 Brown, presents his compliments, and begs to state that not finding
                                 a longer stay at your hospitable mansion agreeable to his feelings,
                                 he has reluctantly concluded to tear himself away.
                              "You will readily conceive that under the peculiar
                                    circumstances, he, your friend Brown, would not have come
                                 to this determination without good reasons. But insults have been
                                 uttered, taunts employed, intimations made, that a further sojourn
                                 on the part of Mr. Brown at the residence of Mr. Gartrell would be
                                 unwelcome to the proprietor of the establishment.
                              "So for the present Mr. Brown defers the further prosecution of the
                                 business which brought him to this country—the purchase, that is to
                                 say, of lumber for sale in the New York market. Whether Mr. Brown
                                 will be able so far to command his feelings as to forget the
                                 unpleasant scene above obscurely alluded to, and return to the
                                 mansion of Mr. Gartrell, the future will determine.
                              "At present, with a heart deeply wounded, feelings lacerated, and a
                                 melancholy which causes his tears to flow, he presents his respects
                                 to Mr. Gartrell, and subscribes himself Mr. Gartrell's
                              
                                 "Most obedient humble servant,
                                 "JOHN BROWN."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Mr. Allan Gartrell perused this note with an expression of unmistakable terror.
                     Having read it slowly through once, he went back and read it through again;
                     studying it, as it were, sentence by sentence and word by word.
                  If an opinion could be formed from the appearance of Mr. Gartrell's
                     countenance, his effort to discover what he sought was unsuccessful. He sat
                     there for a long time, gazing stupidly at the paper, knitting his brows, and
                     looking extremely gloomy.
                  At last he started up, and uttered a violent oath.
                  "Curse him! let him go!" he growled. "Let him try—! I defy him to——"
                  He stopped, muttering. Then he went and poured out some more brandy.
                  "What a devil of a man that Brown is!" he said with a reckless laugh; "and
                     decidedly I think I will miss the old muff!"
                  
                  
                  On the morning after this scene, as Mr. Gartrell was drinking brandy as usual,
                     a step was heard upon the portico, a knock resounded, and a moment afterwards
                     the attentive James announced Mr. Jobson, who came into the apartment.
                  At sight of the lawyer Mr. Gartrell assumed a stiff and formal air.
                  "You wish to see me—Mr. Jobson, from Waterford, I think?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Your business, sir?"
                  Mr. Jobson had not been invited to sit down, but he now proceeded to do so,
                     looking at Mr. Gartrell over his spectacles.
                  "I called to see you once before, sir," he said quietly, "but did not find you
                     at home. My business is to have a few words on the subject of the codicil to
                     the late Mr. Cleave's will, which I beg to inform you, before going further,
                     was not worth the paper it was written on, as it was not witnessed."
                  Thereupon Mr. Jobson proceeded, with great coolness, to business; spoke of the
                     extreme hardship of not releasing to George Cleave, after his magnanimous
                     surrender of the estate, any portion of it; and ended by urging upon Mr.
                     Gartrell, as a course dictated by common propriety, some provision for his
                     cousin.
                  Mr. Jobson had visited Mr. Allan Gartrell at an unfortunate moment—which does
                     not, however, involve the statement that under any circumstances his course
                     would have been other than that which he now pursued.
                  "Curse my cousin!" said Mr. Gartrell, scowling; "what the devil have I to do
                     with him? My uncle left me this property if that marriage did not take
                     place—with Miss Bell; well, has he married her?"
                  "You know the circumstances, Mr. Gartrell——"
                  "Curse the circumstances!" interrupted Mr. Allan Gartrell, becoming angry; "are
                     you sent here by Cleave to do his begging?"
                  "I am not, sir," said Mr. Jobson with unalterable sang froid, bestowing a
                     curious glance upon the speaker over his spectacles. There was something so
                     singular in this look that even Mr. Gartrell noticed it. It might almost have
                     been said that Mr. Jobson was doing what he never did—smiling.
                  "What brought you, then, old parchment-face?" said Mr. Gartrell with a sudden
                     access of humor, due to the brandy; "any money in the affair, do you
                     think—eh?"
                  "I expect none, sir."
                  "Come! speak out, old black-gown! Say half; will that do?"
                  Mr. Gartrell burst into sudden laughter, adding:
                  "Well, I see we can't come to an understanding. Have some brandy, Jobson?"
                  Mr. Jobson politely declined and rose.
                  "Mr. Gartrell," he said quietly, with the former ghost of a smile upon his thin
                     lips, "I do not often throw away my time, but I have deliberately done so
                     to-day, I see. I will not further trouble you on this business this morning. Is
                     Mr. Brown here? A most worthy gentleman—your friend Mr. Brown!"
                  
                  And with the air of a personage who has perpetrated an excellent jest, Mr.
                     Jobson put on his hat and took his departure. For some moments Mr. Gartrell
                     looked after him in silence. Then he muttered with an uneasy air:
                  "Brown? Does he know Brown? Is there something under all this? That old
                     wooden-head was laughing at something! What was it?"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIII.
                  WHICH TREATS OF THE MYSTERIOUS MOVEMENTS OF MR. JOBSON.
                  ALL the way back to Waterford Mr. Jobson continued to indulge in that covert
                     smile, and once or twice a low sound escaped from his lips which actually
                     resembled a chuckle.
                  Having reached the town he rode up the main street with the air of a gentleman
                     at peace with himself and all the world; stopped in front of his office;
                     dismounted, hitched his horse to an old rack, much gnawed by the horses of
                     clients; and going into the office found himself face to face with George
                     Cleave, who held a law-book before him and was—thinking of Marian.
                  "Well, my young friend," said Mr. Jobson, "a fine day, and you seem to be deep
                     in the law. That's well—a hard mistress, and requires, says a great man, the
                        lucubrationes viginti annorum."
                  "Which will bring me to forty-five—nearly as old as you are, Mr. Jobson!"
                  The young man's face was radiant; his voice like music. A few moments on the
                     veranda at The Hollies had caused that.
                  
                  "As old as I am! I am sixty—every day of it! I am an old law parchment—did not
                     my dear friend, Mr. Gartrell, say as much?—and you, you are a nosegay with the
                     dew on it!"
                  Having indulged in this unwonted outburst of poetry, Mr. Jobson came up to
                     George Cleave, sat down beside him, drew his chair close, leaned over, and
                     looking at the young man over his spectacles, said in a low tone:
                  "Are you discreet? Can you keep a little secret?—for twenty-four hours?"
                  "A secret, Mr. Jobson! I think I can."
                  "Listen then!"
                  And in a whisper Mr. Jobson made a hurried communication at which Cleave
                     visibly started. His eyes were fixed upon Mr. Jobson with the profoundest
                     surprise; the law-book escaped from his grasp, and he did not pick it up; and,
                     with this air of stupefaction almost, he remained silent, listening to the
                     end.
                  "Good heavens—!" he exclaimed, at last.
                  "That's enough!" said Mr. Jobson, suddenly rising. "Keep quiet, and
                     remember—to-morrow at noon!"
                  "Yes, yes!"
                  Thereupon Mr. Jobson went out of his office, walked down the street, and,
                     reaching the office of Dr. Ralph Harrington, opened the door without ceremony
                     and went in.
                  Harrington had just come back from The Hollies, and never was the fulness of
                     joy more plainly written on the human face. This human being seemed to have had
                     some elixir of life suddenly infused into his frame. His pale cheeks had grown
                     ruddy; his dull eyes as brilliant as light itself; and the lips which so
                     recently had expressed only disgust and weariness with all around him, seemed
                     never done with smiling. Ralph Harrington was, indeed, the picture of abounding
                     joy—a joy which had come to him like a burst of sunshine, on that moonlight
                     night at The Hollies.
                  "Well, Doctor!"
                  "Come in, come in, my dear friend! Delighted to see you. What news?"
                  "The news that miracles have not ceased—that a man as thin as a shadow and as
                     white as a ghost can be made a stout fellow with the reddest cheeks I ever saw,
                     in a week!"
                  Harrington laughed like a boy.
                  "Well, such miracles take place sometimes!"
                  "I see one!"
                  "I feel one!"
                  "So you and George Cleave are going to marry your sweethearts—the right
                     ones—after all, eh?"
                  "I hope so! what would you have, my dear Mr. Jobson? It is a man's fate to be
                     entrapped—to be induced reluctantly to perpetrate matrimony at some period,
                     sooner or later, in his mortal existence! A hard fate, my dear friend—but how
                     are we to avoid it? Struggle as you will—make all the good resolutions
                     imaginable—resolve that you will not desert the noble army of bachelors—and
                     some day you find that your fate is sealed—that you are tied tightly to the
                     apron string of some little Blue Eyes!"
                  
                  "Annie's eyes are not blue," said Mr. Jobson, putting in his protest.
                  Thereat Ralph Harrington burst into laughter once more, and actually colored a
                     little.
                  "You are a terrible personage," he said, "and I see that nobody can mislead
                     you. Well, yes, yes! my dear Mr. Jobson, let me cease my jests and say that I
                     am as happy as a child this morning. I have had trouble enough in the last few
                     months to break down the strongest, but Heaven be thanked it is over—yes, my
                     dear sir, I shall be married, I hope, to a person you know in a month!"
                  "Good—very good!" said Mr. Jobson. "A fortunate thing for both; and if I am not
                     very much mistaken, the noble army of bachelors will miss three of
                     its recruits instead of two—the third being Mr. J. Daintrees."
                  "Yes—it is as good as announced. An excellent fellow—Daintrees."
                  "As honest a man as I know, and has a good estate, as you have a good
                     professional income, which is equivalent. Now for George Cleave. He is the only
                     poor bridegroom. Let us come to George Cleave, and let me tell you what I have
                     just told him."
                  Mr. Jobson then proceeded to make a communication to Dr. Ralph Harrington,
                     which caused that gentleman to stop suddenly as he was lighting a cigar, and
                     gaze at the speaker with astounded eyes.
                  "You are surely not in earnest!"
                  "I was never more in earnest in my life."
                  "And—to-morrow?"
                  "At noon. Don't fail."
                  And Mr. Jobson went out of the office without further words. He stopped then
                     for a moment and looked around in a hesitating manner.
                  "Yes—it is best I suppose," he muttered.
                  He then walked down the street, stopped in front of the county jail, the
                     iron-studded door revolved at his knock, and he disappeared within. A quarter
                     of an hour afterwards he came out, went to his own residence—a comfortable
                     house in the outskirts of the town—and entering, ascended the stairs. As he
                     reached the second floor, Mrs. Jobson, a buxom dame in a cap, came out of her
                     chamber, and exclaimed:
                  "Oh! Mr. Jobson!"
                  "Well, madam," said Mr. Jobson, looking at the lady over his large
                     spectacles.
                  "Oh! Mr. Jobson!" repeated the lady, breathing quickly in an extremely agitated
                     manner.
                  "That is not an observation from which it is possible to derive any precise
                     information," said Mr. Jobson with unwonted humor.
                  "Oh! there's somebody in the green-room! There is no doubt of it, Mr. Jobson!
                     We heard him walking about!"
                  "Him? why not her?" said Mr. Jobson.
                  "The steps were too heavy! and the door is locked, for Molly tried it!
                     and—and—you seem to think nothing of my agitation, Mr. Jobson! you don't
                     believe me! and yet I heard!—Mr. Jobson, there's somebody in that
                     room!"
                  
                  "Nonsense, Mrs. Jobson," was the cool reply. "I have always told you that your
                     nerves would be the death of you. You fill me with anxiety, Mrs. Jobson! Your
                     pale and wasted appearance leaves no doubt of the state of your nervous system.
                     You require a doctor, Mrs. Jobson!"
                  Which was the crowning joke of Mr. Jobson on this day of unwonted jocosity—for
                     the good lady was as plump and ruddy as he was wiry and parchment-like in
                     countenance.
                  "There," he suddenly said, "I see your friend Mrs. Jones is coming up the
                     steps, madam, to make you a visit."
                  "Mrs. Jones! I must change my dress! she is so particular, and notices
                     everything!"
                  The lady hastened into her chamber, and closed the door. Then it suddenly
                     opened again, and she exclaimed:
                  "There's somebody in that room, Mr. Jobson! I heard them with my own ears!"
                  Then the chamber door closed—this time finally.
                  As soon as Mr. Jobson was satisfied that the enemy had retreated he went to the
                     door of the mysterious apartment, gave a peculiar knock, said, "It is I!" and
                     the door opened, closed upon him, and was locked again.
                  The consequence was that when Mrs. Jobson came forth in full toilet, prepared
                     for further allusions to the noise in the green-room, Mr. Jobson was nowhere to
                     be seen.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIV.
                  WAITING.
                  AT about half-past eleven in the forenoon, on the day after these scenes, Mrs.
                     Gaston and Annie Bell were seated in the drawing-room at The Hollies, looking
                     intently through the windows opening on the veranda, and evidently awaiting the
                     arrival of some person or persons.
                  The two gracious and beautiful creatures seemed to suit the place and time.
                     They might have been taken for sisters, so youthful did the rich complexion of
                     her rosy cheeks and the shrinking little smile of Mrs. Gaston make their owner
                     appear—and this resemblance was increased by the dresses which they wore;
                     dresses made of precisely the same material and cut—by orders from Miss
                     Annie—in the very same fashion. This identity in costume was Miss Annie Bell's
                     fantasy, and she despotically carried out her caprice down to the least
                     details. Each wore a little bow of pink ribbon above the corsage; each skirt
                     was flounced and ornamented with rosettes; and crowning triumph of
                     despotism!—supreme indication of the fact that the pretty Mrs. Gaston was wax
                     in her companion's hands!—the hair of the fair widow had been arranged by Annie in the last fashion, and
                     a rosebud nestled there, as one nestled in her own glossy ringlets.
                  The faces smiled and were as fresh as the rosebuds. And The Hollies smiled too.
                     A bright August sun poured its glory on the trees; a slight wind pushed the
                     white clouds across the sea of blue; and the birds were singing and the flowers
                     blooming as they seemed to sing and bloom nowhere else in all the world, except
                     here at this nest of doves—The Hollies!
                  So The Hollies that day and its inmates were a charming spectacle. But
                     listen!—this poetic repose is about to be disturbed. Hoofs are heard on the
                     road beyond the grounds; the rider approaches the gate; it opens and shuts with
                     a clang, and Mr. Jack Daintrees dismounts and approaches the house.
                  Annie looks at Mrs. Gaston with her wicked and mischievous smile—at pretty Mrs.
                     Gaston, whose cheeks resemble peonies in full bloom.
                  "I think I have left my handkerchief up-stairs, Auntie!"
                  "You little goose!" is the murmured reply, "there it is in your belt!"
                  "Oh yes!—I didn't mean my handkerchief! My work-basket! my work-basket!"
                  "No, Annie!—no! I do not wish——"
                  "But—my Uncle Jack! Think, Auntie! what will my Uncle Jack say if he—sees me
                     idle!"
                  "No——!"
                  And Mrs. Gaston holds the young witch by her dress.
                  "Let me go, Auntie!"
                  "No—no!"
                  Suddenly Mrs. Gaston smiles and quietly releases her.
                  "Well, go, as you are so anxious to do so!"
                  Annie laughs in immense enjoyment and is about to dart away.
                  "I suppose I can entertain both, my dear!"
                  And Mrs. Gaston smiles.
                  "Both, Auntie?"
                  "I mean Dr. Harrington, too. I see him just coming through the gate!"
                  Annie suddenly stops and turns her head toward the window. Dr. Ralph Harrington
                     is dismounting and approaches the house.
                  "You will scarcely have time to get your work-basket, dear!" says Mrs. Gaston,
                     with a little laugh, which makes her charming; whereat Miss Annie darts at her
                     and exclaims: "You are the sliest, most improper, most——Oh! what an absurd
                     small auntie I have!"
                  She then vanishes from the apartment, as though to disappear up-stairs; but in
                     some mysterious manner she happens to be at the door when Ralph Harrington
                     reaches it. A little murmur is heard—a slight noise of a singular sort; a
                     brief, quick, incomprehensible sound, as if—but the sound is indescribable; and
                     then Dr. Harrington enters and salutes Mrs. Gaston and Mr. Daintrees—Miss Annie
                     making her appearance about five minutes afterwards, singing innocently as she
                     trips downstairs, and into the room, where she politely salutes
                     the gentlemen.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXV.
                  IN CONCLAVE.
                  THE HOLLIES on this morning seemed destined to be overwhelmed with
                     visitors.
                  No sooner had Dr. Harrington and Mr. Daintrees taken their seats than the front
                     gate again revolved on its hinges, and Mr. Ormby came in, Mrs. Ormby being
                     up-stairs already with Marian.
                  And then Mr. Ormby had scarcely finished his polite and elaborate greeting of
                     the company, when that perpetual motion of a gate once more opened, and George
                     Cleave made his appearance with Mr. Jobson.
                  The personages thus assembled at The Hollies—with the single exception of Mr.
                     Jobson—looked at each other with an astonishment which every moment increased.
                     There was evidently some mystery under this singular meeting of so many persons
                     at the same place and at the same hour. Each looked at the other, as though to
                     demand an explanation; but no one seemed able to give this explanation; and a
                     sudden silence ensued—one of those "awful pauses" which prove mortal to social
                     enjoyment in a drawing-room.
                  At this critical moment, Mr. Jack Daintrees rushed gallantly to the rescue.
                     Clearing his throat in order to hear his own voice and give himself courage,
                     Mr. Daintrees assumed a winning smile, crossed one leg with an easy and jaunty
                     air over the other, and said:
                  "It really would appear that we had all met here by appointment."
                  "Yes, really," said some one.
                  "That this was a general rendezvous arranged beforehand," continued Mr. Jack
                     Daintrees, habituated now to the sound of his voice and gathering courage.
                  "It certainly does seem so," from another of the company.
                  "But what is the explanation?" said Mr. Daintrees extending one finger
                     argumentatively. "It is impossible that everybody could have visited The
                     Hollies to-day for the reason which has brought me."
                  At these words a smothered laugh was heard; and looking in the direction of the
                     laugh, the company perceived Miss Annie Bell concealing her laughing
                     countenance with her little lace-fringed handkerchief. All eyes again turned to
                     Mr. Daintrees. Mr. Daintrees was so very red in the face that he seemed in
                     danger of apoplexy. In fact, Mr. Daintrees's reasons for visiting The Hollies
                     might be conjectured!
                  "That is—hem—!"
                  Mr. Daintrees laughed rather faintly.
                  "Suppose we each inform our friends here assembled, if there is
                     any appointment."
                  This proposal of Mr. Daintrees was not destined to result in an explanation at that moment of the
                     mysterious gathering. As he spoke, the gate again opened, a horseman came in
                     and dismounted; and this horseman, as he drew near, was seen to be no less an
                     individual than—Mr. Allan Gartrell.
                  As Mr. Gartrell approached the veranda, Mr. Jobson rose gravely, and said:
                  "I have listened in silence to your conjectures, my friends, not regarding it
                     as necessary to explain an assemblage which I may as well now say I am
                     responsible for. Each guest of Mrs. Gaston's here assembled has come in
                     consequence of a note or request from myself, to be present at an interview of
                     the gravest and most important character. One person only has come at the
                     invitation of another—Mr. Ormby wrote asking the presence of Mr. Gartrell. He
                     has arrived, and now the number will soon be complete."
                  Mr. Gartrell entered, and bowed stiffly. The number of persons present
                     evidently astonished him. Observing Mr. Ormby, who was seated in a large
                     arm-chair near the rear window, he approached him, took his seat with an easy
                     air, or what was meant to be such, and said:
                  "I received your note, sir, asking me to call and see you here, and here I
                     am."
                  The last words were uttered with a slight accent of defiance. Mr. Allan
                     Gartrell evidently began to feel uneasy, and had recourse in consequence of
                     that fact to his air of indifference—as of one who cared nothing for the
                     friendship or hostility of any one present.
                  While he was speaking the eternal gate once more opened to admit a last
                     visitor. This time, however, the latch made no noise, or the voice of Mr.
                     Gartrell prevented it from attracting the attention of the company. Mr. Ormby
                     did not offer at the instant any definite explanation, such as Mr. Gartrell's
                     observation seemed to demand; but he cleared his throat in a loud, resounding,
                     and elaborate manner, which was perhaps the reason why a step upon the veranda
                     was not heard.
                  Thereat Mr. Gartrell seemed to become irritated, and exhibited unmistakable
                     evidences of patrician hauteur. He grew red in the face, rose from his chair,
                     pushing it back angrily as he did so, and said:
                  "I did not come here, sir, to sit and be stared at by you and your friends! You
                     wrote saying that you wished to see me. Here I am—what is your business with
                     me?"
                  "I will answer that question," said a voice at the door. "All these little
                     mysteries will be soon explained, my dear Mr. Wilkes!"
                  And the smiling, the benevolent, the beaming Mr. John Brown came into the
                     apartment.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXVI.
                  MR. BROWN BEGINS.
                  IT is wholly impossible to convey an adequate idea of the extreme benevolence
                     with which Mr. Brown beamed upon the assembled company. This benevolence
                     overflowed in his eyes and shone in his smile. The thumb of his left hand was
                     inserted in the armhole of his ample waistcoat; his right hand was extended
                     with a gentle, persuasive, and touching grace—he had the air of the
                     stage-father who says, "Bless you, my children!"
                  The good Mr. Brown even beamed upon Mr. Allan Gartrell, or—as he had called
                     him, no doubt, through inadvertence or forgetfulness—Mr. Wilkes. But Mr.
                     Gartrell, or Mr. Wilkes, was so unfriendly as not to reciprocate this
                     sentiment; he suddenly started up, grew very pale, and was evidently revolving
                     the question in his mind whether he should not rush upon Mr. Brown, overturn
                     him, and make his exit safely from the room.
                  "No," said Mr. Brown, extending his hand toward Mr. Gartrell, and shaking his
                     head slowly from side to side, with a sweet smile upon his lips, "No—don't try
                        that, my dear young friend. It will not do. The thing will hang
                     fire. I am able myself to deal with you—perfectly fectly able—but in order to
                     save myself that trouble I have a friend in the passage. I have just heard him
                     enter. He came in by my request at the back door, and I now hear him coughing
                     modestly behind his hand, and think I see him there with a stick beneath his
                     arm."
                  In fact, a slight cough was heard from the passage without, which cough issued
                     from the lips of a gentleman resembling a bull dog—a friend of Mr. Jobson's
                     from the county jail.
                  "Life," said Mr. Brown, with a smiling and didactic air, "is full of mysteries;
                     but, sooner or later, these mysteries are cleared up, and I have come this
                     morning to this most agreeable residence to clear up one of the most
                     interesting that I have ever met with during twenty years spent in arduous
                     labor as—a member of the detective police in Scotland Yard, London."
                  In the midst of a stir of astonishment Mr. Brown continued:
                  "Up to the present moment, my friends, it is probable that no one of this
                     company has indulged a surmise even upon the subject of the identity or
                     non-identity of the gentleman sitting yonder, and passing under the name of
                     Allan Gartrell, Esq. It is my agreeable duty now to throw light upon his real
                     name and character. My friend's baptismal and family designations are not Allan
                     Gartrell, but Charles, or familiarly, Charley Wilkes. He is not the nephew of
                     the late Mr. Hamilton Cleave, of Cleaveland, but one of the most brilliant, the
                     most skilful, and I will add most elegant and popular of the fast men,
                     and—burglars—of London."
                  
                  As Mr. Gartrell, or rather Mr. Wilkes, who had sunk again into his seat,
                     suddenly rose again at these words, Mr. Brown drew forth a large bandanna
                     handkerchief from the inner left breast-pocket of his coat, displaying,
                     casually, as he did so, the handle of his revolver.
                  "Sit down, my friend," he said benevolently; "it will be useless to attempt
                     anything in the way of resistance. I have a little persuader about me, which I
                     am used to handling; and even if you fired upon me—I see you are armed—my
                     friend in the passage would secure you."
                  "You have no warrant!" came in a furious growl from the pale Mr.
                     Gartrell-Wilkes.
                  "Oh! what a mistake!" returned Mr. Brown, drawing a paper from his pocket. "I
                     have one in due form—from ministerial headquarters—all regular. But we are
                     losing time. Let me proceed, my friend. The company I see is impatient, and I
                     have a most interesting series of events to relate."
                  Overcome by Mr. Brown's sang froid, or convinced that all resistance was
                     impossible, Mr. Gartrell-Wilkes sat down, leaned back in his chair, assumed a
                     careless and defiant expression, and did not offer any further
                     interruption.
                  "Ah!" said Mr. Brown, "I see that you are a man of reason after all, my dear
                     sir. You know when to assume the offensive and when to observe a masterly
                     inactivity. Remain silent therefore, and let me tell my interesting story.
                     There are portions of it which will be new to you, my friend, as well as to
                     this honorable company, I think!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVII.
                  MR. BROWN CONTINUES.
                  CLEARING his throat, gazing around him more benevolently than before, and
                     assuming his sweetest tones, Mr. Brown continued:
                  "Let me adopt the style of my English literary friends—as follows: On a
                     handsome street of Liverpool stands the banking house of Thompson Brothers, and
                     on a pleasant afternoon, a stranger of distinguished appearance might have been
                     seen entering the banking house and presenting a check, calling for the payment
                     to the bearer of the sum of one thousand pounds sterling. Let me describe more
                     particularly the appearance of the distinguished stranger—but no, I shall grow
                     tedious if I adopt the literary style. Let me be terse, my friends—terse as my
                     favorite novel writer. The check for one thousand pounds was promptly paid, as
                     it was drawn by one of the most prominent merchants of Liverpool, and it was
                     only two days afterwards that it was discovered to be a forgery. Thereupon
                     Thompson Brothers telegraphed to London for a detective—as the Liverpool police
                        could do nothing for them—and I
                     was sent down. The case was an embarrassing one. There seemed no possibility of
                     identifying the distinguished stranger; all that the clerk could say was that
                     he had observed a singular scar upon one of the gentleman's temples. This fact
                     was only mentioned on the day after my arrival, in the most casual manner; but
                     it gave me at once the clue. I well knew a gentleman with a scar on his
                     temple—a fast gentleman about London, who had been mixed up in some ugly
                     affairs, but had slipped out of them. It occurred to me in a word that the
                     forger was Mr. Charley Wilkes, whom I had not seen for sometime, in his old
                     haunts, and I began my hunt for that gentleman.
                  "It would weary you, my friends, to expatiate upon the methods employed by the
                     respectable corps to which I belong—I refer to the detective police—to follow
                     up an affair of this description. Suffice it to say that I tracked my friend to
                     London, found that he had left that city two days before my arrival; then I
                     went over to France, discovered that he had not landed at Calais; came on his
                     track again at Brussels, which he had reached by way of Antwerp, and thence
                     followed him by means of the passport office through Germany to the Prussian
                     frontier, where his passport had been visèd,
                     to Berlin.
                  "At Berlin I found everything in commotion at the banking house of Stralsund
                     & Company. A check, drawn by the wealthiest dealer in hides in all Berlin,
                     had been presented at the bank in which their funds were deposited, paid
                     without suspicion, and the bank suddenly discovered itself minus the sum of two thousand thalers, paid to a
                     forged check. When they sought for the distinguished stranger who had presented
                     the check, he was nowhere to be found, and I only came upon his traces again,
                     always by means of that lucky system of passports, at Vienna. When I intimate
                     that I pursued the same routes of travel adopted by my distinguished friend,
                     and was enabled to do so through the instrumentality of the excellent, but
                     sometimes embarrassing, passport system, I do not mean that I ascertained at
                     the passport bureaus that Mr. Charles Wilkes, citizen of England, with
                     residence at London, had left such a place at such a time for such a city. I
                     was too averse to losing my time to indulge in any inquiries for "Mr. Charles
                     Wilkes." I requested everywhere a sight of the official records at the passport
                     offices, announcing my object; they were politely opened to my inspection, and
                     I looked for a signalment relating to a
                     gentleman of from twenty-eight to thirty, of ruddy complexion, vigorous
                     stature, dark hair, pleasing address, and—with a scar upon his left
                        temple. I was not left unrewarded. I found at Antwerp that the Baron
                     von Rahmburg, who had obtained a passport to visit Berlin, was disfigured by
                     the scar in question; and at Berlin by a remarkable coincidence the scar
                     reappeared in the passport description of Mr. John Wilson, a respectable
                     English gentleman, who had set out two days before, for Vienna.
                  "Well, at Vienna the police were in a state of real fury, of mental
                     prostration, approaching despair. The princely magasin of Arnhoff & Co., Jewellers, had been broken into on
                     the night before. The persons sleeping in the magasin had been deluged with
                     chloroform, and plate and jewels to a fabulous value had been carried off by
                     the burglars. The Austrian police, I regret to say, are rather too deliberate
                     in their movements; they did not investigate this unfortunate affair until ten
                     o'clock on the next day; and even then they were unable to discover the least
                     traces of the perpetrators of this extensive burglary. All that one of the
                     salesmen asleep in the store could say was that he had a dim recollection, just
                     before losing consciousness under the effect of the chloroform, of seeing among
                     the burglars a man with a scar on his left temple, who appeared to
                     be the leader of the gang. I was present at the investigation; and when I heard
                     this testimony I went directly to the office of passports. M. le Chevalier
                     Gautry, who had obtained a passport to visit Geneva, on the day before, had, by
                     the strangest of coincidences, a scar on his left temple!
                  
                  "I need not say, my friends, that the affair of the burglary at Vienna had now
                     ceased to interest me. I walked back toward my hotel, musing quietly upon the
                     subject of M. le Chevalier Gautry, and was so lost in admiration of that
                     gentleman and his proceedings that an unfortunate accident happened to me. The
                     day was rainy, and the streets very slippery. I was passing from one side of
                     the street to the other when the fine equipage of a young Viennese nobleman—or
                     rather the horses—ran against me; I lost my footing, fell, the equipage went
                     over me, and my leg was broken: to the great regret, I ought to say, of the
                     young nobleman, who immediately checked his horses, leaped out, raised me up,
                     and offered me a thousand apologies.
                  "Unfortunately these polite assurances of his very great regret did not heal
                     the fracture in my leg. I was conveyed to my hotel, and remained on my back for
                     a month—torturing myself, I must say, with the fear that my friend, the
                     Chevalier Gautry, would not be at Geneva when I went to call upon him there. At
                     last my broken bones were knit together again, I could walk by limping a
                     little; whereupon I paid my bill, sent a line to headquarters in London, and
                     took the railway for Geneva, where I arrived safely, and stopped at the
                     handsome and well kept Hotel Beau Rivage,
                     from which I moved however on the next day to the Hotel
                        Russie."
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                  MR. BROWN CONCLUDES HIS EXPLANATION.
                  WHEN Mr. Brown uttered the words "Hotel Russie," Mr. Allan Gartrell, if we may
                     continue to address the gentleman by that name, exhibited very considerable
                     interest, and looked at Mr. Brown with a dare-devil smile.
                  "Your narrative grows highly interesting, my good sir," he said; "continue—you
                     have never told me about Geneva."
                  "I wished to reserve it as an agreeable surprise to you, my worthy friend,"
                     replied the smiling Mr. Brown. "There was little merit in my proceedings up to
                     that moment—anybody might have followed the Baron von Rahmburg, Mr. John
                     Wilson, and the Chevalier Gautry from Antwerp to Berlin, from Berlin to Vienna,
                     and from Vienna to Geneva. That was all in the regular line of business—there
                     were the passport offices, and a novice could not have blundered. But from and
                     after Geneva the thing was different."
                  "Let us hear," said Mr. Gartrell with an easy air, "the story becomes
                     exciting."
                  "Delighted to interest you, my dear friend," said Mr. Brown; "I will then
                     continue. I mentioned, I believe, that I left the Hotel
                        Beau Rivage on the day after my arrival at Geneva, to take up my
                     quarters at the Hotel Russie. It is a
                     charming hotel. The view like that from the Beau
                        Rivage—but I must not linger on the charms of the landscape, of
                     the handsome streets, of the—see Murray—I will continue.
                  "My motive for transferring myself and my luggage to the Hotel Russie was the discovery at the office of
                     passports that the Chevalier Gautry, from Vienna, had a month before taken up
                     his residence there; and as the records did not exhibit the fact that the
                     Chevalier had left Geneva, I committed what, I must say, was a great blunder in
                     concluding that, for that reason, the Chevalier was still at the Hotel Russie.
                  
                  "I am very sorry to say that I discovered that the Chevalier had disappeared
                     about two weeks before; and as my smiling friend, the landlord, seemed to have 
                        a a
                        a
                      plenty of leisure on his hands, and to be fond of talking, I
                     encouraged him to communicate any items of interest relating to the Chevalier,
                     which might be in his possession. I was amply rewarded for this chance
                     suggestion. My friend, the landlord, suddenly glowed with interest. Anything
                     relating to the Chevalier Gautry!—he exclaimed. He could tell me a thousand
                     things—a hundred anecdotes of this charming, this ravishing young nobleman! He
                     threw his money about like water! he never looked at the items in a bill!—he
                     ordered the oldest wines, and paid for them without a word!—he was a prince! a prince! I give you my
                     word of honor, monsieur!—and it was no wonder that the English Milor Allan
                     Gartrell, who alas! had expired of fever at the Hotel
                        Russie, had become the Chevalier's bosom friend!
                  "At these words from my fat little host, I began to listen with the deepest
                     attention. I encouraged my landlord to continue his remarks. I ascertained what
                     follows: When the Chevalier Gautry reached the Hotel
                        Russie a young Englishman, who had been on a visit to Rome, was
                     lying very ill in the hotel. This young gentleman was a certain Mr. Allan
                     Gartrell—evidently a person of ample means; a very handsome and cordial person,
                     and bore the strongest possible resemblance—a most extraordinary resemblance—to
                     the Chevalier Gautry. Two days after the arrival of the Chevalier he had
                     managed to become acquainted with 'Milor Gartrell,' and thenceforth scarcely an
                     hour passed without a visit from the Chevalier to the sick man's apartment. The
                     Chevalier watched over him, amused him, cheered him—was a veritable brother to
                     the poor young Milor, my host assured me on his word of honor. Whenever any
                     letters came the Chevalier would receive them and read them to his sick friend.
                     Whenever the young Milor required an amanuensis the Chevalier was there to
                     offer his services. He was a brother—a veritable brother!—Had my friend, the
                     landlord, I inquired, ever chanced to observe the post-mark on any letters
                     received?—Yes, one he had observed, as it was the last the young
                     Milor ever received. It had the post-mark of the United States of America upon
                     it, and the Chevalier Gautry took it, as usual, and went with it up to his
                     friend's room. They remained long together—conversing in reference to this
                     letter it seemed, as in passing he, the landlord, had heard the rattle of paper
                     mingling with the voices. This was nearly the last interview between Milor
                     Gartrell and his friend. On that very night the young Englishman began to sink.
                     The doctor was summoned, but before his arrival the young Milor was dead of his
                     fever, brought from the Pontine marshes to Geneva.
                  "At this event, my landlord continued, the grief of the Chevalier Gautry was
                     most touching. He wept, he cried aloud, he paid the funeral expenses of his
                     friend without a word—and it was a magnificent funeral. Then, overwhelmed with
                     grief, he paid his own large bill at the hotel, without looking at a single
                     item, and left Geneva to return to England and inform Milor Gartrell's family
                     of their irreparable loss."
                  Mr. Brown paused, and gazed around him with his blandest smile.
                  "Such, my friends," he said, "was the highly interesting narrative which I
                     heard from my excellent host at the Hotel
                        Russie, in Geneva. It caused me to reflect deeply. There was under
                     all this very evidently, some deeply interesting plot of my friend, the
                     Chevalier Rahmburg-Wilson-Gautry-Wilkes! And let me say at once with what I
                     think you will regard, my friends, as modest and pardonable pride—let me say
                     that in ten minutes, nay in one minute, I had discovered the Chevalier's daring
                        ruse. The clue to this discovery was
                        that extraordinary resemblance
                     that he bore to Mr. Allan Gartrell, and I had not the least doubt that he had
                     taken advantage of it for some purpose. You are obliged, my friends, in this
                     singular trade of detecting criminals, to enter, as I may say, into the
                     feelings and views of the person you are pursuing—and put yourself in his
                     place. Now I knew that the Chevalier Gautry-Wilkes was a gentleman of great
                     daring, and, above all, of vivid and kindling imagination—that to assume the
                     name and character of a dead man would present itself with brilliant
                     attractions to a person like himself—and I did not lose sight of the further
                     fact that nothing could have been more desirable to him at the time than to
                     assume a new alias; to disappear as Mr.
                     Gautry-Wilkes, and reappear as Mr. Allan Gartrell.
                  "The only thing which puzzled me," continued Mr. Brown, "was to determine
                     whither Mr. Wilkes, under his new name of Gartrell, had gone. Not to England—he
                     was much too intelligent for that. Not even to Paris—there were many young
                     Englishmen there who probably knew the late Mr. Gartrell. I therefore concluded
                     that the letter from America had suggested an idea to my friend, the Chevalier;
                     that he had been seized with an ardent desire to explore the magnificent
                     natural scenery, and form his own opinion upon the complicated social relations
                     of that great republic, the United States."
                  Mr. Brown smiled modestly, and added:
                  "You will perceive that I was burning, as the children say, my
                     friends. I was right so far; but a long and weary chase was still necessary;
                     greater trouble than before to follow my friend. Good fortune came to my aid,
                     however—all the mystery was cleared up in a moment. I had proposed to visit New
                     York first, from which city Mr. Allan Gartrell would no doubt
                     write to his banker in England for remittances, in his ordinary handwriting, so
                     well known to his Geneva friend, the Chevalier! but after New York, the real
                     trouble of following him would begin, as you have no passport system. Well, I
                     was revolving all this in my mind at the Hotel
                        Russie, Geneva, when—presto! comes a letter for Allan Gartrell,
                     Esq., forwarded from his Liverpool bankers. It was the second
                     letter written by Mr. George Cleave announcing his intention to surrender
                     Cleaveland to his cousin. I ascertained that fact by opening the letter—my host
                     had intrusted it to me for delivery to Mr. Gartrell's family in England,
                     whither I told him I was going.
                  "Thenceforward, my friends, all was plain sailing. I knew now, perfectly well,
                     where I should find my friend the Chevalier Wilkes-Gartrell. I came to New
                     York, and thence to Waterford and Cleaveland, where I announced my real
                     character—or rather recalled myself—to my friend Mr. Wilkes. My stay was longer
                     than I intended, but I became interested in this friendly little neighborhood
                     and its affairs—I enjoyed the hospitalities of my friend Mr. Daintrees; and I
                     may add that I restored the sum of two thousand dollars, through my friend Mr.
                     Jobson, to a young gentleman who lost it, owing to the great skill
                     at cards of Mr. Wilkes!
                  "A few words will finish this narrative, my friends," said Mr. Brown. "I have said that I remained in
                     the hospitable abode of Mr. Wilkes-Gartrell much longer than I intended; but I
                     hope Mr. Cleave will not charge me for his champagne consumed there, in
                     consideration of my present services! Well, to end—I was much amused by my
                     worthy friend's aim to ally himself with the honorable family of Mr. Ormby. I
                     delayed further proceedings. I lingered, greatly interested, when one day Mr.
                     Wilkes insisted on hurling a bottle at me, and I grew a little tired of him. I
                     accordingly went away from his princely mansion—ostensibly departed on the
                     railway for parts unknown; but on the same night I made my way back to
                     Waterford, and remained perdu in a private
                     chamber of my excellent friend Mr. Jobson's, much to the agitation, I fear, of
                     Mrs. Jobson. Need I say that everything had been arranged between myself and
                     Mr. Jobson for this interesting explanation in the presence of everybody? I
                     called on him for that purpose on my way back one day from the residence of Mr.
                     Ormby, and there, I must say, my heart bled at sight of a young lady who was
                     pale, ill, fainting, dying nearly, from the brutal persistence of this man
                     Wilkes to force her to marry him!"
                  No one would have supposed the benevolent countenance of Mr. Brown capable of
                     assuming a look so stern and forbidding as it assumed when he uttered these
                     words. All his smiles had disappeared—all the tone of banter had gone out of
                     his voice. It was a stern and indignant judge that stood there, with his eyes
                     fixed on the face of Mr. Gartrell-Wilkes.
                  And that gentleman betrayed an emotion, as the vibrating voice resounded, which
                     he had not before displayed. His careless and ironical air deserted him, his
                     face filled with blood, and his hand went with a sudden movement to his
                     breast.
                  "A fine—a very fine sentiment!" he growled, "from—a common policeman."
                  Mr. Brown's eyes flashed.
                  "It is better to be a common policeman than to be a thief—and a heartless
                     scoundrel, sir," he said.
                  "A scoundrel!—beware!"
                  "Beware of what? Of your displeasure? That might frighten children, my good
                     sir; it is a small thing to me!"
                  "Take care—!"
                  Mr. Brown fixed his eyes upon the speaker with an expression of contempt, which
                     evidently galled that gentleman extremely.
                  "Instead of measuring my words, my good Mr. Gautry-Wilkes," he said with
                     immense disdain, "I will express my meaning a little more clearly than before!
                     I came to this country with the simple view of performing my professional duty.
                     I had no special dislike to you. I remained in your house, or rather in the
                     house which you occupied, more amused than anything else with your skilful
                     operations, and content to defer arresting you, until the humor to do so seized
                     me. Your insolence to me was nothing—that is your nature. Your threats of
                     personal violence were amusing, and I did not fear them. For your character I
                     had, as I said, no very great dislike —the result it may be of the fact that I am a 'common policeman.' As such I
                     am used to forgers and burglars like yourself—have perhaps lost my disgust for
                     them; but for some offences in men I have no pity!"
                  Mr. Gartrell-Wilkes looked as black as night.
                  "Beware!" he said again.
                  "You are one of the swell-mob," continued Mr. Brown, "and to lie and steal is
                     perfectly natural to you. But even the swell-mob gentlemen disdain to do some
                     things. They are thieves, pickpockets, burglars, and laugh at the law. But I
                     tell you, sir—and it will explain the great disgust I now feel toward you—that
                     not the worst thief in London, the meanest pickpocket, would have been guilty
                     of this heartless scheme to break the heart of a mere child like Miss Ormby—or
                     acted, as you have acted, with this coarse cruelty and cowardice!"
                  The words and tones of the speaker were full of such extreme contempt that Mr.
                     Gartrell-Wilkes was stung to the quick, and lost his head. Rage carried him
                     away; his hand darted to his breast, and drawing a long and murderous-looking
                     knife, he threw himself upon the cool Mr. Brown. That gentleman was, however,
                     ready for him. His own hand had gone no less rapidly to his breast pocket—the
                     barrel of his revolver suddenly gleamed, and the muzzle was upon his enemy's
                     breast.
                  But the knife raised aloft did not fall, nor was the pistol discharged. The
                     individual resembling a bull-dog had listened with great attention from the
                     passage to the conversation which has been recorded, had approached the door,
                     had seen the knife gleam—and, all at once, a heavy stick descended upon the
                     head of Mr. Gartrell-Wilkes, who staggered, reeled back, and ended by measuring
                     his length upon the floor, where he was speedily handcuffed and secured by the
                     constable.
                  The company had started up in confusion. Mr. Brown 
                        THE INDIVIDUAL RESEMBLING A BULL-DOG HAD LISTENED.
                      alone preserved his air of perfect composure. He uncocked his
                     revolver, restored it to his breast pocket, and stood looking with philosophic
                     interest upon the prostrate and handcuffed figure.
                  "A cool hand, a very cool hand—my friend, Mr. Charley Wilkes!" he said in a
                     moralizing tone; "one of the coolest
                     hands, in fact, I have ever known! His forgeries and burglaries did not
                     distinguish him among the crowd of competitors—but this personation of a dead
                     man indicated genius! What a pity that a 'common policeman' should interfere!
                     Well, my hand is on him at last, and his game is played. He deserves his fate.
                     A thief?—that is bad, but not the worst thing about my friend. The meanest
                     thief I know would have been ashamed of what this rascal has attempted—to break
                     the heart of a poor girl, whose face reminded me of a little girl of my own in
                     England!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIX.
                  AND THE CURTAIN FALLS UPON THE COMEDY.
                  OUR comedy—as we venture to style this little history of "Pretty Mrs.
                     Gaston"—naturally ends with the happy termination of the love affairs embraced
                     in it, and with the discovery that George Cleave was still the proprietor of
                     Cleaveland.
                  A few words on the subsequent fates of the personages may, however, interest
                     the reader. Let us take them in turn.
                  George Cleave and Marian were married in the autumn, and went to live at
                     Cleaveland as if nothing had happened. The young man's title to the property
                     was unassailable upon either of two grounds. He had informally surrendered it
                     under a paper which had no legal force, from the absence of witnesses to attest
                     it; and if his title had been lost, it was restored by the death of the real
                     Allan Gartrell, from whom, as his nearest relative, he inherited. Thus
                     Cleaveland was his own again, and as Mr. Ormby's property at Bayview was soon
                     sold, that gentleman and Mrs. Ormby, at George's earnest request, came to live
                     at Cleaveland, where Mr. Ormby for the next ten years promenaded on the long
                     portico morning and evening, taking the landscape, as of old, under his
                     protection.
                  
                  Ralph Harrington and Annie, and Mr. Jack Daintrees and pretty Mrs. Gaston were
                     married at the same time—The Hollies blazing with lights in honor of the
                     occasion. Ralph lives at "Tree Hill," near Waterford, and is perfectly happy.
                     And Mr. Jack Daintrees—but how shall we depict the bliss of Mr. Daintrees? He
                     wonders how he ever remained a bachelor so long. He is henpecked in a fearful
                     manner, but not aware of the fact. He does not live at The Lodge—he lives at
                     The Hollies, where he went to reside after a long but ineffectual struggle. Mr.
                     Daintrees does not hunt the fox any more. He gives the gayest dinners, but is
                     even losing his taste for that. He lolls in a dressing-gown and gorgeous
                     slippers, smokes a great deal, and has a taste for landscape gardening. When
                     not thus employed, he may be seen holding his wife's worsted, while she rolls
                     it into a ball, gazing meanwhile with admiring eyes into one of the prettiest
                     faces in the world.
                  Of Mr. Jobson we need say nothing—these old law-machines run on in the same
                     groove. And Mr. Brown and Mr. Wilkes may be dismissed in a few words. Mr. Brown
                     went away with his friend in charge; but Mr. Wilkes was a "cool hand" indeed,
                     as he soon proved. He eluded his friend at one of the stations on the
                     railway—was no more seen—but is supposed to have been recognized as a prominent
                     citizen of Poker Flat, on the coasts of the Pacific, where he secures an ample
                     maintenance by his skill at games of cards.
                  The little neighborhood which we have visited, kind reader, soon settled down
                     again and grew quiet. Everybody body smiled at everybody, and plainly thought
                     the world around Waterford the best of all possible worlds.
                  I had heard of these events and, went thither to spend the autumn. I was a
                     guest at Tree Hill, and basked in the sunshine of a pair of eyes, the brightest
                     and sweetest I ever saw—the eyes of "Annie Bell," at present Mrs. Ralph
                     Harrington. One day we went over to dine at The Hollies, and that smiling nest
                     of doves, upon which a bachelor hawk had intruded, was in all its glory.
                  As the sun was setting behind a mass of piled-up orange clouds, I went with
                     Mrs. Annie to a certain rustic seat of which I had heard—the seat where, on the
                     night of the party, Ralph Harrington grew romantic. I smiled as I alluded to
                     the scene, and Mrs. Annie blushed.
                  "Very well," she said, laughing through her roses, "but Auntie had a rustic
                     seat, too; yonder she comes—ask her if she did not!"
                  I looked up. Mr. and Mrs. Jack Daintrees were approaching across the lawn; the
                     lady with her little timid smile and shy manner—the gentleman fat,
                     good-humored, and unromantic.
                  "What a very strange world we live in!" said Annie laughing.
                  "That is a sage observation—quite true in every particular—but your meaning,
                     madam?"
                  "I mean that—I am married to Ralph, and—"
                  She raised her hand, pointing to the approaching pair.
                  "And here is the end of 'Pretty Mrs. Gaston'!"
               
            
            
               
               ANNIE AT THE CORNER.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  FROM A WINDOW.
                  I AM not a married man, and I do not think that all my lady acquaintances are
                     angels; consequently, I am a miserable old bachelor.
                  There is absolutely no doubt upon the subject, I am informed by my friends; and
                     so, because I think that something more than the want of wings distinguishes
                     the fair from the other class, and because I spend my life in a suit of
                     apartments, undisturbed by the musical laughter of children—for these reasons,
                     as I have said, I am a crusty, musty, miserable old unmarried misanthrope.
                  I have been substantially notified of the fact more than once, by Miss Tabitha
                     Ringgold, who lives in the handsome house opposite; and though I am charitable,
                     my friend, I should not be surprised if that fair lady were, at the present
                     moment, directing her private spy-glass into my chamber from behind her white
                     curtain, a corner of which is, I perceive, slightly raised: I would not be at
                     all surprised if Miss Tabitha were there, looking through the open window here,
                     and lamenting the failure of science to discover ear-trumpets, such as might be
                     used to catch a distant conversation.
                  Miss Tabitha often arrays herself in her best finery, and leans from the
                     window, with nods and smiles, and silent invitations to come in, when I chance
                     to pass. I do not accept these invitations often, as you will understand, if
                     you listen further; but sometimes I do go over and take a hand at whist in the
                     small parlor; in consequence of which, I am considered, I believe, an admirer
                     of Miss Tabitha, and more than once my cynical and discourteous bachelor
                     companions have gone so far as to declare that Miss Tabitha has long been
                     engaged in the pleasing occupation of setting her maiden cap at me and my six
                     per cents. Of course I do not give any credit to these scandalous jests and
                     rumors, and I invariably reprove Bob when he gives utterance to them. There is,
                     of course, no truth in the charge, and I'm glad of it. I regret to say that,
                     even if there were not other objections, I could not solicit the honor of a
                     matrimonial alliance with Miss Tabitha—my affections being engaged.
                  Ah! do you start a little? Do you look at me with astonishment, and ask, with
                     your eloquent eyes, if I am not uttering a pleasant jest? I
                     engaged—you seem to say with a change of the pronoun—I, the incorrigible old
                     bachelor, the woman-hater, the misanthrope, the miserable, disagreeable,
                     outrageous, old curmudgeon! My
                      affections engaged, when the utmost
                     inquisition of feminine curiosity eternally on the watch, has never discovered
                     the least loop to hang a report upon? Well, my dear friend, perhaps there is
                     some ground for surprise, and your astonishment is not singular. My engagement
                     is certainly not exactly what the world would call binding—and yet it binds
                        me. Such things must frequently result in a matrimonial
                     alliance between the man and the woman—at least sometimes: now, my
                     engagement will not probably have any such termination. Gossips talk about
                     Corydon, when he goes constantly to visit Chloe, in glossy patent leathers, a
                     flowery waistcoat, hair elegantly curled, and a perfumed handkerchief gently
                     waved in a diamond-decorated hand. They talk a great deal about that young man,
                     and the talk rises into a hubbub, when the watchful eyes perceive the youth
                     finally emerging from the mansion of his love, with beaming eyes, and nose
                     raised high aloft with triumph, while Chloe sends a golden smile toward him as
                     he goes, from behind the curtain of the drawing-room. The gossips, I say, talk
                     about Corydon's engagement for a month thereafter; but the most inveterate and
                     ferocious tattle never occupies itself with my little affair.
                  I never speak of it; the object of my affections preserves silence, too; and
                     not even Miss Tabitha suspects our little arrangement. If I tell you all about
                     it now, good friend of many years, I do so because 'tis scarcely loyal to our
                     friendship to have aught of reserve; but, above all, because my burden of
                     thought and feeling cries aloud for utterance.
                  I linger on the threshold—let me linger a moment longer yet, and ask you if I
                     have never seemed eccentric to you? Often in passing to your counting-house,
                     you send me a friendly nod as I lean from my window in the sunshine; and,
                     doubtless, you go on to your arduous toils, thinking what a happy fellow I am
                     to afford to be idle, when you and your whole establishment will all day be
                     struggling to balance the books of the firm. You honestly consider me idle at
                     such moments: my friend, I am never busier. You think me solitary: I am
                     surrounded by companions. The street may be wholly deserted; the city square
                     yonder may not tempt a single child to enjoy its green sward and shadow—Miss
                     Tabitha even may be busy at her invisible toilet, and her window deserted—yet I
                     am not alone.
                  When the real figures of actual, living personages appear, however, they do
                     not, by any means, disturb my revery. I am not at war with my kind, but often
                     find in the forms of men, women, and children what pleases me, and heightens
                     the zest of my recollections.
                  I lean upon the sill of my window, and, thrumming idly with my fingers, scan
                     the different wayfarers with smiling attention. I see my friend Dives with his
                     jingling watch-seals, his creaking boots, his spotless shirt bosom, and his
                     dignified look, go by to his warehouse, saluted respectfully by the heads of
                     our two "first families"—the Scribes and Pharisees—who sometimes invite me to
                     their palaces up town. And, as Dives disappears like a moving bank round the
                     corner, I perceive Lazarus, with his maimed limbs, swinging himself by, on
                        his hands, inserted in wooden
                     gloves—the shadow of his low figure mingling with that of Dives. Of course I do
                     not know Lazarus, as I move in good society: yet I am glad to see him with the
                     cheerful smile on his pale, thin face; and when he passes on this side of the
                     street, I sometimes drop slyly a piece of money into his bosom, and laugh to
                     myself, as I draw back, fancying his puzzled expression. I related this
                     incident at dinner, the other day, to my friend Dives and his guests; but he
                     raised the question whether such things were advisable, the public charities
                     being amply sufficient for meritorious sufferers, while individual relief
                     encouraged pauperism and idleness.
                  "But, my dear Dives," I said with a smile, "suppose the coin which I dropped
                     bought some small articles for the children of Lazarus, and so gave them
                     pleasure far greater than any I could have enjoyed by spending the money?"
                  "The principle in the thing," replied my friend, sipping his claret and shaking
                     his head, "the principle is bad. As members of society, we are bound to observe
                     the laws of society; and as, in a state of society, we must be governed by the
                     rules and regulations of that society, so I think, as a member of that society,
                     you were rather bound to have this individual sent to prison as a vagrant on
                     society, than to encourage him in what must eventually render it necessary to
                     make an example of him for the good of society."
                  Those were the words of Dives; and as my friend the Reverend A. Caiphas asked
                     me at the moment to take wine, the discussion was not resumed. I am obstinate,
                     nevertheless, and shall probably continue to outrage the rules and regulations
                     of "society," if the whim seizes me, when Lazarus passes beneath my window.
                  I am running on pretty much at random, and shall not, at this rate, get to my
                     story. But I take so much interest in my window observations, that I am led to
                     weary you with them. A word more, and I shall get regularly to my
                     narrative.
                  Besides Dives and Lazarus, I see many other figures pass on the street. I see
                     Strephon go by in the tightest boots, the finest kid gloves, and the glossiest
                     hat, escorting Miss Almira, the daughter of old Two-per-cent; and I stand, or
                     rather lean, in silent admiration of her gorgeous appearance, as she sails by,
                     rustling in silks and satins, with a bird of paradise upon her bonnet. She has
                     chosen to walk on account of the sunshine, and the great carriage, with its
                     liveried driver and footman, rolls by, unoccupied. It is a pity that the poor
                     girl yonder slinking round the corner, and looking so faint and weak, can not
                     ride a little in it; and I fancy Strephon might procure this favor for her, as
                     the weak girl exchanges a look with him, which seems to indicate acquaintance.
                     The three figures pass on, and disappear; but somehow, the look of the pale,
                     weak girl dwells in my memory, and haunts me. Well, I weary you, good friend,
                     and another word ends my window pictures. In addition to the figures I have
                     mentioned, my observant eyes descry the merry forms of children dancing over
                     the velvet sward of the public square—rolling their hoops, playing by the
                     fountain, and shouting at their play. Their sweet faces please me; and the bright eyes seem to make the
                     day more brilliant, the deep blue sky of a softer azure. It is only in the
                     afternoon that I see them, for in the morning they are at school.
                  One of them wears a blue dress, and a white chip hat, secured beneath her chin
                     by a pink ribbon—and, thus accoutred, she passes every morning to school,
                     directly opposite my window.
                  As I gaze, with my shoulders drooping, my fingers inveterately thrumming, my
                     eyes half-closed, and my lips wreathed with smiles, a little sad, perhaps, in
                     their expression, I see my little friend come tripping along by the row of
                     elms, cased in their square boxes, and I am pleased to see her bright figure,
                     lit up by the sunlight which dances on her curls, her straw hat, her checkered
                     flag satchel, gaily swung upon the bare arm, and the little boots of crimson
                     morocco, tightly fitting to her delicate ankles. I wait for her, and look for
                     her appearance, and when she comes, I follow her with my eyes, as she arrives
                     opposite, and then disappears round the corner. She is different from some
                     other young ladies of my acquaintance, who pass on a similar errand. These
                     latter look up as they pass, at my grizzled hair, my gray mustache, my
                     carelessly thrumming fingers, and I know very well, that at such times, they
                     are thinking who on earth the old fellow at the window can be; the curious old
                     fellow, always leaning from the very same opening, in the very same way, and
                     smiling as he beats his tattoo, with the very same idle and dreamy
                     expression.
                  My little friend of the blue dress and white chip hat does not treat me quite
                     so cavalierly. As she passes, every morning, she raises her blue eyes, and
                     smiles in the most winning way, nodding her head in token of recognition, and
                     thus causing a profusion of brown curls to ripple around the brightest cheeks
                     in the world. Having thus indicated the pleasure she experiences in seeing me
                     smiling and well, my little friend kisses her hand, laughing, and tripping on
                     more rapidly, to make up for lost time, vanishes round the corner, singing
                     "Lucy Neal," or "Lily Dale," or some other melody dear to the hearts of
                     organ-grinders.
                  This brief and fitting exchange of friendly attentions between myself and the
                     child takes place every morning, and, when she disappears, I close my window,
                     and leaning back in my favorite chair, the red velvet yonder, light my old
                     meerschaum and ponder. I generally remain thus, silent and motionless, for an
                     hour before I commence reading the newspapers, over whose contents it is my
                     habit to growl and vituperate.
                  I am going now to tell you what I think about in these morning reveries, and to
                     explain the circumstances which attended my engagement, which engagement
                     unfortunately interferes with any matrimonial views in connection with my
                     friend, Miss Tabitha. I see that the corner of her curtain has fallen, and so
                     we are entirely to ourselves.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER II.
                  A SCHOOL GIRL.
                  I REACHED the age of twenty-five without ever having been in love.
                  I do not deny, that two or three times I had fancied myself smitten by the
                     charms of young ladies with pretty lips and rosy faces. I am sure, however,
                     that I by no means loved them, and that, simply because their
                     smiles or frowns neither pleased nor grieved me in any considerable measure—an
                     excellent test, in my opinion, and one which quite satisfies me.
                  I tranquilly pursued my daily occupation, which was that of a clerk with a
                     moderate salary, in the house of Wopper & Son, now dissolved; and after my
                     routine in the counting-house, generally spent my evenings in strolling about
                     and reflecting upon my prospects. I was an orphan, and there were very few
                     congenial companions at the house where I boarded, so I was left pretty much to
                     myself, and was not embarrassed in the selection of amusements, by any one's
                     suggestions.
                  Thrown thus upon my own resources, I looked around for something to interest
                     and occupy my mind, and I found this object of interest in a girl whom I met
                     regularly every morning at the corner yonder, where my present little friend
                     disappears on her way to school.
                  The figure of the maiden of old times was not unlike my little friend's to-day;
                     but the former one was much less gaily clad; her face was covered with a green
                     veil, and she was older—about seventeen.
                  Regularly every morning, after breakfast, as I went to Wopper & Son's with
                     the punctuality of a clock, I met my friend coming round this corner, and the
                     encounter became an expected pleasure, which I could not forego. I knew nothing
                     of the girl, except that she, doubtless, liked blue tints, which everywhere
                     appeared in her cheap and simple clothing. She generally walked with her head
                     down, conning a school-book which she held beneath her green veil, and for some
                     time she never encountered my eyes with her own.
                  At last, as we went by each other at the same hour every morning, and as my
                     dress was seldom altered in those days, she noticed me, and we would exchange
                     looks. Then I saw her, with her veil raised, come around the corner looking for
                     my familiar figure, then we exchanged glances of half recognition.
                  Things had reached this stage, when, one day, as I was coming up to dinner, and
                     just as I was crossing the street, half-way down the square yonder, by the
                     little wooden house, my attention was attracted by a scream; I raised my head
                     quickly, and at the same moment saw the breast of a horse strike the form of a
                     girl within two paces of me. I was an active young fellow then, and with a single motion of my hand
                     caught the animal by the bit, forced his foaming mouth backward, and with the
                     other arm supported the girl, who was near fainting. The horse was ridden by an
                     urchin who could not manage him, and galloping down the street he had nearly
                     crushed the girl.
                  She now half leaned upon my arm in an attitude of terror and weakness, and a
                     glance at her countenance told me that she was my friend of the corner. I need
                     not say that the circumstance did not displease me; and when she came to
                     understand that her deliverer, as the romance writers say, was the owner of the
                     face so familiar to her, too, I don't think she was less pleased than
                     myself.
                  I asked where she lived; and she replied, in a hurried and timid tone, that the
                     little wooden house you see yonder was her mother's, and that she was returning
                     thither from school. I offered her my arm with that simplicity and sincere
                     respect which sprung then, as it springs now, from my admiration for a pure
                     woman, young or old; and, leaning upon the arm, the girl reached her mother's,
                     and, in the same timid tone, asked me to enter.
                  I was very glad to obey, and found myself in a small apartment, very poorly and
                     cheaply furnished, but with an air of respectability and neatness about it,
                     which indicated taste and refinement in the occupants. In one corner sat an old
                     lady in a black bombazine dress, busily knitting, which operation she followed
                     with eyes covered with large spectacles.
                  The old lady looked very much frightened when the girl related her adventure;
                     and the expression of gratitude upon her thin countenance, when my part was
                     described, remains with me even now as one of my most delightful
                     recollections.
                  I will not lengthen out the description of this scene, when, for the first
                     time, I made the "speaking acquaintance" of Annie Claston. Her mother was the
                     widow of a poor clergyman, and managed, as I afterwards learned, by close and
                     rigid labor and economy, to supply the wants of the little household and send
                     Annie to school. The girl had protested, almost with tears, against this,
                     declaring that she was old enough to help her mother and not be a burden; but
                     the old lady still preserved her ideas about training and education, and Annie
                     was forced to submit.
                  The acquaintance thus auspiciously commenced was not suffered to languish. More
                     than ever, I had an object of interest to occupy my thoughts, and soon it began
                     to occupy my heart. I now looked more eagerly than ever to see Annie at the
                     corner; and I think I may add that judging from the bright expression of her
                     countenance, she was also pleased at our meetings. We generally paused a moment
                     to exchange a clasp of the hand and a few words and smiles, and then we passed
                     on. I do not know that she thought of me again until we met next morning; but I
                     am very certain that her image never left my thoughts for fifteen consecutive
                     minutes throughout the day. Old Wopper, more than once, had occasion to ask me
                     if I was asleep, and whether the
                     pile of goods would be shipped if I only stared them out of countenance; and I
                     think, if my imagination had been a photographic medium, the ledgers of the
                     firm would have been covered with ten thousand pictures of a young girl in a
                     blue dress, with curls on her neck. These pictures would have pleased most
                     persons more than the entries; and this introduces a brief outline of
                     Annie.
                  She had deep blue eyes, brown hair, a complexion as white as snow, and lips as
                     crimson as carnations—I have never seen any so red. A delicate pale rose tint
                     touched the centre of each cheek, and the expression of her countenance was the
                     perfection of modesty. Look! here is her miniature, taken long afterwards from
                     a pencil sketch I made, and the likeness is excellent. Now that you see I have
                     not painted a figure of my imagination, I will proceed.
                  A few days after the accident I called one evening, with a beating heart, at
                     Annie's mother's—with a beating heart, I say, for those "long, long thoughts,"
                     as the poet says, and our regular meetings had suddenly, in a single night, as
                     it were, blossomed into love.
                  I was warmly received by mother and daughter, who with the simplicity and
                     confiding sincerity of elevated nature, did not doubt for an instant that I was
                     what I seemed. I spent an evening, every moment of which appeared to me a
                     separate and perfect world of happiness, and when I returned to my poor chamber
                     I leaned my head upon my hand, and remained lost in thought for an hour, and
                     when I lay down I dreamed of her, and woke thinking of the girl, and trying to
                     ask God to bless and protect her. I am not ashamed of that prayer, friend of
                     years, and do not doubt that it rose to the throne of the Almighty. Let what
                     will happen—let things look as they may—I bow my head and submit myself, as a
                     child, to Him who rules us, and sends the sunshine or the storm, as He
                     wills.
                  I will not lengthen out this portion of my brief story either, but get on to
                     the end of it. For some months I continued to visit Annie, almost every evening
                     now; and as I met her as of old, at the corner yonder, her beauty and goodness
                     filled my life, as it were, and riveted those chains which her loveliness and
                     purity had bound me with. I loved her with all the deep and earnest passion of
                     my nature, and she saw that I did, and was too innocent and destitute of art to
                     feign indifference. I had, at the end of the time I have mentioned, the
                     unspeakable happiness of knowing that I was as dear to her as she was to me;
                     and now, looking back through a life of many decades, I recall no sensation
                     approaching in blissful intensity of happiness that first throb of rapture,
                     upon finding that the lovely and pure-hearted girl had dowered me with the
                     whole affection of her nature. I think God gives us on this earth few purer or
                     happier emotions, and I humbly thank Him for this gift to me, His unworthy
                     creature.
                  I was Annie's accepted lover.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER III.
                  TWO RIVALS.
                  WITH the exception of three or four elderly ladies of the neighborhood, reduced
                     in circumstances, like Mrs. Claston, no one visited at the house to which I so
                     regularly bent my way, but a young man named Lackland.
                  He was the son of a wealthy merchant, who had formerly been a parishioner of
                     Annie's father, in the country, and his acquaintance with the young girl had
                     commenced accidentally at a small evening party in the neighborhood. Lackland
                     was about my own age, and might have been called handsome, but for the weak and
                     irresolute expression of his lips, and the lurking and uneasy glance of his
                     eye—characteristics which he vainly tried to conceal beneath a laughing and
                     careless manner.
                  From the first moment of his meeting with Annie, he fell in love with her, as
                     completely as was possible with him; and as his father's wealth was placed, in
                     a great measure, at his disposal, he understood the advantage which the
                     circumstance gave him, and used it.
                  I will tell you in a moment how he managed to impress upon the young girl the
                     possession by himself of exactly what I lacked—an abundance of money. I will
                     say first, that the young man dressed in the most splendid fashion; that his
                     equipage was in the finest taste, and that every trait of his manner, down to
                     the most unconscious movement, showed that he was accustomed to the highest and
                     most fashionable society.
                  Nevertheless, he did not advance in the opinion of Annie, or her mother, and I
                     had, what to a lover is the profoundest pleasure—the conviction that a moment
                     of my society was more valued by Annie than an hour of his.
                  The wealthy young lover affected not to understand this, although it was plain
                     to the commonest apprehension, I thought. In spite of everything he did not
                     seem to understand that his visits were unwelcome, and persisted in frequently
                     coming in the evenings, in spite of his cool reception. On these occasions he
                     bowed with an easy air; saluted me, when I was present, with friendly
                     familiarity, and sat down, playing with his hat and smiling. It was impossible
                     for Annie to treat any one discourteously, and though she had taken a dislike
                     almost to Mr. Lackland, she did not betray this impression, but met all his
                     advances with the most perfect and maidenly courtesy, but nothing more. I have
                     never seen a more perfect exhibition of what is called the "high-bred air,"
                     than that of the girl on these occasions, and Lackland seemed to think as I
                     did, that any man might be proud of such a wife.
                  
                  The visits of the young man were continued as regularly after our engagement as
                     before, and he had for some time been sending Annie very handsome presents,
                     anonymously, and in such a way that they could not be returned but just with
                     that transparent veil thrown over them which the eye easily pierced.
                  One evening a servant handed to the maid at the door a small box, and then
                     disappeared without waiting for an answer, or leaving any gentleman's name. The
                     box was succinctly addressed to "Miss Annie Claston," and contained a pair of
                     magnificent bracelets.
                  When I came Annie showed me the jewels, and I at once recognized them, having
                     seen Lackland purchase them that morning at White's. The young lady asked me to
                     advise her what to do, as she was convinced that Mr. Lackland had sent them. I
                     did not mention my meeting with him, and felt unpleasantly about it. I begged
                     her not to give herself any annoyance, that I would return them, frankly
                     informing Mr. Lackland of her disinclination; and on the next morning I did
                     so.
                  I met my gentleman coming out of the Club, whither I had gone to seek him, and
                     handing him the box, said that Miss Claston had commissioned me to thank him,
                     but to beg him to receive back the jewels.
                  "Jewels!" said the young man, swinging his ivory-headed cane, and holding his
                     other hand behind his back, "what can you mean, my dear fellow?"
                  "In the present instance, jewels means bracelets, Mr. Lackland," I
                     replied calmly.
                  "Bracelets!" he returned, with an air of surprise.
                  "Yes, sir, bracelets which you sent to Miss Claston last evening."
                  "I!" he repeated in the same tone, "really, you are going too fast, sir."
                  I think, Mr. Lackland, I move at a pace exactly in accordance with my calling,
                     which is that of a mercantile clerk. I am now on my way to the counting-house,
                     and my time is valuable. I beg to repeat, that Miss Claston has commissioned me
                     to thank you for these jewels, but begs that you will pardon her for returning
                     them."
                  The irresolute and uneasy expression came to his face, and mingled itself with
                     the irritation.
                  "Really, sir!" he said; "I am subjected to actual persecution. You wish to
                     force me to receive back what I never sent."
                  "Mr. Lackland!" I said, profoundly astonished at this falsehood.
                  "Sir!" he said, stiffly.
                  "You will pardon me," I said satirically, "but I saw you purchase these very
                     jewels yesterday morning at White's. Doubtless the circumstance has escaped
                     your recollection."
                  His face turned crimson as I spoke, and an angry flash shot from his eyes.
                  "Well, sir!" he said angrily, "you seem to make it your business to keep watch
                     over my movements! Suppose I did send that box, and suppose I
                        did wish to conceal my agency in sending it—what concern is it
                     of yours, sir?"
                  "I choose to make it my concern, sir," I replied coldly, "and if you address another observation
                     to me in that tone, you shall answer it elsewhere."
                  I never knew before that he was a coward. His cheek blanched, his eyes lowered
                     themselves before my angry glance, and he did not reply.
                  "Mr. Lackland," I said, "I regret that this conversation should have taken a
                     turn so unpleasant. I have not the least desire to quarrel with you, sir, and
                     wish simply to discharge the commission which I have undertaken, as a friend of
                     Miss Claston. She begs to thank you for this gift, but can not receive it, and
                     I now return it."
                  With these words I placed the box in Lackland's hand, and bowed and left him.
                     From that moment, as I knew afterwards, he hated me with all the bitterness and
                     malice of a small and cunning nature. You will see how his hatred developed
                     itself.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  PARTING.
                  ANNIE and myself had entered into our engagement with that thoughtless
                     precipitancy of youth which older and wiser heads visit with so much
                     reprobation. My salary was entirely insufficient for the comfortable support of
                     two persons united in the holy bonds of matrimony, and, after long and sad
                     discussions upon the subject, it was the conclusion of the little household
                     that we must wait for happier times.
                  Long engagements are a great evil; and they should, I think, be avoided, if
                     possible, in all cases. To see the phantom of married happiness constantly fly
                     before you, eluding your grasp, and laughing pitilessly at your despair—this is
                     sufficiently saddening. But there is the further consideration of the young
                     lady's position. The knowledge of her engagement on the part of her associates
                     is more or less embarrassing, and I have known many gentlemen who declared it
                     impossible to enjoy the society of such a lady—"talking to you at random, and
                     looking over your shoulder at her intended." It is true Annie did not give a
                     thought to this, and she declared
                     her willingness to wait just as long as she lived; but altogether it was
                     disheartening.
                  Just when we had arrived finally at the conclusion that we must wait, and that
                     I must look around for some improvement in my situation, I was one morning
                     accosted by an old merchant who had professed a great friendship for me, and
                     informed that he had a proposal to make me. He soon unfolded his idea: it was
                     that I should go to Rio de Janeiro for a year or two, and act as his mercantile
                     correspondent; and he supported his proposition by offering me just thrice the
                     salary which I then received. He would give me a week to think of it, he said,
                     and then we parted.
                  I need not tell you that this proposition was the subject of the most anxious
                     consideration to me throughout the week, for the idea of leaving Annie nearly
                     unmanned me and paralyzed my resolution. The dear girl saw the struggle in my
                     breast, and understood perfectly that she was the obstacle in the way. She
                     besought me not to refuse—that, great as her distress would be to part with me,
                     it would distress her still more to reflect that she embarrassed my movements
                     and clogged my advances toward prosperity; and she added that I need not be
                     uneasy about them at home, for they were now very comfortable. Mrs. Claston
                     urged the very same views.
                  It was not until Annie and myself were alone, that leaning her lovely head upon
                     my shoulder, she cried, and said she would remain "mine in life and death." I
                     recollected these words afterwards.
                  Well, not to lengthen out my story, at the end of the week I accepted the offer
                     of my friend Mr. Aiken; and having made every arrangement with the house where
                     I had been employed, I sailed in a month.
                  I went on shipboard one night; and thus remained with Annie and her mother all
                     the evening. I recall that evening now perfectly; and especially the crimson
                     sunset flooding the trees of the square yonder, from whose summits crowns of
                     gold seemed gradually lifted by the fingers of the night. Mrs. Claston was a
                     little indisposed, and I took leave of her in her chamber—receiving with tears
                     almost that blessing which she gave me, laying her thin white hand on my head,
                     as I kneeled beside her. The storms of many years have beaten upon my brow, and
                     changed to gray my raven hair, or swept it away, but still the touch of that
                     pale thin hand of the pure lady is on my brow, and I kneel before her once more
                     on that night of parting.
                  Annie and myself lingered long in the little parlor I need not say; and the
                     golden crowns all disappeared from the fringed summits of the elms before we
                     parted. It was not "in one blind cry of passion and of pain"—but it went near
                     to unman me. Those caresses and endearments which are the language of lovers,
                     and have therefore been derided by the cold and stupid world which does not
                     know that God has given them to His creatures to express the depth of pure and
                     holy love—those faltering words and tearful pressures of the hand which say so
                     much, were a thousand times ended and renewed; and then the end came.
                  Annie wrung her hands, and like a fearful child followed lowed me to the door. It was nearly dark, and I
                     must go. I turned to take leave of her again—but throwing a handkerchief over
                     her head, which made her countenance resemble a Madonna's weeping, she drew me
                     toward the corner, some steps distant only as you see, there to bid me
                     farewell.
                  I had there first met with her—there she had seen me, too, for the first time.
                     As our eyes now met in a long, long look, the whole past rose up again, and
                     condensed itself into a moment—a moment crammed with love and happiness, the
                     recollection of which threw a glory almost over the canopy of night.
                  And there at the old corner we parted—a long embrace; smiles breaking through
                     tears in the eyes of a man and a woman—that was the spectacle which the
                     friendly stars beheld.
                  Annie went back, crying, and I continued my way to the wharf and embarked. When
                     I opened my eyes the sun was rising over the Atlantic. But I saw nothing but
                     the figure of the maiden—I felt nothing but the sweet agony, the bitter
                     pleasure of that parting.
                  It is well that I looked back instead of forward: but let me proceed in
                     sequence.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  THE RETURN.
                  I WAS reading, the other day, a book which has been much spoken of in
                     Europe—the story of a poor, lost girl, from the dark gulf of whose nature, full
                     of woful depravity and misery eating into her heart like a cankerworm, a flower
                     of innocent love springs up, and purifies her, smoothing her dying pillow. I
                     thought at first that the work was a fiction; but it was too strange.
                  Only the thoughtless and unobservant will consider what I have said a paradox.
                     We do not get at fact anywhere, because it wraps itself in the
                     triple folds of self-esteem, reserve, and fear; and thus, seeing only the
                     outside of life, some persons think that it is new, prosaic, and commonplace,
                     and that all the tragedies are attributable solely to the vivid imagination of
                     dramatists and romancers.
                  I know family histories which I would not dare to relate in their naked, simple
                     details, though the scene were laid in another land and the names changed, for
                     the majority of my listeners would declare me crazy. I know histories of
                     individuals which I could verify step by step, incident by incident, from
                     yellow and moth-eaten eaten letters
                     and papers, which histories the world would no more believe, than they would
                     the existence of devils in a man of this century. They would rather say that I
                     forged the papers, than credit what would make their hair stand on end. But I
                     am wandering from my story, which is not quite so terrible as some others, my
                     dear friend, though, at the time, it seemed to me that woful tragedy and
                     despair had touched its climax.
                  I remained in Rio de Janeiro for three years; and at the end of that time set
                     sail homeward, with the satisfactory feeling that I possessed what was amply
                     sufficient to enable Annie and myself to commence house-keeping. My delight, as
                     I approached the friendly shores of my native land, was even increased by the
                     fact that I had not received one line from home for more than a year; and while
                     the explanation of this lay simply in the fact that the ocean mails were very
                     irregular, I had often felt a sort of foreboding, such as most persons
                     experience when they love deeply. At such times we fear that such an immensity
                     of happiness as we dream of can not be unmixed, even if it exist: the heart
                     doubts, however powerfully the mind reasons against these doubts; and we wait,
                     in trembling suspense, the sight of the familiar shores, the old mansion, the
                     beloved face.
                  Thus, while I experienced the most exquisite delight as I saw the well-known
                     rows of buildings and discerned many familiar forms upon the wharf, I waited
                     with anxious expectation for the moment when I should recognize a building more
                     familiar still, a face more dear to me than all the world.
                  Ten minutes after entering the hotel, and after throwing merely a passing
                     glance at my brown face and long, black mustache in the mirror, I was at the
                     door of the little wooden house yonder. Everything was just as I had left
                     it—the honeysuckle blossomed on the porch, as it did on that evening in June
                     when I parted with Annie; a pigeon or two circled in the golden atmosphere, or
                     lit upon the roof; even the curtain at the window of the little parlor, from
                     behind which Annie watched with tender eyes, as I left her every evening, was
                     still there; the trees, lastly, of the beautiful square rustled in the warm
                     breath of the summer evening, and on their imperial summits the same crowns of
                     gold were slowly lifted by the dusky fingers of the twilight. Every object,
                     every ray, every shadow, every odor—there was nothing that did not speak
                     eloquently of Annie; and leaning for an instant against one of the white
                     pillars, I placed a hand upon my heart to still its throbbing. I look back now
                     on the figure of myself, standing there on the very threshold of my fate, and
                     almost feel again what I felt soon after.
                  A strange servant came to the door. Was Mrs. Claston or Miss Annie at
                     home?—Sir? Was Mrs. Claston at home? I repeated; if so, tell her that a friend
                     had come to see her. The reply was that Mrs. Claston did not live there, but
                     she would see. The maid went and told her master, who came at once and invited
                     me in. I entered the little parlor, and, for a moment, thought the beating of
                     my heart would alarm the host. He did not seem to observe my agitation,
                        however—he was a fat,
                     good-humored old gentleman, not given to imaginative exertions—but in a polite
                     and smiling fashion invited me to be seated.
                  I sat down; and again my eyes made the circuit of the apartment, whose
                     mantel-piece, cornice, wainscoting, and curtain, brought vividly back the old
                     days with Annie. With Annie!—yes, with Annie! I was losing time—and I turned to
                     my host.
                  The information which he conveyed to me, was briefly as follows: Mrs. Claston
                     had been dead for a year, and he had understood that her daughter had gone to
                     live with an aunt at the other end of the city, whose name he had heard but did
                     not remember. Was Mrs. Claston a friend of mine? He was extremely sorry to have
                     uttered what seemed to distress me so much.
                  And, seeing me almost unmanned by the distressing intelligence he communicated,
                     the kind old gentleman bustled out and returned with some wine, which he forced
                     upon me. I touched the glass only to my lips, and, thanking him, rose to go. He
                     suddenly called me back as my foot touched the threshold, and said that he now
                     remembered the name of the lady with whom Mrs. Claston's daughter went to
                     live—Mrs. Peters. I thanked him again and took my departure, leaving, with slow
                     steps and a heavy heart, that house in which I had been so happy. I had thus
                     lost one most dear to me: that blessing, as I knelt by her, was to be an
                     eternal one, never to be renewed; beyond the stars of the bright evening, the
                     white face shone with the glories of heaven. The kind, pure lady was gone, but
                     she had left me a priceless consolation in Annie. As I thought of the girl, my
                     heart throbbed and my cheek glowed—from death I returned to life.
                  I went to a shop and asked for a directory; I had known the man, but he did not
                     recognize me, with my hair crisped by the tropical sun, my cheeks burned of a
                     deep brown, and my lips covered with a long, black mustache. I easily found the
                     address of Mrs. Peters, and thanking the man, who said I was very welcome, and
                     I thought gazed curiously at my foreign dress, I walked rapidly away.
                  I preferred walking, as the exertion was some relief to my overburdened
                     feelings—feelings oscillating like a pendulum, uneasily, between gloom and
                     delight, between hope and fear.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  A WOMAN.
                  I HAD gone two or three squares, and was crossing the street, when a carriage,
                     drawn by two splendid horses, with a driver and footman in livery, passed
                     rapidly before me; and as the brilliant equipage flashed on, enveloping my
                     person in a cloud of dust, I distinctly perceived, framed as it were in the
                     velvet-edged opening, the face of Annie.
                  I stood gazing after the carriage, which disappeared around a corner, with an
                     expression upon my countenance, I am sure, of perfect stupefaction. Then I had
                     found the person I was hastening to meet and clasp to my bosom with a hundred
                     kisses. I had found the Annie of old days, of the humble dwelling, of the timid
                     and modest existence, returning as it were, beneath the shadow of the old elms
                     which threw their wide arms above the humble roof—this Annie of my heart and my
                     dreams, I had found in the splendidly dressed woman, glittering with jewels and
                     satin and lace, and darting onward like a meteor in the downy velvet of a
                     splendid chariot, which scattered dust upon me as I stood, within
                     two paces, unrecognized.
                  I was not seen, it is true; but had I been seen, would I have been recognized?
                     I was simply a sunburnt stranger—a pedestrian who looked at a fine carriage as
                     it passed. Had the world turned from east to west, or was I insane or
                     dreaming?
                  Then the face of Annie, as she passed, rose before me again; I thought she
                     looked pale beneath the load of flowers above her brow—she looked sad in the
                     midst of this splendor. What did it mean?
                  There was an easy solution. I should doubtless know all from Mrs. Peters, whose
                     carriage she probably used. I had heard of this lady, the sister of Annie's
                     father, long a widow—and, as well as I could remember, not much had been
                     uttered in her praise. Well, we would see. And I set forward rapidly again
                     toward the house.
                  I found it at last. It was a very handsome residence, the front door approached
                     by marble steps, with an ornamental iron railing. I ascended and knocked.
                  A servant appeared, and I bade him carry my card to his mistress, and say that
                     I desired to see her.
                  I was shown into a magnificent parlor, in which everything was overpoweringly
                     splendid and arranged with the primmest elegance; and in ten minutes a rustling
                     of silk upon the stairway preluded the entrance of Mrs. Peters.
                  She entered, and inclined her head stiffly. She was a woman of about fifty,
                     with hard, cold features, an icy gray eye, and the heavy double chin indicated
                     a tendency towards good living.
                  "You wished to see me, sir?" she said, coldly, subsiding into a seat, and
                     holding the tip of my card, as if she would be glad to toss it, as one does a worthless piece of pasteboard, into
                     the fire-place. "Pray, to what am I indebted for the honor of your call?"
                  I saw in an instant this woman had distinctly made up her mind to oppose and
                     overcome me, and I had plainly nothing to expect from her but coldness, perhaps
                     insult.
                  "I came, madam," I replied calmly, "to see a friend of mine."
                  "Ah, sir!" she said, in the same tone of coldness.
                  "I refer to Miss Annie Claston, who is a very dear friend."
                  "Of yours, sir?"
                  And barbed with the deadliest hauteur, her insult struck me full in front; but
                     I only grew colder, in spite of the beating of my heart.
                  "Of mine, madam," I said, calmly. "It may possibly astonish you, that I, a poor
                     stranger—though not, I perceive, a complete stranger even to yourself—that I
                     should speak of Miss Claston as I do. But what I have said is simply the truth,
                     and it is quite impossible for me all at once to adopt an air of ceremony in
                     speaking of one—I may as well say—so dear to me. You can not be ignorant of the
                     relations existing between myself and your niece—you must understand——"
                  "I understand nothing, sir!" she said, contracting her brows with sudden and
                     haughty anger, "and I desire that you will not further confide to me your
                     private affairs!"
                  I rose from my seat and bowed, a movement which the lady imitated, in a manner
                     which indicated dismissal.
                  "I am sorry to have offended Mrs. Peters," I said, with a flushed cheek, "but I
                     have at least the satisfaction, in leaving her, to know that I have not uttered
                     a single word which could be construed into an impropriety. I have simply said
                     that Miss Claston occupies a position toward myself which it is impossible for
                     you to be ignorant of."
                  "And I have replied, sir," said the lady, flushing like myself with indignant
                     fire, "I have replied, sir, that I understand nothing."
                  "Is it possible that Annie has not told you?" I said, coldly.
                  "Will you be good enough to terminate this interview, sir?"
                  And trembling with anger and disdain, the lady deliberately tossed my card into
                     the fire-place.
                  "I shall certainly do so at once, madam," I said, with the most ceremonious
                     bow. "I am not naturally fond of insults, which you seem to take pleasure in
                     inflicting upon an unoffending gentleman."
                  My coldness, and the shadow of disdain in my voice, must have profoundly
                     enraged her; for, advancing a step, with flashing eyes, the folds of her great
                     chin swelling and her lips quivering, she said:
                  "I do not regard you as a gentleman—I know you perfectly well, sir, and I see
                     in you only the individual who attempted to take advantage of the unsuspecting
                     innocence of my niece, in order to inherit my property! I do mean to insult
                     you, sir! If Annie had married you, she might have starved and died in a
                     gutter, before I would have given her a mouthful! You need not put on that air of a great lord, sir!"
                     cried the furious woman; "that is what she would have come to, had you been
                     successful in persuading her to follow your beggarly fortunes! You practised
                     dishonorably upon her feelings, and inveigled her into your toils, and it was a
                     year before I could do away the effect of your arts. But I succeeded, sir; I
                     got the better of you. She confessed that you had tricked and deceived her—said
                     that she would never again think of you, sir! And I now inform you, for your
                     satisfaction, that my niece has been for six months the wife of Mr.
                     Lackland."
                  Had a thunderbolt fallen upon my bare brow, it could scarcely have produced a
                     more terrible effect upon me than did these words. I staggered, and raised my
                     hand to my eyes, before which a cloud of the color of blood seemed to pass,
                     from whose folds horrible faces peered at me, and pointed to me with long, bony
                     fingers and diabolical laughter. I gasped for breath; my bosom seemed weighed
                     down with a huge load, and gigantic fingers seemed to compress my choking
                     throat, and inject my temples with burning floods.
                  In the midst of this terrible phantasmagoria—when I was still oscillating upon
                     my feet—I saw indistinctly the face of the woman who had struck me to the
                     heart; and her countenance wore an expression of hateful triumph, for she
                     profoundly detested me and enjoyed my agony.
                  But she was nothing to me now at all. I did not look at her again. I did not
                     utter another word, but, putting on my hat, went away, feeling cold, though the
                     day was warm.
                  I remember stopping at the crossing where I had seen the carriage pass, and
                     smiling at my foolish fancy, that this fine lady with the nodding plumes had
                     any connection with my Annie—that she resembled her. I would go to
                     the hotel and change my dusty garments, and before the golden crowns rose from
                     the summits of the trees, would clasp to my heart the pure and faithful girl
                     and her dear mother, and mine.
                  I hastened on, and wondered if the passers by suspected my happiness: poor
                     creatures!
                  Before the hotel some Italians were playing on hand-organs, and a crowd was
                     laughing at the antics of some dancing dogs. I had time to look at them, and
                     sitting down, I commenced thrumming with my fingers and gazing with smiles and
                     delight at the merry dogs.
                  Five minutes afterwards a sort of cloud swept before my eyes, I heard a loud
                     exclamation, and some servants ran to me and lifted me from the pavement, upon
                     which I had fallen senseless.
                  For three months I was prostrated by brain fever, accompanied by delirium,
                     which brought me to the brink of the grave.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  THE OLD HOUSE.
                  ONCE, when I was travelling in Italy, I met, between Naples and Salerno, a
                     woman who walked wearily along the highway and, indeed, seemed scarcely able to
                     get out of the track of my horses. She was old and thin, and I offered her a
                     seat in my vehicle, which she accepted with a sort of wonder.
                  I asked her where she was going, and she told me her history. Her husband,
                     sister, father, and three children, had died, within ten days of each other, a
                     month before, and she was going to Salerno, to try and get employment.
                  She related all this without agitation, and scarcely sighing. I asked her how
                     she had been able to forget so soon—for, you know, I am a curious student of
                     human nature. The woman looked at me simply, and said, in her calm voice: "God
                     consoled me. My loss was a blessing."
                  "I understand," I said; "but these pious impressions might have been made upon
                     your mind without this immense misfortune."
                  I shall not soon forget her reply.
                  "Signor," she said, looking at me calmly, "on the blue days we play, and sing,
                     and keep the carnival. It is only when the sirocco burns from the south that we
                     feel who gives us the flowering laurels and the cool breezes of the sea."
                  The woman's answer touched the chord of memory, and I felt that we had gone
                     through a similar ordeal.
                  I rose from my sick bed entirely changed, and I trust that my life, since that
                     time, though not so useful as it might have been, has not been without benefit
                     to my species. The sirocco had burnt into my very soul, and I bowed my head and
                     submitted without groaning, after a while—and now wait for the hour when the
                     grass, if not the laurels, will whisper over me.
                  I converted my small savings into a letter of credit, and went
                     abroad—travelling for five years through Europe and the East. I saw a great
                     deal of human nature, I think; for I mixed with peasants and nobles—the high
                     and the low, the rich and the poor—coming, for all my pains, to the final and
                     most rational conclusion, that humanity is much the same in every land—that
                     Giovanni laughs or groans under much the same influences as John; that a knot
                     of ribbon and a festival pleases Lisette in Paris, as it does Betty in the
                     country here—that it's all the same old story.
                  I was beginning to count the florins in my purse now, when, one day, a packet
                     with a red seal was brought me, by a servant of my friend the consul's, and I
                     had the pleasure of being informed, by Israel Jones, attorney-at-law at-law, etc., etc., of my native
                     county, that I was sole legatee of my respectable uncle, deceased, who had
                     always quarrelled with me, and that the estate was estimated to be worth from
                     seventy-five to one hundred thousand dollars. I was glad to hear it, and as I
                     had seen enough of Europe, I thought I would return home, or to what had once
                     been a sort of home to me—to the spot where I had been, for a brief season,
                     wholly, completely, supremely happy. The song says truly, that "'tis home where
                     the heart is"; and I was just as strongly drawn toward the old place, and
                     figure, as when I sat in the counting-house at Rio de Janeiro, and sent my
                     heart across the seas to Annie, praying for me in another land.
                  Do you know why I loved her? We are considering, let us say, a mere series of
                     events, and, therefore, we may philosophize. My unabated love, then, for this
                     woman, in whom I had implicitly trusted, and who had broken my heart, sprung
                     from the fact, that, as a living person, she was completely dead to me. As far
                     as I was concerned she did not exist—she was mouldered to dust, beneath a piece
                     of sward, the grass waved over her. It was the Annie of my youth—for when I
                     returned I was already growing old—the Annie of former years that I loved.
                     Since the momentary glance which I had caught, on that evening as she passed
                     onward in her carriage, I had never laid my eyes on her; and I did not wish to
                     see her. All was broken between us—she was nothing to me, I nothing to her; we
                     went different ways—I and Mrs. Lackland.
                  My Annie was not Mrs. Lackland. She was the ever splendid and gracious vision
                     of my youthful dreams and hopes—the pure, faithful maiden, with the kind, frank
                     eyes, holding no trace of guile. My Annie never could have yielded
                     to the threats of a base and degraded woman, and broken an honest heart which
                     was wrapped up in her—ruined a man who cared nothing for life without her love.
                     Mrs. Lackland lived in a splendid house—my Annie in the humble cottage beneath
                     the elms. Mrs. Lackland rode in an elegant carriage, and wore satins, and
                     jewels, and birds of paradise—my Annie walked, and was clad in a little blue
                     dress and chip hat. Mrs. Lackland was a false woman, pining in magnificent
                     misery—the Annie of my memory and my heart was an angel, with an angel's purity
                     and happiness in her azure eyes. But I will not continue this dissection of my
                     heart—I will proceed with my story, which draws to an end.
                  The five years of my second absence had worked greater changes even than the
                     three years formerly—or as great. Every familiar face seemed to have
                     disappeared from the scene—even the faces of those who had wounded me most
                     cruelly; and I walked alone, not even encountering enemies—only strangers.
                  Lackland the elder had completely failed in business, two years before, and I
                     soon heard had wholly impoverished Mrs. Peters, who sank under the blow, and
                     died, soon afterwards, of apoplexy.
                  Young Lackland had become the slave of intemperance—had treated his wife with
                     notorious cruelty, and, finally, the father and son, with the wife of the
                     latter, had disappeared peared, no
                     one knew where. Thus every face was gone—I had not even a successful rival to
                     welcome me. I went to the little house, and found a new tenant, who stared at
                     me, and evidently thought me a suspicious character, when I looked around the
                     walls of the little parlor and sighed wearily.
                  I asked the name of the owner of the house, and, on the next morning, purchased
                     it. Three months afterwards, I occupied the house myself.
                  I will not pause to speak of the bitter pleasure which I experienced in this
                     house, where those golden days of the past had flown on, brilliant and serene,
                     like a morning of June, in the light of eyes now dim or dead to me. For long
                     hours I sat in the little parlor, where I had so often sat with Annie, dreaming
                     of the past, and breaking my heart with her image. There she had stood, resting
                     her white hand on the old mantel-piece, and looking at me, with eyes moist with
                     tenderness, when I rose to go; yonder she had sat, by the little table, with
                     the light upon her hair, the white collar around her snowy neck, her fingers
                     busily sewing in the long evenings, as I sat beside her; finally, there was the
                     window, and the curtain, which she thrust aside, to follow me with her kind,
                     tender eyes. I will not further dwell upon those hours of agony and delight, of
                     joy and anguish. One morning I knelt down on the spot where she had stood so
                     often, covered my face with my hands, and, crying like a child, prayed and
                     sobbed; and rose, finally, and went away.
                  I returned to Europe, and remained abroad for ten years this time—a wanderer in
                     many lands. As before, I occupied myself with that eternal, endless
                     study—humanity. At the end of the ten years I came back again, led by a
                     presentiment that something connected with my past was to happen to me. I was
                     not mistaken, as you will perceive when I have briefly related what occurred
                     soon after my arrival.
                  Briefly, I say; for upon this I dwell even less than upon other scenes; and my
                     history draws to its close.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  AT THE CORNER.
                  I CAME back, then, and found that the home of my early manhood was stranger and
                     more unfamiliar to me than the desert, Damascus, Rome, or the furthest bounds
                     of the East. "Here a god did dwell," as says the Latin poet; but his fane was
                     desolate, and the contrast made the familiar scenes more strange than an
                     untrodden wilderness. But the old house remained—because it was mine. While I
                     live it will stand, as it did nearly half a century ago.
                  This house and the corner where I had first met with the woman who had ruined
                     me, were the only landmarks by which I recognized the locality. As my object
                     was to live in the dead days, rather than the living, I secured the apartments
                     which I now occupy, and had thus before my eyes, constantly, the two
                     objects.
                  The neighbors talked for a month about the foreigner who lived so secluded, and
                     then they gave up talking, because they could discover nothing. All that they
                     found out was, my habit of walking about after nightfall—and, after awhile,
                     this habit failed, too, to excite curiosity. I went on dreaming and
                     promenading.
                  One night I had walked to the other end of the city—had returned nearly to my
                     apartments—and was passing the corner yonder, when a woman with a baby in her
                     arms touched my sleeve, and in a stifled voice asked charity. I was wrapped in
                     my cloak, wore a wide, drooping hat, and stood with my back to the gas-light.
                     The light thus fell upon the face of the woman—it was Annie!
                  I stretched out one hand, and leaned thus upon the cold iron of the lamp-post,
                     for a deadly faintness invaded my frame and arrested my blood.
                  She was wretchedly clad, her face was as thin and pale as a ghost's, and her
                     broken words were still further broken by a hacking cough. She said that she
                     was suffering from hunger, and that her child would die unless I aided her—"For
                     the love of God, sir!"
                  She held down her head as she spoke, and cried in silence, and this silence was
                     broken by myself.
                  I strangled a groan and a sob, which tore its way through my breast, and
                     said:
                  "Have you no husband?"
                  As I spoke, she raised her head quickly, with a wild light in her hollow eyes,
                     and gazed at me with a look of startled surprise—almost terror—which I shall
                     never forget.
                  "Yes!" I groaned. "I see you recognize me. I am George!"
                  She turned as pale as death, and tottered. I caught her in my arms, or she
                     would have fallen to the ground.
                  "No! do not! do not!" she cried, wildly. "I am not worthy to lean upon your arm! Let me kneel
                     to you, and ask you to forgive me, for I am miserable and heart-broken. But it
                     was not my fault. They told me that you were unfaithful!—that you were dead!
                     And my aunt forced me to marry the father of my child! Oh, no! no! Let me go
                     away—I will receive nothing from you. I can die now that I have told you,
                     George! God has led me here to give me one consolation before I die. It was not
                     my fault! I struggled long! No letters came from you, and in a weak hour I
                     yielded! Let me go—I am happy now, and can die more peacefully! Good-by!"
                  As she spoke thus, sobbing and shedding floods of tears, she withdrew herself
                     from me and turned to go. But the agitation of the meeting in her prostrated
                     condition was too much for her, and her weak steps wandered. She would have
                     fallen upon the pavement, had I not received her form in my arms. This time she
                     had fainted.
                  I forced open the door of the house there at the corner, and laid the cold form
                     upon a couch, in the midst of a startled group assembled around the evening
                     fire. A few words, however, explained all; and very soon Annie revived, and was
                     assisted to a chamber by the kind and compassionate ladies of the house.
                  In that chamber she died. With her last breath she explained all, and begged my
                     forgiveness. The diabolical plot, concocted by the woman Peters and Lackland,
                     was revealed in all its hideous deformity. They had endeavored at first to
                     tempt the girl by rich presents and by representation of my poverty. Then,
                     finding this unavailing availing, they stated that I was married to another.
                     Finding that the girl did not believe this, a letter was forged, announcing my
                     death. This was so adroitly done, that Annie had been convinced. That I was
                     unfaithful, she never would believe; but she was forced to give credence to the
                     story that I had fallen a victim to the fevers of the tropics. When she was
                     still prostrated by this intelligence, Mrs. Peters, to whose house she had gone
                     on the death of her mother, commenced a systematic attack upon her. She
                     resisted for a whole year; and then, worn out, despairing, more dead than
                     alive, went like a phantom to the altar and yielded herself up. Mrs. Peters was
                     rewarded for her exertions, and the girl was the wife of Lackland.
                  He possessed a body—the heart and soul were paralyzed or dead. They gave her
                     splendid dresses—she received them passively. They endeavored to cheer her
                     spirits—she gazed blankly at them, with eyes fixed far away, as on that evening
                     when she had passed me in her carriage—a phantom covered with satin and
                     jewels.
                  Then had come the failure of the elder Lackland—the intemperance of her
                     husband—the ruin of the family. Since that time she had been carried from city
                     to city by her drunken and tyrannical husband—abused, ill-treated, struck more
                     than once; and then, this man had been killed in a drunken brawl, leaving her
                     worn down by ill usage and sickness, with an infant at her breast.
                  She had struggled against her misery for a little space—then had come to
                     understand that the seeds of death were in her frame; and she had bent her
                     steps toward the scene of her brief
                     happiness and after misery, to lie down and die upon the threshold of her early
                     home, or on the grave of her mother. She had reached the place without money,
                     and exhausted by her journey, during which the exposure had aggravated her
                     complaint, and, for the first time, had begged assistance from a stranger.
                  That stranger was myself.
                  You know now, from this brief relation, the whole current of this woful life,
                     in which a poor girl was betrayed and brought to the grave, by a base and
                     inhuman woman, swayed only by avarice, and a coward, who was guilty of forgery
                     to effect his purpose. She told me everything in those last moments, when all
                     was again clear between us—when no cloud obscured the past—when, faint and
                     pale, like a white flower of autumn, she slowly faded and went from me.
                  It was the thin, white hand of my Annie which I held now in my own, and covered
                     with tears and kisses, praying, as I did so, with agonized supplications, that
                     God in His mercy would preserve her life, and bless me with the privilege of
                     consoling and comforting one whom I loved still, as no woman ever was
                     loved.
                  But it was unavailing. She slowly sank—the gentle, gradual undulation of her
                     slender form became fainter—with her hand in mine, and her dreamy eyes fixed to
                     the last upon my own, she went away from me; having to console her the
                     conviction that my love was greater even than before, and that I would be a
                     father to her child.
                  And past that corner, where I had first met her, young, smiling, with the light
                     upon her hair—past that corner she now went again, with nodding plumes; but,
                     oh! such sable plumes, which waved mysteriously toward another land! There, I
                     pray God, that I may join her; that we once more be united—forever united,
                     where the light upon her hair is the light of heaven. There, the two hearts, so
                     cruelly severed upon earth, will never again be separated, and hand in hand we
                     shall live and love eternally—for God is love.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  CONCLUSION.
                  MY story is done, good friend. I have related it calmly—with no sobs, no tears,
                     as you see.
                  Why should I? I do not look back shuddering and moaning; because, from that dim
                     region, a figure rises stretching toward me the softest and tenderest hands,
                     smiling upon me with the kindest and most loving eyes—consoling, and soothing,
                     and whispering to me of fairer scenes in another existence.
                  I think I am happy. You consider me sad sometimes, when I am only tranquil. The
                     dim look in my eyes, which you often refer to with the solicitude of a friend,
                     does not spring from sorrowful recollections—for I am thinking of Annie. All
                     the grief and passion has disappeared—tranquillity and kindness remain. I enjoy
                     many things—I do not keep away from my species. Dives invites me to dinner, and
                     I go; and when Mrs. Grundy sends me word that a few friends will assemble at
                     her residence on Thursday next, I put on a white waistcoat, and go up and
                     fulfil my social duty, by talking to all the elderly ladies, and exchanging
                     views with Mrs. Grundy upon the events and personages of the day, upon which
                     occasions I generally hear a good deal to amuse me. As a contrast to this "high
                     life," I entertain myself, as you know, with Lazarus, who is certainly a low
                     fellow, I must admit; but he interests me. I have told you that I sometimes
                     call at Miss Tabitha's, who certainly is an extraordinary likeness of a former
                     friend of mine, long since dead—Mrs. Peters.
                  As I retire, after one of these little evenings at Miss Tabitha's, I am apt to
                     murmur to myself, "forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass
                     against us."
                  To prove to you that I am not the sad, miserable old misanthrope and
                     disappointed individual the world may think me—to show you that I am still
                     pleased with the simplest things—I will add that even the sight of my little
                     school-friend, the one with the blue dress, who passes my window every morning,
                     touches and pleases me.
                  Her name is Annie Lackland.
                  The child lives with the family at the corner yonder; and when I make a
                     friendly call upon these excellent people, she calls me "Uncle George." I have
                     a fine young relative, about eighteen, who is studying for the bar, and the
                     rogue has already fallen desperately in love with the little maiden of fifteen.
                     Well—the match will not be imprudent, as my whole property will go at my death
                     to the young people.
                  What a fine evening it is! My story has filled the afternoon, and the golden
                     crowns are slowly rising from the summits of the elms, which glitter in the
                     sunset. The little mansion basks in the warm light—and look at that pigeon which has lit upon the portico,
                     embowered in the fragrant honey-suckle!
                  The street is filling with the merriest children—they dance, and laugh, and
                     play in front of the old house, which smiles upon them—the fountain in the
                     square is tossing up a cloud of cooling foam—and look! down there! do you see?
                     There is Annie at the corner!
               
            
            
               THE WEDDING AT DULUTH.
               I HAVE been at "Duluth" for a month, now, watching the movements of a little
                  feminine humming-bird. Her name is Fanny. She has been the pet of her old bachelor
                  cousin ever since she tottered about, and said "tuzzen" when she addressed me; and
                  the very first person who ran to meet me when I walked up from the old wharf on
                  the river through the elm-skirted avenue to "Duluth," was my young hummingbird,
                  now seventeen. She hastened on before everybody in the beautiful summer evening,
                  and when the family had greeted me, took quiet possession of me; drawing a cricket
                  to my side on the old shaded portico, and leaning her head with its bright auburn
                  curls against my shoulder, intent, she declared, upon "a good talk." She was
                  really fascinating at that moment, with the crimson of sunset lighting up her red
                  cheeks, and lips all smiles; and Duluth and all was bright with home and
                  welcome.
               
               I soon found that Fanny was, or appeared to be, amusing herself with two young
                  friends of hers of the opposite sex; and I have varied my tranquil perusal of
                  Montaigne and other favorites, on an old "rustic seat" in the shade of an ash on
                  the lawn, by musing upon the little comedy I see playing before me. I like such
                  diversions for I am a little—a very little—alone in the world. I am not unhappy;
                  for if life is not all roses, smiles, and sunshine, neither is it all gloom and
                  vanity and vexation of spirit in my eyes. I keep my sympathies too fresh for that,
                  and take too much interest in the happiness of those I love.
               I am putting down my notes from day to day. Fanny has negatived the Montaigne and
                  rustic-seat programme almost completely. What a little witch she is! She is
                  certainly a beauty, and constantly suggests a resemblance to a rosebud. Her cheeks
                  are red, her lips are red—the very little ears, peeping out from her ringlets, are
                  rosy. She has very large blue eyes, bright at one moment and then as soft as
                  velvet. And she is all the time laughing, teasing people, and running about like a
                  child. Mem. her feet are small, clad in morocco slippers, with large
                  pink rosettes, and secured by black bands crossed over the instep. Her name is not
                  Fanny Warren, and she is not the daughter of my good Cousin Henry Warren,
                  proprietor of "Duluth." She is Fanny Kincade, a connection, and is on a long
                  visit.
               Fanny came out to my seat this morning, and evidently designed conversation. So I
                  closed my book, smiled, made room for her, and said:
               "Well, my child, what have you done with Mr. Middleton?"
               Mr. Thomas Middleton being an elegant young gentleman from the city of B——, who
                  has now been two or three weeks at "Duluth" endeavoring to capture our little
                  bird, whom he met in town during the winter.
               Fanny's reply to my question was vivacious, but not to the point.
               "You are just the same ridiculous, absurd, darling old thing that you always
                  were," said the maiden, "and I do believe you are growing bald!"
               "What in the world has that to do with——"
               "You are growing old and smart!" exclaimed Fanny. "All bald people are smart. But,
                  oh! how glad I am to see you! Now, give me an account of yourself, you dear old
                  cousin—tell me everything; tell me——"
               "No, I thank you, madam," I responded, "I prefer hearing first all about yourself.
                  But, no; you are growing up, and will not confide in me as you did once."
               "Growing up? I am not growing up for you! I never will. What shall I confide?"
               "Your love affairs, of course."
               Fanny shook her head.
               "I haven't any love affairs, cousin. It's terrible, but I haven't!"
               I shook my head in turn.
               "That is impossible, Fanny. Have I no eyes? I have been at Duluth long enough to
                  see that Mr. Tom Middleton and my favorite Harry Warren are crazy about you."
               
               At the name of Harry Warren Fanny blushed a little, but immediately replied with a
                  laugh:
               "How absurd for me to think of Harry as—in that way! Why, he's my brother."
               "He is no relation to you—or very distant."
               "Well, near or far, relation or not, Harry cares nothing for me, and I care not
                  for him. I never lay eyes on him—he's down at that horrid old sawmill all day
                  long—and so let us talk about something else, cousin!"
               "Willingly; but we are not to have the opportunity. Here comes Mr. Middleton."
               I did not take notice whether Fanny was pleased or otherwise with the
                  interruption; I was absorbed in contemplation of the approaching visitor. Mr. Tom
                  Middleton was a handsome young gentleman, though his face might have been
                  considered a little effeminate. This fact, however, did not assort ill with the
                  rest of his appearance. He was a most elegant youth. His hands were white and
                  soft, his feet were small and cased in the tightest and most delicate French
                  boots; he held a kid glove in one hand, and dangled a light whalebone cane in the
                  other; his necktie was a wonder, his hair was curled—he was an Adonis
                  half-natural, half-fashioned by the best city tailor.
               The young gentleman's countenance was illumined by a gentle smile as he
                  approached. He fixed his eyes with modest ardor upon Fanny; and with a polite bow,
                  inquired in reference to my health this morning.
               I looked at Fanny. She was blushing a little, as when I uttered the name of Harry
                  Warren. Which was it?
               
                  II.
                  I do not know which it is. When I ask Fanny she simply responds that I am the
                     most ridiculous and absurd of all the old cousins that ever existed, and that
                     it is neither.
                  This, I am convinced, is a fib; and, with all her fine and excellent traits,
                     Miss Fanny is not above this reprehensible and immoral method of defending
                     herself. Indeed, I begin to think my little pet is developing an immense genius
                     for flirting. She has a way of looking over her shoulder while she is singing
                     at the piano, and directing the most languishing glances at tender portions of
                     the song toward her admirer, Mr. Middleton, as he leans in a graceful attitude
                     upon the instrument beside her; and, last night, I saw the young witch standing
                     on the portico in the moonlight, gazing down, pulling a rose apart leaf by
                     leaf, and listening with an air of modest confusion to Mr. Tom Middleton.
                  When the maiden was about to dart off to bed, I stopped her for a moment in the
                     passage, and drew her aside.
                  "Did he—propose?" I whispered.
                  Fanny placed her lips close to my ear—pursed up her mouth—whispered "No——o—o!"
                     and bursting into a ringing laugh, ran off to bed. I imitated her, except that
                     I did not run, and shaking my head, found myself muttering:
                  "Woman, woman!—and girls especially—who can understand you! Not I!"
               
               
                  
                  III.
                  I begin to fancy that I have the clue to Fanny's "views and intentions." I
                     think she has made up her mind to become Mrs.——Tom Middleton.
                  Before narrating the events of this evening, however—which events have brought
                     me to the conclusion in question—I will first say that Fanny has, in the most
                     shameless manner, acknowledged that she told me a flat fib in reference to the
                     scene upon the moonlit portico. She made her confession in the most penitent
                     way; declared that she was ashamed of herself: but she had forgotten, she said,
                     that it was her dear, ridiculous old cousin who asked the question; she never
                     had concealed anything from me—and—yes—Mr. Middleton had been good
                     enough to express his sentiments—and—she believed he had asked
                     her—if she would not——
                  There the young lady began to blush; then she burst out laughing, and leaning
                     her head upon my shoulder, looked up at me with her roguish, wicked eyes, and
                     said in a whisper:
                  "I said——'No!'"
                  "It was not 'no' that you said," I replied, "I observed the young gentleman
                     when he came in; he was sad, but not hopeless; and this morning at breakfast he
                     ate, as usual, the whole wing of a bird!"
                  "I do declare you are too bad!" was Miss Fanny's vivacious
                     rejoinder; "you are always laughing at Mr. Middleton, and making fun of him;
                     and I do believe—yes! I do—that you are trying to make me prefer—somebody
                     else!"
                  "Harry? Well, I should."
                  "And I do not."
                  "You do not like his big hands perhaps; and he has no cane or kid gloves."
                  "Absurd! But Mr. Middleton is the most agreeable—you know he
                     is."
                  "And therefore you said No! It was not that abrupt monosyllable
                     that you uttered, my dear—was it now?"
                  "Well—that is——" said Miss Fanny dubiously. "Well—I did not mean that I used
                     the exact word. Perhaps——"
                  I began to laugh in so satirical a way that Fanny boxed me, then kissed me to
                     make amends, and then asked me if I would not like to accompany her and
                     everybody to the sawmill—the dam was nearly washed away, and they were working
                     very hard to save it.
                  I at once put on my hat. Harry, I knew, would be foremost among the workmen;
                     there was positive danger, I well knew; and as the youth was a great favorite
                     with me, I hastened with my Cousin Warren, Mr. Middleton, and Fanny toward the
                     scene.
                  This sawmill has been, since the war, my cousin's main resource. His estate is
                     large, and once enabled him to live in the greatest comfort and even in luxury;
                     but with the high prices of labor now, and the successive failure of the crops
                     for some years, it would have been difficult, without the sawmill, to "make
                     both ends meet" at Duluth. It was formerly used only as a convenience on the
                     estate; but of late, when the demand for lumber has been active and the price
                     high, it has been looked to as a
                     source of profit, and, indeed, as I have said, has proved the main pecuniary
                     resource of the family. It has been managed entirely by Harry, who is just
                     twenty-one, and I don't think I have ever known a finer fellow. He is tall,
                     stalwart, with short, shaggy chestnut hair, frank hazel eyes, full of honesty
                     and determination too, and is silent, hardworking, and earnest. The most marked
                     trait in Harry is a cool independence. He enters a room with a firm, composed,
                     and stalwart tread, looks everybody straight in the eyes, smiles slightly, sits
                     down and opens a book, and all with an air which I like extremely; the air of a
                     man who works hard, has come in to rest, has nothing on his conscience, is
                     pleased in a quiet way with everything—and would like to have his supper and go
                     to bed! Sometimes I see Harry looking out from beneath the wide straw hat which
                     covers his shaggy chestnut curls and sunburned forehead at Fanny. But you read
                     little in his glance. I know him to be in love with her, but he has never
                     spoken a word of love to her, I am very sure.
                  A short walk brought us to the sawmill, and the scene which met our view was
                     worth the walk.
               
               
                  IV.
                  All the preceding day and throughout the night a torrent of rain had fallen,
                     and a small stream, which was dammed up by a rude dyke, and so furnished
                     water-power to turn the mill-wheel, was rushing on in the wildest and most
                     furious manner that can be imagined.
                  When we approached the spot where half a dozen of the hired hands were working
                     with Harry to save the dam, the stream was roaring in a hoarse and most
                     threatening style. Instead of decreasing, the freshet seemed gathering greater
                     strength with every passing moment. The surges lashed the fabric at the dam,
                     which shook and seemed about to give way. At one point now, and then at another
                     a part was torn away; the waters gushed through the gap, tearing it wider and
                     deeper, and it required the utmost exertions of the men, laboring with pick and
                     axe, up to their waists in the water, to hold the torrent at bay and save the
                     dam.
                  Harry was "in command" of the squad, and you could easily see that it was his
                     natural place, and that the rough workmen looked to him as the natural master.
                     His costume was not of the drawing-room description. He was up to his middle in
                     the water, axe in hand, and had on neither coat, waistcoat, nor hat. His arms
                     were naked to the shoulder, and the water had been dashed over him until his
                     face and hair were drenched. Tall, muscular, cool, directing everything, and
                     filling up every breach in the dam as rapidly as it was made, Harry was the
                     genius of the scene and the master of all around him—to the very water, it
                     seemed.
                  Twice he was swept from his feet and disappeared beneath the current; once a
                     timber struck him, and the lookers on uttered a terrified scream. An hour
                     passed in this conflict, and then the dam was saved. The water had begun to
                     fall, and the young man came out and walked up the bank to the spot where
                     everybody was standing. I glanced from the wet and dirty youth to the elegant Tom Middleton. The contrast
                     was certainly striking. Harry was a brawny athlete, sunburned, with shaggy
                     locks, coatless, bare armed, his pantaloons and boots full of water. Mr.
                     Middleton was irreproachably dressed; his boots shone, his shirt-bosom sparkled
                     with a diamond, he wore kid gloves, and his hat was smooth and glossy. Harry
                     came up, and as I was nearest, said:
                  "Well, cousin, the dam is all right."
                  He then looked about for his hat and coat, put them on, and informing us that
                     he was going to get some dry clothes as he was wet, walked toward the house—a
                     tall young giant, moving with a long swinging stride.
                  Fanny had not said a word to him. Did he notice that fact or look at his rival
                     Mr. Middleton? I do not know. But something has followed this scene; and this I
                     am about to relate.
                  Fanny and Mr. Middleton walked out upon the lawn in the beautiful moonlight
                     after tea, and the rest of the family sat on the porch conversing.
                  "I am going to Colorado," said Harry, who was smoking.
                  "To Colorado!" I exclaimed.
                  "Yes, cousin. I have a position upon a new railroad offered me, and I think I
                     shall accept it; in fact, I have made up my mind."
                  This was said coolly, but there was the least perceptible alteration in the
                     youth's voice.
                  "The truth is, I'm rusting here doing nothing. I have no career, and can not
                     help anybody. I shall be well paid on the railroad, and can send home plenty of
                     money, and live the life I like besides."
                  A step was heard on the grass, and I saw the white dress of Fanny in the
                     moonlight. I looked at her and saw that she was blushing—as to Mr. Middleton,
                     he looked the picture of happiness.
                  "I don't believe a word of it," exclaimed Fanny, with a little tremor in her
                     voice. "The idea of your going to Colorado! I should like to know what you
                     would do in Colorado?"
                  "I should be transit man on a railroad," said Harry with extreme composure.
                  Fanny tried to laugh, but did not succeed.
                  "You know nothing in the world about railroads."
                  "That is true," returned Harry with his immovable coolness; "but I have no
                     doubt I shall soon learn."
                  "And—and—you really do think of going so far from—us all—and by yourself."
                  This time Fanny was certainly moved. The small hand resting confidingly upon
                     Mr. Middleton's arm was agitated by a nervous tremor. The strangest smile came
                     to Harry's face—a rather bitter smile—but his voice was perfectly composed when
                     he spoke.
                  "I ought to be able to go by myself and take care of myself; and intend to
                     travel alone, unless I can get Mr. Middleton to go with me."
                  The elegant Tom Middleton smiled in a gay manner, and said:
                  "No, I thank you! I'm not in the engineering line. I think I prefer Duluth to
                     Colorado."
                  "You are right," said Harry quietly, "it is a much more agreeable place, I have
                     no doubt, to those who like it."
                  
                  With which words he rose, said he was tired, and went to his chamber, whither
                     his mother followed him.
               
               
                  V.
                  Fanny and Mr. Middleton had taken their seats at the other end of the portico.
                     My Cousin Warren had followed Mrs. Warren to Harry's room. I found myself
                        de trop and retired within also. When, an
                     hour afterwards, the bell rang for family prayer, Fanny and Mr. Middleton came
                     into the drawing-room, and a glance at his face convinced me more than ever
                     that he had "made his arrangements" with Fanny, and induced her to promise him
                     her hand. She was blushing and avoided my eye. When she retired she did not
                     look at me. Mr. Middleton was what the novel writers call "radiant."
                  This result of things has profoundly depressed me. Who would have believed it!
                     So my little hummingbird has flitted by the tall, stalwart sapling Harry, to
                     light upon the Middleton flower! Poor, poor Harry! I know that he loves her,
                     and he is going with the conviction that she is to marry his rival! Human life
                     is a sad, a very sad affair. Poor Harry!
               
               
                  VI.
                  I don't think human life is such a sad affair after all, and when I next assume
                     the tone of the author of the book of Ecclesiastes, I shall think my secretions
                     deranged.
                  The last lines written in this record of my days at Duluth referred to scenes
                     which took place one month ago. On the morning after the announcement by Harry
                     Warren of his intention to go to Colorado, I heard Fanny say to him in a low
                     voice as she passed him upon the stairs, "I want to see you—come out after
                     breakfast to the rustic seat;" and after breakfast duly the young people were
                     observed side by side, by the present historian, on his own favorite seat, of
                     which he was thus deprived.
                  I state frankly that I availed myself of my position in the drawing-room, where
                     I was reading behind one of the lace curtains, to look at the pair, and to try
                     and discover the nature of their interview. This, I regret to say, I found
                     impossible. My eyes begin to suffer from age, and the spectacles now made
                     strike me as wretchedly inferior. In an hour Fanny and Harry rose, and the
                     expression of his face was certainly more agitated than I had ever seen it
                     before. As to Fanny she was blushing deeply, and was unmistakably pouting, as
                     though something had occurred which was far from being to her taste.
                  When I tried to intercept her as she came in—Harry having left her at the
                     portico to go and attend to some of his farm avocations—she slipped by me,
                     would not hear my voice, and disappeared in her chamber, the door of which she
                     closed with a bang. I forgot to say that during the interview upon the rustic
                     seat, Mr. Middleton had been seated at the piano, upon which he was a really
                     excellent performer, and amused himself playing a bar here and there from one
                     of Fanny's operas. He smiled, I observed, in a confidential manner to himself,
                     and seemed to have no uneasiness on the subject of the interview between Fanny
                     and Harry. Had not his rival declared that he was going away—and——
                  
                  Fanny has just run in and thrown her arms around my neck, and burst into tears,
                     and laughed, and cried again, and then laughed again—and departed.
                  Was there ever such a little witch? And she thought I knew nothing about it! I
                     knew all about it. I listened, I eavesdropped, I acted on the sly, and behaved
                     generally in a most dishonorable and highly improper manner. It was last night
                     that I was guilty of the proceeding here denounced, and as after all I am not
                     so much ashamed of it, I shall tell how it happened.
                  Harry had made every preparation to go to Colorado to-day, and we were all in a
                     very gloomy state of mind about it—Fanny, I think, the gloomiest of all. She
                     would tell me nothing; had lost all her confidence, and remained so much of her
                     time in her chamber that it was almost discourtesy to Mr. Middleton.
                  Last night occurred the dénoûment. It was
                     about ten, and I woke from a prolonged nap on my old rustic seat to hear voices
                     near me.
                  "You must not go," said the voice of Fanny trembling.
                  "I must."
                  This voice was Harry's.
                  "It is perfectly absurd—you are going away—you say because, because——"
                  "Because I love you," came in deep, strong tones, and love you so much that I
                     would rather die than stay here and see you marry another person."
                  "I have no intention—to do so."
                  The voice fluttered.
                  "Fanny!"
                  This time it was Harry Warren's voice that trembled.
                  "What made you take such a foolish fancy?"—there was a little quiet attempt at
                     a laugh here—"I'll die an old maid before I'll marry the person you mean! And
                     oh, Harry! Harry! what a goose I must be, and a foolish little flirt, to have
                     everybody, yes everybody, even my dear old cousin (that was me) think me so
                     deceitful! I only told Mr. Middleton—or, rather did not tell
                     him—that—I wouldn't!"
                  I chuckled quietly. These two negatives charmed me!
                  Fanny's voice had sunk to a bashful murmur; then it died away.
                  "My dear, dear Fanny!"—I never heard a man's voice express such tenderness—"you
                     have made me very happy! Make me happier still. Tell me not to go to
                     Colorado!"
                  They had moved away, and I saw nothing, and heard no more. Yes I did. I heard a
                     kiss, and a sob, which appeared to be suppressed in some measure, from the fact
                     that the young lady's face was leaning upon Harry's breast.
                  There is no doubt of the result of the interview. Fanny has just announced with
                     blushes, laughter, and tears, as I have described, that she is engaged to
                     Harry; and as she has no relative but an old aunt, who is devoted to her, the
                     marriage may be regarded as already a fait
                        accompli.
                  
                  It has taken place. Mr. Tom Middleton was not present, having departed from
                     "Duluth" long since, with irate
                     general observations on the character of "flirts." I think he did Fanny
                     injustice. She only looked fascinating, and "didn't tell him that she
                     wouldn't!"
                  The wedding at Duluth was a charming affair, and Fanny looked exquisite leaning
                     upon the arm of her handsome and stalwart Harry, who is not going to Colorado.
                     He will do better—that is to say, take the management of the old Kincade
                     estate, which is going to rack and ruin, and transform it by his energy and
                     brain into a home of wealth and comfort for Fanny.
                  I never saw my little humming-bird look prettier than when she stood by Harry,
                     blushing and smiling under her white bridal veil and wreath. This morning they
                     left us on their little tour, and I felt the arms of Fanny around my neck with
                     a pang at my heart. The very sunshine seemed to go away with her.
               
            
         
      
   
