
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Kate Kilborn, or, Sowing and Reaping .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6991
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Kate Kilborn, or, Sowing and reaping 
            
                 
                 You have all the servant you will have, I can tell you,"--p 13, Kate Kilborn. I       KATE KILBORN; OR, SOWING AND REAPING. BY THE AUTHOR OF "JEANIE MORRISON." "Whatsoever a man soweth, that also shall ho reap." NEW YORK: ROBERT CARTER & BROTHERS, -No. 285 BROADWAY. 1856.   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, BY ROBERT CARTER US BROTHERS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.               , STEREOTYED BY               E. O. JEaB, THOMAS B. SMTH,               PRINTER, 82 & 84 Beekman Street.          22 & 24 Frankfort Ft. W \:S   CONTENTS. PAG3 I.--THE CONSULTATION ....... ............. . II.-SELFISHNESS .............   ...................... 13 "I.-MR. HAMLTON  ........  ............  18 IV.-A NEW ENGAGEMENT ..................... 23 V.-THE 'WEDDING.........  .................  29 VI.-THE SCHOOL PROPOSED ...................... 36 VII.-THE FIRST VISIT HOME. ...................  42 VIII.-THE HEARTLESS DAUGHTER ................ 52 IX.--A CHANGED PURPOSE ........... ........... 60 X.- -UNSANCTIFIED AFFLICTION . ................. 69 XI.--THE UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL ..... ........... 81 XII.- DEATH IN THE HOUSE ..................... 95 XIII.-w-NEW ARRANGEMENTS .... ... .............. * 102 XIV.-THE UNEXPECTED GUEST ................... 116 XV .--THE WORLDLING....................  ,  127 XVI.-THE  CHEERLESS HOME .......: ............. 135   Vi        \CONTENTS. PAGE XVII.-TEm HAPPY HOME    .. ................. 147 XVIII.-THE LOST FOUND.. ..... ............. & . 156 XIX.-IMPROVEMENTS ................s........ 164 XX.-LITTLE MARION.....    .................. 170 XXI.-THE MONEY EXPENDED   ............... 180 XXII.-TRIALS   ......................... ...... 192 XXIII.-THE UNEXPECTED GUESTS ............... 198 IV.-THE SECOND REMOVAL.................. 209 XXV.-MRS. MYERS' ILLNESS.........  .......... 224 XXVI.-THE RETURN HOME. ................... 237 XXVII.-MARION'S ILLNESS AND DEATH .......... 242 XXVIII.-VISIT TO MRS. MYERS..........   ........ 253 XXIX.-VISIT TO RICHMOND. ................... 256 XXX.-RELIGIOUS INTEREST AT ENFIELD   ........ 263 X[XXXI.-A NEW FIELD OF LABOR. ............. 269 XXXII.-PROGRESS. ..............r.............. 2274 XXXIII.-"AND IS THS ALL,". ........... ........ 280 \    "First the blade, then the ear, and after that, the fall corn in the ear." "KATE, I want to talk with you a little." "Well! about what?" "About our future course; I am sure you tthink as I do, that we have something serious to think about." "You mean, I suppose, that father has seen fit to drink up every thing he could lay his hands upon, and that mother is sick, and there are three chil- dren and ourselves, to be provided for. In short, you mean that we are poor enough, and that it is quite time that we were looking out for some means of getting a living." "Yes, sister, that is what I meant, but how can you speak in such a careless way of our dead father ." "Why should I care for him? lie never cared for me, or any of us; at any rate, I wish he had   8    RATE KILBORN; died long ago, rather than to have disgraced us all as he has done. He might have supported us comfortably, and left us plenty; but lie preferred to drink brandy. I don't see why I should care for him, I'm sure!" "Hush, Kate! I will not hear you talk so, you do not know what you are saying, I am sure. You are excited now." "You are mistaken. I am not excited, or at least more so than I always am when I think of these things. It's a shame for a father to do so!" "Kate, you shock me!" "Then don't talk to me on such a subject, if your nerves are so delicate. But what did you want to say to me?" "I wished to ask you what course we are to take. Have you thought of any thing ." "To be sure I have; let mother go to her rela- tions; they are able to support her, and the chil- dren tQ, if they are only a mind to." "But you know they will not, and ought not to be expected to do it." '  t\y "Well, I don't care where they go, if they are : only, taken care of some way; I don't intend to trouble myself about them. It's all I can do to take care of myself."   OR, SOW   ING AND REAPING  9 "How do you expect to take care of yourself, Kate .?" "That 's my affair, don't trouble yourself about it. What scheme have you got in your head now? I see plainly that your mind is laboring with some grand idea." "On the contrary, it only is the simplest and most natural thing in the world; but I can scarcely hope for your assistance or approbation, after hear- ing the sentiments you have just expressed." - "Never mind, let's hear it, any way. What is your plan ; what do you wish to do 2?" "It is, in short, to endeavor to keep the family together; take care of mother, and educate the children," "I don't wonder that you called it the simplest thing in the world," said Kate, scornfully, ' noth- ing could be simpler, I confess. But how do you propose to do it 2" "The house and lot you know,'are mother's." "I don't know any such thing; I'm entitled to my share of it, and so will you be before long." "Kate, what ails you?" "Nothing-nothing--only go on!" "'I thought, if we keep Margaret, we can per- haps take a half a dozen boarders; if we are will.   10       KATE KILBORN; ing to assist some about house, and so as we have no house-rent to pay, by careful economy we might get along until I finish my studies; after that I can teach, you know, and not only help the family some, but instruct the girls, and keep Frank in Mr. Haskall's school." "And what shall I be doing all this time?" "Any thing you please, sister. I have not pre- sumed to plan for you." "Em! you are a simpleton!" "Not altogether, I hope." "This fine scheme of yours is unmitigated folly, and I tell you now that I, for one, will have noth- ing to do with it." "Then, Kate, in that case, I must even work alone. I am determined, if I have health and strength, to do the utmost I can to provide for mother, and keep the family together. Mother I think will not object, and by God's blessing I shall accomplish what I undertake." "And work, and worry yourself to death! Who do you suppose will thank you when you get done?" "That is a question I do not ask. But I know I shall in that way do my duty, and honor my parents." .   OR, SOWING AND REAPING.    " "Duty! fiddlesticks! there's no duty in the matter at all!" "Kate, what else can be done?" "I told you what. Let mother and the girls go and live with Uncle Charles. Then we can have this place sold, I am of age, and you will be soon, and we can all take our portions according to law. Frank can have a guardian to look after him and his share of the property, until he is old enough to tarke care of himself." "Our mother shall never go to Uncle Charles or any one else to be supported, as long as I have hands to work. You know well enough, she would not be happy there, and it seems to me that she has already seen trouble and sorrow enough to have her wishes and comfort consulted in our future arrangements. The girls, too, need to be in school." "Very Quixotic and exemplary. Well, take your own course; but don't take me into any of your calculations. I give you fair warning that I intend to look out for myself." "Which means, I suppose," said Emeline, laugh ing, "that you intend to get married. I only hope you '1l get a good husband." "I promise you two things beforehand." ,    12       IATE KILBORN; "Well, what are they?" "The first is, he will have plenty of money, and I mean to have the handling of it." "Ah, indeed! "The second is-" "I thought I had heard two things already. Did n't you say he must have' plenty of money, and you would have the handling of it " "That is one and the same thing: of course, if- my husband has money, I shall have the use of it." "Very well! what is the second '" "The second is, that if you persist in this insane scheme which you propose, you never need any of you comeqto me for help, or expect to live on me." "In the first place then, Kate, I very much doubt your ever being in a situation to help us. It will require a pretty large fortune to supply all your wants. And secondly, I trust it will never be necessary for us to burden you." "Need, or not, don't come to me; I tell you now, once, for all."   II. "I 11 never care what wickedness I do, If this one comes to good i" "KATE, my dear girl, what have you done?" "Not any thing very bad, that I know of. What do you mean?" "Is it really true that you have disappointed Mr. Hamilton? "It is really true that I have refused to marry him; if he is disappointed, he may thank himself for it." "How could you do it, Kate; I am sure you liked him, and have given him plenty of encourage- ment." "I am sure I do not know what you call en- couragement."          , "Have you not walked with him, rode with him, accepted presents, and received without the least 2   f                       '    ' "       KATE KILBORN; hesitation the most devoted attention from him  What more could he expect?" "Nothing, certainly, except that I should crown all this folly by marrying him." "Kate, I am ashamed of you!" "I can't help it." "Sister," said Emeline, "you shall not speak in that way to our mother while I am present." "Then leave the room, Em. I shall say what I please." "But, my daughter, what reason have you for doing this, and disappointing the young man, for I am sure he is disappointed." "The best of all reasons, simply because he is poor!" "What of that, Kate? He is both able and will- ign to work, and has mpre than ordinary per- sonal merit; there is no doubt of his rising to eminence." "Let him  rise! I shall not wait for him, though. I marry no man who has his fortune to make." "He is altogether too good for you, Kate." "Neveirpind; get him  yourself, then, Em. Now I think of it, why don't you take his case into serious consideration, and make him one of your * WX\   OR, SOWING AND REAPING.     15 beneficiaries? You might just-take him home, and by working for him some, lay a claim to his 'ever-. lasting gratitude,' and all that. But there is no chance for you at all, Em. You are homely enough, we all know, and Mr. Hamilton says he would not marry the best woman in the world un- less she was beautiful." "If Mr. Hamilton ever said that, which I doubt, it is the only silly thing I ever heard of him." "Oh, mother! you will have to give it up, you really can't have him for a son-in-law, that's plain, for he won't have Emeline, and I won't have him." "You may change your mind when it is too late; stranger things than that have happened." "Well, never mind, there is something I want; youd iust let me have twenty-five dollars, mother." "Twenty-five dollars, Kate! that is utterly im- possible." "Not impossible, for I know you have it. Mr. Hart paid his board-bill yesterday, and you must spare me so much." "I tell you, Kate, I have not a single dollar left."               '"then Em has it, so 'it makes naxdifference; the money I must have in some way this morning." \ '     16       KATE RILBORN; "I have but twenty dollars to pay Louisa's music bill, it is due to-day." "There is no kind of need of Louisa's taking music less ns at all; and more than that, Mrs. Marshall can wait. The money I must have this morning; if you will not let me have it, I know where I can get it." "What is your particular need, my child?" "Well, if I must explain all, I want some things to wear to Mrs. Myers' party to-morrow night." "Don't go, Kate," said Emeline, "I wouldn't if I were you." "That is easily said, particularly as you have no invitation. Come, give me the money, for I am in haste." "I should not think you would ask it. You know that we must practice the closest economy to get along." "Practice as close economy as you please, but just let me have the money." "What shall I do about Mrs. Marshall?" "Let her wait for once, you always pay up every one. Let her wait awhile." "And+ when she has waited, what then?" "What then?-why, pay her, I suppose." "Where shall I get the money?"   OR, SOWING AND REAPING.     17 I 'll give it to you." "Where will you get it?" "That's my affair, not yours. If I'm -to have the money, just hand it over, or, I give you my word, I'll do what you will be sorry for." "Give it to her, Emeline, that is, if she has a heart to take it." -"I have a heart to take it, and some more be- sides, which may possibly be called for before you expect it." "What do you mean, Kate?" "Never mind, now; you will be likely to find out soon enough." The money obtained, Kate made immediate preparations to attend the party at Mrs. Myers'. It was given in honor of a nephew of hers, a gen- tleman of New York, who was reputed wealthy, and a widower. Had Mrs. Kilborn and Emeline known these things, they would have been less at a loss to account for Kate's movements. 2*   "I.  j/RS. CHESTER MYERS was a careless and 'unprincipled woman; but being the possessor of a large fortune, she considered herself entitled to a place in the front rank of the .self-styled aris- tocracy of Laurelton. To wear the most fashionable and costly clothing-to possess the most elegant firniture, and be looked up to with envy and ad- miration- by those who were not possessed of like ' advantages, was the highest ambition she had ever known. Kate Kilborn was a kind of pet of hers, and the faults of her character were continually ripening under the influence of Mrs. Myers' vanity and heartlessness, and love of display. Kate was in- deed gifted with uncommon beauty, which had won  the ardent admiration of William Hamilton. Un-  fortunately for him, he had adopted the notion that i what was so perfect in external appearance, must be intrinsically faultless and pure. It was not .  . -"   SOWING AND REAPING.      19 mere symmetry of form and feature, or delicate coloring, that constituted her beauty in his eyes. Kate possessed abundant natural endowments, and had she faithfully used the talents intrusted to her keeping, she would have become a noble woman, as lovely in mind and heart as in per- son. But it was not so. Never from her early child- hood had the "fear of God" been before her eyes. Petted, caressed, and flattered, she had learned to e feel a supreme reverence for herself, and as she grew in years, she only studied how she might raise' herself from the low position which she thought she occupied, and place herself in circum- stances which should command for her the influence and attention to which she thought herself entitled. This purpose took possession of all her sleeping and waking thoughts. She did not idly dream of such things, as many girls do; but it was to her a matter of severe and incessant study, how she should accomplish that upon which with deliberate purpose her heart was set. Of late her resolution had been shaken; she had been sorely tried. Unscrupulously she had in- dulged in many a flirtation, for this was only a kind of by-play, in which she might amuse herself .'M   20       KATE KILBORN; without laying aside the great object which she had in view. But when William Hamilton crossed her path, she was like all others, attracted by his talents, his self-reliance, his manly and generous qualities of heart and mind. She loved to listen to his conver- sation, and he was all the more easily deceived, as to her real character, because in his society she felt herself associated with one greatly her superior, and made no effort to attract his attention, but was simply natural. Many an hour did this misguided girl struggle with the attachment which she could not but feel for one who so distinguished himself; yet regarded her with so evident an interest. But it was of little use to regret that he was not rich. That would not alter the fact, and wealth was one of the essential things to her. It was that which she would not forego. William Hamilton she would not marry. True, he might in time ac- quire wealth, but she would not defer that upon which her heart was set, while he was struggling to attain it.                i But she would not undeceive him, she would continue to enjoy his society, and her own conquest until the last possible moment; thus proving how utterly unworthy she was of his manly regard.   OR, SOWING AND REAPING.    21 It was in vain that his friends warned him that he was ctitangled in the toils of a heartless coquette. He thought they sadly misjudged her, and that he knew her far better than those who had watched her from her childhood. Had he not seen the glow of natural feeling mantle on her fair cheek, and her eyes sparkle with animation as she listened to the expressions of his enthusiastic admiration of all that was beautiful and good. Had he not seen her eyes cast down and her cheek suffused with a deeper blush as she listened to his determination to abandon the project for which he had toiled so long, of crossing the ocean to perfect himself in his art, and devoting the gold which was to have secured for him this privilege, to the rearing of a home in his native land. Undeceived at length he was, and almost mad- dened, by the insulting manner in which Kate Kil- born reminded him of his poverty; when he had ventured to urge upon her the acceptance of his offer at a later day, when he should have made his way in the world, if she was not willing to share his present circumstances. Humiliating indeed, was the thought, that skillful as he had considered himself in reading the human heart, he had been so cruelly deceived, and disappointed in his sweet [    22       KATE KILBORN. dreams; he resolved without delay, to prosecute his old plan of visiting the land of which he had read and heard, and thought so much. Thus we leave him, for years a solitary pedes- trian; wandering alike through crowded cities, and mountain solitudes, lingering at the shrines of Art, and gazing with rapture upon those forms of beauty, now seen for the first time, save in his dreams. We leave him, learning also those les- sons of men and things, which such a mind would not fail to learn; and better still, going down into the depths of his own nature, and in the study of his own impulses, feelings, and wants, learning those lessons of dependence on God, and duty to man, whichl of themselves constitute true wisdom.   IV. g  H  tOb fftigTR  m   t., "I know you what you are, And, like a sister, am most loath to call Your faults as they are named," OR a wonder, Kate was up early on the morn- ing succeeding the party, and upon entering her mother's room, just after breakfast, she, with- out the least appearance of hesitation or embarrass- ment, announced to Emeline and her mother, that she was "engaged to be married." "Engaged to be married, Kate," exclaimed they both in one breath. "Engaged, Kate! to whom?" "To Mrs. Myers' nephew; Mr. Walter Myers, of whom you have heard her speak, the rich widower. You remember about him, Emeline, I dare say." ' "How can you be engaged to him; you are not I  acquainted with him?" "I met him last night, at the party, and became engaged to him." I  "My child, can this be true 2   24       KATE KILBORN; "Certainly! Why not?' "Why, what do you know of him. You can not love him '2 "I do not profess any thing of the sort." "You frighten me, sister-would you marry a man that you did not love" "Certainly; I would, if he was as rich as Walter Myers." "Kate," said Mrs. Kilborn, anxiously. "Do tell me what all this means. I do not know what to think." "Simply, then, Walter Myers is a rich widower from the city of New York. He has a fine house, elegant furniture, keeps his carriage, etc., and wants a wife to fill out the catalogue. About two weeks ago he saw me passing as he was standing on the steps of the hotel, having just arrived from the city. He noticed me as I passed, and concluded I would answer the purpose. He inquired me out, and last night we met at the party, and I promised to be his wife. The truth is, he likes my firn face, and I like his fine fortune." "You are the strangest girl I ever saw, Kate, one day you refuse to marry a man whom I be. lieve you really love, because he is not rich enough to suit you; and the next day you promise to   OR, SOWING AND REAPING.    25 marry one who is an entire stranger to you, just because he is rich, or at least you think so. I say I do not understand this, Kate." "Why, it's the easiest thing in the world to un- derstand, mother. It all lies in a nut-shell. I re- fuse Hamilton because he is so poor, and marry Mr. Myers because he is rich!" "Have you thought of one thing, Kate. He may be rich, as I suppose he is, but may he not also be miserly? or jealous, if he marries you on account of your beauty, as you say he does! What if he should not allow you the control of the purse  Women, and beautifal women, too, have before now been restrained by their rich husbands;  and the money which they would have spent has been kept safe in,its coffers." "Let me alone for that," said Kate, almost fiercely. "Let me alone for that! I defy any man to restrain me in such a matter; I'll have my will and do as I please." "Unfortunately, my child, we need no illustra- tion of your ability in that respect," said Mrs. Kil- born, sighing as she spoke. "Thank you for the compliment, mother, but that brings me to business. We are to be married in two weeks." 3 i    26       KATE KILBORN; "Two weeks! you amaze me. Kate, that must not be. Your acquaintance is altogether too short with the man with whom your life is to be passed. It must not be. You must wait until you are bet- ter acquainted with each other." "You will find. it will be in just two weeks. It is too late to alter any thing now, for Mr. Myers is gone, and now I want money to buy some cloth- ing for the occasion, and you must help me." "What can we do ." "You must mortgage this place." "Must, Kate, is a strong word to use on such an occasion from a child to her mother!" - "What is the use of getting up a scene! You must see for yourselves that the money must be had now in some way. If you can think of any better way, I have no objection; but I see nothing better that can be done." "How can such a mortgage ever be paid off, Kate 1" "Never try to pay it off. Why need you?" "You understand very well why we need, Kate!" "I know what you told me once you wished to do, but I should think you would see the folly of it before this time. At any rate, I warned you in   OR, SOWING AND REAPING.    27 the outset not to calculate on me, or any thing that was mine to help you on. Three or four hundred dollars is every thing to me now." "What do you mean?" "I mean that I want my portion of this property now, some four hundred dollars, to prepare for the event of which I told you a fewnnutes ago." "You seem to understand all about it." "I do, for I have consulted Mr. White, and he is ready to advance the money now." "You do business rapidly, I think," said Mrs. Kilborn, somewhat bitterly. "I do, for I have but little time to spare." "You do not need half that sum, Kate, if you have, as you say, nothing but your own wardrobe to provide for. Take less now, for you will soon have enough, and give us a chance to live." "Not a cent less." - "Will you spend four hundred dollars for dress now. "Certainly, I will, and more, too, if I had it. 'Fine cages must have fine birds.' " "Are you so utterly heartless, Kate! Think what a contrast there will be between yourself and Emeline. She-" "Mother! I tell you, I have heard enough of   28       KATE KILBORN. that. It isn't the first contrast there has been be- tween us, and it's not likely to be the last; she may take her own course, and I will take mine. But there is no time to talk-I want the money at noon to go with Mrs. Myers to Boston to get my things." "You will Always have money enough, if your husband can get it, if you harass him as you do us. It's no use contending with you; you always have your own way about every thing, right or wrong. I do not see how you do it." "That's easily enough explained," said Kate, as she left the room, muttering, as she went: "On the principle that strong minds control weak ones." This arrogant and cruel remark was overheard by both mother and sister. Need I say that it fell upon their hearts like lead. Nevertheless, they sent for a lawyer, and accomplished the task as. signed them. Meanwhile, the heartless girl went to her room, and, regardless of the cruel and care- less words which had given so much unnecessary pain, only congratulating herself that the matter was accomplished so easily, prepared for a trip to Boston.   V. "Not for the sunny hour alone, When skies resplendent shine, And earth*is ressed in summer flowers, Our hearts and hands we join; But for the stern and wint'ry days, Of peril, pain, and fear, When Heaven's wise discipline doth make  Our earthly journey drear." IT is said that all brides elect dream, and certainly Kate Kilborn was no exception to the rule. We can easily pardon the fair girl, whose heart has yielded up its tenderest and best affections, if she dreams of domestic happiness, and sees before her  a sunny picture of the future in the society of the loved one, whose happiness she will promote, and whose home she will bless with her devoted love. But Kate's dreams were all made up of satins, and jewels, and "loves of French hats," and the admiration and envy of those who composed the circle in which she was to move.   Of her future 3*   30       KATE KILBORN; husband, she thought very little. Indeed, if the truth must be told, she would altogether have pre- ferred to leave him entirely out of the calculation. But as that could not well be, she heroically made up her mind to make the best of what she could not help. After all, Mr. Myers was a very good sort of man, as the world goes; that is, he had never done any thing very bad, for the reason that he had never been compelled to do any thing at all, and he always made it a principle never to exert him- self unless there was an absolute necessity for his doing so. He was rich, and so was his father be- fore him, as long at least as he could remember, although, truth to say, his elder brother and sister had a dim recollection of apartments less sumptuous than those in the elegant and aristocratic mansion in which they resided in State street. But other men beside him had the misfortune of being descended from the honest, industrious cultivators of the soil, or hard-handed mechanics, and why should he grieve or vex himself about it, so long as wealth brought distinction and respectability. As the happy day approached, however even Kate herself could not avoid making comparisons between her future husband and one whom we need   dt[Zb^  THE WEDDING.         31 ,           - not name; and not unfrequently the bride elect wished, that by some dexterous movement she could have bestowed Walter Myers' fortune upon William Hamilton. At length the wedding was over. The cere- mony was private; but on the evening of the hap- py day Mrs. Myers gave a large party, to which the elite of Laurelton were invited. Never had the beautiful bride appeared to so much advantage a before. She had at length reached the point which she had long aspired to gain. Her elegant and tasteful wedding-dress was set off by a set of costly jewels, the gift of her husband; and con- scious of being the object of admiration and envy, she had no wish ungratified, except that which it was vain to cherish. Mrs. Kilborn and Emeline were at the party, wishing to make acquaintance with their new relative, who had not called on them, and did not seem inclined to trouble himself much about them. Few daughters would wish to leave the home of their childhood in the way that Kate did. She did not return to her mother's house that night, but remained at the home of her new relatives, only announcing her purpose to her mother and sister, when, at an early hour, they prepared to leave the   32       KATE KILBORN. uncongenial scene, and return to their home. The few articles which she wished to take with her were already packed; and just as she was setting out on her journey on the following morning, she entered for a few moments her mother's room to make her formal adieu. With difficulty Mrs. Kilborn restrained the emo- tions which were contending in her maternal breast; and the few words of affectionate admonition which she ventured to utter, were received with a gathering frown, which plainly intimated that Mrs. Walter Myers would not tolerate even the little freedom of speech which Kate Kilborn had permitted. "You will write to us soon, Kate, will you not '" said her mother. "I don't know why I should take the trouble. I suppose you can hear from me occasionally through Mrs. Myers, if you wish to." "To be sure you will write to us, Kate," said Emeline, with an attempt to be cheerful. "Of course, you will, and I hope we shall not have to wait long for a letter, either." "I suppose you really intend to keep living on, just as you have done ever since pa died?" "Certainly, we do, if our lives are spared." "Well, just remember what I tell you now, don't   ': H tsti y going to the glass to adjust her ringlets.' &ic.-P 3 Lotte Kilborn.   THE WEDDING.       33 expect me to help you. If you will get into trouble, you need not expect me to help you out. I can not do it." "You need not be uneasy, sister. I do not fear that we shall need your help, or fail in accomplish- ing what we undertake, if God gives us His bless- ing upon our efforts." It took but a moment to dismiss the children, none of whom were particularly attached to a sister who had never manifested the slightest interest in them, except to scold them whenever they happened to be in her way. She shook hands coldly with her mother, who was unable to rise from her bed that morning; and then approached her sister to go through the same formality. The affectionate, warm-hearted girl, threw her arms about her sis- ter's neck, and burst into tears. Kate shook her off, rudely, exclaiming: "There, Em! that's just like you! See how you have tumbled my collar!" Hastily going to the glass to adjust her ringlets and ribbons, without further word she hastened to" the carriage, where Mr. Myers was awaiting her, not having once condescended to enter the dwelling of his mother-in-law. Poor Emeline hastened to her chamber, and   34       KATE KILBORN. wept bitterly. It was not indeed the first time that the unkindness of her sister had brought the tears to her gentle eyes, but now there was a bit- terness in her grief that she had never known be- fore. She felt that the path upon which Kate had so rashy entered was one thickly beset with dan- gers, and that her heart was wholly unfortified by religious principle. What wonder that she trem- bled for her future fate. At first, it seemed to her troubled heart that all opportunity to influence her sister's future destiny was forever lost; and then she bethought herself of that blessed promise, "Ask, and ye shall receive," and bending before the mercy-seat, she implored the blessing of Heaven upon the head of her sister. She was sweetly cheered and comforted, and rose from prayer with a blessed hope which amounted almost to assurance, that however far that erring one might wander from the path of peace, her feet should at length be staid, and the Great Shepherd bring her to His fold. It may be that the reader will wonder at the difference in the character of these two sisters. Children of the same parents, subjected to the in- fluence of the same household, and having equal opportunities for mental and moral improvement. I   THE WEDDING.       35 The primary causes of this difference lie far back of the period when this story commences. The great point of difference was not in the fact that one was petted and caressed, while the other was comparatively neglected, and often compelled to hear her want of her sister's extraordinary beauty alluded to in a manner to give her pain. Our young readers will perceive that Kate had grown up entirely regardless of the opinions and feelings of those around her, and unrestrained either by the law of God, or by her parents. Emeline, on the other hand, acknowledged the authority of God, and strove to promote the happiness of all around her. Whose course, dear reader, was safest and wisest, and which promises the most real hap- piness even in the present world? Happy are those who are made wise by others' faults. ,.t   VI. "Thou shalt hear a voice behind thee, saying, This is the way, walk ye in it." "DID Kate return the money she 'borrowed, Em- eline?" said Mrs.. Kilborn one day when speaking of her absent daughter. "No, mother, she did not." "Did she not promise to send it to you from New York?" "She said nothing at all about it. I presume she had spent all she had, and did not like to say any thing about it." "You should have spoken to her about it, Eme- line, I wonder at your allowing her to go off in that way, We can not afford to lose it." "It is possible- she forgot to mention it, mother. She has had a great deal to occupy her thoughts of late, you know." "After all, Emeline, you would not have forgot-   THE SCHOOL PROPOSED.     37 ten it. It is not right that we should lose it, and it is unjust to you, who are working so hard for all  of US." "Never mind me, mother; I do not think I have more to do than is good for me, just enough to keep me wide awake." "But you have so much care." "Who should care for you, mother, if not I? You are sick and feeble, and the others are too young." "Kate should care, Emeline! My poor, dear child! what will become of her. How she has treated you, too. How can you bear it?" "Because, mother, I care for her soul. I feel as if I had rather bear any thing than make her angry with me. It was hard, I confess, sometimes; but I knew it would do no good to remonstrate with her, and I would not willingly throw away what little influence I might have." "Iittle influence enough we can any of us have with her now. 'We can do no more for her. She is entirely beyond our reach." "There is one thing we can do. We can always pray for her; and, on the whole, I think it is just as well that she is gone. Harriet and Louisa will be the better for losing her influence over them.    38       KATE KILBORN. I fear they do not love her much, for she was very often unkind to them; but Harriet particularly is inclined to resemble Kate in many respects, and just as her character is forming, I should be sorry to have her too much under her influence." "The girls both appear to be 'doing very well in their school." "I think they are. I wish, however, that they might have another teacher, for Miss Selwyn's school is altogether too much crowded for the good of her pupils." "What do you propose to do 2" "It has occurred to me, mother, that now that my studies are over for the present, it might be well for us to dismiss our boarders, and then I could take a few pupils of Harriet and Louisa's age. I think we shall undoubtedly accomplish more in that way, and probably with greater comfort to ourselves." "That might be a good plan, but where would you find a suitable room?" "That is the great difficulty. I have thought of several plans, but none of them are without objec- tion." "Our house is plenty large enough to spare you a room, particularly if we do not keep board- s   :    -      THE SCHOOL PROPOSED.   -  9 ers, if there is one that would answer the pur- pose." "The front parlor would do well, if you thought you could spare it, mother." "Take it, Emeline, if you wish. It needs new paint and paper to make fit for a parlor, and we can spare it very well in the winter at least, if we are alone." "Then, mother, I will see if I can obtain pupils. I think I shall find no difficulty in securing all I can accommodate, and I will set about making arrange- ments immediately." The parents in Laurelton, knew Emeline well. Her excellent character, her thorough education, and winning manners, prepared her way before her, and she found many friends prepared to encourage her undertaking. She possessed, indeed, rare qual- ifications for her work. Far from being satisfied when her pupils were able to repeat, with some degree of fluency, the lessons assigned them, she labored incessantly to interest their minds in their studies, awakening in their hearts an enthusiastic love for knowledge, and inspiring a resolution not to pass over any thing which they did not thor. oughly understand. With a sister's solicitude, she watched over their   40       KATE KILBORN. health and habits, and with unwearied patience, sought to instill into their hearts right feelings and principles, and to eradicate those which were defect- ive or wrong, holding up before them constantly as their standard, the pure morality of the Bible, and the perfect example of the Lord Jesus Christ. As time passed on, she found her care rewarded, not only in the warm affection of both parents and pupils, but also in the visible improvement in the characters of those committed to her care. Harriet and Louisa grew up with much of Kate's beauty, and with the sweetness and gentleness of Emeline. Both they and their brother yielded a cheerful and willing obedience to the wishes of their sister, and she had no reason to complain of their want of respect for her, or their neglect of the duties she wished them to perform. Mrs. Kilborn's health failed rapidly after Kate's marriage, and she was now a hopeless invalid, con- fined entirely to her own room. Through the thoughtful care of Emeline, she was never allowed to want, either those comforts and little luxuries which are so indispensable to the sick, or the affec- tionate attendance of one of her own daughters. During school hours, the sisters sat, with her by turns preparing their lessons, and waiting upon her   $ft      TITHE SCHOOL PROPOSED.    41 with tender care; and by the cheerfulness with which they denied themselves many innocent pas- times and pleasures, for the sake of their suffering mother, gave promise of a superior degree of ex- cellence and amiability of character in after life. Emeline's cares and labors were many, but always cheerfully borne. The expenses of the family, in spite of her prudent management, were large. Still she was able to meet them, and also to pay the annual interest on the money which had been obtained for Kate. More, at present she could not accomplish, but she indulged the hope of being able at some future time to cancel the debt, that her young brother and sisters might suffer no disadvantage from the step which Kate had com- pelled them to take. Of herself, this heroic girl scarcely thought while with untiring diligence she struggled for-those dear to her; finding her highest happiness in witnessing their evident improvement, and next to the favor of God, desiring for them mainly, the blessing of a sound and thorough edu- cation. 4*   VII. W^^   1int Iisit      At 5 r "It is comparativelyeasy to bear with serenity and patience, the great trials of life, when the eyes of all around are upon us. "It is the petty annoyances and minor trials of every day life that test the character."   THREE   years had now passed, during which Mrs. Myers had never visited her mother. In-  deed, she had rarely written to any of them,  and never made a single inquiry about their cir- cumstances, or invited any of them to visit her. Mrs. Chester Myers went often to New York, and  brought back glowing accounts of the elegance and splendor in the midst of which she lived, and the   admiration she excited.= At length came the unexpected announcement that Kate was coming to visit her mother, and pass some weeks with her; with her two children. Im-  mediately every thing was in motion to prepare for the comfort of the expected, and, thanks to Em- eline's constant efforts to efface old impressions, the still well-beloved sister. School was dismissed   FIRST VISIT HOME.      43 for the summer, the parlor divested of chairs and tables, and made cheerful by new paint and paper. The furniture which was carefully stored in the garret was brought out, and every thing made to wear a cheerful look. In their mother's room, every thing possible was done to render it attractive, that she might enjoy there as much as possible the society of her eldest and favorite daughter, for it was no secret in the family that with all her faults Kate had always en- joyed this distinction. She was proud of her beauty, and of the distinguished position which she occupied, and the lapse of time, together with her own increasing infirmities, had rendered her forget- ful of many of the unpleasant circumstances, con- nected with her departure from home; while with the querulousness so often attendant upon protract- ed indisposition, and confinement, she often found fault with her other children, and lamented the ab- sence of Kate, who knew so well how to please her. Emeline was surprised and gratified that Kate was coming to her mother's house, instead of stop- ping with Mrs. Myers, in which case they would necessarily see very little of her, for no intercourse was sought between the two families on either side.   "       KATE KILBORN. Always inclined to make the best of every thing, she hoped that the fact of her becoming a mother, had made a real improvement in Kate's character,   : little dreaming that she wished to stop at her mother's for the purpose of relieving herself of all care about the children; so that she might be free to pursue her own pleasure, without restraint. The expected day and hour at last arrived, the preparations for the loving reception of the long- absent one, were all completed, and the sisters as- t sembled in their mother's room, and gathered     around the window in eager expectation. Mr. Kilborn, unable to leave her bed, was continually  i tormenting herself with fears that some accident  ! had happened, and inquiring, "Don't you see them  t yet, girls?" At length in the distance a carriage is descried,  and as it approaches, it is rendered' certain that it contains Mrs. Myers and her children; Mrs. Kil- born is scarcely able. to restrain her impatience to clasp her long-absent daughter to her heart; and the sisters hasten to the street, to greet the mother and children. Their ardor is somewhat damped by the cool and ungracious manner in which their fine lady sister, receives their welcomes and caresses, and the stare of the coarse-looking Irish    ]SR:T VISIT HOME.      45 girl, who holds in her arms a beautiful infant of a year old. Little Walter, a little more than two years of age, was caught eagerly in Louisa's arms, and borne to the chamber of Mrs. Kilborn, while Harriet in vain seeks to entice the pouting baby to make the same journey, who only clings closer to his nurse, and looks wonderingly around. Meanwhile Mrs. Myers, assiduously waited upon by Emeline, has laid aside her outer garments; and settling herself in the great arm-chair, takes time to survey the premises, exclaiming: "Dear me! how old-fashioned you do look. I declare! not a single new thing in three years; the same dowdy old carpet, and chairs, and sofa. Humph!" Emeline's heart beat quick, and gentle as she invariably was, it was difficult to 'restrain a word that trembled on her lips: while Frank, who had received but a slight word of recognition from his iter, and was withal a high-spirited youth, walked quickly from the room. "Come and see our mother now, sister)!"-said -Emeline, ' and then we will have tea." "Dear me! can't she wait? I declare, I'm so tired!"         - t        ' i "She is very impatient to see you, Kate. You v   "       KATE KILBORN. will find her much changed; but now you are come, I hope she will be better." "I'm sure I don't know why she should be," said Mrs. Myers, yawning. "Well, I suppose I've got to go, any way!" "Kate, my dear child! how glad I am to see you," said Mrs. Kilborn. LHow do you do"  The dutiful daughter, thus addressed, sauntered leisurely toward the bed; and carelessly stretched B out her jeweled hand, and replied:  "Oh, very well, only tired to death. 1-  wretchedly you look!"        r        "I have been very poorly-and oh, Kate! I have i missed you so much! Why have n't you been up to see me before?"                I "Oh! I could n't; I'm always so busy."     i "What lovely children you have, but how could f they be otherwise. How well you are looking    j yourself How is your husband, and when is he  ! coming up to see us!"              X "He? not at all, as I know of. It isn't likely : that he will bury himself in such a place as    i this!" While this colloquy i's going on in her mother's room, Emeline stole dwn to the dining-room, X           ,;   FIRST VISIT HOME.      47 where Frank was standing by the window. Lay. ing her hand kindly upon his arm, she said: "My ded brother, you should not notice what Kate says. You know she was always peculiar in her manner of speaking, and she is actustomed to see things so different in her own house that she spoke without thinking." "I can't help minding, Emeline! It is too bad, after all the trouble and expense we have been to, or rather you, have been to, for you earned all the money, I say it is too bad for her to talk so." "Never mind, Frank, cheer up now and be your- self once more." "I tell you what it is, sister, I remember old times, and I don't believe, after all, that Kate is changed one bit, that. is, for the better; I mean, I just wish she had staid away, that's all. "Hush, hush, are you not glad to see those sweet babies? Come, tea is ready, now brighten up, and let Kate see what a fine manly fellow you are." "I 'll do all I can for your sake, sister; but I don't like her any better than I did three years ago." "Well, Emeline, isn't tea 'most ready; I'm completely tired out, and hungry besides." "Yes, Kate, I am just come to call you." i r    48       KATE KILBORN. "Come back as soon as you can, girls, I don't know how to spare Kate. a mo'ment," said Mrs. Kilborn, as her daughter was leaving the room. "Does she think I am going to be shut up in that hot room, I wonder?" ' Why, sister! it is the coolest room in the house," said Emeline, while a very significant glance was exchanged between Harriet and Louisa. ("It 's hot enough any where, I am sure." The tea-table was not sumptuously spread; but the snowy linen, bright silver, and cutlery, and plain, white china ware, gave it an attractive look. Bread of unrivaled whiteness, sweet country butter, and cream, and delicious strawherries, would have tempted an epicure, but nothing seemed exactly to suit the fastidious Mrs. Myers, though, to speak the truth, she managed to appropriate rather a larger share of Frank's fine strawherries than he thought was quite lady-like.                i After tea, Mrs. Chester Myers sent her servant  t to inquire whether her niece had arrived; and early the next morning her carriage waited at the door to : convey Kate to her house. Just as she was going out, without having seen her mother, she met Em- eline on the stairs, and said to her: "I wish you would just look after Bridget and e   -....    \   FIRST VISIT HOME.      49 the children a little, while I am gone. She is a new hand,- and I don't think she knows much about taking care of them." "Certainly, I will do it with pleasure; but, sis- ter, you are not going out without seeing mother? She has been listening for your step this hour, and is impatient to see you." "I 'm sure I can not stay now; the carriage is at the door." "Oh! just run in one moment." "Dear me! how tiresome. Well, I suppose I can go." "What, Kate! going out so soon, and I have scarcely seen you yet. I was in hopes you would come and sit with me this morning, I have so much to talk with you about." '"Mrs. Myers' carriage is at the door, and the driver says he can't wait." "I shouldtthink Mrs. Myers could wait until you had spent a few hours with your mother, and she has seen you so lately, too. Are you going to take the children?" "No, indeed! not I. I don't see why I should be plagued with them; Bridget must take care of thbem. "Is Bridget trusty?" 5-   50       KATE KILBORN. "I don't know as she is; but then Emeline and the other girls are all about. I should think they might see to them." "So we will, with a good will, too," said Harriet, i "if Bridget will only let us; but she looks rather cross when we touch the baby." "You need not ask her whether she will or not; . I can send her off if she don't behave herself." Kate did not return until late in the evening, al- lowing the sisters full time to make friends with their little nephews, which they did so effectually as to encroach considerably upon Bridget's province, who, however, did not appear to care in the least. The little ones soon learned to love their kind aunties dearly. Walter, the eldest, was an es- pecially lovely and promising child, but- had evi- i dently enjoyed little attention from his parents. Thus passed away several days. Bridget having   little else to do, found her way into the kitchen, r where she took measures to tease and annoy Mar- garet to her heart'l content. Poor Margaret's  F organs of order and neatness were developed in an uncommon degree; and the untidy and ill-natured ways of the slatternly Irish girl were perhaps the greatest provocation which the faithful woman could have met with. Emeline-sought to keep the *."   FIRST VISIT HOME.      51 ignorant and untrained girl out of the kitchen, Jut all in vain; and after ten days, during which Bridget became constantly more and more useless and impertinent, it seemed impossible longer to bear with her. In a fit of irritation, Mrs. Myers suddenly dismissed her, and sent her back to New York; and so one source of annoyance was re- moved from the well-ordered and quiet household. \ ^l    VIII. 8CIt^ edxtner   5 Rru  ugtt^.O MRS. MYERS was one morning in her mother's  room, displaying her elegant wardrobe. Mrs. Kilborn and her daughters looked on in mute sur-  i prise, at the numerous rich and beautiful articles AA of dress; the costly jewels, and elegant collars, and I every thing belonging to a fashionable lady's dress. As she turned over the beautiful satins, brocades, tissues, bareges, with scores of elegant collars,  scarfs, and ribbons, Mrs. Kilborn was every mo-  ment expecting to see her bestow some of these   i articles, of which she had so many, upon her sisters. i But nothing of the kind occurred. When she had exhibited all her filery, she turned to her sisters, I and said, "Now, girls!you have helped to scatter all my things about, see if you can help put them away again." This they cheerfully did, and when they had all left the room, Mrs. Kilborn said: "The girls are almost grown up, and need a ^                  , **    W,-   THE HEARTLESS DAUGHTER.    53 great many things now; Harriet is sixteen, and Louisa fourteen. You have so many good clothes, that I thought it quite probable that you had laid aside many garments which might very well be made over for them." "I never give my clothes away; I have nothing to spare." "I mean something that is of no further use to you; you must have plenty of things which, in your circumstances, you do not wish to wear, but which would help the girls very much, and you would never feel the want of them." "The girls will have to clothe themselves for all my helping them--they have as much as I had, if it is not all wasted." "Nothing is wasted here, Kate. The estate has never been touched since you took your portion; Emeline has a very hard time of it, helping every body, and bearing the whole burden herself." "That's none of my business. I told her how bad it would be in the outset." "What else could she have done '?" "Done?  Why done as I did.- Get married if she had a chance!" ," It is not every one that has such an opportunity as you did." 5* *^         At; .   54       KATE RILBORN. "Then let them be satisfied with what they can get. Now, there's Harriet and Louisa, they will be splendid-looking girls in two or three years; they might make something if they would n't clinog to Emeline so much. It's a shame for her to spoil them so." "How does she spoil them?" "Why, she has no ambition, and never had, and more than that, she is determined that they shall not have any; she can wind them round her finger  i if she chooses. I have a great mind to spoil some of her work for her!" "Kate, why don't you take one of the girls home with you, and so help them along in the world a little, if you think Emeline is spoiling them 2"  X "I take one of them! Why, they have n't de cent clothes to wear!  I should be ashamed of them!"  "Now, Kate, that is altogether too bad. The girls are always neat and tidy. It is not right to say they have not decent clothes." "They would n't be decent in the city, among those that I associate with. Why, my cook wears better clothes than Emeline does. I should think she would be ashamed to dress herself so meanly. It's perfectly ridiculous."   THE HEARTLESS DAUGHTER.     5 "Emeline might dress better; she earns enough to have plenty of good clothes, but she chooses to help her brother and sisters to get an education." "Yes, I know--and I suppose you would all be glad ifeI would take hold and do the same thing?" "There is little prospect of your helping much, Kate. The girls must get along without your aid." "They were very foolish if they expected help from me. I never promised them any such thing. I have all I can do to take care of myself." But why should we record such conversations as these, more or less of which were constantly occur- ring. Poor Mrs. Kilborn found little comfort in the society of her graceless daughter, and though she could not fail to see that Emeline was by far the most agreeable companion, and treated her with the utmost affection and tenderness; yet she seemed, after all, to catch the spirit of Kate. In her feebleness and weakness she began, at first un- consciously, to cherish the feelings that in some mysterious way, Emeline was wronging them all. Nor was this the only element of confusion, which Kate introduced into this once peaceful and united circle. The girls were more restive and uneasy under the gentle control of their sister; since Kate had ridiculed them for "acting like   5 6       KATE KiLBORN. babies," when once, in her presence, they con- sulted Emeline about something which they wished to do. Although they did not love her, yet the in- fluence of what she said and did, as well as what she possessed, was continually making them dis- contented and uncomfortable. They were at that period of life when the young are often, not only inclined to be impatient of restraint, but also un- willing to have it supposed that they are in any way restrained. Frank had broken out in perfect hostility to Kate, who, on her part, declared that "'she had never seen such a perfect bear as he was." Nor was poor Margaret without her trials.  Adept as she was in all the mysteries of the kitchen, nothing that she did, could by any possi- bility please the fastidious Mrs. Myers. Some- thing was always wrong. Often when the well- prepared and wholesome meal was placed upon      the table, she would be called upon to prepare     a new dish, or make some change in what was      already provided. The little delicacies which Em- eline, at the cost of much personal self-denial, secured for her mother, were not unfrequently ap- propriated to her own use, with the remark that, "if Emeline and the rest chose to starve them- selves, she would not." f            .       i   THE HEARTLESS DAUGHTER. *5 With her usual carelessness to- the convenience of others, Kate made large, and often entirely un- necessary additions to the family washing and iron- ing; and often, after a fatiguing day passed in the discharge of duties which she could not neglect, Emeline would be engaged until a late hour, in starching and ironing clothes for her sister and the children; or in lightening Margaret's work, by do- ing innumerable things, which a little consideration on the part of the visitor would have rendered un- necessary. Nothing but the cheerful gentleness of Emeline, and her ready hand, prevented frequent outhreaks of Margaret's not remarkably placid temper. On one occasion, she ventured to com- plain to Mrs. Kilborn of something in which she thought Kate was unjust and unkind to Emeline, when Mrs. Kilborn burst into tears, and said, "it was hard -that the poor girl could not come home once in three years without being in the way."  f Emeline was human, and it is not to be sup. posed that all these things did not trouble her; but such was her self-control that, except a few quiet tears, shed in the retirement of her room, when no eye but the All-Seeing beheld her, the habitual kindness and cheerfulness of her character was un- changed.   58       KATE KILBORN. To the children her heart clung with the utmost tenderness, and they loved her equally in return. Faithfully she improved the opportunity to instill into the heart of the affectionate Walter those sweet lessons of love and obedience to his Heavenly Father which his mother had neither time nor dis- position to inculcate. The children were left en- tirely to her care, and that of her sisters, their mother scarcely seeing them for days together.  She spent the greater part of her time with Mrs. Myers, either at her house, or jaunting about the  country in company with her. But at length the visit drew to a close, and with the approach of autumn Kate prepared to return to the city. It was very hard for Emeline to part with the children, and her heart ached when she thought how little of good they would be likely to learn from the example of their mother. Little did she then dream that the fair child whom she so fondly loved would ere long be removed from the pernicious influence of his mother's example, and committed to the care of a tenderer friend than even she would have been to it, and received to a bosom where unharmed it should forever rest secure. Again the heartless adieus were said, and again Kate left the mother she might never see again;   THE HEARTLESS DAUGHTER.    59 and the sisters who had done so much to make her visit a pleasant one, without one sign of tenderness, or invitation to share the comfort of her luxurious home. Was she then really so unfeeling We know not; but the word of God tells of some "without natural affection," and we see no reason to suppose that Kate was not one of that number.   IX. g   tanpgeD    trpnsx. "A man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps." ASTATELY vessel is plowing the Atlantic wave, and rapidly nearing a western port. Crowds of passengers throng her decks, and gaze eagerly toward the dim cloud-like horizon, where the long- desired haven is dimly descried. There is one who paces the deck of the vessel, and attracts the attention of all around. His swarthy countenance and sun-browned face tells of exposure to the burning rays of a southern sky; but the whole contour of his face, and the ex- pression of his countenance, is that which marks him of the Anglo-Saxon race. With steady and almost soldier-like tread, he passes to and fro, un- mindful of the interest which he excites; his eyes fixed on the glowing west which gleams in the gorgeous sunset, like the very portals of Paradise, There is no dreamy indolence in that eye. It   A CHANGED PURPOSE.      61 speaks of a calm and beautiful, but a settled and sacred purpose; it indicates a genius to plan, and an ability both to will and to do. Four years has he been a voluntary exile from his native land. From his very childhood, the dependent and lonely boy felt in his heart the kindling of an intense love of the beautiful, and a desire, which at length became a part of his very nature, to reproduce with his own hand the images of loveliness which delighted his eyes, and with which his imagination was continually teeming. As years passed, this flame was fed by the study of poetry, and the historic page. By alternate labor andstudy, he found means to secure for him- self a liberal education; and when the wealth of classic lore was opened to him, his enthusiasm knew no bounds, and he resolved to c" do something which the world would not willingly let die" to win for himself a name and a place in the hearts of those who could appreciate talent, and delight in it. He resolved to cross the sea; and, sitting at the feet of the mighty masters of the pencil, perfect himself in his art by the study of the won- derful creations of theiroenius. His course of study was ended, and he was laboring to acquire the means to prosecute this 6   62       KATE KILBORN. scheme, when, just before he was ready to leave his native land, he met with one who seemed to realize his ideal of beauty and perfection. Love- ly in form, he doubted not that the beautiful  casket contained a jewel of the same surpassing loveliness and beauty. His glowing imagination invested the object of his admiration with every virtue and womanly grace. For the time, all his plans and purposes were changed. While he was alone on the earth, a man without a tie, perhaps he might be permitted to sit at the feet of the muses, and devote himself to the pursuits so congenial to his tastes; but now he must idly dream no longer, but rouse himself and take his part in the struggle of life. The prize for which he would contend should be a home, and the means of providing for its necessities and comforts, and for the sweet enjoyments of domestic life and love, he renounced his earlier and more ambitious dreams. From this sweet dream of the future, he was too rudely awakened. Who shall enter into the se- crets of that hour, when all the sensibilities of a trusting and generous soul were rudely and scorn- fully outraged, and the beautiful idol which his own imagination had reared was destroyed in    A CHANGED PURPOSE.      63 moment. Not more terrible was the shock to the aflrighted worshipers of the "vailed prophet of Khorassan" when first the "silver vail" that hid his hateful deformity was drawn aside. What then remained for him but to return with what of energy he might to hisfirst love. He gath- ered up the little sum which was to have laid the foundation of his domestic altar, and it sufficed to bear him far over sea, and place him among the treas- ures of art, upon which, from his very early child- hood, he had longed to gaze. For awhile he was as one intoxicated with delight, but his attention was soon directed to other scenes. Priestcraft, superstition, and beggary, with every form of men- tal debasement and moral deformity, stalked past him, and disturbed his meditations amid the ruins of classic beauty. The thrilling and world-renowned harmonies of Italian song jarred harshy upon his ear in the midst of the noise and discord of a vicious, ignorant, and degraded population. The immortal creations of genius upon the glowing can- vas were marred by the images of squalor and misery that were continually flitting before them; and he found his heart sighing with the beloved Heber: And only man is vile"   "       KATE KILBORN. Worst of all, when he turned his eyes within, he found there, where he had never suspected it before, the same elements of discord and confusion, and wrong, which had so grieved him when seen in the world without. Thought like this, when once awakened, slept no more; and he grew'constantly more and more uneasy, until at length with dismay he made the discovery that with all upon which he had once prided himself, with all for which he had once valued himself, there was nothingo in his own heart which of itself would have hindered his becoming like any of the degraded and. miserable ones around him. That he was not in all respects  I the same as they, what was it but 1"Mercy from first to last," and like a voice from fairCdeep-toned, and solemn, came the stern rebuke. "The God in whose hands thy breath is, and whose are all thy ways, thou hast not glorified!" Unhappy every where, he wended his solitary way along the banks of the beautiful Rhine. Then he threaded the mountain passes, or wandered among the wild glens, and valleys of Switzerland, pausing occasionally to make a sketch of some f:aaming cataract, or inaccessible cliff, or peaceful   A CHANGED PURPOSE.      65 lake, slumbering amid the wild beauty of an Alpine vale; but lost in thought, the pencil falls from his hand, and sadly he muses upon the revelations which have been made to his heart and mind. Then, staff in hand, he crosses the rugged Alps, conversing with the monks on St. Bernard, and sit- ting down at times with the peasant in his lowly hut, but he finds peace nowhere. The quiet and harmony of his soul has been disturbed, and he can not cease to think, even though thought now brings only misery. Instinctively, he longs for some voice from heaven, that shall tell him what he ought to do, and whither he shall turn, to still the tumult of his soul, and his prayer is heard. It is the Sabbath, but no Sabbath-bell breaks upon his ear, as afar from the noise of cities, he sits in a sequestered spot with the Word of God in his hand. He remembers the peaceful Sabbaths of' his native lands, and in that home of loveliness what would he not have given to hear, if it were but for one single moment, the music of the " church-going bell." He has an involuntary feeling that in the house of God he should find some antidote to the poison that seems to be eating out his very life. Those great truths of the Gospel, which were pecu- liar to the ear of his childhood, but which have laid An*   "       KATE KILBORN. for many years dormant in his heart, crushed down by the weight of hopes, and ambition, and self-seek- ing-come out with a strange vividness, and le seems as if in a bewildering dream. Conscience accuses, and he has no defense to utter. Memory unfolds her closely-written page, dark with the rec- ord of ingratitude and sin. A light glows around him which reveals deformity, where Pharisee-like, he had before beheld only symmetry; and corrup- tion, where all before had seemed healthful and pure. With self-loathing he turned from the sight. But who shall describe the feelings with which he received the revelations of the Divine character and perfections A[ich were made to his soul in that solemn hour of mysterious awakening! Humbled and penitent, the proud and gifted man bent his knee in reverence, exclaiming: "I have heard of Thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth Thee. Wherefore I abhor myself, and'repent in dust and ashes!" From the retirement and seclusion of that Sab- bath, he came forth an altered man. Henceforth, the simple Word of God was to take that place in his affections which had before been occupied by the literature of a mere human origin, yea, more, it was to become the standard by which every   A CHANGED PURPOSE.      67 thing else was to be graduated; the only rule of his future life. In that blessed Book, and in the reno- vation of the soul by the Spirit of God, he found not only the cure for the troubles of his own breast, but the antidote for all the ills, and miseries, that afflict the race. Gratitude, and loving adoration, took the place of regret, and repining, and remorse, and, above all, and instead of all self-seeking, was the Cross, the symbol of that sacrifice, and that salvation, in which was all his hope. "The Lord alone" was "exalted in that day." What marvel was it, that he gazed on all around him with a new eye, for he had obtained a new heart. The Alpine steep, and the inaccessible glacier, were piled by a Father's hand, the enduring monu- ments of his Almighty power. The peaceful valley, the glowing sunset, and the tiny flowers alike spoke of the presence of Him in the enjoyment of whose love and approbation he was to find the joy of his whole life. These changes, and these processes of thought which we have briefly indicated, were not wrought out in a day. They were the result of months of self-communion, under the teaching of the Holy Spirit, and when all was clear in that Sabbath   68       KATE KILBORN. hour; there arose spontaneously in the breast of this new man, the solemn question, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?"He laid his own plans, and hopes, and wishes, at his Master's feet, and submits the question of his future work to the will of One whom he joyfully acknowledges as his Sovereign, and his Lord. Dimly, at first, but at length more clearly, he descries the sphere in )   which it is the Divine will he should engage, and when all is plain, he hastens to set foot once more, upon the shores of his native land, that he may be- come qualified to bear to other hearts, the blessing which has been permitted to descend upon his own. He will still do a work which shall not die, but its results shall be found, not on the glowing canvas or the sculptured marble, but on the hearts made happier, and the souls saved through the instru- mentality of his labors. Thirty years have already left their impress upon his brow, and yet his heart is strong and resolute, although he returns to his native land no richer in worldly wealth than when he left it. In the beautiful city where he pursues his studies,  for two subsequent years, his skillful pencil fur- nishes an ample supply for all his passing wants. All else, he leaves with God.   Xe a n  a t U t x fxe  ff I i rU to u "Never leave us to ourselves From hardness and impenitence of heart, good Lord deliver us "' "F I were in your place, Kate, I would not go to I Mrs. Burton's party, to-night." "Why not, pray?" "Because, I think Clara is much worse than you seem to be aware of." "Nonsense, nothing at all ails the child, but a cold!" "Jane says that she appears very much like Mrs. Livingston's children. You know, I suppose, that two of them died last week, very suddenly." "Jane is only trying to frighten us, to make us stay at home. I have no doubt that she would like to have me stay at home, and take care of the chil- dren, every night!" "I should think you would wish to do it some times. I don't believe you see Clara and Edward once a week!"   70       KATE KILBORN. "What, if I don't! Ain't Jane and Bridget enough to take care of them! What do you want me to do?" "I'll tell you what I want. When children are dying by dozens all around; I want you to care enough about your own, to know whether they are sick or not. Have you seen Clara, to-day?" "You needn't catechise me. Go and see her yourself, if you want to, but let me alone," "You have no more natural affection than a tigress." "Humph! I think I have heard that story be- fore." "Kate, will you go up and see that child, or not?" "Plainly, then, I will not. Nothing in the world ails her, and more than that, I will not be dictated to." "You may change your mind yet on that point; and if you know what is for your own good, you will go to the nursery and stay with that child." "Go yourself, if you wish to. I shall go to the party, you may rest assured; and if you want to :: go to the nursery and take care of the baby, you can do it." Mrs. Myers kept her word. She did attend the   UNSANOTIFIED AFFLICTION. .S ' 7l party, and that without going to the nursery. It was late when she returned, having scarcely thought of her child through the whole evening. As she passed through the upper hall on her way to her own chamber, she was surprised to see a light in the children's room, and to hear sounds as if per- sons were passing to and fro. Entering the room, she saw her husband sitting with the babe in his arms, while the doctor stood beside him, and the nursery maids were moving silently about, doing such things as were necessary. Mr. Myers took no notice of her entrance, but the doctor remarked, as she approached: "Your child, madam, is dangerously ill, and will need the utmost care to save her life." "What is the matter with her?" "I can scarcely tell you. It seems to be a kind of influenza, which prevails during this moist weather, and is very fatal. It usually goes through a whole family when one is attacked." Mrs. Myers walked quickly to the bed where Walter was sleeping peacefully. If she loved any thing on earth, it was that sweet child. As the doctor left the room, she said: "I am glad of one thing, any way." "What is that?" inquired her husband.   k 72       KATE KILBORN. '; I am glad it is n't Walter!" "It might have been Walter, and both the others; and they all might have died, so far as you were concerned." Mrs. Myers made no reply; but after a few moments, she said, impatiently: "I'm too tired and sleepy to stay with that child. Jane, can't you and Bridget take turns in the care of her? I want to go to bed!" "Yes, ma'am; the child is better, I think, and we can call you, if she gets worse again." "Mind you don't disturb me unnecessarily," said the mother, as she left the room. The child continued better during the next day, and at evening both Mr. and Mrs. Myers prepared to go out, although Jane begged one or the other to remain at home, for she said the complaint was said to be worse at night; but, as before, Mrs. Myers was inexorable, no persuasion could induce her to relinquish the pleasure of the evening. Ar- rayed for a fancy ball, she entered the nursery, and again Jane begged her not to go.         F "I do think, Mrs. Myers, that Walter is not  i well, he has been restless and peevish all day, and now he lies feverish and quite stupid-like on the : settee yonder."                 !   UNSANCTIFIED AFFLICTION.    73 Mrs. Myers went to the settee. He was as Jane had said, feverish; and as he was roused up, he muttered some incoherent words, as if he was talk- ing in his sleep, and instantly settled down again without opening his eyes. His mother saw that he was not well; but, determined not to lose the evening's amusement, said to Jane: "There's nothing the matter with him, only he is a little feverish; let Bridget get him to bed, and he will be well enough. nou only want to keep me at home, that's all. I hire you to take care of the children; and you 'll have to do it, if you stay with me." "Indeed, madam, I am quite willing to do all I can; but I am really afraid something will hap- pen." "Well, you are scared, then. I tell you, Clara is doing well; and I don't believe any thing is the matter with Walter." "But if they should be worse?" "Then I suppose you can send some one for me." For some reason Mrs. Myers did not enjoy her- self so well as usual that night. A vague dread haunted her mind, and at every unusual movement in the room, she turned quickly toward the door, as 7   74       KATE KILBORN. if she expected some one. The hours wore heavily away, and it was no surprise to her when about  i midnight one of the servants of the house ap-  proached her, and told her that she was wanted in the hall. As she expected, she found a messenger from home, who begged her to come quickly, for her child was dying. She did not ask one ques- tion; but as she prepared to obey the summons, she was overheard to say: "I 'm so glad it is n't Walter.'" Arrived at home, all was bustle and confusion. The family physician was there again, not now be- side the cradle of the infant Clara, but with her husband bending over the bed where Walter and Edward lay. Smitten with sudden terror, she drew near, and beheld the beautiful child, convulsed in every limb, and gasping for breath in mortal agony. Two days the little sufferer lingers, regardless of all around him. On the third, just as the gray morning dawned, he became quiet and conscious, and inquired for his parents. His father took him in his arms, shuddering, as he saw "Upon his brow, Amid his clustering curls, the livid seal Of the Destroyer sat."      It is ahrto im nli rs. e-p  K ate Ellor   1. EX 5,: z   UNSANCTIFIED AFFLICTION.    75 At length he asked "How do you feel now, Walter?" "Better, father; and oh! I've had such a dream! I've been in such a pleasant place, and little Clara was with me, too. Where is Clara now, father?" "There by the window, in her little crib, Walter. Clara is very sick." "Is she? She was n't sick in my dream; and I heard somebody say: 'They shall never be sick any more!' She could stand all alone on her little feet, and oh! she had such beautiful flowers on her head. We took hold of hands and walked along with the rest-there were many, many children there, and we heard such sweet music right over our heads, as if a thousand birds were singing, only they sung words." "What words did they sing, my boy?" "I don't want to tell you, father, I'm afraid mother won't like it." "Don't be afraid, Walter; tell us what you heard." "Well, then, it was what Aunt Emeline used to tell me last summer, it was the very same words: 'Suffer little children to come unto me.'"    76       KATE KILBORN. ': Why did n't you want your mother to hear it, Walter '?" "Because mother didn't want me to say what Aunt Emeline told me; but I think of it when I'm all alone, and I say, 'Our Father,' every night and morning, and    f 'Now I lay me down to sleep,' too." Mr. Myers looked sternly at his wife, who sat on the foot of the bed, as if in a dream. A change  came over the face of the dying child, and Mrs. Myers said, hoarsely: "You must hush now, Walter, you are tired." For a few moments all was still. The child  closed his sweet, mild eyes, and settled upon his pillow as if to sleep. Suddenly starting up, he ex- claimed: "It's getting dark, father-it's dark, and I'm  afraid; but I hear the music-come, Eddy, come, little Clara, let 's go! "Good night, father! good night, mother!" Another moment, and the child was gone. And now a storm of passion broke upon the lips of that ungodly mother, which it was fearful to hear. The wretched woman did not fear to re-   [ proach her Maker, and burst out into open rebellion i Pr   UNSANCTIFIED AFFLICTION.    t against the hand that held the chastening rod. Even her husband, who had little of the religious element in his own breast, was shocked with her daring impiety. At length he said: "Kate! are you mad or not I have seen many a reckless person, but you exceed all! I am afraid to live with you!" Every hour little Clara sunk, and Edward was prostrated with the same disease; but the mother never went near the sick-room, and scarcely made any inquiry about the children. She said, repeatedly, that "now Walter was dead, she did not care what became of the rest." When Mr. Myers saw that Clara could not live, he delayed the funeral of Walter, until both could be buried together. At length the sweet babe closed her little pilgrimage, aged only four months and twenty days. No mother's tears fell on her pure spotless brow, and no mother's tenderness had blessed her brief existence. One coffin received the beautiful children, beauti ful even in death. A wreath of pale flowers wan woven for the little Clara's brow, even as her brother saw her in his dream. Her tiny hand was laid in Walter's, and her fair head nestled lovingly against his breast. Thus they were borne to their 7*   '18       KATE KILBORN. long repose, and thus it may well be, they now wander hand in hand, along the streets of that city, where no darkness shall bewilder their steps, and where He, who once on earth, said: "Suffer little children to come unto me," hath received them to his loving embrace. Edward slowly recovered, little indebted to his mother's kindness or care. Indeed, she said she "almost hated the sight of him, he was so unlike Walter." It was a desolate house. No parents, or sisters, came with tender words of consolation, to cheer the hearts of the mourners. No tender affection for the living sprung up from the ashes of the dead. No Bible was searched for words of heavenly peace, no closet heard the voice of prayer, and no Spirit of God bound up the bruised heart. They turned to none of these sources for comfort, and there was nothing else that could afford the help they needed. Few of the votaries of fashion, among whom Mrs. Myers had chosen her friends, cared to enliven her gloom. Mr. Myers was very unhappy, and scarcely ever at home. His wife was no comfort to him. Indeed, little of domestic happiness had he known since the hour when he chose for his wife one of whom he knew nothing but that she was beautiful.   s UNSANCTIFIED AFFLICTION.    79 How hateful had that beauty become to him since he found how little of happiness it had brought him. When she could have her own will in all re- spects, and was supplied with plenty of money,  which she was at liberty to spend without question or dictation, she was simply indifferent; neither a friend to receive his confidence, or a companion for his quiet hours. But did he ever attempt to restrain her lavish expenditure, or to cross her plans, he found one to deal with who overmatched him, and he gladly retreated from the contest, bit- terly repenting his rash choice. It might be expected that this bereavement which they shared equally, would have had a ten- dency to soften their hearts, and bring these parents together, but it was far otherwise. It only widened the breach between them. Rarely, if ever, is afflic- tion sanctified. to hearts which have never felt the re- newing grace of God. Sometimes, indeed, the eyes of the sinner seem to be opened, and he sees the right path, and hears a voice which tells him of his duty and his sin. He makes many promises of amendmenttut as the severity of the pain passes away he forgts them all, and often becomes more hardened and obdurate than before. These bereaved parents neither acknowledged I   And rgow e  80       KATE KILBORN. the goodness, or the justice of God, in their afflic- tion and the language of their hearts was: "What have I done that the flower of my family should be  taken from me' " f qt I , S ?--. Amn s   XI. THE months of preparatory study will soon be finished, and our friend, William Hamilton, will assume the duties and responsibilities for which the studies of the last five years have been preparing him. Already, in the providence of God, the sphere of his future labor has been indicated, and in a few months lie expects to take leave of scenes familiar and dear, and seek a home among strangers. But before he takes a long leave of those spots which are associated with the memory of earlier days, he wishes once more to pay a visit to the place of his temporary sojourn, where he was first introduced to the reader. Accordingly, we find him  visiting among old friends at Laurelton. Among others, he calls upon Mrs. Kilborn, and re- news his acquaintance with Emeline, who is still engaged in teaching. From mutual friends Mr.   82       KATE KILBORN. Hamilton learns many things of Emeline that in- terest him much. As he sees her occasionally, he wonders that he had not thought her beautiful when he first knew her, and yet, as he studies her V ! features one by one, they have not changed, and have little of that regularity which he once thought essential to beauty. Instead of this, there is an   i expression of thoughtful self-reliance, blended with a tenderness and sweetness of spirit, which gives to her countenance an indescribable charm, far more attractive than the fairer colors, and more faultless features of her elder sister. Most of their conversations turned upon the scenes and incidents of Mr. Hamilton's sojourn in Europe; and this fine scholar found himself con- stantly surprised, not only by the extent and accu- racy of Emeline's information, but also by the    j eager and enthusiastic interest with which she in- * quired about those scenes amid which he himself   I lingered with such delight.             : "You should have traveled in Europe yourself,    [ Miss Emeline. I can imagine how richly you would enjoy those objects with which you have be- come familiar, only by reading." "It was one of my old dreams; I cherished the mish, for I can scarcely call it a hope, a long time, I ,i   THE UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL.     83 and gave it up at last reluctantly. But did you make no sketches, Mr. Hamilton?" "Oh, yes! many, both on the spot and since my return. In fact, there are few weeks that pass with- out my finding sufficient leisure to trace some of those pictures which are indellibly engraved on my memory." "How I should love to look at them, Mr. Hamil- ton," said Emeline, her eyes sparkling with delight. "You shall be gratified, Miss Emeline. I have none of them with me, but I will send them for your examination." Emeline returned thanks most heartily for this unexpected favor, and the conversation turned to other subjects. As Mr. Hamilton left the house, he said: "There is a proposal, Miss Emeline, which I feel con- strained to make. You are aware that I expect soon to find a new home for myself, among strian- gers. From what I have seen and heard, I feel that your society will add much to my happiness and usefulness there. If you feel that I can make you happy, and that there are no insurmountable obstacle in the way, will you consent to share that home with me? I   will call to-morrow and receive your answer."   84       KATE KILBORN. Emeline was taken completely by surprise. Be- fore she could find a voice to utter a word, he was gone. Hastening to her chamber, she locked the door, and recalled the words to which she had  listened. A fountain of previously unknown delight  seemed suddenly opened in her soul. She was in- vited to share the home of one whom of all others  1 she had ever regarded with the highest admiration and esteem. With what a nameless charm did the thought of such companionship invest her future life.  But suddenly arose before her mind the image of  that pale and suffering mother; and the brother and  sisters for whose welfare she had struggled so  many years. Could she be spared now? Alas, no! It could not be! Should she desert them  now the labor of years would be in a measure  lost. They were, none of them, in a condition to  spare her. True, Harriet was now eighteen, as old as she herself was when she undertook the care of the family. But Harriet-the accomplished and lovely Harriet-had engaged to become the com- panion of one whose life was to be spent in the  service of the Saviour in a foreign land. Frank was yet in college, and Louisa, a lovely girl of sixteen, had not completed her education. If she had made sacrifices in days past, she had *            d   TIlE UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL.    85 not felt them, but this sacrifice was hard to make. She had known Mr. Hamilton, and admired him years before when her heartless sister scorned him, and she felt at the time so much esteem and regard for him that she could scarcely restrain her indig- nation at the treatment he received from her sister. During his long absence from his native land, she had at his own request bveen favored with the perusal of his letters to a friend in Laurelton, and had be- come familiar' with his feelings and his whole character. She had read his glowing accounts of all he had seen, and his no less glowing accounts of what he had felt and experienced. With the most lively sympathy she had followed him along the lowly path by which he had been led to an ac- quaintance with his own heart, and her earnest prayers had almost involuntarily ascended to Heaven in his behalf. There is "joy in Heaven among the angels of God over one sinner that re- penteth," and there was joy in Emeline's heart when the friend who scarcely remembered her emerged from darkness to light, and tuned his harp to the praises of redeeming grace. She never thought of herself as an object of the slightest interest to him; and, so it happened, that with all her admiration of his character and talents, 8   86       KATE KILBORN.  when they met it was without the smallest degree  of embarrassment on her part. No sleep visited Emeline's pillow that night.  Not carelessly, or without earnest thought, did she put away from her a blessing which, of all others,  she would have coveted if in her modest estimate  of herself she had ever thought it possible that it could have been hers to choose. She looked at the matter in every possible light, but she could see no  alternative. It was hard to repress some bitter feelings toward Kate, who had never seemed to care for any of them, and who might have taken her mother and sister to a home for which the sick woman never ceased to ask. But while Kate re- mained what she was now, Emeline would never intrust her mother's happiness to her keeping. Plainly her place was there at home, there where she was needed, where in her absence no one could fill the sphere of usefulness in which she moved. Thus, having settled in the fear of God what her course must be, she knelt down and prayed for strength to do her duty, not doubting that God would hear her prayer. And her prayer was heard. Her heart was strengthened, and when the morning dawned, she went out from the place where she had struggled   THE UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL.    87 "all the night," calm and serene, only the pale cheek and subdued and chastened manner indicating what the conflict had been within. To none of her family did the heroic girl breathe one word of the sacrifice she was making for their sakes. Sometimes, as evening approached, her strength forsook her, but then she would retire to the Source of unfailing help, and become strong again. With a pale cheek, and a hand like ice, she met Mr. Hamilton that night. For a moment, as he held her cold hand, he bent a look of inquiry upon her face, and then after a moment, he said, sadly:- "I see you have no pleasant word for me to- night, Emeline, and I must go on my way alone." She bent her head in reply, but could not speak; and, after a few moments, he continued: '"I could not expect that you would regard me with the interest which I feel for you. I have been long a wanderer from my native land, and until too lately a wanderer from my God; you had undoubt- edly forgotten me, and lost, as is natural, all the little interest you may have felt on account of the connection I once had with your family. I remem- ber you as you were then, and see you as you are now, and hear your praises, and the story of your efforts for your family on every lip. It is   88       KATE KILBORN. hard to feel that a treasure I should have prized so highly is lost to me, still I would gladly hear from your own lips that it is not personal dislike, that it is not indifference that influences your decision." Emeline started as if she had been dreaming. At length she said, in a hurried manner: "Not dislike, not indifference, Mr. Hamilton," and then meeting his gratified and eager gaze, fear- ing she had said too much, she cast down her eyes, and deep blushes suffused her face. "I have learned some things since we parted, and I have felt the more how much I lose in relin- quishing the sweet dream that has dawned upon my heart since the last few weeks. I would gladly stay and share the cares and burdens which you have taken upon yourself, but I am pledged to a distant and important field of labor. There I would gladly take your dear ones, and provide them a   f home, but your mother could not bear the journey; besides, I could not do for your brother and sisters what you are doing here without sacrificing the in- terests which I am commissioned to watch over, and to the carrying out of which I must devote my best energies. Any sacrifice which I could make, I \would gladly make; but it is yourself, and nothing else, that seems to be needed here. I had thought   THE UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL.    89 that you might be spared; that Harriet, who is so much like you, might now fill your place, but to-day I have learned that she is destined to a home in a foreign land. "You see, Emeline, I have thought of all, of every thing that I might avoid the necessity, which I so much regret, but I see that all is of no avail. I can only wish you, my dear friend, God speed in the work of love in which you are engaged." He rose as he finished speaking, and took her hand. It trembled, and she shook as with sudden cold, but she could not speak. Had she opened her lips, she would have betrayed all the deep and ten- der interest with which her heart was full. He did not know that she suffered-as well as he, and she would not tell him. She would not hedge up his path of duty. Thus in silence they parted. Was it forever? Several weeks had passed, and Emeline had re- covered her wonted cheerfulness, when a large package, accompanied by a letter, was brought to her by a  person from the place where Mr. Ham - ilton had his temporary home. The letter was as follows: 8*   90       KATE KILBORN. "MY DEAR FRIEND:                   "The accompanying portfolio contains some of the drawings, etc., which you wished to see. It i is a great satisfaction to me that I am able to give : you pleasure by placing them in your hands, and I trust you will do me the favor of retaining them   i in your possession until I call for them. I shall  I have no use for them at present, and can, if I wish,  easily reproduce them from memory any time, and   ! I know of no person who will feel the interest in them which you expressed. In the portfolio, you will also find notes, written on the spot, illus- trating some of the views, the reading of which may interest you. "It may occur to you, my dear friend, to won- der why (cherishing the sentiments which I ex- pressed to you) I did not seek to bind you to me by some pledge which should ultimately bring us together. I can but feel that the time will come, when you will feel yourself free to follow the im- pulses of your own warm and generous heart, and enter into that relation which you are so well cal- culated to make a blessing to some favored one, For myself, I would gladly have pledged myself to await the coming of such an hour, however dis- tant it may be. But of you, I could not ask it. I !:ii;   THE UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL.     91 would not fetter you by a promise which the time may come for you to regret. Another may come, perhaps worthier than I, whose circumstances will permit him to stand where I would gladly stand; and share the labors and watchings, and cheer your heart amid the trials which await you. May you be happy, my dear friend, as I know you will be in the performance of your duty, I will not ask you to remember me, though my heart pleads loudly that I may not be entirely forgotten. I shall not soon forget you. I shall hear from you through our mutual friend, who knows of the past, and will give me the earliest intimation of any of those changes in your circumstances which time must inevitably bring. "I said I would not ask you to bind yourself to me. There are few women, I know   of not one, whom I   would ask to share the uncertainties of my future life. I asked you, Emeline, for I felt, and still feel that there exists between us a sympathy and union of feeling, which would have made you willing, had you been free to choose, to share the future with me. I believe that we should have been happy together, as happy as we could have been any where, except in the discharge of our duty. I thank you for your kind interest in me,   92       KATE KILBORN. and for the lesson which I have learned from your  example-a lesson which it may be I shall find in time to come, that I needed to learn. "You see, Emeline, how I linger over this page,  dreading again, and for the last time to say, adieu. id That this short life passed, we may meet where  Ij the parting word is never spoken, is the prayer of  "Your attached friend,        i "W. HAMLTON. " Emeline's tears fell fast over this letter, but she brushed them away, and eagerly opened the large portfolio. What wealth was here! Six beautiful landscapes in oils, sketches of Italian and Alpine i scenery, copies of statuary, exquisite heads, delicate- . q ly penciled Madonas, and lovely children, and sev- eral pictures of a purely imaginative character. , But that which Emeline valued most, was an ex-   j: quisite little oil-painting, evidently scarcely dry, i? when placed in the portfolio. The scene was laid  . in a wild mountain spot, where one whom she in- stantly recognized was seated on a projecting rock, \i beneath the shade of a spreading tree, with an open Bible in his hand. On his face was written doubt, perplexity, and intense longing, while just behind  him appear a group of angels bending forward, and : ,i   THE UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL.    93 regarding him with the most tender interest, and ap- parently consulting together, while one points away toward where in the dim distance shines the Cross. Even without the date and initials in pencil on one corner of the canvas, Emeline would have been at no loss to understand the picture, and a secret impulse led her to conceal it in her drawer, while she hastened to show her other treasures to her mother and sisters. They were received with great delight, and some surprise was expressed that they had been in- trusted to her keeping. When they had all been looked over and returned to the portfolio, Mrs, Kilborn remarked in a querulous tone. "What a pity it is, Emeline, that you are not'a little better looking! Who knows but Mr. Ham- ilton might have taken a fancy to you, as well as to Kate, and then he need not have gone away off to that outlandish place to die among the Indians." Emeline blushed, and Harriet looked up with a roguish sort of glance, as if some suspicion of the true state of the case had crossed her mind. "Why, mother! who knows but he did take a fancy, as you call it, to Emeline, may be he is coming back for the pictures and her too, by and by."   "       KATE KILBORN. "Why, Harriet, what a foolish idea! Such men as Mr. Hamilton, don't usually fall in love with homely people, and we all know that Emeline is n't handsome."                   "I think she is just about as handsome as ally  one I know, and quite as good," said Louisa.     . "It's well she is good, any way," said Mrs. Kil- born. "I 'm sure I never did know who she did    ! look like, unless it was your Aunt Matilda, your   ; father's sister. I am sure I always thought her the homeliest person I ever saw, and not over-good either." Poor Emeline; her mother had come to regard it   , as a fault of hers, that she was not beautiful like y:  her sisters. Of late she had been constantly dis- satisfied with Emeline, and continually asked for  : Kate. Now, she had a new source of regret. It was that Emeline had not attracted the notice of Mr. Hamilton. "He always was such an interest-   p ing person to converse with, and especially, since he has been away and seen so many fine things. It would have been so pleasant to have him sit with me of an evening."   XII. t   t in ate   3  ast. "Joy to the weary onel thy bark hath passed I ^  The rough sea's foam ', - "Ier grave shall be where India's palim-trees wave; And in one hour of blessedness to come, Many a heathen mother, shall arise And call her blessed!" ElOUR years pass, and Mrs. Kilborn, the suffer- ing Mrs. Kilborn, was nearing the close of her earthly pilgrimage. She requires such constant at- tention  and care, that Emeline has for the past year entirely given up her school and devoted her- self to the care of her mother. :For the past two years she has been unable to pay the interest upon the money obtained at the period of K  ate's mar - riage, and now that Harriet is about to leave her home for a  foreign land, it is needful to furnish her with every possible comfort. This, together with the payment of Frank's college  bills, Louisa's school bills, Margaret's wages, and their daily ftam.   96       KATE KILBORN. ily expenses, has reduced the original value of the property by more than one half, and Emeline feels that she will be compelled to part with the home to which she has always clung. Mrs. Kilborn was constantly asking for Kate, who had made but one short visit at Laurelton since the death of her children. She was now the mother of two little girls, and these children Mrs. Kilborn so much desired to see, that Emeline  wrote to Kate, begging her for her mother's sake,  to come home, if it was only for a short time, be- fore Harriet must leave the country, that they might all be together once more. The answer to her letter we will subjoin. "I can not come up to Laurelton now; it is im- possible. I am sure there are enough of you there to take care of mother, and I don't see why I should be expected to make such a journey just be- cause she wants to see me. If it will be any com- fort to her, you may tell her that I would come if I thought I could. Of course you will let me  know when it is all over. As to Harriet, I sup. pose if she wants to see me, she can call while she is in New York. I have no idea that any of you want to see me so much as you profess to. You   DEATH IN THE HOUSE.      97 are, I       presume, in trouble, and want me to help you out I have less money now to use than I used to have, and none to spare, so you need not ask me for any thing.       Yours, "KATE." Emeline endeavored as much as possible to soften the disappointment to her mother, who, however, needed little more of her kind care. As death ap- proached, her spirit seemed to rise above the little annoyances and vexations which had made her so much unnecessary unhappiness, and her thoughts fixed themselves more steadily on the scenes which were shortly to open before her. Her end was peaceful. Mingled with the tender sorrow with which her children mourned her loss, there came a feeling of joy that for her, as they humbly trusted, trial, and sorrow, and suffering, wee forever past In a few   days after the funeral of her mother, the long-expected hour arrived when Harriet was to take leave of her native land. Painful was the separation between these sisters-so tenderly at. tached to each other--but they repined not. They felt that there was no cause for bitter grief; that although through the years of this passing life they might not meet again, still there remained for   98       KATE KILBORN. o them eventually a reunion in a better world. Both by nature and grace Harriet was eminently fitted for the station she was destined to fill; and r every arrangement that was possible had been made for her comfort, not only on the voyage, but also when she should reach the spot where her hus- band expected to labor in a foreign land. A mournful task remained for Emeline and Louisa, when, after the death of their mother, and the departure of Harriet and Frank (it was his last year in college), they proceeded to pack their fur- niture, and prepare to leave the spot which a thou- sand associations had made dear to them. Emeline was wearied out with care and toil; and when their own house passed into other hands, they gladly consented to pass the summer in the hospitable home of a kind friend, who surrounded them with every comfort, and did all that was pos- sible to cheer them in those hours of loneliness which they could not fail to meet. , During the whole period of Mr. Hamilton's ab- * sence at the West, Emeline had read occasional letters from him to the friend with whom he cor- responded when in Europe. Not without a pleas- ure, which none but herself knew, did she in these letters often find her own name, coupled with kind   DEATH IN THE HOUSE.      99 inquiries after her health, and that of her mother, and the general circumstances of the family. It was with no little interest that she awaited the ar- rival of letters, when she found that Mr. Hamilton's friend had apprised him of the changes that had taken place in the family. Week after week passed, and there was yet no reply; and the sum- mer was rapidly passing, and the time when she felt it would become necessary to engage once more in teaching was at hand. Some of those who knew the sisters, and their ability to conduct a school for young ladies, offered to provide them a suitable building, the use of which, free of rent, they were to enjoy for five years, in which they were to open a boarding and day- school, having the requisite number of pupils se. cured to them. Louisa, who had just completed her education, was delighted at this proposal, and continually urged Emeline to accept of it, wonder- ing in her heart what could be the reason for her hesitation. Still, from week to week Emeline hes- itated to commit herself to this plan, hoping con. stantly that every mail would bring a letter from Mr. Hamilton to his friend. But three months had now elapsed, and yet no tidings came; and so at the latest possible moment she gave her consent,   100       RATE KILBORN.  and the necessary .preparations were immediately commenced. The money which remained after the sale of the house, was invested in furniture, the requisite number of pupils obtained, and on the third Tuesday of September, four months after the death of her mother, she commenced her new en- terprise with fifty pupils, one half of whom were boarders. Margaret, the faithful friend and helper of bygone days, was installed housekeeper, with younger hands and feet to do her bidding, and every thing promised prosperity. But notwithstanding these pleasant and cheerful prospects, there was a weight at Emeline's heart. Ever since the parting with Mr. Hamilton, she had instinctively cherished the hope that they should meet. Indeed, he had distinctly told her that he should watch for these changes in her circumstances, which would be sure to come. Why had he not written, either to her or to his friend? It might be that weary of his loneliness, he had sought and found one to fill the place to which he had once in-  vited her. It might be that he was languishing in sickness, untended and alone. It might be that letters had been lost, or that he would come; and b if he came, cherishing the feelings which his letter to her breathed, what would he say when he found   DEATH IN THE HOUSE.     101 that she was engaged in an effort from which she could not now withdraw herself! These, and sim- ilar thoughts intruded themselves into her mind constantly in her intervals of leisure. She could only rest when she was able in humble faith and trust to commit all her interests to that Friend whose watchful care is ever over His children, and who, though in His wisdom He often sees fit to lead through difficult paths, will finally bring them to acknowledge the " goodness and mercy" which have followed them all the days of their lives. 9*   XIII. "Boast not thyself of to-morrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth." IT is quite time that we look in upon our old acquaintance, Mrs. Myers, who is passing through scenes far less congenial to her feelings than those to which she had been accustomed during the last eight years. With all her extravagance and love of show, Mrs. Myers had still a kind of prudence which led to avoid any indulgence which might endanger her continued enjoyment of the same gratifications. She knew precisely the amount of her husband's income; and while she contrived to use the whole amount, she yet cautiously avoided any infringe- ment on the principal, which was securely in- vested.  As time passed on, and Mr. Myers found that no influence which he could exert would induce his   NEW ARRANGEMENTS.      103 wife to devote herself to the care of her household, or the promotion of his own personal comfort, he became irritated, and careless of every thing. He was easily induced to desert'his cheerless and com- fortless, though elegant home, for the convivial party and the gaming-table. Mrs. Myers was en- tirely ignorant of this change in her husband's habits, until making her usual application for money one day, her husband refused to give it to her, and at the same time advised her to curtail her lavish expenditure, while yet she might do so without compulsion. Enraged at this refusal, Mrs. Myers demanded what he meant, and received the not very pleasant information that he had withdrawn a certain amount of property from the stocks in which it was invested, and engaged in a speculation which had resulted in the total loss of all the capital in- volved in it. A storm of bitter reproach, with which we will not stain our pages, followed this explanation, and Mrs. Myers concluded by charging him on no ac- count to, do the like again. She was, however, met by the blunt avowal, on the part of her hus-- hand, that "he would do as he liked with that which was his own. She had long enough disposed   104       KATE RILBORN. of his property at her will, without either thanking him for the privilege, or yielding in any instance to his wishes, and that she would find now that he in- tended to be master in his own house." In vain Mrs. Myers resorted to her long-tried method of intimidating him by threats and violent language; in vain she appealed to his characteristic dread of becoming the topic of remark in the aris- tocratic circles in which they moved. He only re- plied that he was sick of living as he had done, and was determined to have a change. What that change might be, he cared little, only he would do precisely as he chose, in spite of her; and resist- ance. to him would only bring that exposure to the world, and loss of caste, which she feared far more than he did. Mrs. Myers was astonished, and she would have been far more so' had she known more fully the reck- less state of her husband's mind, and the evil influ- ences to which he was exposed, that, rendering him almost desperate, awaited, vampire-like, the mo-  ) ment when full advantage of that recklessness might be taken, and her ruin secured. One influ- ence, humanly speaking, might even now perhaps have saved him, the influence of a loving and vir- tuous wife, who would have withdrawn him from   NEW ARRANGEMENTS.      105 haunts which he had never before frequented within the hallowed precincts of a happy home. Unfor- tuna tely, this was wanting. There was no redeem- ing influence in Mrs. Myers' heart; and she would not change her course, although there she had a misgiving that she was standing on the brink of a precipice, still she would not stoop to conciliate, or make one effort to save the husband whose steps were fast hastening on to ruin. And now loss after loss followed each other in quick succession; and Mrs. Myers was made con- scious of the true state of things by the altered manners of those with whom she associated, and the evident hesitation with which the tradesmen with whom she dealt intrusted their goods to her. She had, however, never been accustomed to ask for credit; and it might possibly be that the ex- pression which she thought indicated unwillingness, might be only surprise that she should ask such a favor, still she could not satisfy herself that there was not some other reason of which she was ig- norant underlying that, which was apparent, and she inw   .resolved to avoid all such annoyances until she s ould learn definitely how matters stood. Mr. Myers was now seldom at home, often ab- senting himself for days together, and whenever   106       KATE KILBORN. he came into the house confining himself in his own room. Weeks passed, and she did not have a single hour's conversation with him. At length, returning home one day, he threw several trades- men's bills into her lap, remarking, as he did so: "If any more of these things come to me after to-day; I shall publicly announce that I will not pay them." "Mr. Myers, what do you mean?" "I mean, simply, that there is only one woman in the world, who, when her husband told her he was embarrassed, and refused to give her money to meet unnecessary expenses, there is but one in the world who would have the meanness to endeavor to obtain such things as those on credit; that lady, madam, is yourself." Mrs. Myers was terrified. She saw at a glance that she had made one great error; still she did not know how far her husband was serious, but she saw that in his present unwonted mood it would not do to irritate him. So in as gentle a tone as she could command, she said: "How did I know that you would object to my asking credit. Other women do it in an emergency, and why not I have the privilege?" "An emergency, indeed! Three hundred dollars !   NEW ARRANGEMENTS.      107 worth of gewgaws, and French goods, and mil. linery! not a sensible article in the whole list. I should think you would have been ashamed to ask for credit on such things, and that, too, when your closets are literally groaning with such things al- ready." 2   " "Then you have taken the trouble to examine my wardrobe! Really, you are growing- " "Allow me to interrupt you, madam! My pa- tience is not perfect; and one more unnecessarily irritating word, and you will regret it." "I'm sure I don't know what to make of you, Mr. Myers; I never saw you act so before." "You never knew me feel so before!" "Well, then, what ails you? What dreadful thing is about to happen? I can't bear this sus- pense!" "Ha! it troubles you, does it! Well, then, we'll let it rest awhile! It is a pity though that it will be absolutely necessary to relieve your mind soon. I wish your suspense might last longer than it is likely to. It might possibly do you good." With these words, he left the house. Mrs. Myers saw that these were no idle words, spoken to intimidate her. Tantalized with fear, she wan-   108       KATE KILBORN. dered from room to room, trying vainly to satisfy herself how much she had to dread. For once, as evening approached, she anxiously awaited her hus- band's return; but she knew neither where he had gone, or when he would be at home again. At length, she said, aloud: "One thing is certain, I'll never stay here if any thing does happen; I'll go any where, first!" Night came, but no Mr. Myers. Unable longer to endure the torment of her own thoughts, she dressed herself to attend a party, to which both she and her husband had been invited. After she was ready, she waited an hour or two, hoping that he would yet come; but, at last, as she often did, she ordered her carriage, and went without him. There was something unusually unpleasant to her in the appearance and manners of those she met. She looked anxiously, and in vain, for her hus- band's entrance, until perceiving that for some, reason she was the object of remark to the assem- bled party, she made an effort to throw off the load that oppressed her. So she sang, and jested, and laughed, until a late hour, and was among the last to leave the house. Seated in her carriage, she began again to think, aloud:   NEW ARRANGEMENTS.      109 "I've a great mind to go up-and see Em until this fuss is blown over. The hot weather is coming on now, and it would be a good chance to get away. I should n't like to see Mrs. Myers, though, if she knows of any of our losses, for she would be sure to blame me for every thing, of course. After all, it may be, Walter is only playing a joke, or trying to frighten me; but, if it is so, he' 11 re- pent it, I can tell him!" Arrived at home, she inquired of the servant who opened the door whether her husband had got home, and was answered that he had been at home, but had gone out again. As this was nothing strange, she undressed herself and went to bed. When she arose in the morning, one of the serv- ants gave her a letter. At the first glance, she recognized her husband's hand; and, with a terrible dread of, she knew not what, she opened the letter and read as follows: "I will not belie my conscience enough to call you my dear wife, even in a formal way; for dear you are not, and never have been, since the unfor- tunate hour that gave you a right to bear my name. "I only write now to let you know that before 10   "O      KATE KILBORN. this reaches you, I shall be on my way to the West in search of a home, which now I have not, for we are ruined. Were it not for the children, you would never see my face again; but for their sakes I am willing to make one effort, and what I do for you will depend on the care you take of them. You can select furniture for a room and two or three bed-rooms, with kitchen furniture and uten- sils, which my agent, Mr. Whitney, will see packed for you; and I advise you to select such things as will suit your altered circumstances, for your future home (if you have one) will be an humble one, thanks to your extravagance. "Hartmann has an inventory of every thing in the house, and the furniture, etc., will all be sent to the auction-room on Friday. The house, and the horses and carriage are sold. Whitney will take you to a private boarding-house in -  street, where I have provided board for you and the chil- dren. The servants are all paid off up to Friday morning. I owe no one any thing. You will have to learn to wait on yourself and the children, for I shall keep no servant for you, and I advise you to make good use of your time. If you want to go up to Laurelton in the hot weather, Whitney will furnish you with money, but I should hardly think   NEW ARRANGEMENTS.      " you would like to show your face there, after your treatment of your mother and sisters. iF,    "You will see that I have found it needful to take some liberties with your jewelry, etc., which I hope you will excuse. At any rate, unless you nurse your wrath well, to keep it warm, it will have plenty-of time to cool before you see my face again.         WALTER MYERS. "P. S. I would charge you to take good care of the children if I thought it would do any good. I will say, however, that if I find you neglect them, or are unkind to them (and I shall know it, if it is so), you will suffer for it. Be warned, woman! this is no idle threat!" "The wretch!"This was the first exclamation of this sadly injured wife. The next movement was to examine her jewelry box. To her conster- nation she found every thing of any value gone, ex- cept the few ornaments which she had worn the evening previous. Not even her watch'was left. From her closet her elegant cashmere shawl, and costly furs, with many other valuable articles, had disappeared. The fine pictures, and every valuable movable article, were removed from the parlors.   "2       KATE KILBORN.  The library-door was bolted. From the dining- room closet, all the plate and china were taken. In a perfect rage Mrs. Myers went from room to room, venting her passion on every thing that came in her way. Even the innocent children did not escape her fury, for she could not forget what their father had said about dealing lwith her as she dealt with them. It was long past noon before her excitement sub- sided sufficiently to enable her to think of any thing. Then she ordered the carriage and drove to Mr. Whitney's office. There she made vain in- quiries about her husband's arrangements. He either would not, or could not give her any addi-  tional information. "Is it possible, Mr. Whitney, that Mr. Myers has made no further provision for the children or ! myself? Have I no right of dower?" "There is nothing else, I am sorry to say,  madam; nothing else that I know of."  "But, Mr. Whitney, I must have at least one servant. I know nothing about taking care of chil-  dren. I have never done it in my life, and they  will die this hot weather, and it will kill me to confine myself to the house with them. You must really manage that I can keep Jane."  X   ..  a!   NEW ARRANGEMENTS.      113 "I am sorry, Mrs. Myers, but my orders are peremptory." "You are really very unaccommodating!" "You forget, madam, that I am but the agent of Mr. Myers. I have no power to alter any thing he has arranged. I only obey definite instruc- tions." "It is most shameful and malicious treatment! What kind of a den is it that I am to go to?" "It is a pleasant house, in an airy and pleasant street. I know Mrs. Williams, who keeps the house, very well, and I think she will make every thing as pleasant as possible for you." "Undoubtedly! every thing is very pleasant, I see, remarkably so!" "Perhaps you would like to ride round and see the rooms? If so, I have a little leisure, and will go with you?" "I suppose I may as well go first as last." It was, as Mr. Whitney had said. The place was retired, airy, and pleasant. The rooms Mrs. Myers and her children were to occupy, were suffi- ciently large and cheerful. Mrs. Williams was a pleasant, motherly-looking woman, and had no other boarders. With a right state of heart, Mrs. 10* : I,{   "4       KATE KILBORN. Myers and her children might have been very happy there. When she reached home, she found that Mr. Hartmann had been at the house during her ab- sence, and removed the carpets and other furni- ture from the parlors, and the books, tables, chairs, and sofas, from the library. Vexed beyond meas- ure at what she considered an infringement of her rights, she immediately set about selecting such articles as she was permitted to retain in her own possession. Of course, she selected the best of every thing, and a large supply of all the conven- iences and comforts the house afforded. Some de- murring occurred on the part of Mr. Hartmann, when the inventory was looked over, but Mrs. Myers asserted her determination to keep all she had selected in such a manner that Mr. Hartmann declined any contention with her. The good Jane wept sadly on parting with the children, whom she had tended so faithfully, but it did not prevent Mrs. Myers from reproaching her bitterly, for leaving her when she most needed her services. When at length every thing was settled at Mrs. Williams' house, Mrs. Myers found means to hire a daughter of that lady to wait upon her children,   NEW ARRANGEMENTS.      115 paying her for her services with such articles of dress as the girl was willing to take. Thus the little ones received better attention than they would have enjoyed from their mother. Here at Al present we will leave them. :A: , : :I -   XIV. "T OUISA! I fear Kate is in trouble." "How so, Emeline?" "I saw Mr. Morrison this afternoon, who has just returned from New York. He told me that Mr. Myers had become a bankrupt, and every thing had been taken possession of by his creditors. He has himself gone to the West, and has already been absent some months. Kate and the children are now boarding somewhere in the city." "Is that really possible?" "I fear so. What will become of Kate and the children?" "If it were possible to wonder at any thing Kate does, I should wonder that she had not written to us." "I wonder if Mrs. Myers knows any particulars of the matter. I think I will call and inquire." Emeline did call, and received, as she expected, a very cool reception. In answer to her inquiries,   THE UNEXPECTED GUEST.    117 all that she had before heard was confirmed. As she expected Mrs. Myers blamed Kate for all that had occurred, and although Emeline greatly feared that her censure was not undeserved, still it was difficult for her to listen patiently to her angry ac- cusations when she remembered how much Mrs. Myers had herself done to injure Kate, and foster that vanity and love of display which she feared was the foundation of all her troubles and misfortunes. But in the generous and hopeful spirit of Eme- line, a new hope for her sister now sprung up. Might it not be that the good time for which she had so long prayed had now arrived, and the season of God's mercy to her soul prove at hand. Humbled and disappointed in her worldly expecta- tions, might she not now be induced to return a  penitent to her father's house? "I think, Louisa, we had better write to Kate, and invite her to come up and see us!" "Do as you like, sister," said Louisa, "but really I do not see any thing to be gained. I do not know what good we can expect to do her, and as to hoping that she will be any thing but an an- noyance and source of trouble to us, it is not to be expected." "I think differently, Louisa. I hope that her   "8       KATE KILBORN. trouble will lead her to turn her thoughts to better things." "She has been afflicted before, Emeline. Only think of the death of those sweet children, such a sorrow would have softened any thing but ada- mant. Then, Emeline, think of our mother and Harriet! Really, sister, I begin to think her case is hopeless." "Is any thing too hard for the Lord, Louisa " , "Certainly not; but will you tell me on what you base a hope of her ever becoming any better? She can certainly have no affliction more severe than those which she has experienced, and which have evidently left no impression upon her hard heart." "I presume, Louisa, if Mr. Myers has lost every thing, and Kate is reduced to poverty, she feels that to be the greatest calamity which has ever be- fallen her." "Precisely so! She is quite unnatural enough for any such thing, but that only makes the case more desperate, as I look at it." "I do not think so. I confess that in this new trouble that has come upon her, I most distinctly see the hand of God and the promise of mercy to her soul. I should have far less hope if she had   THE UNEXPECTED GUEST.    119 continued to enjoy worldly prosperity. She can not but feel now, and I look hopefully upon her- future prospects. This trouble may prove to be the great blessing of her life." "Emeline, you are a regular bee. You find honey where any other person would find only poison. I hope the event will prove that you are not deceived in your hopes." "Shall we write then, Louisa, and invite her to come up with the children? Certainly we can not let her take those dear little girls away with her, whom we have never seen, unless she first brings them here. I want to see little Eddy, too. Don't you think it is best to write to her?" "Oh, yes, I suppose it is best to write; but I warn you, Emeline, that if she is as rude and un- mannerly as she always has been since I can re- member, I shall feel but little kindness for her." "I wish my dear Louisa, you would try and divest yourself of these unkind feelings?" "I can not do it, sister. I confess I can only look upon her with dislike and positive aversion. How do you manage to feel as you do?" "Simply by remembering that she has a soul. Think of that, Louisa, and of its fearful exposure to hopeless, eternal misery, and then while you pray   120       KATE KILBORN. for her salvation you will learn to pity and love her." Emeline's letter was as follows: "MY DEAR SISTER KATE: "I have just learned, to my surprise, that your husband is absent at the West, making arrange- ments for your removal thither, and that meanwhile you and the children are boarding in the city. I hope you do not think of leaving without making us a visit with the children. We want to see them very much, indeed. I hope Eddy has not forgotten us, and that he will tell his little sisters all he can remember about his aunties. "Do, Kate, either write or come up and see us without delay. Louisa and I have undertaken the enterprise of which I wrote you, and I think we shall succeed well. Our house is full of boarders, but we have still a room for you, and we will give you a hearty welcome. "Yours with affection, EMELINE." The letter was dispatched, and Emeline retired to her room. Her heart was full of thoughts and anxieties, for her poor wayward sister, who, from some words dropped by Mrs. Myers, she had   THE TUNEXPECTED GUEST.    121 reason to fear was entirely deserted by her hus- band. In that case, what would become of Kate? Un- used as she had ever been to all exertion for her self; how would she ever be able, even if she were willing, to maintain herself and her children How had she been supported since Mr. Myers left her? he shuddered as she thought of the dangers to which her indolence and vanity had already ex- posed her. Those dear little ones, how had they been cared for? How sadly must they have suf- fered if none but their mother had taken care of them. What if they already wanted the necessa- ries of life? How she longed to go to them and bring them to the home she had secured, and share its comforts with them. Duty seemed to confine her to her home; it would be almost impossible for her to be absent now from her post, but if as she feared, Kate's pride prevented her responding to her letter, she would leave all and seek her out. She would at least take the little ones and do for them as if they were her own, and it should be Kate's own fault if she lacked a home. This train of thought was interrupted by a sum- mons to the parlor. A person wished to see her. Without pausing to wonder who was out on such a ,             n"   122       KIATE KILBORN. stormy night, thinking only of Kate and her little ones, she descended the stairs and entered the rooln. On the threshold her foot was staid; for standing with eyes fixed on the door, as if awaiting her entrance, as one whose form and features memory had but too faithfully preserved, on whom of late she had almost mourned as dead, dead at least to her--William Hamilton! One moment she paused, and then with extended hands she sprang forward, either unable, or unwill- ing to repress the words of joyful welcome, which were on her lips: "You have certainly been sick, Mr. Hamilton. How pale and unwell you look." "I have been sick, and for a long time. Early in the summer I was absent from home for a few A,-wksearkch was i   t   fhit    hom II ; weeks, during which time, a letter addressed to me arrived, and was mislaid by the lady with whom I boarded. Soon after, I was taken ill, and for some weeks was unconscious of anything. When I re- covered I made inquiry for letters, hoping that I should hear from this place. As I was expressing my surprise that there was no letter, my landlady told me that the missing letter bore this post-mark. A new search was instituted forthwith, which re- sulted in the recovery of the letter, bearing the in- t  s  i  recovery    THE UNEXPECTED GUEST.     128 telligence of your mother's death, and the depart- ure of Harriet to her Eastern home. About that time I was again attacked with illness. As soon as I recovered sufficiently to travel, I set out on my way, and-I am here. From what I have learned within the last half hour, I fear, too late. Tell me my friend, is it indeed so?" For a few moments Emeline was silent. At length, she said: "It is true that within the past few weeks I have engaged in an enterprise which must for the pres- ent-" again she paused; Mr. Hamilton said: "Then you are bound by no permanent obliga- tion?" "I bound myself by no special obligation, yet we took possession of this building, which our kind friends offered us rent free for five years, with the implied condition that the school was to be sus- tained for that length of time." "Then, after all, it is not as bad as I feared." He paused, and then rising, walked to the win- dow, where he stood for a few moments in silence. At length he crossed the room, and approaching  the place where Emeline sat, seated himself beside her, and taking her hand in his own, he said: "My friend, let us now understand each other.   124      iKATE KILBORN. Had I been able to reach you before this arrange- ment was consummated, would it have been pre- vented . In other words, would you have consented to accompany me to my Western home '" "Yes, Mr. Hamilton, I would have done so most freely, most gladly." "Thank you, my dear Emeline, for that assur- ance; and now I can but hope that all will yet be There was a long conversation, which resulted in a perfect mutual confidence and understanding. In reply to some inquiries relative to that point, Em- eline frankly told all the interest which she had felt in reading his letters, which she at first asked the privilege of doing, simply because they were written in a foreign land-the intense interest with which she found herself watching the changes through which he passed; her pleasure in his society, her surprise and gratification when asked to become the companion of his life, and the sor- row which she felt when made sensible that duty pointed to another path. Lightly she passed over the severe struggle in her heart-between duty and inclination; but she had an auditor who was able to understand with a quick perception, that which was but intimated, in words.   I          THE UNEXPECTED GUEST.    125 Mr. Hamilton listened with deep emotion; and when she had finished, he said: "My dear Emeline, can you forgive me for being at once so stupid and so blind?" "You did not know how intimately acquainted with you I was. I knew you almost as well as you knew yourself." "Indeed, I did not-I felt far better acquainted with you than I supposed you could be with me. I scarcely knew in what manner you would regard my proposal, our acquaintance had been so slight; still I could but speak. But, Emeline, has it been easy always to think kindly of me these long years '" "Yes." "How little have I dreamed of this. How many lonely hours have I passed, looking forward in the hope of a time when I might make one effort more to win you to my home, not suspecting that you shared my feelings. How often have I almost determined to write to you, little thinking that you would have been pleased to hear from me on a subject upon which if I wrote at all, I must write. I feel that I have made some sad blunders, but I would not so much regret them now, had I alone suffered on account of them; but to think   126       KATE KILBORN. that I have unwittingly laid another burden upon your heart during these years, is what I can scarcely forgive myself for. Can you forgive me, Emeline, and can you trust me for time to come?" Emeline did not reply, but looked up with a smile, whose sweet, confiding expression would have satisfied one far more inclined to be skeptical than Mr. Hamilton. There were no need of words. "And now, Emeline, I will not ask you at pres- ent to settle any thing, to make any definite plan in relation to the future; but you will permit me to feel that I have a special claim upon you, that for the time to come our interests shall be one." "That I can most cheerfully promise, Mr. Ham- ilton. I can not now distinctly see what I can do in the circumstances in which I am now placed, and must have time for reflection; but I trust all may be arranged in a manner which we shall neither of us regret." Mr. Hamilton's visit continued for some weeks, affording ample opportunity for Emeline to make herself acquainted with his circumstances in his Western home, and also to mature her own plans. She felt satisfied that she could not accomplish   I I9.,- THE UNEXPECTED GUEST.        127 what she wished for the institution over which she presided, and also make suitable arrangements for her own future usefulness and comfort, in a shorter time than two years.  In the course of that time she was confident that something might be done to secure the permanence of the effort which she and Louisa were making; and last, but not least in her estimation, she felt the need of the little sum invested in their enterprise, which of right belonged to her, and which could not at pres- ent be easily withdrawn, and also wished to avail herself of the generous salary which the kindness of her friends had secured to her. She foresawy that the small income which Mr. Hamilton enjoyed would do little toward providing a horie, or in- deed any thing aside from the common necessaries of life. Mr. Hamilton acquiesced somewhat reluctantly in this arrangement, not fully understanding the motives that influenced Emeline. It seemed to him that a year would be sufficient to accomplish all that was indispensable, and he was desirous that Louisa should accompany her sister to her new home. This suggestion, however, did not please Louisa, for reasons which may perhaps appear in future.   128       KATE KILBORN. At length the period of Mr. Hamilton's return arrived; and with much more of cheerfulness than he at first expected to feel, he parted from those who had become very dear to him, and went on his way, looking forward to another meeting, when a few more months had passed. He arrived with- out accident at the end of his journey, and again devoted himself with renewed energy and cheer- fulness to the interests of the people who were committed to his care. ,    iv. SEVERAL weeks passed on, and the sisters were "constantly expecting a letter from Mrs. Myers, and had begun to feel quite fearful that she had left the city before receiving their invitation. In- stead, however, of writing, she came up with the children to visit them. There was nothing in Kate's appearance to indi- cate a change, either in her feelings or circum- stances. Her dress, and also that of her children, was still elegant and expensive, and she made not even the slightest allusion to her misfortunes. As she manifested no disposition to confide in her sis. e: -ters, they agreed together not to betray any knowl edge of what Mrs. Myers told them, unless she should seem inclined to seek their confidence. As Louisa expected, the visit was productive of little beside annoyance to the household. She seemed, if possible, to have become more over- bearing and imperious than before, neglecting her   130       IATE KILBORN. children, sometimes leaving them for hole days to the care of her girl. The children were fine-looking and pleasant chil- dren, particularly the little girls; but Emeline missed her little favorite, Walter. Edward, now six years old, was of a hasty, passionate temper, and far less amiable than his brother had been. The little girls, one four, and the other nearly two years old, were pleasant children; and Marion, the eldest, appeared much like Walter. One little circumstance made Kate's visit ex- ceedingly unpleasant to her. Mrs. Myers, her husband's aunt, did not call upon her, and paid not the slightest attention to her, not even deigning to speak when she passed her in the street. This Kate could not bear, and she suddenly resolved to return to the city. There she continued to pass month aftermonth, never hearing directly from her husband, only learning through Mr. Whitney that he would not return before spring, for he had purchased a farm, and was engaged in building a house. Life in the city became intolerable to Kate, unless she could engage in th e same round of dis- sipation and amusement which she had formerly indulged herself in. This, however, was impossible,   THE WORLDLING.      131 for money was never at her disposal, although her board-bill was regularly paid by Mr. Whitney. She longed for a change, and she anticipated going among entire strangers with pleasure, thinking with satisfaction of the elegant wardrobe and handsome furniture, etc., which she had packed ready for departure. At length, quite early in the spring, Mr. Myers arrived, having been absent ten months. He seemed glad to see the children, but treated his wife with the utmost indifference. Kate saw with astonish- ment and fear that a great change, and that not a change for the better, had taken place in her hus- band. He was surly and rude in his speech, slov- enly in his dress, and seemed at times entirely to ignore her very existence, never telling her any thing about his plans, or consulting her in any thing. Sometimes she ventured to make an inquiry as to when and where they were to go, and he would answer her with an imprecation, adding an injunction, to "mind her own business; she might be thankful if she was permitted to go at all, it was more than she deserved." And now poor Kate began to reap the bitter fruit of the seed she had sown. She was continu-    132       KATE KILBORN. ally tantalized by the fear that Mr. Myers would leave her and the children behind, or, if not, that he would take the children, as he had threatened, and leave her destitute and dependent upon her own efforts. As soon as Mr. Myers found that Kate had secured the help of Mrs. Williams' daughter, he ordered the girl to leave the children entirely to their mother's care. In the temper in which Mr. Myers was, it was any thing but pleasant to look forward to the future; but she dared not remonstrate, her imperious will at length owned a master, and Mr. Myers, from being the most com- mon-place man of the world, had been transformed into an unfeeling, arbitrary tyrant. Little did Kate blame herself, however, or sus- pect that the deterioration of her husband's charac- ter had begun under her influence, but so it was. It was her utter indifference to any thing but her own gratification, her entire want of natural affec- 'tion, her hardness of heart, manifested at the death of her children, and afterward of her mother, and the parting with her sister, and her scoffing at sacred things, which had gradually blighted every good and generous impulse of his nature. When he lost his respect for her in the various relations of wife, mother, daughter, and sister, his downward   an:          -  THE WORLDLING.       133 course was rapid; he gave the rein to every appe- tite and passion, and thought only how he might consult his own convenience and ease without reference to any other person. But this was not the worst. He came by de- grees to lose his respect for the whole sex. He re- garded them as all like her, only giving her pre- eminence, not only in beauty, but also in ability to work mischief, and to carry out with unscrupulous selfishness her own designs at any cost. Mr. Myers had notified his wife to be in readi- ness to leave the city at an hour's notice; but day after day passed and still he lingered, she knew not why. At length they  started, all except Mr. Myers were ignorant of the place at which their journey was to terminate. Mrs. Myers ventured to inquire whether the "boxes were all safe," and her husband answered sarcastically that she'd " find them safe enough before long." Wearisome enough is that journey even now, when railroads and steamboats shorten the way; but far more tedious was it when the lumbering coach, or heavy wagon was the only mode of con- veyance over   high mountains, deep and rapid streams, deceitful sloughs, primeval forests, and    134       KATE KILBORN. almost impassable " corduroy" roads, varied by the occasional pauses at miserable log taverns. To poor Kate, with the burden of three tired little children on her hands, and a still heavier bur- den of apprehension on her heart, it seemed as if the weary way would never end. Never, for her sake, was the infant taken from her arms, never was one word of kind encourage- ment or tender sympathy spoken, or one cheerful picture of a home at the termination of the long journey held up to gladden her heart. Miserable woman! she had no God to go to. No Father into whose ear she might pour her complaint with the certainty that they would be heard! They had passed the night in a noisy tavern in a small village where Mr. Myers appeared to have numerous acquaintances, and those not of the most respectable kind. Mrs. Myers shrunk from the rude gaze of those around her and retired with her children to her own room, wondering why her husband did not hasten his departure. Tired of waiting, and overcome with fatigue, she sunk down upon the bed and fell asleep beside her babe. -rt,..   ,-   and she had not seen her husband since breakfast, when he went out without telling her what his busii "Ye have taken away my godl, and what have I morel" lonA CRY from the children aroused Mrs. Myers wet from her slumbers, and she started up, won- dering where she was.  It seemed to her that she had slept for hours. The sun was high in heaven, and she had not seen her husband since breakfast when he went out without telling her what his busi ness was, or when he should   return. Trembling for fear that she was deserted in this strange and lonely place, she called her children to her and went out to inquire if any one had seen her hus- band. As she stepped out upon the street, she saw him not far off, busily engaged in loading a wagon. Another hour passed during which he occasionally passed in and out of various shops and stores. At length he came up and told her to make haste and   136       KATE KILBORN. get ready for they were almost home. Without reply she obeyed, and was soon seated in a wagon with her husband and children. From the conversation between Mr. Myers and the man who drove the wagon, she learned many things that surprised her and filled her with dis- may. At length the wagoner turned round and addressed her: "Well, missus! how do you like the idea of liv- ing out West?" "Very well!" was the laconic answer. "I reckon you won't find every thing to your no. tion, but we all have to do the best we can out here." There was no reply. After a while the man, not inclined to discontinue the conversation, remarked: "Them are purty likely-looking youngsters of yourn!" "What did you say?" "Why, are you deaf! I'd like to know? I only said them was likely-looking youngsters." "Yes, yes! they 're well enough," said Mr. Myers, and they rode on in silence for awhile. At length the teamster said, turning again to Mrs. Myers: "That's your place on the rise yonder," point-   :S/   THE CHEERLESS HOME.        13 ing at the same time in the direction of a lonely- looking building, standing by itself on a little knoll without a single tree or bush to shield it from the sun and storm. Kate thought she had never seen so dreary and desolate-looking a place before; and her heart died within her. The house stood alone on the open prairie, with no neighbor's house in sight. The ground around it was uninclosed and unbroken. Soon the wagon stopped before the door. The house itself was a frame one, rudely put together, and constructed of the poorest materials. Within, it onsisted of two rooms, separated by a board par. tition without a door. The walls had neither lath nor plaster, and the floor was of rough oaken boards looselylaid down. "Do you expect me to stay in such a place as this?" said Mrs. Myers, when the man had gone "You can do just as you like. This is my home, and if you stay with me, you 'll stay here." "Can't the house be finished before we go into "It's finished now, all it will be at present; and the less you say about it the better, you 'll find. So you'lljust make yourself at home, and prepare to get dinner as soon as possible." 12   138       KATE EILBORN. How can I get dinner. There's nothing here." "Make yourself easy; there's plenty coming." "But I 've no servant."  "You 've all the servant you will have, I can tell you. You 'll learn to help yourself now a little, I  imagine." "If you think I am going to work like a servant- girl, you will find yourself mistaken, Mr. Myers." "Oh, very well, just as you please! You can leave any time, and needn't take the trouble to give rne a week's notice. I can get plenty instead of you. You'll have to earn your living if you stay here, you 'll find." Kate walked into the next room. Her heart was full of rebellion and anger, which she dared not give vent to in words. As she sat down on a box beside the dingy window and looked out on the wild prairie, she felt as if she was in a dream. Her head grew dizzy, and every thing swam before her eyes. She heard confused sounds of conversation, and passing to and fro, and noises as if heavy arti- cles were moved across the floor in the next room, but she heeded nothing. The little girls clung about her knees, but they failed to arouse her. At last Mr. Myers entered the doorway and called out in an angry voice: , ... . '-.S6& ^ . ^ . ^ .. ^.. . .-. -   THE CHEERLESS HOME.     139 "What are you about here? Are you going to get me any dinner, or not?" "' How can I get dinner in such a place as this. What can I get." "I advise you to come out and look around a little, and see what you can get, and be quiAk about it too." Thus admonished, she laid aside her bonnet and went out into the outer room; a cooking-stove had been set up in its place, and various articles of fur- niture and cooking utensils were scattered about the room. On a table near the window lay a couple of loaves of bread, several pieces of butter wrapped in coarse brown paper, a ham, a basket of eggs, and several packages containing tea, coffee, and sugar, with some cheap cups and saucers, plates and bowls. There was a time when, if Kate had been so dis- posed, she could have quickly prepared a comfort- able meal from the materials that were around her. But this was very long ago. For many years she had been unaccustomed to make the smallest exer- tion of this kind; and, moreover, the stove and cooking utensils were to be put in order before any thing could be attempted in the way of cook- ing. She had nothing at hand to work with, and X- . - Ic . ... . -..... r..    "O       KATE KILBORN. both her children and herself were as weary as they could well be. Mr. Myers began to busy himself about setting up a couple of cheap bedsteads in the next room. There was neither fire nor water, and she am proached the door and asked Mr. Myers to get some for her. "If you want a fire, mnake it for yourself. There are matches on the window, and plenty of chips out of doors. As for water, you can take a pail and go down to the spring, just in the edge of the slough yonder, and help yourself." Again her proud spirit rebelled at being required to perform these menial offices, which from fatigue and weakness she was ill able to undertake; but she was compelled to help herself. She was full of fears, for she knew not what to think of her husband's conduct. Beside, sho was alone, and without any one to befriend her, or aid her in any emergency which might arise; and the very hope lessness of her condition seemed for the time to prostrate all her strength, and take away all power of resistance. Wearily wore on the first few days, but she had found amid the cheerlessness around one pleasant thought. When the furniture came which she had   THE CHEERLESS HOME.     141  packed, things would put on a more cheerful look. She pleased herself with trying to remember all that the various boxes contained, and recollected with gratification her own well-supplied wardrobe. From the numerous articles which she did not need, she doubted not but she could find the means to hire one girl, even if Mr. Myers persisted in his resolution not to pay for hired help. After a number of days, still hearing nothing about the boxes, she ventured to inquire when the furniture and other things would arrive. With an irritating laugh, Mr. Myers replied: "You have all the furniture you need look for, all at least that will be likely to come." "Where are all my clothes, and the things I packed and left in Whitney's care V" "Sold! Mrs. Myers, sold! to furnish your lady- ship with the means of transportation to this de- lightful place!" "Mr. Myers! are you speaking the truth?" said Mrs. Myers, hoarsely. "Yes! the truth, of course! if you don't be- lieve it, you may prove it by waiting in vain. You 'll never see any of those things again-" He was adding more, but his wife's face turned ashy pale, and then livid, and reeling for a mo-   "2       KATE KILBORN. ment, she fell at length senseless on the floor. Mis- erable woman! what was left in the world to her now to build a hope upon? Alas! nothing! Mr. Myers was frightened himself, for once. He ran to the spring for water, and poured it over her head, as she lay prostrate on the floor; and when she began to show signs of recovery, he lifted er up, and laid her upon the bed. le had not an- ticipated such a finale to his first essay in reducing his wife to wholesome submission. Hie had no idea of killing her, no, not he. He meant to make her useful to himself, and had felt a kind of diabolical delight in tormenting her, now that there was no one on whom she could call for help. The goods were indeed sold, as he said, to meet their traveling expenses; but it was an after-thought, and would have been unnecestry, had he not on his return to New York lost every dollar he possessed at the gaming-table.  As he stood by the bedside,  listened to her long-drawn sighs, as she slowly revived, he felt that he had bent the bow a little too far this time. He had no wish to make her desperate, only to render her entirely dependent on his will. Slowly the wretched woman recovered, but she spoke not one word, except to her children, all that   THE CHEERLESS HOME.     143 day. In her misery, bereft of all else, she begun eI   to cling to them-the mother's heart at length awoke in her breast. The gentle Marioii climbed into a chair beside 'her, and clasped her fair arms around her mother's neck, pressing her little lips against her cold cheek, while Isabel stopped her play, and looked up with wondering eyes. Hard indeed must have been the heart that could turn away from this mute sym- pathy. Mr. Myers, too, seemed to feel that it was in- cumbent on him to be a little more kind and atten- - tive than he had been. It frightened him to see Kate go around silently, and so evidently hopeless and miserable. He would have felt it a great re- lief to have heard her fret and storm again. There was something in her silent and uncomplaining toil Ithat touched him in spite of himself. He wished, perhaps a hundred times, that he had not so entirely stripped her of every comfort; but not having the grace to say so to her, the kind feeling passed away, and at length he attributed the change in her demeanor to sullenness. Cherishing this idea, after awhile he began to think himself really an ill-used man, and all his kindness and momentary goodness passed away. Again he was harsh and unkind, En   *   "4       KATE KILBORN. and neglectful of the comfort of his wife, although to his children he was kind, and even affectionate at times, as if to exasperate her. It was a miserable summer! Kate never knew how the family were supported, or whence the next supply would come. Of the comforts and luxuries to which she had been accustomed for herself and her children, she had none. The hot sun poured through the uncurtained windows, and the thin, un- plastered walls. The meager, scanty furniture, the bare, uncarpeted floor of black oak, and the abso- lute want of the most common conveniences for the work which she was compelled to do with her own hands, made her sick at heart. Mr. Myers was often absent, she knew not where, to return she knew not when. For the children, he provided all they needed, seldom returning without a gay cap or suit of clothes for Edward, and shoes or dresses' for the little girls, who grew strong and healthful in their country home. For the mother, he brought nothing, although he knew well that she had scarcely a change of clothing in her traveling trunk when she left the city. Kate would not ask! For many weeks, her feet were almost bare, and in former times she would not have kept a servant in her house who had appeared in such gar-   THE CHEERLESS HOME.     145 ments as she was forced to wear; thick, hot, uncom. fortable traveling-dresses, was all she had through that long summer, while Mr. Myers provided him. self with a liberal supply of thin, cool clothing, which she was compelled to keep clean and neat. Often he would sit for hours in a shaded part of the house, enjoying his cigar, while she was engaged in washing and ironing, bringing water for herself from the spring; and gathering fuel often, where- ever it might be found. At length one day, with something of her old impetuosity, she demanded decent clothing, and a better provision for her comfort, while she was per- forming her work. In an insulting mannner, Mr. Myers told her to "learn to ask for what she wanted; she would get nothing without." This roused all the evil pride of her nature, and she re- plied that she would never ask again while she lived; and if what she needed, or the means to provide it, was not furnished, he might prepare himself for consequences. Her manner, still more than her words, fright- ened him, he had miscalculated the nature with which he had to do, and had counted on the victory as already gained. The same evening he walked down to the village and returned, bringing with 138   "6       KATE KILBORN. him a whole web of dark-colored calico, and an- other of cotton cloth, with a pair of shoes and some  other articles. From such materials the elegant and tasteful woman was forced to dress herself as best she might. It was not to be expected, that under such cir- cumstances, Mrs. Myers would seek society. Sev- eral ladies called upon her, but she took no pains to cultivate an acquaintance with them. She had never been in the habit of attending church regu- larly, even in New York, and now she never thought of entering the place of worship. In these circumstances, for the present, we must take our leave of her.   , i   XVII. :fj4e Wt       M X t "Domestic happiness! thou only bliss Of Paradise, that hath survived the fall " TIME passes rapidly to the busy and the happy. X- So Emeline found it, as engaged in her pleas- :1a ant work, and prospering in every thing to which she put her hands, the two years past, and the time a   oached when she was to enter upon a new and untried, but pleasant sphere of activity and enjoyment. So also Mr. Hamilton found it, as in the inter. vals of study and labor, he found leisure to im- prove and adorn the spot which was to be his future home, and the home of one also, dearer than himself. With a pleasure unknown before, did he plant trees and shrubs, and lay out and inclose a garden, in which, at He earliest possible period, he placed every variety of fruit-trees which he could procure from the adjacent forests, or the gardens and nurseries within his reach, that they might the   "8       KATE KILBORN. sooner yield their treasures for the supply of future household wants. As the second summer passes, from out a thicket of young oaks, there peeps a modest, but beautiful little cottage. And now for a season, as the work progresses, the easel and the classic page are dis- carded, for the owner of that quiet little spot passes all his leisure there, busily employed. Faithfully and perfectly must the work be done, to meet the approbation of one who goes cheerfully about, seeming instinctively to know just how every thing should be done. The cottage is small, consisting of only two small rooms with kitchen and pantries below, and two sleeping-rooms above; but the work is performed in the most perfect and sub- stantial manner, and one knows not which deserves the most admiration, the beautiful taste displayed in the plan and finishing of the house, or the good sense in arranging every thing for the convenience and comfort of its future inhabitants. And now, cumbrous boxes begin to arrive, which are carefully stored in the cottage already finished, and in readiness for the reception of its future mis- tress; and Mr. Hamilton leaves his home and his work, to make a journey, in what direction we can easily guess. re   THE HAPPY HOME.      149 Changes, meanwhile, have been going on at Lau. relton. Louisa, parting reluctantly with Emeline, who has been to her, mother, sister, teacher, and friend, all in one; and distrustful of her own abili- ties, has confided both the supervision of the school and the guardianship of her own future life to one whom she deems every way worthy of the trust. So it happens, that one pleasant morning during the summer vacation, there is a wedding at the seminary, and Louisa becomes a bride, and' Em- line, who soon expects Mr. Hamilton to come for her, resigns all future connection with the Institution, and devotes the remaining weeks that she has to spend at Laurelton to the needful preparations and arrangements demanded by the change that awaits her. Frank is in the Seminary passing through his Theological course, for his heart has been touched with the wants of his native land, wants which nothing but the pure Gospel and grace of God, can supply; and he looks forward to a place some- where among the beautiful groves, or wide-spread prairies of the West, as the sphere of the future labors of his life. Thus far, through the efforts of his beloved sister, he has been sustained in his course, and deeply does he feel indebted to the un- wearied efforts and faithful love of Emeline. 13*   150       KATE KILBORN. From Harriet, the voluntary exile, in her home  9 in a heathen land, they often hear. Her letters  ! breathe a longing for the spiritual good of the mul-  titudes with whom she is just beginning to be able I to converse in their own language, which proves   i the warmth and intensity of her devotion to the   I work which she calls the "most blessed" of her   X whole life, as they read the lines, almost glowing  with holy enthusiasm for the salvation of those de- i graded millions among whom her lot is cast, they are reminded of that sentiment of the Apostle.   ? "Behold, I go--- not knowing the things that shall befall me. But none of these things move   ;: me; neither count I my life dear to myself."' Need we say that the example of her zeal and holy devotion is not lost upon those who are per-  I mitted to read the record of her labors, and her love for the souls for whom Christ died.      i It is not the result of accident, that it is impossi- t ble to learn where Mr. Myers had taken his fam-  ! ily; for notwithstanding all the search and inquiry that can be made, Kate's home can not be found.  i Mr. Myers had no wish to be recognized by his old companions and friends, and has taken care to leave no trace of himself along the great thorough- fares; traveling by the most unfrequented routes,   THE HAPPY HOME.      151 mlaking his acquaintance, and pursuing his business, whatever it is in those directions where he, with all the antecedents of his history, is unknown. It is a source of gratification to Emeline, that her future residence is to be in the West, for she has no doubt of being able ultimately to find her sister. In her heart there is still living a cheerful faith ,that the wanderer will at length be brought home to God, and restored to her friends. N She feels no doubt that Kate and her children, wherever they may be, are in want, and her heart often aches once more to behold her. She and Louisa have been so prospered, that she not only has been able to realize her proportion of the estate, and a good salary beside, but Louisa urges upon her two hundred dollars, which can be spared, as her own proportion of the third which belonged to their mother. She accepts it on the part of Kate, the oldest of the family, and pledges herself / to find her and put it into her hands, for she doubts not that she needs it most of any of them. She has made full and ample provision for her own modest little home, and can do without the money her- -self. In vain does her new brother-in-law urge upon her the same sum for herself, which he can spare, NPI   152       KATE RILBORN.    :. and which he feels that her self denying labors for A all the others, most justly entitle her to receive. No argument prevails with her, until on Mr. Hamilton's arrival, it is proposed to her to put it -j into his hands for the purpose of making an addi- tion to his library. To this she can offer no objec- tion, and Mr. Evans, her sister's husband, under- takes to arrange the matter. What he said on the  I subject did not transpire. We only know that a   A fine large box of books was forwarded immediately, to Mr. Hamilton's address. We need not follow our travelers on their jour- ney. They arrived safely, and were received with a cordial welcome from the people among whom Mr. Hamilton had lived for six years. Not many days elapsed before they were quietly and pleasantly settled in the home to the enjoyment of which they had looked forward so long. Mrs. Hamilton was surprised and gratified to  find every thing in such a state of perfection. The - beautiful little cottage itself was provided with an X abundance of simple and substantial furniture. *, ^ But let us take a peep within, and see for our- selves.  It is evening; and in the room, which is parlor, setting-room, and dining-room-all in one-the tea- . fe"'t   THE HAPPY HOME.      153 table is prepared, and spread with'the evening meal. A beautiful lamp sheds a mellowed light through the room, and a cheerful fire burns on the hearth. The neatly-papered walls are adorned with beautiful paintings; the well-filled book-case occupies one corner of the room, and near it stands a table, also covered with books. Near the fire is a comfortable settee, and not far distant Emeline's work-table and chair. The little room adjoining is fitted up " for a study, and also contains a bed for the accom- modation of an occasional guest. The two small sleeping-rooms above stairs are furnished with the same neatness and simplicity and careful fore- thought for all that is necessary to convenience and comfort. But we should not omit a look into the little kitchen. Here, as elsewhere, every thing is bright and cheerful. The pantry and store-room are well supplied. The cistern is just where it ought to be; the wood-house is filled with wood, ready prepared; and every arrangement made to make the task of providing for the daily necessities of a family agreeable and easy. Beautiful young fruit-trees, and fruit-bearing shrubs, are in the little garden. The winter vegeta- bles are ripening on their stalks, or waiting to be  :. a   154       BATE KILBORN.  gathered for winter use. Many beautiful plants are yet in flower, while others have for this year finished their sweet and loving mission, and, re posing upon the bosom of mother earth, await the genial and lifeawakening gales of another spring. g Can any one doubt whether this is a happy    g home! Oh, yes! The young lady who can be     . happy only when she has servants to wait upon her, wealth to lavish upon the adornment of her own person; and to whose mind the thought of a  - quiet home, and domestic employments, and do-  mestic loves, convey no idea of pleasure. Not thus, we may be assured, did Mrs. Hamilton feel. Cheerful and happy as she well could be, entering with all her heart into her husband's plans for the benefit of his people, and encouraging him in every good word and work, she has but one earthly care, that she may know and do all her duty. Mr. Ham- ilton found himself able to give his mind to his [ work, unburdened by anxieties about the future, and unharassed by the thought that obligations  i rested upon him which he knew not how to meet. Now that he had a home of his own, his income,  ^ though small, was sufficient to meet his necessities; and he asked no more, but in humble trust confided i the future to his God.             I ;   THE HAPPY HOME.      155 And now that we have had a wedding, and a happy oneit might seem to some of our readers that our task might end. We trust, however, that there are some who will yet follow our little tale to its termination, and to whose minds the lessons it is calculated to teach will not be lost., y-   XVIII.           -  WHEN    Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton were com- fortably settled in their own home, they be- came anxious to learn something of Mrs. Myers, who, they had reason to suppose, was somewhere in the country not far from Richmond, the town in  which Mr. Hamilton resided.            : Inquiries were made in every direction, and Mr. Hamilton, who had frequent occasions to make little journeys into the country on business con- nected with his profession, was untiring in his efforts to learn where Mr. Myers had settled with his family. For a long time, however, these efforts were without success, and he began to fear that Mr. Myers had either changed his name, or that his residence was not, as he had been led to suppose, in that part of the country. Still he. continued his efforts, both by correspondence and otherwise, hop- ing for success; and feeling, forMMrs. Hamilton's l peihnh came anxious to learn something of Mrs. Myers,   THE LOST FOUND.      157 sake, almost as much interest in the search as she did herself. About midsummer Mr. Hamilton received a letter from a friend who had become interested in the matter, informing him that a man who bore the name of Myers, and in several re- spects answered to the description he had given of his brother-in-law, was occasionally in the place where he resided. With regard to his place of residence, or his business, the gentleman had not been able to learn any thing as yet; but he offered to continue his inquiries, and, as soon as possible, transmit to Mr. Hamilton such information as he was able to obtain. The result was the discovery of the place of Mr. Myers' residence, which proved to be in a small, retired town, not more than one hundred and fifty miles from Richmond, As soon as these facts were obtained, lir. and Mrs. Hmilton went to visit Mrs. Myers, and the particulars of that visit were communicated to Mrs. Evans in the following letter from Mrs. Hamilton:-- "MY DEAR LOUISA: a I wrote you some time -since that we hoped we had at last found out the residence of our sister Kate, and I now write to tell you that Mr. Ham- "   168       KATE fILBORN.             ilton and myself have just returned from a visit to  her. "I found Kate apparently in tolerable health, though greatly changed in personal appearance. She looks haggard and woe-begone, and at least ten years older than when we saw her last. -She was   - miserably poor, and destitute. She had very little clothing, and that of the poorest quality; and her - husband has become a perfect tyrant, and treats her more like a servant than a wife. "The house in which they live is new, but poorly built, and destitute of all conveniences. It is still unfinished, and has no doors between the rooms; the upper part has had nothing done to it, and the  floor only made of loose boards. No part of the    house is so much as plastered on the inside. "Kate has no comforts; and in Mr. Myers' ab- sence, barely the necessaries of life. I fear every thing for, and her children. 6"I do not think that Kate was at all pleased to see me. She was' distant and reserved, both toward me and my dear -husband, whom she had not before met since they parted many years since, as you have heard, under somewhat peculiar circumstances. She seemed much surprised to see me his wife, and to find that I was living at the   THE LOST FOUND.      159 West, so near them. Mr. Hamilton did not remain long the day we arrived, but rode back to the village, two miles distant, returning for me at nine o'clock. We had a room there at a public house, for Kate had no accommodations for us. After breakfast, Mr. Hamilton took me over, and I spent the day. We were five days together. "As soon as possible, I put the money which I had for her into her hand. It seemed she had never thought of being at all entitled to it; and she not only appeared very glad to receive it, but it seemed to me grateful that we remembered her in this man- ner. After this, much of her reserve toward me passed away, and she confided to me many of her trials which you may well believe are neither few nor small. "Edward is, I fear, a bad boy. He is, I think, naturally much like his father, with perhaps some- thing of Kate's impetuous and wayward disposition; but it is plain that he has never been in the habit of yielding obedience to the will of his parents. He is a strong, active lad, ten years old, and might do much to assist his mother; but he spends most of his time away from home, in the company of profane and wicked boys, leaving his mother to do every thing for herself.   160      KATE KILBORN.            , "They have a cow, but she roams all over the prairie in search of food, and not unfrequently re- mains away all night, as they have no out-houses, A or inclosures of any kind, to keep her within proper i limits.                      : "There is no fence about the house, and the herds of cattle that wander over the prairie come 3 up to the very door and windows. "I asked Kate one day why they did not have a  garden. She told me she had never been able to induce Mr. Myers to have sufficient ground in- closed and prepared; but that she had the means  : now, and would attend to it herself, and also have some improvements made about the house. She said she should not allow Mr. Myers to have any of the money, but I scarcely know how she will be able to keep it from him.             - "I think that at times Mr. Myers does all he can  to annoy and vex her. He sold all her furniture and clothing before they left New York, without her consent, or even knowledge; and what little of furniture she now has, is of the most shabby  : and common kind."  ': Kate had but two dresses, both common calico goods, and of the same piece. He provides abund- antly for the children, and all their clothes are  )   THE LOST FOUND.      16 \ good. The little girls are beautiful, and poor Kate is proud of them. She does all she can for them, and makes their clothes in a very becoming and tasteful manner. I feel thankful that she takes some interest in her children. You know how much her past carelessness in this respect has troubled us; but it is different now. It is a great blessing to her that she has something to love; and no one could help loving these dear little girls. Marion, the eldest, is very delicate-looking, silent and thoughtful, not at all like her mother. She has large brown eyes, and a profusion of auburn curls. Her voice is music itself, and the expression of her face is touchingly sweet. She reminds me of dear little Walter. If I were at all inclined to be superstitious, I should say that I thought she would not live to be old. "Isabel, or 'Little Bell,' as Marion calls her, is just in all things the reverse bf her sister; plump and rosy, and romping continually from morning until night, the very impersonation of frolic and fun, with evidently something of Kate's old way- wardness and self-will. She is, nevertheless, a beautiful and interesting child, and needs only the grace of God, and proper training, to make her all that any parent's heart could desire. "*   162       KATE RILBORN. "Will you believe, Louisa, that our sister was  - without a Bible. Not one of her children had ever  read a single chapter in that sacred book. She said she packed several among their things before : she left New York, but they were all sold, and she , !A has never had another. The children are almost entirely ignorant of the great truths of religion. Mr. Hamilton took the little girls out to ride with him every day, and Edward also, when he was in-  i inclined to go. He had many long talks with them, and gave them all the instruction he could in the little time he was with them. He said they  I: never seemed to tire of listening to him. "He went over to H---, ten miles distant, on business for Kate, and took all the children. He was absent all day, and purchased various things ? for them, beside giving each of them a handsome Bible." We will add that Mrs. Myers left one hundred and fifty dollars in Mr. Hamilton's care, fearing  that if she kept it Mr. Myers would in some way obtain possession of it. Mrs. Hamilton went to the village store, and procured materials for sev- eral more suitable dresses, and other things for her : sister, assisting her to cut and fit the dresses, and    THE LOST+P         163 helping her in many other ways, as long as she was with her. Mrs. Hamilton found to her great sorrow her sister unchanged in one respect. She was as irre- ligious as ever. None of her troubles had softened her, or turned her heart at all to God. She would not promise to go to church, and   so decidely frowned on all attempts to lead her mind to the contemplation of better things that Emeline felt no liberty to urge them upon her attention. It seemed to her that there remained little to do but to pray for her sister, and this she did not cease to do, im- ploring the Divine Spirit to arouse her: soul from its long slumber, and bring her to a sense of her sins, and  Ar duty.   ^.x XIX. "S you have had a sister, it seems, ill my ab-  sence!" "My sister has been here." "Where does she live V" "In Richmond." "In Richmond! How long has she been in the country 1" "About a year, I believe." "Of course, you let her know where you lived." (I did no such thing. I have no particular wish to see any of my old friends, situated as I am at present." 7 ("I should think not. How did she find you out?" "Her husband learned in some way where we lived." "Then she has a husband, has she? Who is he; and what is his name?" "His name is Mr. Hamilton, and he is a minis- ter."    IMPROVEMENTS.      165 "What! Mr. Hamilton of Richmond  married your sister! I 've heard of him." a What have you heard?'" "Oh, nothing in particular, but I don't think he would feel much flattered to find a relation of his wife's ii such circumstances as you are." "It's not my fault, that my circumstances are no better." jI "Well, I suppose you did not turn them out of doors." "Mr. Hamilton did not stop here at all. He took lodgings at the public house." "What did they say about the children?" "They seemed pleased with them. Emeline wanted to take Marion home with her." "Why did n't you let her go?" "I did n't suppose you would be willing to have her go." "Of course they did n't ask you to visit them?" "They did." "Did you promise to go?" "How could I promise any thing. You know I have nothing decent to wear any where!" "If you had been a better wife, you mnight have had better clothes." "Ma has got a new dress, father, two new   166       KATE KILBORN.  dresses; Aunt Emeline fixed them for her." said Isabel. "t Ha! you've come to charity, have you V" "No, sir. I have not; 'though I have needed it  often enough since I've been your wife!"  "How did you get your new dresses, then, if your sister did not give them to you?" "That is a question I do not intend to answer. I told you once if you did not provide better for me, I would help myself." "Small chance of helping yourself you have here, I imagine. Well, if you have friends consid- erate enough to clothe you, I don't see why I  should object, I am sure." It was not long after this conversation before Mr. Myers was away again. No sooner had he gone than Mrs. Myers went to a mason in the village,  and requested him to furnish suitable materials, and come up immediately and plaster her two lower rooms. She showed him a piece of money that he might be sure of being paid for his work, and the man fulfilled his engagement without hesi- tation. Through his instrumentality she secured the services of a carpenter, who came and put up several doors, beside doing other things which she had long waited in vain to have done. ,   IMPROVEMENTS.      167 She also purchased curtains for her windows, and a small stove for one room, which she had never before been able to use in the winter for want of fire; and many other smaller articles of no great value in themselves, but which, taken together, added much to the comfort of the family. Mr. Myers was very much surprised at the changes which had taken place, and he asked Ed- ward who had done the work, and whether it was paid for or not. He did not doubt that the Ham- ilton's had furnished the means to procure his fam- ily these additional comforts, and to do him justice, he was ashamed that they should know to what a miserable condition his wife had been reduced. Had he known of the possibility of a visit from them, his pride would have induced him to place his family in better circumstances, which he was far from being unable to do, but it was now too late to remedy the past, and he contented himself with the thought that his wife richly deserved the mor- tification which he knew she did not fail to feel. The satisfaction he felt in this thought took away  all keenness of his self-reproach. Time passed, and just before the New Year com- menced, the children were made happy by the re- ception of a package of beautiful books and play-   168       KATE KILBORN.            things, with an affectionate letter from Aunt Eme- line. This letter, Edward who was able to write  I well, was requested to answer, and their aunt in- ? vited Marion and Isabel to learn to write as soon as possible, that she might hear often from them. Edward attended the village school, that is, he [- left home in the morning for that purpose, and passed the day in the school-room, whenever no scheme of amusement better suited to his taste prevented his doing so. Mr. Myers was anxious that the children should receive a good education, and when he was at home, frequently took con- siderable pains to teach Edward arithmetic and algebra, the only things which he cared to learn. Marion, who loved to learn, begged also to be in- structed, and often applied to her mother for as- sistance. But notwithstanding her early advant- ages, which had been very good, Kate had never been a thorough scholar, and the changes and trials of the last ten years had caused her to forget every thing which she had once known, so that" she could do little for the children, except to assist them in the simplest principles of arithmetic. She had little time to renew her familiarity with her old studies, if she had been so disposed, and the task X was most irksome to her. The consequence was, 'i   IMPROVEMENTS.       169 that Edward soon learned to express the utmost contempt for his mother's ignorance, and she be- gan,- in this respect also, to reap the bitter fruit- of the carelessness and neglect of her youth. 15   XX. IxttU Ip ^- Iv "Thou hast hid these things from the oi8se and pruent, and hast . revealed them unto babes."                 ; "His purposes will ripen fast, Unfolding every hour; - The bud may have a bitter taste,  But sweet will be the flower.  "Blind unbelief is sure to err, And scan his work in vain; God is his own interpreter, And He will make it plain." NOTHER year had passed, and the period for A  Mrs. Hamilton's visit to her sister arrived, but she was detained at home.    New  loves and new  responsibilities had been awakened in her heart, and a tiny stranger lay in its little cot and claimed her most tender care. It was now impos- sible for the new-made mother to pay her promised visit, and Mr. Hamilton, who had occasion to pass within a day's ride of the place where Mr. Myers resided, engaged to call on the family.  To Eme-   "TTLE MARION.      171 line's surprise and delight, he brought Marion home with him, with her parent's permission that she should pass the winter with them on condition that Mrs. Hamilton should superintend her educa- tion. Never, perhaps, was there a happier teacher, cer- tainly never a more gentle and docile pupil. Ma- rion's spirit opened to kindness and instruction, as the flower opens to the glad sunshine, and so great was her love for the pursuits in which she engaged that Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton found it needful to re- strain her, and endeavor to keep her eagerness within proper bounds. It may be readily supposed that the first efforts were directed to the communication of religious in- struction. But to their surprise and delight, they found that another Teacher had been before them. The few instructions which she had received from her uncle and aunt, had been to Marion, like "good seed sown on good ground." She had not only gladly received their teachings, but she had, by the grace of God, been led to obey them with the simple trustfulness of a little child. The Bible, which she loved daily more and more, had been diligently studied, and its precepts were the rule of her thoughts and actions. Thus, in silence and   172       KATE KILBORN.           5 unknown even to herself, the Divine Spirit had   X taken up its abode in her soul, creating her anew .1 after the image of the Redeemer. How little did the delighted Mrs. Hamilton recognize in this work of grace, the beginning of J ] the answer of her Heavenly Father to the earnest  s and persevering prayers she had so long offered in behalf of her beloved sister. Thus'wonderful and beautiful is the plan of Him to whom even "a thousand years are but as one day;" and, oh! how much mores beautiful and wonderful will the final development of that plan appear, when to the eyes of the redeemed all the ways of God to man shall be made clear, and it shall be seen that not one petition humbly offered in the name of the Saviour was ever offered in vain. Mr. Hamilton took great delight in his little  niece, and as often as possible took her out with ' him in the little excursions which his duties called i him to make into the adjacent country, for the double purpose of enjoying her society and of diverting her mind from  the incessant thought,  ! which already began to give him much anxiety    i about her. Often on his return from such excur.  I sions, he would tell his wife that he felt himself I. understanding more and more the Divine Word:   "TTLE MARION.      173 "Except ye become as little children, ye can in no wise enter into the kingdom of Hieavell.' The one object upon which the affectionate heart of Marion rested with the most tender love, was the little Jessie, a sweet-tempered babe, just begin- ning to notice those who cared for her, and to re- ward that care and love with a smile. Hour after hour, if she had been permitted, she would have sat with her in her arms, sometimes talking to her to make her smile, and answer her with that sweet murmur, which is so pleasant to the ear of affection, or talking to her uncle and aunt about her, and asking curious questions, not always easy to an- swer, in relation to its character, and relations to to God, and the world to come. Sometimes she would express the wish that she and Jessie had lived when Chrislt was on earth, that she might have taken her to Him, that He might have taken the child in His arms and blessed it, as He did those which the mothers brought to Him. Touching, indeed, were the petitions she offered for the little one, when kneeling at the side of Mrs. Hamilton in prayer, and sad was the expression of her voice and countenance whenever Mr. Hamilton omitted to pray for his child at the domestic altar. "You see, Auntie," she would say, "that little 15*   174       KATE KILBORN. Jessie needs to be prayed for just as much as any   : of us."                       : She often begged her uncle and aunt to pray for her parents and Edward and Isabel, often coming  to them with an expression of tender concern on   X her sweet face, and asking if " they would n't please to help her to pray for poor Eddy or Isabel." It may be supposed from what has been said that Marion was altogether a sinless child. It was not so. She had her faults; but the difference between her and other children of her own age was, that the Holy Spirit had made her conscious of them, pen-  - itent for them, and desirous above all things to do  that which was right in the sight of God. She had  . much to learn, and more to unlearn in consequence of the bad examples to which she was accustomedi . at home. But she bore reproof with sweet hu- mility, and had such a trusting faith in Christ for i . forgiveness that her example would have put to     shame many older Christians. During the winter she wrote many letters to her parents, and brother and sister. To most of these no answer was returned, and she endeavored to wait patiently day after day, hoping continually for answers to her letters. She said little about home, apparently conscious   "TTLE MARION.      1 5 that something was wrong there; but as the season approached when she expected to return, she would say occasionally to her aunt: "Oh, Auntie, dear! how I  wish home was like this house."             - About the first of April Mr. Myers wrote to say he would come himself for Marion in a few days. It was extremely hard for the poor child to think of parting from the dear friends who had been so kind to her, and the home which had made her so happy. Especially was it hard to part with little Jessie, whom she loved more and more every day. She made no allusion to the change which she must experience in going from beneath that peaceful roof, where the spirit of the Gospel dwelt, to the noise and discord, and comfortless scenes of her father's house, but she undoubtedly felt how painful the change would be. Mrs. Hamilton and her husband felt it, too, and most gladly would they have shel- tered her from dangers and trials which they could far better understand and appreciate than she. But they had no right to remonstrate, and were thankful for the short opportunity of being useful to her, and enjoying her society. But, above all, they did not doubt that the Good Shepherd felt a far more tender interest in this lamb of the flock than even they   176       RATE KILBORN. themselves, and that He would suffer no evil to befall her.                      As the day of her departure approached, she    i; made her little preparations, but evidently with a - I sorrowful heart. Many little presents were pre- pared for Isabel and her mother, the work of her own tiny fingers. Her aunt gave her several new books for herself, and Isabel, and Edward; and Mr.   Hamilton, who had amused himself occasionally    S by giving her drawing-lessons, presented her with   a box of water colors, and a fine stock of drawing  X mterials.  She had also a quantity of flower-seeds, with written directions for the cultivation of the different i varieties. She also obtained from her aunt a few bulbous roots, and tubers, and a variety of herb- aceous plants, in the hope thas Mrs. Myers would    take some little interest in the cultivation of them. As Marion looked forward to her return home, that which gave her most sorrow was the thought of being shut out from the privileges of the Sab- bath-school and public worship on the Sabbath. , When she first went to her uncle's, she had never   attended church or Sabbath-school, but she had    learned to love these privileges, and to dread to be deprived of them. She had 'little hope of being      "TTLE MARION.      17 permitted to go to the village on the Sabbath, and less hope of inducing her mother to accompany her. Mrs. Myers had never attended church since she left New York, though she could not for the past two years plead the wait of suitable clothing as an excuse. The truth was, she had not the least desire to go, and was glad that the distance (it was two miles) afforded her an excuse for staying at home. Marion thought she could easily walk that dis- 'tance, if only her mother would permit her to go. Mrs. Hamilton furnished her with a light parasol, and some cool clothing, that if her 'mother consented that she should make the effort, she might be com- fortable, advising her to set out as early as con- venient in the morning, and delay her return until the cool of the day. She also enjoined upon her a cheerful obedience to her mother's will, if at any time she should not deem it advisable for her to undertake the walk. Mrs. Hamilton also gave her niece many direc- tions about her exercise, and the care of her health, which she promised to observe; and-they- also agreed upon a constant correspondence. It was, however, after all, the promise her uncle and aunt gave her, ti pray constantly for her that did   178       KATE KILBORNo most to make' her cheerful in view of her de,    L parture.                       I Mr. Myers arrived in due season. He passed    :d but a single night under the roof of his brother-in- law. Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton treated him with      much kindness, and listened patiently to his corn- plaints about hard times. They endeavored by  reviving old recollections in his mind, and treat- ! ing him with the respect and attention to which he i I had been accustomed previous to his troubles, to  '  arouse some feeling of a desire to regain once more : that station in society which he had lost. Mr.  Hamilton made no impertinent inquiries relative to his present engagements and employments, but spoke of the fair promise of his children, and eln- deavored to stimulate him to some effort for their good. He even urged him to come with his family and take up their residence at Richmond, offering to assist him in getting into business, and to do any thing else which he was able to do to promote his interests. But although Mr. Myers was gratified by the at- tention which he received, and the kind offers of his brother-in-law, whom he was aware stood high  ; in the estimation of all who knew him, he had no disposition to avail himself of the kind offers he f:   "TTLE MARION.      179 had received, or place himself in a situation where all his failings and bad habits should be exposed. Indeed, the little time he -was compelled to pass at Mr. Hamilton's house, was extremely tiresome to him. He felt himself under the influence of a set of principles with which he had never before come into practical contact, and although he :could not despise them, he most heartily disliked them. There was to him something oppressive in an at- mosphere where so much peace, and harmony, and cheerful love prevailed; and he felt relieved when he found himself once more in the open air; as, with his daughter at his side, he traveled home- ward--if a place can be called home, where the heart is not, and at which, only the wants of the " animal nature are provided.   XXI. ;6^e  ainteg   ( ^pnbe    ., "The blessing of the Lord it maketh rich, and He addeth no sorrow with it." WHEN Mrs. Myers observed how quietly Mr.      Myers took the improvement which she had made in her before unattractive home, she ventured on some additional changes from  time to time. The ground for a garden was broken up and in- closed.  Then Edward was pursuaded to plant     i some fruit-trees, and Mr. Myers himself, at Mr.  Hamilton's suggestion, called at a nursery on his way home and purchased some fine young apple- trees. This quite encouraged Mrs. Myers, for she had begun to find pleasure in improving their home, and adding to its comforts, and she resolved to devote the remainder of her little fund to the same purpose. Mr. Myers had been at home but a few days, when he remarked in the presence of his wife:   THE MONEY EXPENDED.     181 "I am going to get the fence made around the yard now, and if I had a little more money, I would try to finish off the house." "What do you wish to do to the house " in- quired Mrs. Myers. "Why, the girls are old enough to have a room of their own, and I would be glad to finish off the chambers, and have the house painted, and do various other things." "How much more money will you need ." "Some fifty or sixty dollars." "How soon would you have it done?" "Why, immediately, of course; Mr. Ellis is ready to do it now, that is, the painting; but what is the use of talking about it, when it can not be done." "It can be done, if nothing but the money is wanting. I could furnish the money myself if I was sure the work would be done."' "Where would you get the money, I would like to know ." "No matter where, if you get the work done I will furnish the means to pay for it." "I don't know who would trust you without seeing the money. I am sure I would not." "Well, you can see it, if it is necessary." 16   182       KATE KILBORN. "Where is it?" Mrs. Myers arose and left the room, in a few moments she returned with a number of pieces of gold in her hand. Mr. Myers' eyes sparkled at the sight of the money,'and he extended his hand as if to receive it, but she guarded it carefully. "Let me take it, can't you. Let me count it." "No, I thank you! You do not lay your hands upon this, I can tell you now." "We shall see about that." "So we will see. I am strong enough and wise enough too, I think, to keep it in my own hands, for the present, at least." "Nonsense. It's counterfeit, I know, let me see." "I tell you it is not counterfeit. I know good money as well as you do." "I don't doubt you have handled more of it lately than I have." "I presume I have, though I 've had very little until now." "What do you mean to insinuate, woman!" said Mr. Myers, sternly. "What makes you so nervous?" : Mr. Myers hastily rose and left the house. He did not return for several hours, and when he   THE MONEY EXPENDED.     183 I came he was sullen and ill-tempered. He made several efforts to get possession of the money but in vain, Mrs. Myers kept it secured. -But he re- solved to have it in the end, and accordingly a car- penter and mason came on to finish the house. A cistern and wood-house was added, and then the house painted within and without. A large field also was inclosed and broken up ready for seed, and several other improvements made. As the work was finished, Mr. Myers came to her for money, and she refusing to intrust it to him paid the amount due, into the hands of the workmen, as long as any of it remained. How the other work was paid for, she never knew, or whether it was paid for at all. Mrs. Myers, however, had many anxieties. The experience of the past five years had made her sus- picious, and there was nothing in Mr. Myers' con- duct at home, or treatment of herself that indicated any thing better than the past had taught her to anticipate. Why then was this unusual effort to improve the appearance of the place. She felt that the motive was any thing but a good one. She knew nothing of the manner in which he gained his livelihood, expept that she was awareo that he made long journeys in various directions,   184       EATE KILBOhN. and she had long dreaded some new trouble, some- thing that would be harder to bear than any thing which had yet occurred. For herself she cared little, but all her hope and ambition was bound up in her daughters. For Edward, she felt little in- terest. He was any thing but a comfort to her, but she was proud of the promise of talent and beauty in her daughters, and looked forward to the time when they should attract that attention, and take that place in society which had once been her own. It was her delight to tell them of the  past, to cultivate their manners, and make them familiar with the customs and usages of the society to which she was formerly accustomed, and to awaken and cherish in those tender minds the am- bitions which had proved the bane of her own life. Any disgrace which would fall like blight upon their future prospects, it is safe to say, her heart, dead to every spiritual perception, dreaded worse than death. It was indeed possible that Mr. Myers was re- ally ashamed of living in the manner he had done, or that for the sake of his children he had resolved upon making a change in his habits and associa- *tions. Still a sinister expression which she fre- quently noticed, whenever any allusion was made   THE MONEY EXPENDED.     185 to the change, made her tremble for what might come. When the last dollar of her little hoard was expended, an expression of almost malignant gratification passed over her husband's features, and she felt intuitively from that hour, that some new trouble was preparing for her, and repented that she had given up her last resource, and allowed the little private means, which might have served her in some coming emergency to be sacrificed, for sacrificed a voice within her, told her it truly was. It will easily be seen that the domestic relations between the husband and wife were any thing but pleasant, or desirable. There was no tie between them, except their in- terest in their children. They were the only tie to life that Mrs. Myers was conscious of possessing. Mr. Myers had sufficient sagacity to see that she indulged and instructed them more in accordance with what was his own wish, than any other person could do. Neither parent woufl permit their wills to be crossed, and the tasteful clothing which he was willing to provide for them, was tastefully made up, and they were always dressed in an  tractive manner. She required nothing of the girls and of course they could refuse her nothing. If :b any collision took place between their conflicting 16'l   186       KATE KILBORN. views, the gentle Marion was always ready to yield to her more imperious and overbearing sister. But the kindness of Mrs. Myers to the children awakened in her husband's heart not one particle of tenderness toward 'herself. He took a malig- nant pleasure in tyrannizing over her in every possi- ble way, and torture her with the fear of a separ- ation from the children, and took no pains to re- lieve the apprehensions which constantly haunted her that some indellible disgrace threatened to set- tle upon them, which would be the ruin of all her hopes for them. It was with much trembling and a fear of reproach that Marion sought permission of her parents to attend church. Her father said to her: "Why do you want to go, Marion? It will be tiresome enough, I can tell you, and the walk will be very long."  "Oh, no, father, it will not be tiresome, and I can very well walk, if only you will please to let me." "Well, I am sure I don't care, if you don't get tired out. You'll soon get sickenough of it, I promise." Marion did not discuss this latter point with her   MARION AT CHURCH.     187 father, but her heart bounded with joy at the per- mission he gave her. Her mother made no objection, and so, early one bright spring morning she dressed herself neatly, and taking a lunch in her pocket, and her Bible in her hand, she tripped lightly down the path and on toward the village. The birds sung sweetly in thicket and grove as she passed on; but no bird had a more cheerful song, or one more ac- ceptable to the Creator, than that which rose from little Marion's heart as she went on her way to the house of prayer. She arrived early, and did not linger at the door, but entering the school-house, sought out a retired seat, and taking her Bible, bent eagerly over it, unmindful of the curiosity she had awakened in the minds of those who at the ap- pointed hour presented themselves in the place of worship. When the congregation sung, she recognized a hymn which she had learned to sing at her uncle's house, and her sweet voice was blended with those of the other worshipers in the sacred song. She listened to the sermon with eager interest; and when the exercises of the morning were over, she waited in hope of seeing some preparation for Sab- ' bath school. As all the congregation were leaving A an   188      KATE KILBORN. the house, she looked 'about her with a bewildered air, and Mr. Hopkins, the clergyman, approached and said: "What are you looking for, my little girl? have you lost any thing?" "No, sir-but the Sabbath-school, I was waiting for the Sabbath school!" "There is no Sabbath-school until two 9oiock." "Do you think, sir, I could stay here until two o'clock?" "No, my little girl, you would be very lonely." Oh, sir, I should n't mind that, I do so want to stay." "Who are you, child?-where is your home?" "I am Marion Myers, sir, and I live on the prairie, two miles from the village. My father and mother let me come to meeting to-day, and I wanted to stay to the Sabbath-school." "Well, Marion, I am very glad to see you, and you must go home with me, and stay at my house upntil time for Sabbath-school. Did you come all this way alone?" Yes, sir. " "Why did not your father or your mother come with you?" "They never go to meeting at all, sir. Little *   MARION AT CHURCH.     189 Bell wanted to come, but mother didn't let her; she thought it was too far for her to walk." "How happened it that you wished to come to meeting?-who invited you?" "Not any body-I don't know any body here;- but I was out to Aunt Emeline's all winter, and I used to go with her to hear Uncle Hamilton preach." "Where does your Uncle Hamilton live?" "He lives at Richmond, sir." Mr. Hopkins and his family were very much in- terested in Marion, and took much pains to interest her. After a short time, however, she said mod- estly to Mrs. Hopkins: "Will you please, madam, to show me where the Sabbath-school lesson is, so that I can learn it before it is time to go?" Mrs. Hopkins pointed out the lesson, and she ap- plied herself diligently to the study of it until it was committed to memory. After Sabbath-school, she returned again to the house with Mrs. Hopkins and her daughter, and was prevailed upon to remain until after tea, when she set out on her return home, having won their hearts completely by her gentle and modest deport- ment.   190       KATE KILBORNo Before she left the house, Mrs. Hopkins invited her to come and spend the Sabbath always at her house; and also if the weather was unfavorable to pass the night with them. During the following months Marion passed many pleasant hours with these new friends, com- ing and going at her own pleasure; and spending the sacred hours, reading or conversing with the family, or singing in a low voice some of her favorite hymns, frequently speaking of her uncle and aunt, and the dear little Jessie with a child's enthusiasm, and describing the pleasant hours she had passed at Richmond. As the proper season came, Marion remembered her seeds, and persuaded Edward to prepare her a little border in the garden, where she could sow them, and plant the roots which Mrs. Hamilton had given her. Mrs. Myers, by alternate coaxing and threatening, at length prevailed upon Edward to assist her in planting and sowing a few vegetables; but this done, the graceless boy refused any further effort, and left the whole care of the garden to his mother and sisters. Marion shared her seeds with Isabel, who, however, insisted upon devoting herself to the care of a bed of melons. As usual, Marion let her have her own way, and redoubled her zeal   CORRESPONDENCE.      19 during the cool hours of the day in the care of her flowers, and the more laborious and less pleasant task of pulling the long grass and weeds which had accumulated in other parts of the garden. The correspondence with Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton was a source of great delight to Marion, and their letters were received with the most lively satisfac- tion. In answer to their communications, she told her friends of all her employments and pleasures, of the progress of her studies, and sought their counsel and prayers. In return, she received many useful suggestions, not only in reference to her studies, and the improvement of her time, but also in reference to her principles and conduct, and the manner in which she ought to perform her duties to her parents and brother and sister. Mrs. Ham- ilton's favorite motto was, "Do all things faithfully as unto the Lord;" and she labored to impress upon Marion's mind the feeling, that no duty to the discharge of which she might be called was too small to be performed as under His eye, and that whatever she undertook, her constant effort and aim should be, to receive the approbation of her Father in Heaven.   XXII. He sees ith equal eye, as God of  He sees with equor a s God of all,  A hero perish, or a sparrow fall."  X '"Even the very ha'ir of your head, are all Nwmbered'." 1/RS. MYERS, like some other mothers, never encouraged her daughters to render her any assistance about her household work, but Marion was always ready to perform any service which she was permitted to undertake, and thus rendered herself quite useful to her mother, who discharging her domestic duties only on the score of necessity could not understand how Marion should take such pleasure in assisting her. A kind of pleasure which she never had remembered to have enjoyed even in her childhood, when all such things were new to her. But there was one task, which was even more irksome to her than the household work, which she was expected to perform; and that was the instruction of her children. Marion   TRIALS.        193 at present needed little help aside from the as- sistance she received in her correspondence with her friends, and the reading of the books they recommended, except in her arithmetic. Here, Edward, who was proud of his attainments in mathematics( was always ready to show off his abilities in assisting her. In doing this, however, he always managed te leave on Marion's mind an impression of his own immeasurable superiority over her; and of her own ignorance, which sadly disheartened and discouraged her. To Isabel, who was now eight years old, and need- ed to be taught, she became a loving and cheerful teacher; but she found in the ever-varying tempers of the capricious little Miss, ample opportunity for the exercise of the grace of patience. Mrs. Myers would allow no compulson, and consequently Isa- bel felt herself at liberty to do very much as she liked in reference to her lessons. It so happened that like many other children she had a propensity to tease, so that from the pure love of mischief on her part, poor Marion was subjected to many an- noyances. Sometimes, for a half a day together she would put Marion off and keep her waiting to the ruin of all her plans for the systematic im- provement of her time; and then, at the very mo- 17   194       KATE KILBORN.  ment when she had settled herself to her drawing or history, or arithmetic, the perverse child would come and demand her assistance, and trifle away whole hours miscalling words and letters, and in- sisting in a playful but pertinacious manner, on the most unnecessary help from her sister. In this manner Marion would become completely tired out, while the parents, if they happened to be pre- sent, would only smile at the mischievous child, little dreaming of the trouble and fatigue they were inflicting on the uncomplaining Marion, and confirming this unlovely trait of character in Isabel who always looked to them for a smile of encour- agement while thus annoying her sister. But this was far from being her worst trial. Ed- ward, who was a bold, bad boy, delighted in noth- ing so much as in tormenting Marion; sometimes ridiculing her " mean spiritedness," as he called her patience with Isabel, sometimes mocking her love for the Bible, her reverence for sacred things, and her long walks to attend church and Sabbath- school. At other times he would invite Isabel to new feats of mischief, or threaten to destroy her flowers, hide her little Bible and other books, and rudely intruding upon the retirement of those hours which she devoted to prayer and the study of the   TRIALS.        195 Word of God. These acts were not alone the fruit of that love of mischief which was natural to him, but there was in his heart a feeling which made these annoyances persecution, in no mean de- gree, an element of bitter hatred of holy things. When Mr. Myers was at home poor Marion's faith was sadly tried. She was compelled to hear from her father's lips so much that cast doubt upon the truths which she had learned from the Bible, and so much ridicule of the hopes and consolations on which her young heart had reposed with un- doubting confidence and love, that she was often overwhelmed with uncertainty and doubt. This trouble she imparted to no earthly friend, only pouring out her sorrows and cares before her Father in Heaven. And think not, dear reader, that she went uncomforted or unstrengthened from the mercy seat. At its foot her doubts vanished, and her faith grew firm. There her spirit was re. freshed with sweet tokens of the favor of God, and her heart encouraged with the cheering promise of help in every hour of need. One day she was unusually tried in various ways. Isabel had utterly refused to learn her lessons; Edward had teased her all the morning within doors, and then repaired to the garden to see   196       KATE KILBORN. what more he could do. It was in autumn, and the garden was full of vegetables, and gay with beauti- ful flowers. For a number of days, Edward had teased the girls by snapping his whiplash among the tall flowers, occasionally cutting off the head of some fine daha, or gaudy poppy. Sometimes he left open the garden gate, and then, when a herd of cattle, the especial terror of Marion, threatened to invade its precincts, sounded a note of alarm, and run off laughing at the efforts of the girls to drive the animals away. On this morning he went to the garden, and when' his loud cries brought the girls to the door, they found him, whip in hand, amusing himself by driving "' Old Muley," the cow, up and down the garden paths, shouting and laughl- ing loudly whenever the poor animal swerved from the direct path, and her huge foot threatened to crush something on which the girls had bestowed peculiar care. At length, as was to have been ex- pected, "Old Muley" became tired of this regular and unproductive promenade, and turned aside oc- casionally to crop some fragrant flower. The girls begged their brother to turn out the animal; Ma- rion with tears, and Isabel with passionate cries; he only shouted the louder and continued the drive, reproaching "Muley" that she did not keep the v   TRIALS. ,19 path better. The outcry brought Mrs. Myers to the spot, who, laughing at the sport, ordered Ed- ward to turn out the cow. He obeyed by striking her a quick blow with the heavy end of his whip, which caused her to retreat directly across poor Isabel's bed of mellons; tramping on and destroy- ing many flowers, and at last entirely breaking off the whole head of a magnificent stock, which Ma- rion had cultivated with the greatest care, and which was loaded with spikes of the finest flowers. Isabel could not be pacified, and loudly re- proached her malicious brother, heaping upon him all the opprobrious epithets which her vocabulary could supply, while he only laughed at the storm of passion which he had wantonly excited, but did not carp to allay. Marion retreated quietly to her little room, and when she had composed herself sufficiently; went out and endeavored to repair as far as might be, the injury which her unfeeling brother had done. When she had accomplished all she could, she called Bell, and proceeded to tie up the broken flowers, in bouquets; and on returning to the house they placed the largest of them in broken teapots and pitchers, and the smaller in cups, tumblers, and such other dishes as could be spared- from the table, and were suitable for their use. 17*   XXIII. W8^   Itl  hptth   6ma8t$. A S they were admiring their bouquets after dinner, Isabel said: "Oh, Marion, let's play, ' We expect company,' and make the house look pretty." Marion consented with alacrity, ever ready to oblige her sister; the consent of their mother was also gained, and they were soon in the full tide of preparation. They arranged every thing available, neatly and in good taste, and to the best possible advantage. A gay-colored cotton shawl was placed upon the table as a cover in the best -room, and flowers, with books, shells, and drawings, the gifts of Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton, were arranged upon it. Chairs were placed for the guests, whose arrival they affected to anticipate, and every arrangement made to promote their comfort when they should arrive. Their work in the house completed, they ran to the grove not far off, and quickly returned laden with wild grapes, plums, and black-berries,   THE UNEXPECTED GUESTS.    199 with which the grove abounded. These they ar- ranged tastefully on a bed of green vine-leaves in a large work-basket, ornamenting the basket with a wreath of evergreens and dark red berries. This done, they placed the basket on the bureau, which they called their side-board, and a pile of plates beside it, and then spread over all a clean white napkin. Then they dressed themselves neatly, and Marion arranged Isabel's sunny curls, twining some delicate little flowers in her hair. Then Isabel fast- toned a knot of the bright red berries and ever- greens among Marion's long, dark curls. Mother also must dress herself nicely, and be all in readi- ness. "I guess, Marion, we 'll have to play mother is our company, won't we, nobody ever comes here, you know?" "Never mind, Isabel, that will do," said Marion; and then after the girls had held a whispered con- sultation, they approached their mother, and Bell said:  "Please, mother, let us make some of those nice little cakes which Aunt Emeline learned Marion to make; we won't make the least bit of dust, or spill a drop of any thing." Mrs. Myers consented that the girls should have   200       KATE KILBORN. their own way; and in a few minutes a bright fire was blazing in the stove. It was an hour, however, before the work was finished, and dishes and aprons put nicely away. And now that every thing was done that could be. done, the little girls walked hand in hand slowly down the path to the gate, as if to await the arrival of their friends. Marion's heart turned fondly toward those she loved best on earth, little dreaming that they were so n& at hand. She sighed, as she thought, and then said to her sister: "Oh, Bell! how I do wish Uncle Hamilton and Aunt Emeline, and dear, dear little Jessie, would come!" "Who knows but what they will come!" said the hopeful child. "Oh! no, Bell, you know they have never writ- ten that they could come; and I am sure if they had thought they would, auntie would have told us so." This settled the question, and after gazing about for a few minutes, the girls walked slowly back to the house, and Marion stole softly up stairs, and sat down by the window with her book to read. After a few moments she was recalled by Isabel, who cried:   THE UNEXPECTED GUESTS.    201 "Come, Marion! I see a carriage away off toward the village; let's make haste and set the tea-table, and may be they are coming here." Marion laid aside her book, and went down to her sister. It was tea-time, and Mrs. Myers set out the table, and put on the best table-cloth, for the little, bustling, important Isabel would have it so.  "Shall we set plates for uncle and auntie, Ma. rion?" "Oh, no, no, Bell," said Marion, sadly; "they won't come now." "Well, I 'm a-going to see how many people are in the carriage, any way, for I do believe they are coming here ;" and away she romped down to the gate, while Marion busied herself in placing her nice cakes on the table, and beside them a large dish of beautiful ripe black-berries. In a moment Bell returned, with her father and Edward, who had been out hunting, and had just come in ;with a number of prairie chickens. "Now, mother, father says you 'll have to cook some chickens for supper; and I hope you'll cook plenty, for if those people come here, they'll be very hungry, I know." The chickens were soon under way, and then   202       KATE KILBORN. Bell bethought herself of the carriage she had been watching, and went again to the door. "There's a man and woman in the carriage, and I do believe they're coming here, Marion!" Marion started for the door, and looked eagerly down the road. Her color rose, and after a mo- ment of hesitation, she exclaimed: ' Bell, it is Uncle Hamilton!"Another moment, and her long curls streamed in the wind, as she ran down the path, her feet scarcely seeming to touch the ground. At the gate she paused a moment, and, then, as the carriage drew near, she uttered a joyful cry, which was echoed by Isabel, who still stood at the door. It was ihdeed her dear friends, into whose arms Marion threw herself the moment they alighted. They had not forewarned her of this visit, for there was a doubt whether they should be able to accom- plish it; and they would not raise expectations in Marion's heart which they were not sure of being able to realize. But they had come, and that was sufficient for her. She had no more to desire for the present, and hugged the little Jessie to her heart as if she would keep her there forever. Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton received a more cheerful welcome than they expected from the other mem-   THE UNEXPECTED GUESTS.    203 bers of the family. Marion, still holding the little one in her arms, seated herself in a low chair be- tween her uncle and aunt, looking first at one, and then the other, and listening to every word they uttered. Miss Isabel, nothing daunted by the pres- ence of strangers, handed about her plums and ber- ries, and detailed all the operations of the afternoon, while Mrs. Myers devoted herself to the prepara- tion of the chickens, the excellence of which their long ride had prepared the strangers to appreciate in no slight degree. Many significant glances passed between Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton as they looked at the fair children, and enjoyed the sight of the improve- ments that had been made in the house and around it. Emeline rejoiced over these indications of the increased comfort of her sister, and her heart rose in silent prayer to God that this might, in His rich mercy, be but the beginning of good things to her and her family, and that the richest blessings of His grace might be theirs forever. Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton walked through the gar- den, and praised the good taste and industry of the girls. They also tasted some of the fine melons which "Muley's" hoof had spared, and Mr. Hamil- ton jestingly told Isabel that she must manage to rf   204      KATE KILBORN. keep Muley" out of the garden in future, for it would not do to have such fine fruit destroyed. Most of all, Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton admired the beautiful development of Marion's principles and character, though they little suspected what that development had cost her. At night, she stole into their room before they retired to rest, and holding a hand of each, listened with tearful eyes and an overflowing heart to their loving words and affec- tionate counsels. At length, her uncle said: "You must return with us, my love, we can no longer spare you." Marion looked timidly up into her uncle's face, and interpreting her look, he said: "Do you not wish to go home with us, Ma- rion?" Oh, yes, dear uncle! I do wish very much to go, very much indeed; but-" her eyes filled with tears, and she could not proceed to finish the sen- tence she had begun. "But what, my child?" said Mr. Hamilton kind- ly, after a moment. "Nothing, uncle, only I wished you would please to take little Bell instead of me!" "Why do you call her 'little Bell,' said Mr. Hamilton, smiling, " she is almost as tall as you   THE UNEXPECTED GUESTS.    205 are, and much stouter. Why do you call her little Bell?" "I don't know, uncle, only I like to call her so, sometimes; but I want you to take her this time instead of me." "Well, Marion, if your father and mother are willing, and she wishes to go, I do not know but I shall be obliged to have it so, provided you can give me a good reason for taking her, instead of you. Will you tell me why you wish it?" "It is because Isabel does not go to meeting and Sabbath-school at all, and I am afraid she does not love the Saviour; and I thought if she went home with you, she might learn to love such things." Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton were much affected by this expression of Marion's Christian love and self denial. They were fully aware that she could have been called to make no sacrifice, which would have cost her so much effort as this which she now vol- untarily offered. They: said little to her on the subject, however, exceptto promise to consult her parents in the matter, but Mr. Hamilton proposed tohis wife to take both the girls for as long a visit as their parents would permit them to make. But their plans were all doomed to be disap- pointod, Mr. Myers, as we shall see, had his own 18   206       KATE KILBORN. reasons for wishing to keep the girls at home. Isa- bel herself did not seem to wish to go, and Marion, he said, he could not at present spare. In vain Mr. Hamilton pressed his invitation, and in vain did Mrs. Myers say she could go perfectly well; he could not be moved. Mrs. Myers did not hesitate to express her dis- satisfaction with her husband's decision. She had no particular wish that her daughters should be under the influence of Emeline's religion, but she knew that Marion wished very much to go, and was inclined to gratify her if possible. She knew too, that both the girls would improve much faster in Mr. Hamilton's house, than at home, where she was their only teacher, and it was a rare thing for them to make an agreeable acquaintance. To Ma- rion it was, we need not say, a very severe trial, the more so as the cold weather saw at hand, when she could not expect to be permitted to go to the vil- lage on the Sabbath as she ha] done. Her uncle and aunt sympathized with her most fully, but they could do little but bid her commit the keep- ing of her way to God, who would suffer no evil to befall her if she but put her trust in Him. Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton had no mind to inflict a long visit on their relatives. But they left the   THE UNEXPECTED GUESTS.    207 house with far more cheerful hopes for the family than they had ever felt before. Their outward cir- cumstances were now quite comfortable, and they saw no reason why they might not continue to im- prove. Mr. Myers did the best he could to be a courteous host, while he remained at home, but as he said sudden and important business claimed his attention the second day after their arrival, he found it necessary to leave them. Mrs. Myers, too, appeared better in some re- spects than Emeline had ever seen her, although somewhat taciturn and reserved. Mrs. Hamilton wondered much at the change which had taken place in her sister in respect to her children. She indulged the girls, as Mrs. Hamilton thought, too much for their good, and watched them with a de- gree of interest which she had never known her to manifest in any living thing in time past. But it was impossible for Emeline, with her ever-warm and affectionate heart that lavished its affections so freely on every thing within its reach, to enter fully into the feelings of Mrs. Myers. Her chil- dren were now her all. On them she concentrated every feeling and emotion, for their sakes alone she bore with her husband's scorn and frequent unkind- ness; for them alone she bore with a life which,   208       KATE KILBORN. aside from them, and the hopes she cherished of their future prosperity, had not for her one gleam of sunshine or hope of happiness. That this was any thing but a right state of heart, our readers need not be told. But right and wrong had ever been in a measure, alike to her, where her own feelings or impulses were con- cerned. With regard to spiritual things, her heart was as cold and hard and dark as ever. When Mr. Hamilton sought an opportunity of conversing with her, and learning what her views and senti- ments in relation to such things were, she replied in a manner which indicated plainly how repulsive and disagreeable these thoughts and inquiries were. She told him plainly, and that in no gentle manner, that she would endure no conversation of such a nature, and in that moment he recognized the "Kate Kilborn" he knew of old, and remembered that the Saviour had said: \ "Neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet and turn again and rend you."   XXIV. "Ye may not linger; here on, onward go! This place is not your rest I DURING the summer Mrs. Myers had been fre- quently annoyed by the calls of strangers who inquired for Mr. Myers in his absence. On one or two occasions, some of them had been the bearers of a note from him, requiring her to entertain them for the night. Sometimes she would be alarmed by seeing a strange face peering through the win- dow, and once or twice when she had been out in the evening she saw a stranger loitering about, evidently looking for some one. As the winter approached, such visits became more frequent, and in the suspicious state of mind in which she was, these things boded no good, and she trembled every hour, for she felt little doubt that her hus- band had done something which rendered it unsafe for him to be much at home. 18'   210       KATE KILBORN. This conviction was increased by the fact that Mfr. Myers seldom came home, and only in the night, usually remaining but a few hours. One evening a stranger of a very respectable appearance presented himself at the door, and gave her a line from Mr. Myers, requesting her to entertain him as long as he wished to stay, enjoining it upon her to make his stay comfortable and agreeable. He was quite a pleasant and intelligent man, gave her his name, and place of residence, and made himself a very agreeable guest. She longed  to ask him what he knew of her husband, and his associations and employments, for he had inspired her with a degree of confidence in his character which no other stranger had done. But she dared not ask one question, well knowing that Mr. Myers would wreak his indignation upon her in no meas- ured terms if he found she had ventured to make such inquiries. The gentleman said he had a family, and was looking for a comfortable location. He asked many questions about the society in the neighbor- hood, and Mrs. Myers felt gratified with the thought of the possibility of his becoming a neigh- bor. When he left the house, she felt more cheer- ful than she had done before for many weeks. In   THE SECOND REMOVAL.     2" a few evenings Mr. Myers returned home in high spirits. He placed in her hand a paper which he told her she must sign. She read it over, and to her consternation she found it to be a deed of the house and farm, and on examination she saw the purchaser was the gentleman whom she had enter- tained so cordially a few evenings before. She cast the paper indignantly from her, assuring him that if it waited her signature, it would be very long before it was given. Mr. Myers coolly told her that as to that matter she could do as she liked, but she would find it would be no advantage to her to refuse it. For his part, he should leave that section of the country with his children; and if she knew what was for her own interest, she would be ready to go, for the gentleman had purchased the place, whether she would or not, and would take possession in ten days. If she refused to sign the deed, she might take care of herself for the future, for she would have no further assistance from him. We pass over all the entreaties and passionate remon- strances of Mrs. Myers, and the tears and per- suasions of the children. All availed nothing. At length, Mr. Myers told her that she could have but a half hour to decide in'; he would not stoop to   212       KATE KILBORN. persuade or thteaten, she was free to act as she chose. As the moments passed, Mrs. Myers, knowing well that nothing would change the pur- pose of her husband, consented, and with an aching heart attached her name to the paper. A grim smile passed over his face when he saw the name; and he said, as he buttoned up his over-coat, and prepared to go: "You see, madam, I am as good as my word." "What do you mean?" "You remember when I wanted the gold, and you refused to give it to me, I told you I would have it at last; and you see I have done it. I have been calculating to sell the place for this whole year; and as I could turn some things into im- provements here as well as not, 1 concluded your money would be clear gain. I have made five hun- dred dollars by the speculation-and a turn or two more like it would almost pay off what your ex- travagance once wasted for me. Mrs. Myers was shocked.  Every thing was clear to her now. Before she could speak, her husband said, sarcastically: "If you make up your mind to go with me and the children, you'll just be ready by Monday night. There will be teams here then after the   THE SECOND REMOVAL.     213 goods, and if you are ready, you can bear them company." This said, he immediately left the room. Edward followed him to the gate, and received a charge that no one should be informed of their in- tended departure. If they did allow it to be sus- pected, consequences would follow which they would not like. Whither they were going, they could not tell, for of that they themselves were not informed. With many sad forebodings, and much heaviness of heart, Mrs. Myers commenced her preparations to depart from a place that, however full of-sad and sorrowful experience her life in it had been, now that she was about to leave it, seemed some- thing like a pleasant home. The Sabbath was cold and stormy, so that Marion could not attend church again, and Monday also was a dreary, lonely day. At evening the rain began to fall, and at a late hour the expected teams arrived. The wagons were hastily loaded, and places prepared for Mrs. Myers and the girls, where. they were a little sheltered from the storm. There were no friends to part with, but many tears were shed, as on that gloomy night, amid the darkness and storm, they set out on their journey, they knew not whither; I said, many tears were shed, but none fell from the eyes   214       KATE KILDORN. of the wife and mother. Without one feeling of submission or patience, she yet uttered no lamenta- tion or complaint, but nerved herself to bear the worst that could befall her without a word or a hope. They traveled all that night, and in the morning were permitted to rest a few hours. The end of the second day brought them to Enfield, the place which they were now told was to be -their future home. It was a gloomy-looking spot, and the house where they were set down was a miser- able little building, in a most dilapidated condition. There were only two rooms in the house, one above and the other below, all in a most disgusting condition. The house itself stood almost in the street, with only the ruin of a fence in front. The yard was low and dirty, and the water stood in pools all around. The girls and their mother sat down in the gath- ering twilight on some of the furniture which the men were bringing into the house, all of them per- haps feeling morel really wretched than ever they had been before in all their lives. Soon Mr. Myers came in, partially intoxicated, and gave them a boisterous welcome. Mrs. Myers had plenty of cold provisions prepared, but her hus-   THE SECOND REMOVAL.     215 band insisted a long time on having supper, and even commenced preparations himself, until Ma- rion begged him to desist, and he replied that he "would do any thing in the world to please her." Several of the neighbors came in, not to assist, but to gaze around at the furniture that was brought in, and at Mrs. Myers and the children. Morning came, but its cheerful light brought only clearer discoveries of the miseries of their new abode. Nothing could be done at all until the house was thoroughly cleaned. The roof leaked, and the broken and moldy walls were infested with insects. Plastering Mr. Myers declared was entirely out of the question, and lime for white- washing could not be had. Marion did all she could to assist her mother, who went about the whole day almost stupified with indignation and hopeless grief, scarcely no- ticing how the child was exerting herself, scouring the blackened doors and window-frames until her little fingers bled. Mr. Myers and Edward left them to themselves through the whole day, and Isabel made acquaintance with some of the neigh- boring girls, and preferred talking with them to the society of her mother and sister. Mrs. Myers and Marion did all they could, and   216       KATE KILBORN. still the house had a dreary look. Hopeless of being able to destroy the swarms of insects that infested it, they covered the side of the room with newspapers as far as the stock they had with them would go; and at night when Mr. Myers came in to see what they had been doing, Marion repre- sented the matter to him in such a manner that he promised to try and obtain enough to finish the room. The women, who seemed to have little to do but to wander from house to house, came in oc- casionally to look on, laughed at their proud no- tions, and said they " guessed they 'd better not try to hold their heads above other folksy" As cold weather came on, and Mrs. Myers saw that her husband had no employment, and took no measures to make their condition more comfortable, she resolved upon one more effort to improve their condition. She to d her husband that her patience was now exhauste, and she demanded for herself and children a more healthful and comfortable abode, and a comfortable supply of the necessaries of life. It was a stormy interview, and resulted in nothing but convincing Mrs. Myers of the utter misery and hopelessness to which she was reduced. With many profane and cruel words, Mr. Myers told her she might make the best of the house she   THE SECOND REMOVAL.     1 could, he would provide no other. He meant they should have enough to eat, and clothing to keep them from suffering when what they had on hand was well worn out; but that the money he had re- ceived for the place was his own, and he should use it for his own benefit. He was the last one who would work and starve for his family; and if not satisfied wit what he provided, they were welcome to help themselves. When the girls hung around their father, and begged him not to talk so, he rudely shook them off, telling them they had best be careful, and not go too far, or they would be left to take the entire care of themselves, for they were getting to be as rude and unmannerly as their mother. After this interview, Mrs. Myers kept her bed for two or three days, neither eating nor drinking, notwithstanding the most tender entreaties of Isabel and Marion. What passed in the heart of the wretched woman is known to no one, for she never spoke except a few words in reply to her daughters' inquiries. Mr. Myers and Edward took no notice apparently of this new state of things, and made no inquiries about her condition. About this time, Edward and his father had high words while Mr. Myers was in a state of partial intoxication. The 19   218       KATE KILBORN. father refused to supply his own son with as much money as he thought requisite to his purposes, and ordered him to provide for himself. The result was, that the youth left home, without giving any information as to where he was going, or in what manner he was to secure provision for his necessi- ties. Edward was sixteen, strong and healthful, and able to earn his own livelihood not only, but to have been a great help and blessing to his mother and sisters, if he had been rightly disposed; but no one who was acquainted with his indolent habits, and with the associations in which he seemed to de- light, could cherish the hope that he would seek a livelihood by any honorable means. The autumn rains soaked through the miserable roof, and ran, in dark and dingy stains, down the walls. When win- ter came, the snow drifted in through the roof, and under the windows and doors. They had at best but a limited supply of fuel, and were often almost entirely destitute, although the forest was near, and plenty of wood could be had, if Mr. Myers had taken the 'trouble to secure it. Maiion persuaded her mother to offer the little stove they had bought at their former place of residence for sale to a neighbor, who needed another stove, and who was willing to pay for it in work. But even then the   THE SECOND REMOVAL.     219 wood was not always at hand when it was needed, and never in a condition to burn without the labor of drying it first in the oven. Mr. Myers took no pains to prepare it for use, and cautioned his wife to take care how she disposed of any more of his property. Isabel became fond of the society of the girls in the neighborhood, and would not be restrained, but passed the greater part of her time in their com- pany, to the utter neglect of her studies and her mother, except when at times she would be won by the gentle efforts of Marion for a few hours, and make resolutions to do better than she had done. Mrs. Myers seemed to have entirely lost all her ambition, and all interest in every thing. Much of what was done in the house was done by Marion, who labored by every possible means to cheer and encourage her mother, but all in vain. She seemed entirely hopeless and dejected, and passed hour after hour in sullen silence, seeming at times scarcely conscious of the presence of her daughter, and in- different to every thing-often wishing herself dead, or regretting that she had ever been born. A religious meeting was a rare occurrence at Enfield. One of the neighbors, in answer to some   220       KATE KILBORN. of Marion's inquiries, replied that "the Enfield folks had worried out three preachers already; and she guessed nobody else would try it again very soon." There was, however, an occasional sermon preached by some wandering itinerant; and we need not say that Marion was always among the few listeners, though she could never prevail upon her mother to go. Isabel sometimes went when the other girls did; and their influence, child as she was, was more potent for evil with her than all the influence for good which ever had been around her. By her mother's permission, Marion wrote to her aunt, and informed her of the change in their cir- cumstances, beseeching her, however, not to let any person beside her uncle know where they were. The letter she mailed with her own hand, fearing to trust it to the care of her father, who was no longer the indulgent parent he had been; but now under the influence of spirituous liquors, became a ca- pricious tyrant, not only to his wife, but also to his children. ' For many weeks she received no answer to her letter; and at last certain that her aunt had written to her, she inquired of the post-master about it, who told her that Mr. Myers had taken out a letter addressed to her several weeks pre-   THE SECOND REMOVAL.     221 vious. On communicating this intelligence to her mother, they proceeded to make search for the let- ter, and it was found in a mutilated condition in one of her father's pockets. They concluded it was best to say nothing about it; and when Marion again wrote to Richmond, she requested the post-m4er to give her letters, for the future, only to herself. Pleased with the modest appearance of Marion, and the solicitude she appeared to feel on the sub- ject, he promised to do as she requested. And now Marion was made happy in the recep- tion of frequent and regular letters from her dear friends, full of the sweetest and most tender Chris- tian counsel and love. Her uncle Hamilton often sent her small sums of money, which she was at liberty to use as she pleased, and which was devot- ed to the purchase of whatever would most conduce to the comfort of her mother. Mrs. Hamilton felt very anxious about Isabel, and endeavored to prevail on her to come up and spend some time at her house. But she could not be induced to consent. Then Mr. and Mrs. Ham- ilton wrote to Mrs. Myers, urging her to come with both her daughters as early in the season as the traveling would admit, and make them a long 19'   222       KATE KILBORN. visit, offering to send a conveyance for them if they were willing to come. Marion now hoped her mother would consent to go, but Mrs. Myers mani- fested not the slightest wish to accept her sister's proposal. Poor Marion's trials were now constantly in- creasing. Her father was almost always about home, but he made no secret of the gambling and drinking, which was the only business of his life. When he met with losses, as he often did, his tem- per was excited in a fearful manner, and he often returned home to vent his fury upon his wife and children. Several times in the course of the winter he had, in a fit of irritation produced by drinking, turned Marion from the house, bidding her support herself for he would no longer maintain her in idle- ness. The dear girl would watch her opportunity, and creep stealthily up stairs and wrap something about her to protect her from the cold, until her father left the house, and then return to her mother. On one occasion Mr. Myers returned at an unex- pected hour of the day, and found Marion quietly seated by the window engaged with her drawing. Without one word he seized her color-box and threw it rudely across the room, breaking the box   THE SECOND REMOVAL.     223 and many of the colors, and scattering them all about. With many tears she gathered up her treasures, and put them all away, never again venturing to bring them out. / f ,   XXV. "A little longer! yet a little longer  Oh might she stay, to wash away her stains; And fit her for her passage!" "On! on! thou voyager! but alas for thee I Where is thine anchor and thy Pilot, where?" THUS, with little of variation passed a year. Through all the summer, Marion had ob- served that at times her mother was very unwell; and had exerted herself to the utmost to comfort and relieve her, doing almost every thing for the family herself, without a word of complaint. But this state of things was not to continue. Early in September Mrs. Myers was violently attacked with typhus fever, and in a few days evidently brought to the borders of the grave. Marion was greatly alarmed, particularly as several. persons had re- cently died of the same fever, and feeling her own ignorance and inability properly to nurse her mother, she entreated her father's permission to t   MRS. MYERS' ILLNESS.     225 send for her aunt Emeline. At length Mr. Myers yielded a reluctant consent, and a letter was imme. diately dispatched, informing MArs. Hamrilton of the condition of her sister, and requesting her, if possible, to come to her. Mrs. Hamilton needed no urging. She received the letter the second day after it was mailed, and was ready to take the next coach, leaving her little one to the care of her husband, and sooner than Marion had dared to hope or expect she was at her side, ready to do any thing that could be done for the benefit of her sister. She found Mrs. Myers in a miserable condition, entirely prostrated by dis- ease, and Marion already almost worn out with watching and anxiety. Mrs. Myers did not seem to recognize her sister, or even to notice any per- son. Her mind seemed to be wandering among the scenes and companions of her youth, or the asso- ciations of her earlier married life. More than once she spoke of her children, particularly of the little Walter, and then in the bitterness of her spirit, ex- pressed her dissatisfaction with the will of Him who called him-so early away. Mingled with these ravings there were discussions about dress and ornaments, and preparations for social amusements. Then she would rise from the bed and struggle   226       KATE KILBORN. almost fiercely with them who would detain her, saying, "it was time to go, and there was nothing to stay for now, Walter was dead and gone." For more than a week after Mrs. Hamilton arrived she got little rest by day or night, but this weary wandering and unconsciousness continued. Mr. Myers was but little at home, and Bell too much frightened to be of service to any one, was only too happy to get away to a neighbor's house, coming frequently, however, to see if her mother was any better. Mrs. Hamilton and Marion did every thing, for very few of the neighbors offered any assistance which was really of service to them. Many earn- est prayers went up to God that he would have mercy on the poor sufferer, and cause her to under- stand her condition, and seek that mercy and grace now, which she had so often spurned. Again this faithful sister hoped that the hour of mercy to her soul was at hand, and she encouraged the faith of therembling Marion with the assurance which still cieered her own soul. At length the crisis of the disease approached; Mrs. Myers sunk into a long, heavy slumber, from which they vainly tried to awaken her. Hour after hour passed, and she slept on, her pulse grew weaker, and it seemed that the pallor of death was   MRS. MYERS' ILLNESS.    227 upon her face. Mr. Myers and Isabel were sum- moned to witness the last agony. Whlb shall de- scribe the feelings of those who trembled, and almost agonized in behalf of that immortal spirit just lingering as it seemed, on the shores of that abyss, which separates Time from Eternity. Alas! all unprepared, as they feared, and yet they could not reach her ear with one note of warning, could not direct the closing eye to the Cross, nor aid that soul to implore the mercy of Him before whose bar it might so shortly be called to stand. From Mrs. Hamilton's heart, there seemed to be going up a constant silent invocation, and as she stood by the bed-side of the pale sleeper, doing all that she could to rouse her, and watching for the first gleam of intelligence, it seemed to her, that her prayer was heard, and that the great High Priest accepted it. Her heart grew light-and the glow of a cheerful hope overspread her face. The weeping Marion saw it, and came to her side and asked, "What is it, Auntie " Mrs. Hamilton answered not, but with an ex- pressive look, and pressure of the hand, and the light and comfort stole also into Marion's heart. There was a movement on the bed, and the sick r                        ;B   228       KATE KILBORN. woman slowly opened her eyes and gazed languid- ly around her. Then she gave a sigh and sunk back on her pillow, and a tear started from her eye. "What is it, mother?" said Marion, tenderly. "I thought I had got away, Marion, and here I am still. I thought I was dead." "No, you are not dead, dear, dear mother. I hope you will live many years." She answered only by 'a sigh, and closed her eyes. Emeline saw that she was better, that for the present, danger was past, and did not come forward to be recognized, but motioned Marion not to try to converse with her mother until she should be stronger. Mr. Myers left the house as soon as the first signs of returning consciousness appeared, and Bell, at her aunt's request, took IMarion's place beside the bed to fan her mother. Mrs. Hamilton sent Marion to lie down, for she was perfectly exhausted, and she herself engaged in some domestic cares, In a day or two Mrs. Myers was able to endure some conversation, and her sister spoke cheerfully to her about her recovery. To all that she could say, Mrs. Myers only replied that she " wished she had died, she had wished to die for many months,   MRS. MYERSt ILLNESS.    229 and it was no favor for her to get well again, she had nothing to live for." In vain Mrs. Hamilton sought to lead her to a sense of her own sinfulness, and need of a Saviour's pardon, her heart seemed entirely callous and hard, without one feeling of concern for her own soul, or one desire after the favor of an offended God. Mrs. Hamilton remained three weeks at Enfield, doing every thing that a sister's tenderness could suggest, and striving by every possible method to arouse the slumbering conscienc of Mrs. Myers. She was allowed to say all she chose, and quietly listened to, but all her efforts failed to awaken a spark of feeling in that heart which seemed unvisit- ed by one influence of the Divine life-giving Spirit. Never before had she so much felt her own utter weakness and dependence upon Almighty grace; never did she more fervently implore that grace and the descent of that Blessed Spirit, to enlighten and renew her sister's heart. Then she felt as she had never felt before, that even the sight of death has no power to excite to repentance, or awaken the soul, which has so long slumbered in sin and rebellion against God. One day while the sisters were together, the con- versation turned upon the incidents of her past life, 20   230       KATE KILBORN. to which she had alluded while her mind was in an unsettled and wandering state. In reply to some- thing which Mrs. Hamilton said about the death of her children, she said: "I have never yet been reconciled to Walter's death, long as it is since it took place, and what is more, I have never tried to be reconciled, and I feel it more and more all the time! That was the beginning of my troubles. Mr. Myers would never have done as he has if that child had lived," "I trust you will yet- have reason to be thankful for that which you now call the beginning of your troubles. Do not, I beg of you, my dear sister, allow yourself to cherish those feelings of rebellion against the will of God." "I neither cherish nor forbid them, they come and go as they please, but if the little I have told you disturbs you, I will say no more, only I won- der what you would think if you could realize what I feel, day after day." "Dear Kate, will you not try to study your Bible, and try to see yourself, and your present feelings as they are in the sight of your God." "I have not read one word of the Bible for years, and there is do reason why I should do it now."   MRS. MYERS' ILLNESS.    33  "I think there are reasons why you should read it, and among them is this, that you may have a juster perception of your own duty and relations to God." "I have not the slightest wish to know any more. I l:now this, that I have been disappointed in every hope, and stripped of every thing for which I cared to live." "But, dear sister, it is mercy that has done this. If yir earthfy blessings have been taken from you it i but to turn your heart to better blessings, and-"  "Emeline, let this be enough. I am wretched enough already; do not compel me to express feel- ings which will only trouble you, without doing me good. For myself, I have not the least wish or hope; and I may say, or fear, except the one I expressed when we commened talking, the wish that I had died, while I was so very sick! Life looks like a wearisome burden to me, a burden which I would gladly lay down forever." Emeline said no more, but her heart ached for her sister. Still she did not give up hope, or neg- lect prayer for her. She saw clearly that Kate had at last begun to think, and she knew too, that   232       KATE KILBORN. she would have little else to do, or rather little that could divert/her mind from thought. While she was engaged in revolving in her mind what more she could do for her sister and her family before she left them, she was surprised and delighted to see her husband and child. Mr. Hamilton had, a few days previous, received a letter from Mr. and Mrs. Evans, announcing the fact that they were about to visit Mrs. Hamilton in company with Frank, who still remained a bach- elor. They expressed great interest in the family of Mrs. Myers, and Mr. Evans also expressed a wish to take Marion and Isabel home with them, free of expense to their parents; and give them for some years the advantages offered by their school, which still continued flourishing. He requested Mr. Hamilton, if possible, to propose this plan in person to Mr. and Mrs. Myers, that they might decide in reference to it, with as little delay as pos- sible.  Upon the receipt of this letter, Mr. Hamilton    immediately concluded to make a journey to bring home his wife; and as Mrs. Hamilton had apprised him of Mrs. Myers' convalescence, he concluded to take the little Jessie with him, who pined for her absent mother sadly. He was prepared to second  i   MRS. MYERS' ILLNESS.     233 his brother-in-law's proposal most warmly, and proposed that Mrs. iyers and her daughters should go with him and Mrs. Hamilton, if she was well enough, to meet her friends at Richmond, that the family party might be as complete as possible. He urged this upon them, but Mrs. Myers was too feeble to ride, and Marion was not willing to leave her mother. Isabel, Mrs. Hamilton thought, ought to remain and assist Marion, who looked quite ill, though she only complained of feeling tired. This could be easily accounted for, as both body and mind had been excited and fatigued, but her aunt could not avoid feeling anxious about her, and she privately requested Isabel to do all she could to relieve Ma- rion, until she should become perfectly recovered, and as both the girls were young, she engaged a woman who lived near at hand, to do whatever of fatiguing work there might be, rewarding her liber- ally for so doing. Notwithstanding these precautions, it was with ome misgivings that Mrs. Hamilton left her sister's roof. Mr. Myers concerned himself very httle about any of the family, only giving in a care- less manner his consent that the girls should return with their friends, if it was their wish to do so. 20*   234       KATE KILBORN. Mrs. Hamilton took upon herself the preparation of the girls' wardrobe, andthe providing of some better clothing for Mrs. Myers, that she might feel at liberty to rest from all care, and as speedily as possible recover her health, and be able to ride to Richmond when her friends from the East should have arrivgd there. Marion promised to write to her aunt in the course of a week or ten days to inform her of the progress of her mother's re- covery. As Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton traveled homeward, the scenes through which Mrs. Hamilton had passed furnished materials for much deeply interesting and profitable conversation. The loveliness and spiritual-mindedness of Marion's character in the midst of so many adverse influences, the pleasant prospects opening before the girls from the gen- erosity of Mr. Evans, and the hope of improvement in the character of Isabel when she should come under the influences of her future home, were fruit- ful topics, and occupied many hours. But there was another subject that excited a deeper interest in their minds, and that was the character, and feelings and prospects of Mrs. Myers. Mrs. Ham- ilton told her husband of all her conversation with her, of her feelings in view of death, her continped   MRS. MYERS' ILLNESS.    235 hostility to God, and her total neglect of the Bible, and entire want of perception of spiritual things. Mr. Hamilton was much affected by her account, and after a few moments, said: "I have sometimes wondered, my dear wife, how it was possible for you to cherish so confident an ex- pectation of the final conversion of your sister, who has for so many years manifested so-entire an indif, ference to every thing good, and also, we have reason to fear, has cherished such a settled spirit of hostility and rebellion against God. Certainly, under ordinary circumstances, and judging from appearances, we should be inclined to think there was very little of hopefulness in her case. But when I think of the wonderful displays of Divine grace in the character of that lovely child, and remember how earnestly and perseveringly you have prayed for her these many years, I cannot but hope and expect with you to see her rejoicing in the hope of a Christian. Still, I am at a loss to conceive what new means Almighty grace will take to reach a heart which has appeared to be proof against the softening in- fluences of affliction, both various and severe. "You and I, Emeline, have often remarked that no one who has ever seen at all the evil of his own heart, ought ever to despair of the conversion of   236       KATE KILBORN. I any one, however hardened and perverse the indi- vidual may appear. I fear that we are all too prone to fall into the sin of which the prophet ac- cuses the ancient people of God, To limit the Holy One,' and think God is 'altogether such an one as ourselves.' " i   XXVI. "Not unremembered is the hour when friends meet Friends, but few on earth, and therefore dear." "Many sounds were sweet Most ravishing and pleasant to the ear, But sweeter none than voice of faithful friend." "FROM   home, may be good; but at home is best," so a  least thought Mrs. Hamilton when she found heref once mrore beneath the shel- ter of her own rookf  Sweeter than ever before seemed the peace and quiet of that beloved home; and never before had she realized how great was her cause for thanksgiving, as she did, when she con- trasted the comforts of her own home with the cheer- less and hapless lot of Mrs. Myers. After so many days passed, where there was no God acknowledged, and no blessing sought from Heaven, how refresh- ing and delightful were the privileges of their own family altar. Separated for the first time since her   238       KATE KILB ORN.  marriage for so long a time from her husband, how pleasant once more to enjoy the society and confi- dence of one whose principles, sentiments and feel ings on all important subjects so entirely harmon- ized with her own, and for whom her respect and affection every day increased. The three weeks which were to pass before the expected arrival of her friends glided rapidly on, while she was busily employed in making prepara- tions for the future comfort of Marion and Isabel, and the reception of the dear friends from whon  she had been separated for four years. One thing, however, disturbed her, and made her anxious. She  t  nothing from Marion. She knew her promptitude in every thing too well to suppose, even for one moment, that she had neglected to do as she promised in the matter of writing, but it was cer- tainly possible that the letter might be detained, or mislaid. Still, she feared she was sick, and won- dered that she had not interpreted the lassitude and weariness of which her niece complained as the in- dications of approaching illness. At length the expected day arrived, and with it the beloved guests, for whose welcome and enter- tainment the little cottage had expanded itself to its utmost capacity. Joyful indeed was the meeting   THE RETURN HOME.      239 between these Christian friends, in the enjoyment of health and happiness, and each united to the other by the bond of no ordinary affection. Their intercourse together was very delightful, as many precious recollections of obligation and gratitude for past kindness was interchanged, reminiscences of old associations and old friends were recalled; and every topic of interest to intel- ligent minds was freely discussed: But the tender- est link between them was that which united them in a cause and service to which each had devoted all the talents which God had given them. We need not say that this was the cause of Christ. True, their work was various, and they were sepa- rated far from each other, still the work was one, their interests were one, and their hopes, their aims, their'purposes were involved in the effort of ad- vancing the kingdom of Christ in the world; and to this great object every personal consideration and wish was secondary. The interests of Mrs. Myers and her family was a theme of absorbing thought and conversation to each member of this little circle, and all were anx- ious to do whatever they could to improve their condition. It was concluded that the brothers-in- law, Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Evans, should go to   240       KATE KILBORN. Enfield together in the carriage, which Mr. Hamil- ton had proposed to send for Mrs. Myers, in the hope that their united efforts would result in some improvement in her circumstances. Their hope of influencing Mrs. Myers in any way was very slight, still they did not feel at liberty to neglect any effort which might be made in that direction. The circumstance of their having heard nothing from Marion, too, made them dread that something of an unpleasant nature had occurred, and they thought best to go, for fear Mrs. Myers would not feel bound to keep the promise she had made of coming on to Richmond with the girls, to place them under the care of their uncle. Frank re- mained at Richmond in the absence of the other gentlemen, feeling, as he said, that he did not wish to leave Emeline while he could possibly be with her. Indeed, both he and Mrs. Evans re- garded her almost with reverence, and with a de- voted love, which she well deserved from them on account of what she had accomplished in their behalf. The gentlemen were not expected to return in less than eight days, six of which must necessarily be occupied in making the journey. They wished to pass the Sabbath in Enfield, where Mr. Hamilton   THE RETURN HOME.      241 had resolved, if possible, to preach at least twice, if he could obtain a room. The time of their absence passed pleasantly to the brother and sisters, who found abundant re- sources for interesting conversation. At length the day came when the travelers were expected to re- turn, with Mrs. Myers and her daughters. They arrived at the appointed time, but they came alone. Neither Mrs. Myers nor her daughters accompanied them. The saddened countenances of the gentle, men announced the afflicting intelligence they brought, afflicting indeed to the survivors; but not to her who had ended her life's work, and 'finished her course." Marion, the lovely and beloved, slept on her last earthly pillow, and her freed spirit had entered upon the joys of the heavenly world. -^  21 a   XXVII. "Joy to the loved one! for through all the storm The peaceful port is gained! thy bark is moored In the still waters of the stream of life; Bright angel bands are round thee, and thy Friend Is the great changeless One; and shadows dim No more shall cloud thy vision, or obscure The light of love Divine. Oh I might we all Gain that blest haven, through the Lamb that died, And join thy song forever "  MARION had been in her grave four days, when Mr. Hamilton arrived at Enfield.    From  the account given by Mrs. Myers, it appeared that she continued to feel more and more of weariness and lassitude every day, for more than a week after her friends had left Enfield, though she did not com- plain of the least pain, and Mrs. Myers, preoccupied by her own illness and feebleness, and still more by her own thoughts; felt no alarm   about her. She commenced her letter to Mrs. Hamilton, and wrote at several different times, delaying to send the letter   MARION'S ILLNESS AND DEATH.   243 at her mother's request, until she should feel better. At length she was unable to rise for several suc- cessive days, but lay quietly, apparently half sleeping and partly unconscious of what was passing around her. Even then, Mrs. Myers was not alarmed, at- tributing her symptoms to the fatigue and anxiety of the few past weeks. One morning, she said Marion called her to the bed and told her that she felt a severe pain and dullness in her head, and that she thought she should not live long. Mrs. Myers told her she thought there was no reason for fear, that she would be better in a few days, when she had rested awhile. Marion smiled very sweetly and said: "I think not, dear mother; but I have not finished my letter to aunt Emeline, and if I die, I want you to take it and wrap a lock of my hair in it, and send it with my best love to Aunt and Uncle Ham- ilton." She then asked where her father and Edward were, and her mother observing her to speak inco- herently, became alarmed, and sent Isabel, to call the physician and Mr. Myers. The doctor, however, was out of town, and did not return for twenty-four hours, during which the disease gained ground rapidly. When at last he   244       KATE KILBORN. saw her, he told Mr. Myers that she was attacked with the same disease with which her mother had been sick, and that he had little hope of being able to save her life. For a few days she murmured incessantly, and turned from side to side, as if uni able to retain her position for a single moment, then she sunk into a half dreamy unconscious state, lying with her eyes partly open, but noticing no one. Thus she continued for a number of days, when she commenced sinking rapidly. She grew weaker, and her breath shorter and feebler, until she expired as gently and peacefully as an infant falling into slumber on its mother's breast. This narrative was listened to with many tears, for Marion was tenderly beloved even by those who only knew of her from the accounts of others. At length Mrs. Hamilton said: "If she had only been permitted to speak, to give her dying testimony to the truths she loved in life!" "There was no need of it, Emeline. Our Lord knew best. Marion has borne her living testimony to the truth, and manifested her attachment to her Saviour in the midst of suffering, opposition, and reproach. Dear child, her work was faithfully done!"    MARION'S ILLNESS AND DEATH.   245 As Mr. Hamilton said this, he drew from his pocket a little package which he unfolded, and pre- sented to Mrs. Hamilton a folded sheet of paper, taking also in his hands a long curl of soft auburn hair. Tears started to his eyes as he placed it in the hand of his wife, and for some moments none of the little company were able to speak. At length, Emeline opened' the letter, and read the lines last traced by those fingers now stiff in death. The first few sentences were written five days after Mrs. Hamilton left her. The letter was as follows: "DEAREST AUNTIE, "Mother continues to recover her health slowly, she is able to eat and to walk about some; but she continues very unhappy. It almost breaks my heart to see her sit so pale and still, with such a sorrowful look. Oh! if I knew how to comfort her, I would be so glad. I do not know what to say. I have tried to get her to read some beauti- ful chapters in my Bible, that I thought would do her good, but she only put the book away, and said: "Read it yourself, Marion, if it makes you happy I am glad; but never ask me to look in it again!"I wanted to ask her why, but I did n't 21*   I1 246       KATE KILBORN. dare to. I do not feel well at all, Auntie, I have to lie down every day. I think I am tired-at least I feel as if I was tired all the time. Sometimes I feel as if I would be sick as mother was. My head is so giddy I can not write any more to- day. "Friday. Dear Auntie, I am going to be sick, but I can not make mother think so. I am sick now. I can scarcely hold my eyes open to write, and my head feels so strangely. I get weaker and weaker every day. Auntie I think I shall die very soon, but it seems very sweet to think of death; I love to think of Heaven and the blessed Saviour. It seems so strange to me that any one should be afraid to die and go to heaven. You do not know how much I love you and uncle Hamilton. I want to see you more than ever, and thank you for teaching me the way to Jesus. Auntie, I shall not see dear Aunt Louisa, I am going a longer journey. I shall never see you again in this world, but we shall meet in Heaven. "Monday. Farewell, Auntie, farewell! Only one thing troubles me now. Poor, poor mother! I talked with her to-day; she says she has "no comfort in this world, and no hope in another." I would like to live for her sake, but oh! I am so I   MARION'S ILLNESS AND DEATH.   247 weary; I want to rest. Auntie, don't forget dear mother. Farewell, farewell! "' MARION. "I will write again to-morrow if I am able, there are some more things I want to say.  M. It was all over with Marion. She needed no sympathy, there needed no tears for her. Might she not now say to her mourning friends, as the dying Jesus did: "Weep not for ne, but weep for yourselves, and for your children." "It often seems strange to me," said Mr. Evans, "that those who seem every way fitted for peculiar usefulness, should be so early called away. Ma- rion's short life gave such promise of good, that we wonder why she was not permitted to live to old age." "That life is long, which answers life's great end," said Mr. Hamilton; "and who knows but that her few years may have been productive of more real good than our long years of more osten- tatious labor. I have been ten years with my peo- ple, and to-night I should feel glad if I could be as sure that the Master would at last say to me, ' Well done!" as I am that our sweet Marion has   248       KATE HLBORN. ere now, through grace, received that precious greeting. "How does Kate bear this troiuble, Mr. Hamil- ton?" "She says very little, but her silence is evi- dently any thing but the silence of submission. When she speaks, all the hostility and rebellion of an unrenewed soul break out. She says the Al- mighty has been always against her for these twenty years, and that every tVing on which she has set her heart, has been torn from her." "Poor, poor Kate; how evidently God has a controversy with her. Oh, that she would at length yield. What a lesson has her life been to all who would contend with God,' said Mrs. Evans. "How does Mr. Myers appear?" "Completely broken down. He seems to mourn very sincerely for Marion. Can you be- lieve, Enmeline, that your husband preached in Mr. Myers' house?" "Is that possible!" "Yes, and by Mr. Myers' own invitation. They had not been able to have any religious services at Marion's funeral, and her father invited me to preach a sermon appropriate to the occasion; and   MARION S ILLNESS AND DEATH.   249 I preached again in the afternoon and evening, each time at a different house." "'What was the text of your sermon at the house; the funeral sermon, I mean '2 "'Have pity upon me! have pity upon me! oh! ye my friends, for the hand of God hath touched me!' " "Did Kate listen?" "Yes, Emeline; and I have not preached to a congregation like that for many years, perhaps never in my whole life. The case was the same both afternoon and evening." "Were they attentive?" "Attentive and solemn; solemn almost as if the grave were opened before them." "How do you account for this?" "Marion had preached before me. Her life there has been one silent sermon; and it would not surprise me to find in time to come that many souls had been saved througli her instrumentality. One poor old drunkard came reeling to me the night before I left there, and began to speak of her. He said ' she came the nearest of being an angel of any one he had ever seen-' " "And you remember, too, Mr. Hamilton, what the post-master said, that even in that profane * .\ s^ ' t   250       KATE KILBORN. neighborhood not a man or boy would swear in her presence." "It seems to me that Enfield is now a very in- viting field of missionary labor." "I wish, husband, you could preach there some- times-" "You echo my own feeling, Emeline-I almost felt as if I was called to go there. The people in- vited me to come again; and I have never been treated more respectfully any where in my life." "Would you go, brother?" said Frank. "Yes! Frank! if I could plainly see that it was my duty, I would go." "Would you really leave this sweet spot, and all its comforts, and the work whibh you have already accomplished, to go to that wretched Enfield?" "Certainly, Mr. Evans, if I thought that there was a prospect of greater usefulness there." Mr. Hamilton glanced at Emeline as he spoke. There was a bright light in her eye that bespoke a ready and entire sympathy in the feeling which her husband expressed. There was a silence of a few moments, during which every one seemed busy with thoughts of un- usual interest and solemnity.  At length Mrs. Evans asked:   MARION'S ILLNESS AND DEATH.   251 "What arrangements have you made about Isabel? I suppose her mother feels unwilling to spare her now?" "On the contrary, both parents seem anxious that she should go on with us. Isabel, too, seem in- clined to it; but she leaves every thing to her mother. She says, however, that she thinks she cannot live there without Marion." "Will Mrs. Myers come here?" ' Probably not. She has no inclination to make any effort; still I think she would rather like to see you. We promised that you and Frank should go down next week, andtiring Isabel here. Mr. Ham- ilton made an appointment, for you to preach, brother." "I will do so very gladly. I wish the place could be open, and the interest of the people kept up until there could be a minister sent to them." "AEs, brother, I wish so; but you and I who live in this part of the country, know of many just such fields, but where are the laborers?" "There can be but little I should think to induce a man to go to Enfield," said Mr. Evans. "He would be likely to starve there, if he was at all de- pendent on the people. They boast, I am told, that they 'have worried out three preaheio.' "   232       KATE KILBORN. ' Still, I think if a suitable man could' be ob- tained, just now is a favorable opportunity to un- dertake the enterprise of gathering a congrega- tion." "Well, you must only keep these difficulties out of sight until you have secured your man; and once on the ground, he may not be inclined to draw back, even though there are many discourage- ments." "I think differentlyi Mr. Evans. We want no man to come here who will not come in spite of these discouragements of which you speak. - Such an one ought to know as far as possible just what to expect. If he has a false impression, when he comes to realize the truth, he will be disheartened or discouraged." "But how could a young man live in a place like Enfield? You can not expect the people to do much toward his support until they learn to value the Gospel which he preaches." "The church should see to that. There is wealth enough in the church, and there should be piety enough to enable a man to follow out his plans and views for the spiritual good of his people, particu- larly in a place like Enfield, without being encum- bered and embarrassed by worldly care."   XXVIII. 9ittt tm   apt.   Otto AT the appointed time, Mrs. Evans   ad her brother paid Mrs. Myers the visit ',rich Mr. Hamilton had led her to exp6ct. They found her apparently sunk in a profound melanchr-ly, from which nothing seemed to have power to rouse her. She appeared to take no interest in Any thing, ex- cept to insist on Isabel returning with her aunt. To the objections which were raised on account of her being left alone, she only replied that she should be better and happier alone. Isabel must not be permitted to give up her pleasures and opportunity for improvement on her account, for it was of little consequence now what became of her. Even Mr. Myers appeared concerned and alarmed about her; but neither this unusual circumstance of the evident efforts which he was making to render her more comfortable appeared to make the least impression 22   254       KATE KILBORN. on her feelings. She seemed little inclined to con- verse on any subject, and only wished to be let alone. At the earnest entreaty of Mrs. Evans, she con- sented to accompany her and Isabel to hear Frank preach; but her fixed, pallid look, as she gazed upon him, apparently entirely unimpressed by any thing he said, haunted him for weeks after they parted. In vain both he and Louisa endeavored, at the request of Mr. Myers, to draw from her some expression of her feelings. She gave them no clew to the state of her mind, frequently taking no more notice of the questions they asked than if they had not spoken at all. It would be difficult to describe their feelings as with Isabel they took their leave of their sister. They had little hope of ever seeing her again, and trembled lest her present trouble, brooded over so constantly, would in her weak condition terminate in insanity, if indeed the case did not have a still more tragic and mournful close, an event which Mrs. Evans and her brother thought Mr. Myers seemed to fear. And now this interview between these attached brothers and sisters must close. In parting, each   vISrr TO MRS. MYERS.     255 one carried on the heart the mournful case of their beloved sister, seeking constantly for the influence \ of the Holy Spirit to subdue her obstinacy and self- will, and bring her to seek pardon and peace at the foot of the Cross. %   XXIX. Biuit tff gxtlun      n^ "Though long of winds and waves the sport Condemned in wretchedness to roam, Thou soon shalt reach a sheltering port, A quiet home. Humbled beneath His mighty hand, Prostrate, Iis Providence adore; 'T is done, arise! he bids thee stand To fall no more." T a late hour one evening Mr. and Mrs. Ham- ilton were surprised to see Mrs. Myers enter their house. She looked exceedingly pale and de- jected, and the expression of her countenance was hopeless and sad. To Mrs. Hamilton's expressions of surprise and pleasure at the unexpected visit, she made no reply, her features were fixed and solemn, and not the shadow of a smile relieving for one mo- ment the inflexible sternness of her countenance. Mrs. Hamilton made an effort to draw her into conversation, but in vain. She answered only by monosyllables. When tea was prepared, she seated herself mechanically at the table; but did not eat.   VISIT TO RICHMOND.     257 In vain her sister kindly pressed upon her every delicacy that the house afforded; she tasted scarcely any thing. Tenderly, at length, but trembling for the consequences, Mrs. Hamilton alluded to her re- cent bereavement, expecting that now at least her terrible silence and reserve would give way, but not a muscle quivered. Emeline knew not what to think, but at last she suggested that perhaps she needed rest, and pro- posed that she should retire for the night. "Yes, yes! I need rest, but I shall never, never find it! Oh! that I could lay down this weary life-and cease to be!" Mr. Hamilton, who had been silently observing her for the last half hour, now approached, and laying his hand on her arm, while he looked steadily into her face, said to her, almost sternly: "Why do you pray for what you know can never be; and scorn the mercy of Him who has said, 'Come unto me, and I will give you rest'?" She looked up quickly into his face, as he spoke, but in another moment an expression of hopeless anguish passed over her face, -as she replied: "You know nothing about it--nothing! You have not felt the gnawing of the worm that never dies!" 22*   258       KATE KILBORN. "Nor you, Kate! Eternity has not yet set its seal upon your hopes-there is yet mercy-" "It there any thing that can atone for a wasted life? any thing that can take the sting from re. morse? any thing that can still an accusing con- science, or satisfy an angry God?" "Yes, sister! the blood of the Son of God! Never fear but that it is almighty to save. It has saved millions of miserable sinners; it can save you!" William Hamilton hear me, and don't mock me with idle hopes! I have scorned that blood of the Cross! I have all my life long sneered at,H'd mocked those who called themselves the children of God! I have hardened myself against all mer-  cy, and rebelled against all judgment, and now re- morse is eating out my very heart!" "There is but one only hope for you, Kate. Lay yourself at the feet of that Being whom you    have thus offended and insulted. Own all your sin, and ask mercy for the sake of Him who suffered for your sake on the Cross." "I can not ask! Oh! if you saw the sights that I see! if you could see the accusers that array themselves before me when I attempt to pray-my dead mother, my Walter, yes! and the baby Clara,   VISIT TO RICHMOND.     259 too, and now Marion-and, oh! agony! they haunt my dreams, and constantly accuse me before God. "Do you know," she added, in a whisper, as if afraid to speak aloud, do you know that I have hated God! Yes, I have hated Him who sat on the throne, because He had power to do with me and that which I called mine as He pleased; and He has done it. He stripped me of all for which I cared, and left me naked and bare!" "Kate, hear me. The Being whom you now ac- cuse gave you all you had, yet you did not love Him, or thank Him, or try to please Him! By your own confession, you hated Him, and scorned those who loved and honored Him. Did you not deserve that He should thus strip you of those things for which you wtuld not give Him the glory?" "Why do you harrow up my soul with such? words? I tell you this is the bitterness of my misery, this self-reproach, remorse-call it what you will-this is the worm that never dies! If you can do any thing for me, speak; and if not, do aot seek to aggravate my misery!" "Kate, I would not-I would not-but you ac- cuse God of dealing hardly with you, and I wish Tou to see that you have deserved it. But more han this. It is love, infinite love, which has afflicted *\1   260       KATE KILBORN. you. You made yourself idols, and God has torn them from you, that you might behold His glory, and become a partaker of His grace and love." "Oh, that I could believe it! Oh that I could find it so!"She burst into an agony of grief, and Emeline, who had been silently weeping in a dis- tant part of the room, now besought her sister to lie down and endeavor to obtain some repose. After prayer she became somewhat more calm, and Mrs. Hamilton accompanied her to her room, and assisted her to bed as she would have done a child. She then rejoined her husband. We can easily imagine what were the emotions with which they regarded this prodigal, who seemed now to be returning to her Father's house. Tears of grate- ful joy filled their eyes, and thankful praises as- cended to a throne of grace which had so often witnessed their petitions in her behalf. Emeline did not retire to rest until she had seen her sister sunk in sleep. For a week she continued in nearly the same state of mind, only as her views of truth became gradually clearer as without the least reserve she opened her mind to her brother and sister, and besought their guidance and prayers. Not without emotion did they see her bending over Marion's Bible, the precious volume which   VISIT TO RICHMOND.     261 had been the instrument of guiding her infant feet in the way of eternal life. Mrs. Hamilton became extremely anxious that her sister's mind should be relieved, but her hus- band advised her not to be unduly anxious on that point; but to leave her in tl  hands of God. With much satisfaction he saw her going over her past life, bewailing her sin and hardness of heart, and the folly and ingratitude of having so long neg- lected and scorned the mercy of God. He felt that it was well that the foundations of hope should be ,:- laid in a deep sense of her sin and unworthiness, not doubting that at the proper time the Holy Spirit would reveal the love of Christ to her hum- ble and broken heart. And so the event proved. As she read the Word of God, and lingered before the throne of His grace, an indescribable peace and quiet pervaded her soul. A tender sorrow for past sins brought frequent tears to her eyes unused to weep in former days, and a sweet confiding trust in Christ as an all-sufficient Saviour gradually sprung up within her heart. At length the "new i;: song" was put into her mouth, and the praises of redeeming love and grace employed her tongue. There was great joy beneath that roof; but who can describe the feelings of these sisters between   262      KATE KILBORN.   whom, for the first time, this delightful confidence had sprung up! What new and glorious views of the providence of God inspired their hearts! How tender the tie that now existed between them! How sweet the reminiscences of the beloved Ma- rion, whose early and peaceful death was the last link in the long chain that bound the heart-broken mother to the foot of the Cross! How humble were the thoughts of this once proud woman when she reviewed all the dealings of God with her, and was enabled to rejoice in the poverty and the trials which she could now regard as the means of pre- venting the final loss of her immortal soul! But there were other results of the awakening of this new life in the breast of Mrs. Myers. She be- gan to feel for the condition of her husband and children, and neighbors, and to ask herself what she could do for them. She begged Mr. Hamilton to return with her to Enfield, that the sound of the Gospel might be heard there once more. From Emeline, it seemed as if she could not part, but the distance, and the difficulty of traveling at so late a season of the year, made it difficult for her to accompany her husband. Mr. Hamilton, how- ever, took advantage of the presence of a young minister, who was at Richmond visiting friends, to pass another Sabbath at Enfield.   XXX. Sttipjmig gntchmt at lfntniRW. "The Lord alone shall be exalted in that day." THE people of Enfield gave Mr. Hamilton a joyful welcome. He arrived on Friday and preached on Saturday evening, and three times on the Sabbath, to almost the entire population of the place. When it was known that he was expecting to take his leave of them on Monday, numbers came to him and requested him to stay a few days longer. He did not feel at liberty to refuse, and as the interest seemed to continue, knowing that his own people were supplied with preaching, and his family in usual health, he wrote to his wife that he thought best to pass another Sabbath there. lie preached every evening, and during the day visited from house to house, conversing with all who were accessible, on the subject of their per- sonal relations to God and the eternal world. Great surprise and interest was manifested when     264       KATE HLBORN. it was known at Enfieid that Mrs. Myers had be- come a Christian. Many who during the week which Mr. Hamilton passed among them,l became interested in the subject, came to see and converse with her, and we may well believe that like the holy Apostle of old, most gladly she " preached the faith which she once destroyed." Her influence among her neighbors was very great, .and now it was all on the side of Christ and His cause. Many of the citizens of Enfield were seriously impressed by the truth which was now presented to their minds and offered for their reception. A few became the hopeful subjects of renewing grace. Some were loud in opposition to this new order of things, and strove to hinder the progress of the truth, but the majority were awakened to sober serious thought. Neglected Bibles were opened, a Sabbath-school was commenced, and in one or two happy instances, the family altar was set up. The prevailing intemperance and profanity of the peo- ple received a cheek; and vice, which had before been open and unblushing, was compelled to hide its hateful head. Mr. Myers was one of those who manifested an interest in the subject of personal religion, and Mrs. Myers fondly hoped that better days were   RELIGIOUS INTEREST AT ENFIELD.  265 dawning, and that a closer union than had ever be- fore existed between them, was about to com- mence. But he contented himself with an effort to reform some of his habits, and the performance of some outward duties. As Mr. Hamilton was preparing to return to Richmond, some of the people came to him to in- quire whether he could not be induced to come among them and make the place his future home, promising to do all for him that was in their power. He hesitated to answer the question, but promised to take the matter into consideration, and by the leave of Providence, come out on another visit to them at the end of two months, and inform them of his decision. When Mr. Hamilton returned home, his wife put into his hands a letter from Mr. Evans, which  - had arrived during his absence. After some com- munications relative to other matters, Mr. Evans wrote as follows: "I have been constantly thinkingmore and more and more of Enfield, and the willingness you expressed to go there if it should appear to be your duty. At first, I was inclined to feel that it would be almost wrong for you to leave your pleasant home, and 23   266       KATE KILBORN. the comfortable circumstances in which you now are placed; and last, but not least, to break away from the church which you have gathered, and the society which you have been the means of building up, to a place so barren of all attractions and com- forts as that miserable Enfield, where the prospects of final success appear at least indifferent, if not hopeless. "But as I have thought of the eagerness of the people to hear you preach, and the unlooked-for at- tention with which they listened to the Word spoken by you, and also remembered the sister whose lot appears to be hopelessly cast among that people, it has occurred to me that you might really think it your duty to go and take up your residence among them. "You will take notice that I am not suggesting the propriety of your doing so, but only expressing the thoughts that have occurred to me when con- templating the possibility of your taking such a step. If you should do so, the great difficulty in the case will, I apprehend, be the matter of your support. "I have conferred with a few of; our personal friends, and we have concluded that if you feel it your duty to go there, we ourselves will for five i   RELIGIOUS INTEREST AT ENFIELD. 28t years to come secure to you a salary equivalent to that which you are now receiving at Richmond; and, furthermore, if you need additional means to carry out any plan for the promotion of the moral interests of that people, you are free to drawupon us for any amount of aid which you may deem necessary. "We make this proposal, not at all as a favor to you, but because we wish to testify in some palpa- ble manner our interest in the great work in which you and so many others are engaged. It has oc- curred to us that if you are willing, at the cost of so much self-denial, to carry the Gospel where it is not preached, into a community like that at Enfield, it is the duty of those of us who will not, or can not, go ourselves, to sustain you in a comfortable manner until a time arrives when they themselves ' shall be better able and willing to assume the re- sponsibility themselves. You will perhaps say that it is best for the people themselves to make an effort in the case. That may be so; and we are willing, if it be your wish, that all you actually receive from them be deducted from the yearly amount we pledge you. But we are not willing that you should yourself be compelled to ask for that amount which will enable you to prosecute ;,    268       KATE KILBORN, your work without constraint or embarrassment. We feel that the faithful minister of Christ has enough of self-denial without being compelled to solicit as a favor the supply of his personal wants. "I have intimated that we do not make this pro- posal on the ground of personal esteent for you- self. I should perhaps qualify this statement somewhat. In my own case, it was my personal knowledge of yourself, and the observation which I had during my recent visit to the West, which awakened the deep interest I feel in the enterprise in which our brethren there are engaged; and as you are so well known here, the same feeling has extended to others also. It is, however, a deep sense of individual duty to do and attempt more than we have any of us hitherto done, which has suggested this plan. So, if you do go to Enfield, you will see at once that there will be just as good reason for us to be grateful to you for carrying out our wishes, as for you to feel obliged to us for our aid, while you are laboring in our behalf to advance the cause of our Redeemer in the world." -FJF F                         l   \   '   . XXXI. obs :xelk      f   ^bmr. "The wilderness and the solitary place shal be glad for them; and the desert shall blossom as the rose." GREAT was the surprise and sorrow of the church at Richmond when Mr. Hamilton in- formed them of his wish to be dismissed from their service, that he might go to live among the people at Enfield. The union between the people and himself had been harmonious and happy; and per- haps no person felt a wish to sunder the band which for more than ten years had united them. During the period of Mr. Hamilton's ministry a visible improvement had taken place, not only in the outward appearance, but a real and substantial good had been accomplished. The church which Mr. Hamilton had gathered was one of the largest and most respectable in that region of country, and the influence it exerted on the community around was healthful and salutary. Richmond, from being 283   270       KATE KILBORN. a small place, had become a lively, thriving town. It had its public schools and its academy, its neat and beautiful church, its industrious and intelligent farmers and mechanics, its energetic and prosperous merchants and professional men. All the great in- terests of morality and benevolence had been placed on a permanent basis; and, on the whole, it seemed only natural and right that one who, both in sun- shine and in storm, had sown the good seed beside all waters, should now remain to guard the promis- ing field and gather in the abundant harvest. But as in the natural so in the moral world, it some- times occurs that one soweth and another reapeth; and it was a matter of no small interest to Mr. Hamilton that he was able to recommend to the people of Richmond, as his successor, one who not only possessed his own full confidence, but who also stood high in their own esteem and regard. It was, however, with much reluctance that the people became willing to waive their claim to the services of Mr. Hamilton, and they wished it clearly understood that it was only in considera- tion of the good to be secured to a destitute com- munity that they were induced to give their con- sent to the dissolution of the connection which sub- sisted between them.   A NEW FIELD OF LABOR.    271 And now nothing remained but to signify to Mr. Evans, and also to the people at Enfield, his reso- lution to make that place his home. The pleasant house and garden at Richmond was now disposed of, at a fair price, and then Mr. Hamilton pur- chased a new, but unfinished house, in Enfield, which he thought could be made to answer his 1ur- pose, two rooms in which, by the aid of paint and paper, he was able to make comfortable for the winter. About the first of January, he removed thither with his family, and immediately entered earnestly and resolutely upon his work, confining his pres- ent efforts mainly to Enfield and the surrounding neighborhood., It was no light task which he had now undertaken, for the foundations were all to be laid. There were no habits of morality, frugality, or steady industry, among the people to encourage him in his efforts for their good. - But he had counted the cost and applied himself diligently and faithfully to his task, looking to the approbation of God and his own conscience for encouragement, and taking the promises contained in the Holy Scriptures for his abundant and sure reward. Mr. Myers was persuaded to build himself a comfortable house, on a farm which he owned near ,\   272       KATE KILBORI. the village, and undertake the occupation of a farmer. Several other idlers in the village were persuaded to take the same course. A good libra- ry of interesting and useful books were sent out by Mr. Evans and his coadjutors, for the use of the people, and another for the Sabbath-school, and a large quantity of the best religious books and tracts were also placed in his hands to be used at his discretion for the benefit of the people. At his suggestion, and through his influence, prep. arations were immediately commenced for the erection of a pleasant and commodious school- house. An excellent teacher was then secured, and a public school of the best character established as soon as practicable. Early in the spring a church was formed, con- sisting of eleven members, only two of whom were males. Mrs. Myers became a faithful and efficient helper as far as was in her power, and was seldom absent either from Sabbath-school or public wor- ship, or the regular meetings of the church of which she became an efficient aud faithful member. Mr. Myers had, at her suggestion, invited Edward home to share in the labors and profits of the farm, and tired of the vagrant life he had been leading for many months he at last consented. He had,   A NEW FIELD OF LABOR.     273 however, little inclination to engage in steady em- ployment, and many collisions between him and his father occurred, which were most distressing to Mrs. Myers. It was with great difficulty that she could persuade him either to attend church on the Sabbath, or to spend any of his evenings at home. Day after day she lamented before God her own past unfaithfulness to her children, and implored Him not to visit her neglect and sin upon their heads. Thus, though a Christian indeed, she c/ould not escape the operation of that great law of the Divine government: "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap."   XXXII. "Not by might nor power, but by my Sprit, saith the Lord." THE happy period has not yet arrived when a L"nation," or even a community, ",shall be born in a day." As yet, no easy conquests have been made from the Prince of this world, and the triumphs of the Church of God have been effected only through toil and persevering effort and prayer, which has brought home to the heart the full con- viction that success is not due to wise counsels, or faithful labor, or persevering prayer alone, but to the power of God. Ten years have elapsed since Mr. Hamilton went to Enfield. If, with all the assistance which he re- ceived from those who sustained him in his enter- prise, he had ever for a moment entertained the expectation that the task which he had undertaken would prove altogether an easy, or a pleasant one, he quickly found out his mistake. Not only had   PROGRESS.       275 he often to encounter open opposition from the enemies of all that was good and lovely in itself, but among the friends upon whose support he counted, there were found conflicting views to be reconciled, prejudices to remove, and various hin- derances whic lneeded time and patience to set aside, and put out of the way. The friends who promised to sustain him, nobly re- deemed their pledge. In all the emergencies that from time to time arose, he drew freely upon their purses and sought their advice in his plans. At his suggestion, intelligent and pious teachers were sent out, and supported until they were able to support themselves, as the sphere of their usefulness en- larged. Industrious and enterprising mechanics and farmers, seeking homes in the West for themselves and families were directed to Enfield, and encour- aged to settle there. After a few years, Mr. and Mri  Evans relinquished the flattering prospects of their Eastern home and took up their residence also at Enfield, and there commenced a new enterprise sim- ilar to that in which they had formerly been engaged. As years pass, it is seen that the labor bestowed upon that place has not all been in vain. From the midst of a thicket of young oaks the tall spire of the village sanctuary points toward Heaven.   2-76      KATE KILBORN. Yonder is the academy, rich in all resources for in. formation and improvement, not only for the pres- ent life, but also for the life to come. Under its shadow the '" sons" are growing up to become " pil. lars" in the house of God, and the daughters as "precious polished stones." The dews of Heaven, too, have descended upon this once desertand arid spot, and both the " form- er and the latter rain" have been given in their season. Not only are the people now both able and willing to sustain the Gospel among themselves, but they also in their turn have " stretched out their hand to the needy" and the destitute, and the bless- ing of many "ready to perish" is already upo} them. Neat and tasteful homes have taken the place of the miserable tenements that stood on every side. The first settlers have not all fled before the march of improvement, but many of them can now scarcely be recognized as those who were identified with the old order of things. They are now well dressed, orderly, sober citizens, constant in attend- ance at the house of God, and many of them sit- ting down at the table of the Lord among those who hope for salvation through the blood of Christ.   PROGRESS.       2" The three sisters are now lovingly united in all their sympathies and their hopes, both for this world and the next; but Mrs. Myers will never know that steady cheerfulness and elasticity of spirit so eminently possessed by her sisters. Old opinions, and habits of thought and feeling still oc- casionally hedge up her way, and cause her many an hour of despondency and gloom. It is perhaps one of the highest triumphs of Christian faith in the present life that it has power to take the sting from self-reproach, and wipe out from the sorrow- ing memory the records of a wasted and worthless life. This height she has not yet attained. A sense of pardon and peace often cheers and gladdens her heart; but child of God though she may be, she can not escape the operation of that principle of the Divine government which makes it inevitable that "she shall reap that which she hath sown." Her only son--neglected in youth, his mind pois- oned by skepticism, the unhappy heritor -of her own irreverence and self-will-still causes her to shed many bitter tears over his recklessness and sin. Mr. Myers, too, though -indeed an altered man, is, we fear, by no means radically changed. He is outwardly moral, and regular in his attendance at 24   278       KATE KILBORN. the house of God. He no longer abuses or neg- lects his wife and children; but wealth has for the last years poured in upon him on every side, and he seems altogether like one who, satisfied with the present, has cast aside all care for the future, and said to his soul: "Thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry." Over this son and husband the wife and mother incessantly pleads before God-and does not the Great Intercessor also plead her cause? He never pleads in vain! Isabel has become a lovely and accomplished woman, one who may well gladden a parent's heart. The good seed, sown by other than a parent's hand, has sprung up in despite of the weeds that once threatened to choke it and check its growth, and now bears fruit an hundredfold. She has devoted her youth to God, and her humble and cheerful piety is the richest blessing of her mother's life. Mr. Hamilton has now labored for twenty years in the vineyard of his Master, and his dark locks are sprinkled with the snow of time. Beautiful "olive plants" cluster around his table, and happy voices gladden his household hearth. He is not yet weary of his work, or impatient for his reward.   PROGRESS.       279 -Every day he gives thanks that he has been per- mitted to bear his part in the work of planting the "good seed" of the Word among the waste places of the beloved land of his birth. Under the influ- ence of the Gospel of peace, he yet expects that land will "bud and blossom as the rose;" and as he looks forward, he only asks that at length he may be permitted to hear from the Saviour, "Well done, good and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." But that joy he has already en- ered, for his heart thrills with a delight, unknown at other times, when he listens to the glad tidings of the triumphs of The &ross. A   XXXIIL IT was a land of brightness, and beauty, and bloom! Flowers of every hue gladdened the eye; the air was laden with rich perfumes. Birds of swift wing and surpassing beauty warbled among the trees, and answered each other among the bow- ers. Broad rivers meandered through verdant meadows, and along the base of mountains, whose snowy summits seemed to pierce the skies. God had made that land "like Eden, the garden of the Lord." It was a land of sorrow and of sin. The dark wing of superstition was outspread over its sweet valleys and verdant plains, and the horrid rites of heathenism resounded through every grove and along the path of every winding stream. Want and misery and woe stalked through all the length and breadth of this terrestrial paradise. Women were bowed under the hand of cruel task-masters;   "AND IS THS ALL!"     281 young children and helpless age were exposed to danger and to death without protection and without hope. Age after age passed on, and yet this wretched people only wandered further and further from God. It was long, very long, since one ray of light from heaven had fallen upon their cheerless path, and woman lived and suffered on, a degraded and miserable being, stifling every natural affection --bearing upon her dusky brow the stamp of suf- fering and sin. Turn whither she would she saw no hope. Life was a burden, and death a fear. Again I looked, and I beheld a stranger in that land. Youthful, and oh! how beautiful was she! but hers was the beauty of meekness, and gentle- ness, and holy love. Like an angel on an errand of mercy, she moved among her helpless and wretched sisters; some mocked her, some gazed upon her with a stare of childish curiosity, and some avoided her presence, but she still kept on her way.' She held the cup of refreshment to the fevered lip of the sick one, and committed the soul of the dying to the boundless mercy and compas- sion of the Christian's God. She instructed the ignorant, she encouraged the desponding and the depressed, she cheered the penitent with the hope# 24*   282       KATE IILBOLN. of pardon, and spoke blessed words of peace and love to the sorrowing and broken hearted. Moth- ers breathed her name softly over the low couch where their infants slept,-and lips before unused to pray, implored the blessing of the Most High. Thus year after year she toiled on, but at length her fair form lost its roundness, and the roses faded from her cheeks. Day by day her beauty grew more spiritual, and her eye glowed with unearthly light, as in a low, sweet voice, she sung the songs that spoke of a better land, whither she now said she was fast hastening. Upon her lips, and upon her pale thoughtful brow, was the signet of death. She must die now, untended and alone; afar from the land of her birth and the home of her youth. I knew that her name had been almost a forgotten thing, in those circles which her loveli- ness and grace had once adorned. I knew that her young life had been crushed beneath a load which other daughters of Zion were under an equal obli- gation to share; and-who yet touched not those burdens with one of their fingers. "Alas, alas!" cried I, "' And is that all!'" It was night-an East Indian summer night, and she laid her down upon a low couch in a little barm-   "AND IS THS ALL!     283 boo hut-to die. Heavily and at long intervals came up the parting breath, and clammy dews gathered upon her cheek and brow. She, the pale shadow of what she once was, spake not, moved not. Sobs broke from the heart of the lone, desolate watcher by her side, the light of whose earthly life, would pass away with her latest breath. All around and without in the still mid- night came up the mournful wail of those once heathen women, whose sorrows she had so often soothed, but she heard not now, nor turned to give them comfort. One more feeble sigh, one glance of the ever bright eye, one effort to point the pale finger heavenword, and Harriet, theslovely, the be- loved-was gone. Then my heart grew cold, and my faith failed, as I exclaimed again in bitterness: "Is this all!" "To what purpose is this haste?" Celestial music was borne on every passing breeze. Myriads of white-winged angels sped past me on embassies of love. Rank upon rank, circle after circle of shining ones, the hosts of the re- deemed from among men, were gathered around a "Great white throne." Before it a meek, purified spirit bent; and unutterable words of welcome and blessing were spoken, while archangels bowed   284      KATE KILBORN. from their seats to listen. A crown, radiant with gems, was bestowed upon her, who had so well and faithfully done her life's work. Meekly she laid it at her Saviour's feet, saying: "Thou alone art worthy." Then a wave of transporting melody swept by, and angels touched their golden harps, while the blood-washed multitudes raised the song, "Worthy is the Lamb that was slain!"I mur- mured, I doubted no more. Like another, "w'hen I heard that song, I wished myself among them." Worlds dwindled into nothing. Earth with all its joys, and its distinctions, vanished like a dream, and I only wished that I too, like her, had finished my course and had been admitted within the pre- cincts of the "better land."   BOOKS PUBLISHED 1BY lobert      QrtdrftC rrrjm 285 BROADWAY, rat NEW   YORK. -- -.-   e-       ABERCROMBIE'S Contest and the Armor. 82mo,gilt..   .   25 ADAMS' Three Divine Sisters-Faith, Hope and Charity ......  0 ADVICE to a Young Christian.   18mo ........................  ALLEINE'S Gospel Promises. 18mo ..............        80 ALEXANDER'S Counsels to the Young. 82mo, gilt ..........   25 ANCIENT History of the Egyptians, Assyrians,. &c. 2 vols.... 2 00 ANDERSON'S Annals of the English Bible.    vo ............. 1 75 - Family Book. 12mo.......       .............  5.... ANLEY'S Earlswood. A Tale .................    ........  75 ASH TlN Cottage; or, The True Faith. Illustrated.. ....   .60 AUSTYIALIA--The Loss of the Brig by Fire. 18mo ........   25 BAGSTER--The Authenticity and Inspiration of the Bible...  60 BALLANTYNE'S Mabel Grant. A     Highland Story .......... BAXTER'S Saint's Rest. Unabridged. 8vo................. Call to the Unconverted. 18mo    ...... .......30 BIBLE Companion. Edited by Dr. Tyng .....  .  ..  .  . 40 BIBLE Expositor. Illustrated. 18mo ....................... 50 BICKERSTETH'S Treatise on Prayer. 18mo     e ...4......... 40 Treatise on the Lord's Supper. 18mo .  ................. 80 -- (E. H.) Waters from the Well Spring. 16mo ........... 6 BLOSSOMS of Childhood.  18mo .    .......... BLUNT'S Coincidences, and Paley's r    Pauliin. 8vo..... 2 00 BOGATSKY'S Golden Treasury.   24mo, gilt ................ BOLTON'S Call to the Lambs.  Illustrated ................... 50 - Tender Grass for Little Lambs......................... 0 BONAR'S (Rev. Horatius) Night of Weeping................   0 --- Morning of Joy. A Sequel to the above............... 40 S-tory of Grace .......................................  Truth and Error. 18mo...................... ...  . 40 -- Man, his Religion and his World.          40 j  --  Eternal Day ..................... %   .........  , ........... a5 g? lo    i---                           1 * 2     CARTERSt     PUBLICATIONS. BONARS (Rev, Andrew) Commentary on Leviticus. 8vo... 1 50 BONNET'S Family of Bethany. 18mo ........................    40 ---  Meditations on the Lord's Prayer. - 18mo .... ...    40 BOOTH'S Beign of Grace. 12mo...........................     75 BORROW'S Bible and Gypsies of Spain. 8vo, cloth ..........   1 00 BOSTON'S (Thomas) Select Works. Royal 8vo ..............    2 00 - Four-fold State. 18mo ............ ................... 50 Crook in the Lot,  18mo ... ......  ..    ......... .......... 80 BRETTS (Rev. W. H.) Indian Tribes of Guiana. 18mo .......    60 BEWSTER   'S More Worlds than One .....................    60 BRIDGEMAN'S Daughter of China. 18mo ...................     50 BBRIDGES on the Christian Ministry. 8vo ...................  1 50 - on the Proverbs. 8vo ................................. 2 00 ----- on the CXIXth Psalm. 8vo .......................... ...... 1 00 -    --- Memoir of Mary Jane Graham. 8vo ...................   1 00 BROKEN Bud; or, the Reminiscences of a Bereaved Mother.     75 BROTHER and Sister; or, the Way of Peace .................    50 BOWN'S (Rev. John, D D.) Exposition of First Peter. 8vo.. 2 50 - --  on the Sayings and Discourses of Christ. 2 vols. 8vo.. 4 00 on the Sufferings and Glories of the Messiah. 8vo ...... 1 50 The Dead in Christ. 16mo ............................   50 BROWN'S Explication of the Assembly's Catechism.   12mo..   60 BROWN (Rev. David) on the Second Advent. 12mo.......... 1 25 BBOWN'S Concordance. 82mo, gilt, 80 cents. Plain .......     20 BUCHANAN1S Comfort in Affliction. 18mo ..................    40   [ -  on the Holy Spirit 18mo ............................. 50 BUNBUBRYS Glory, Glory, Glory, and other Narratives ......    25 BUNYAN'S Pilgrim's Progress. Fine ed. Large type. 12mo. 1 00  --- 18mo.  Close  type ................  ....................  50 =---  Jerusalem Sinner Saved. 18mo ........................   50 Greatness of the SouL 18mo ...........................  50 BURNS' (John) Christian Fragments. 18mo ..................    40 ;  BUTLIt'S (Bishop) Complete Works. 8vo ................... 1 50 - Sermons, alone. 8vo .................................. 1 00 Analogy, alone. 8vo ..................................  75 and Wilson's Analogy. 8vo ...... 1..................  1 25 CALVIN, The Life and Times of John Calvin.   By Henry.... 2 00 CAMERON'S (Mrs.) Farmer's Daughter. Illustrated ..........    80 CATECHSMS-The Assembly's Catechism. Per hundred.... 1 25 - Do. with proof ........................        8 00 -   .- Brown's Short Catechism .............. " " ....1 25 Brown on the Assembly's Catechism. Each ............   10 --- Willison's Communicant's Catechism. Per dozen ..... 75 CECIL'S Works. 8 vols. 12mo, with portrait...............   8 00 --* Bermons, separate, .a .......................*,........  1 00 J    CARTERS' PUBLICATIONS.                3 CECIL'S Miscellanies and Remains, separate ..................1 00 Original Thoughts, separate ............................ 1 00 (Catharine) Memoir of Mrs. Hawkes, with portrait .....    0 CHLMERS' Sermons. 2 vols. 8vo, with fine portrait......8 00 ---   Lectures on Romans     "    "       ...... 1 5 --   Miscellanies            "       ....  1 50 --  Select Works; comprising the above. 4vols. 8vo..... 6 00 ---.-- Evidences of Christian Revelation. 2 vols   12moe ..... 1 25 -  .. Natural Theology. 2 vols. 12mo .............   ........ 1 25 Moral Philosophy .....................................   60 ---  Commercial Discourses ...   .............  ........60 Astronomical Discourses .......................       0 CH1EARLES ROUSSEL;    or, Honesty and Industry........./....  40 CHARNOCK on the Attributes. 2 vols. 8vo..        S.... . 8 00 Choice Works   .  ............................ ........ . 50 CHEEVER'S Lectures on the Pilgrim's Progress. Illus. 12mo. 1 00 ---  --Powers of the World to Come. 12mo.................  -1 00 Right of the Bible in our Common Schools .............   75 CHLDS' Own Story Book. Square.........................      50 CHRISTIAN Retirement. 12mo, .............................     75 Experience. By the same author. 12mo...............     75 CLARA STANLEY; or, A-Summer Among the Hills       ......... 50 CLAREMONT Tales (The). Illustrated. 18mo ..............      60 CLARK'S (Rev. John A.) Walk about Zion. 12mo. ............     75 Pastor's Testimony ....................................   75 ---  Awake, Thou Sleeper .....    .... .........75 - Young Disciple ................................     88 Gathered Fragments .     ................................. 00 CLARKE'S Daily Scripture Promises.    82mo, gilt............  80 COLLIER'S Tale (The)................ .. ...............      25 OIQUHOUN'S (Lady) World's Religion. New edition. 16mo       50 COMMANDMENT, with Promise. 18mo .....................       40 COWPER'S Poetical Works. Complete. 2 vols. 16mo. Illua      1 50 Task. Illustrated by Birket Foster .................   4 50 CUMMNG'S (Rev. John, D D.) Message from God. 18mo....       80 -  .  . Christ Receiving Sinners. 18moe ............ ....... ... 80 CUNNINGHAITS World without Souls. 18mo. .............       80 CUYER  'S (Rev. T. L.) Stray Arrows. New edition ..........   40 DAILY Commentary. For Family Reading. 8vo..............     8 00 D'AUBIGNE'S Historyofthe Reformation. 5vols. 12mo.... 2 50 Do.       do.      8vo. Complete in 1 vol.... 1 50 Life of Cromwell the Protector. 12mo ................   60 - Germany, England and Scotland. 12mo ................   75 - Luther and Calvin. 18mo ................ ...........   25 i    --- Authority of God. 16mo ............................. 75 L. ,   4      CARTERS' PUBLICATIONS. DAVIDSO'TS Connection of Sacred and Profane History...... 1 00 DAVID'S Psalms, in meter. Large type. 12mo. Embossed..       75 Do.      do.     do.     gilt edges........... 1 00 Do.      do.     do.     Turkey morocco..... 2 00 Do.      18mo. Good type. Plain sheep...............    88 Do.      4Smo. Very neat pocket edition. Sheep ......    20 Do.           "        '" o  morocco ....  25 Do.       t"     "      "    gilt edges..  81 Do.        "     "(     "6    tucks ......  50 Do.      with Brown's Notes. 1Smo ..................    50 Do.        "      "     "   morocco, gilt 1 25 DAVIES' Sermons. 8 vols. 12mo ...........................    2 00 DICK'S (John, D D.) Lectures on Theology. 2 vols. in 1. Cloth 2 50 Do.     do.    do.   Sheep, $3. 2 vols. Clot...   8 00 Lectures on Acts. 8vo ..................      ......... 1 50 DICKINSON'S (Rev. R. W.) Scenes from Sacred History .....1 00 Responses from Sacred Oracles .........................1 00 DILL'S Ireland's Miseries, their Cause and Cure ..............   75 DODDRIDGE'S Rise and Progress. 18mo ...................      40  .    Life of Colonel Gardiner. 18mo .......................   30 DRUMMOND'S (Mrs.) Emily Vernon. A Tale. 16mo.........       75 (Rev. D. T. K.) on the Parables. 8vo.................. DUNCAN'S (Rev. Dr.) Sacred Philosophy of the Seasons. 2 vols. 2 50 -  Life, by his Son. With portrait. 12mo................    75 Tales of the Scottish Peasantry. 18mo. Illustrated....   50 -- Cottage Fireside. 18mo. Illustrated.............      40 (Mrs.) Life of Mary Lundie Duncan. 16mo .............    5 - --Life of George A. Lundie. 1Smo................  --- ---  Memoir of George B. Phillips. 18mo .......      25 ---  --   Children of the Manse...........................   50 America as I Found It ..  ....................  1 00 -     (Mary Lundie) Rhymes for my Children. Illustrated....   25 EDWARD'S (Jonathan, D D.) Charity and its Fruits. 18mo..       0 ENGLISH Pulpit (The). 8vo...............................150 ERSKINE'S Gospel Sonnets. 18mo. Portrait...............      5 EVENING Hours with my Children. Colored, $1 75. Plain..     1 25 EVIDENCES of Christianity-University of Virginia. 8vo ..     2 50 FAMLY Worship. 8vo. Morocco, $5.     Half calf, $4. Croth8 00 FANNY and her Mamma.     Square ........................... FISK'S Memorial of the Holy Land, with steel plates .......     00 --Orphan Tale.........                     25 - Orphan  Tale..........................................  25 FLEETWOOD'S History of the Bible. Illustrated .......      2 00 FLORENCE Egerton; or, Sunshine and Shadow.     Illustrated.  75 FOLLOW Jesus. By the author of"Come to Jesus"25 FORD'S Decapoli0    18mo ..........................25 ,                            i............ . -2   CARTERS' PUBLICATIONS.5 FOSTER'S Essays on Decision of Character, &c. 12mo......... .   5 FOSTER'S Essays on the Evils of Popular Ignorance. 12mo...    7 FOX'S Acts and Monuments    Complete. Illustrated ......... 4 00 FRANK Harrison ............................................   80 FRANK Netherton; or, the Talisman. 18mo.................     40 FRITZ Harold; or, the Temptation. 16mo...................    60 FRY (Caroline) The Listener. Illustrated edition. 16mo.....   1 00 ----  Christ our Law. 16mo ...  .............  ..   . .60 -  Christ our Example and Autobiography. 16mo...... .    75 - Sabbath Musings. 18mo...   .........  ............  40 Scripture Reader's Guide. 18mo ...3..........    ...  SO GELDART'S May Dundas. A Tale. 18mo...................       0 GILFILLAN'S Martyrs, Heroes and Bards of Covenant. 16mo.     80 GOODE'S Better Covenant    .   ......................   t0 GOODRICH'S Geography of the Bible........................ GRAY'S Poems. Illust. Mor. $250. Gilt extra $1 60. Plain    1 00 HALDANE'S (Robert) Exposition of Romans. 8vo..........     2 60 (Robert and James A.)Lives. 8vo.....................   2 00 HAMLTON'S (Rev. James, D D.) Life in Earnest   18mo.....   80 ---   Mount of Olives. 18mo................................   80 -  Harp on Willows. 18mo .......    ........ .......... . 80 Thankfulness, and other Essays. 18mo...............    80 Lifeof Hall. 82mo, gilt..............................   80 Lamp and Lantern. 18mo ............................    40 Happy Home. 18mo .......... 0.........           50 -  Life of Lady Colquhoun. 16mo ...............   .....  75 - -Life of Richard Williams. 16mo...............  .......  75 --   --  Royal Preacher. 16mo............................... 85 HAWKER'S Poor Man's Morning Portion, 12mo............       60 Do     do.     Evening Portion. 12mo......    .   60 Zion's Pilgrim. 18mo.   ................ ...........  80 HENRY'S Commentary. 5 vols. Quarto. Fine edition ..... Miscellaneous Works. 2vols. Royal 8vo..............   4 00 Method for Prayer. 18mo...........     .....      40 -  Communicant's Companion. 18mo...... ...........      40 -  Daily Communion with God. 18mo....................    80 -- Pleasantness of a Religious Life. 24mo, gilt............ 80 HENRY (Philip) Life of. 18mo ....................... ......   50 HERVEY'S Meditations. 18mo..............................     40 HETHERINGTON'S History of the Church of Scotland. 8vo.. 1 60 History of Westminster Assembly. 12mo   .............  75 - Minister's Family. A Tale......................  ...... 75 HEWITSON, Memoir of the Rev. W. H. Hewitson. 12mo....       85 HLL'S (George) Lectures on Divinity. 8vo .............  ..  2 00 HSTORIC Doubts.....    ........50   -             ^   ..       . ....:   6      CARTERS' PUBLICATIO         NS. ;HSTORY of the Puritans and Pilgrim Fathers. 12mo ........ 1 00 HSTORY of the Reformation in Europe. 1Smo ..............    40 ' HOOKER (Rev. H.), The Uses of Adversity. 18mo...............   0 Philosophy of Unbelief. 12mo .........................  75 HORNE'S Introduction. 2 vols. Royal 8vo. Hlalf cloth ...... 3 50 Do.    1 voL, sheep, $4. 2 vols., sheep, $5. 2 vols., cloth. 4 00 HORNE'S (Bishop) Commentary on the Book of Psalms. 8vo. 1 50 HOWARD (John); or, the Prison World of Europe. 16mo....     75 HOWEL   'S Life-Perfect Peace. 18mo .....................   83 HOWE'S Redeemer's Tears. 18mo ............................ 50 HOWIE'S Scots Worthies.   8vo .............................. 1 50 HUSS (John) Life of  Translated from thoe German.......    25 1NFANT'S Progress. 18mo. Illustrated ......................   50 JACOBUS on Matthew.    With a Harmony. Illustrated .......   *5 --  ---- on Mark and Luke .................................... 75 --- on John and Acts (preparing) ..........................  75 ----- Catechetical Questions on each vol. Per dozen.......... 1 50 JAMES' Anxious Inquirer. 1Smo ..........    ..........    80 Christian Progress. 18mo .............................  30 - True Christian. 18mo .................................  80 *---- - Widow Directed.  18mo .......................... ....  30 --'Young Man from Home. 1smo ........................    30 ----- Christian Professor. 16mo ............................  75 --  --- Christian Duty. 16mo ................................ 75 Christian Father's Present. 16mo ....................   75 Course of Faith. 16mo    ................................ 75 Young Woman's Friend. 16mo ........................    75 -  i ---- - Young Man's Friend. 16mo ...........................    75 JAME Gordon; or, the Orphan. Illustrated. 18mo..........    50 JANEWAY'S Heaven upon Earth. 18mo       ..................... 50 ---   Token for Child- n. 18mo .............................  50 JAY'S Morning and Evening Exercises. Large type. 4 vols.. 4 00 Do.      do.      Cheap edition. 2 vols ........ 1 50 --- Autobiography and Reminiscences. 2 vols. 12mo ..... 2 50 -I---   Female Scripture Characters. 12mo ................... 1 00 --- Christian Contemplated. 18mo ............  ..  .......... 40 JEAqNIE Morrison; or, the Discipline of Life. 16mo..........   75 By the ascme Author. A New Volume, uniform with the above ............... 75 THE Pastor's Family. 18mo ..........................   25 JOHNSON'S Rasselas. Elegant edition. 16mo ................   50  KENNEDY'S (Grace) Profession is not Principle. 18mo......   30 it--  Father Clement. 18mo. ........ .......8......       30 j  ----- Anna Ross. 18mo. Illustrated ........................ 80 ---    Philip Colville. A Covenanter's Story .................  80 .   CARTERS' PUBLICATIONS.7 KENNEDY'S Decision. 18mo ................................     25 ; .--- Jessy Allan, the Lame Girl. 18mo ...................    25 KEY to the Shorter Catechism. 18mo ........................    20 KING'S (Rev. David, L L.D.) Geology and Religion. 16ino....    75 -- on the Eldership ......................................  50 KITTO'S Daily Bible Illustrations. 8 vols. 12mo .... ........ 8 00 Lost Senses ...................................      1 00 KRUMMACHER'S Martyr Lamb. 18mo .....................       40. Elijah the Tishbite. 18mo ........................ ....  40 ---- Last Days of Elisha. 18mo ...................  .....    50 "AW  and Testimony. By Miss Warner. 9vo............      3 00 "EYBURN'S Soldier of the Cross. 12mo ....................    1 00 "FE in New York. 18mo ..................................     40 "FE of a Vagrant. Written by himself. 1mo ..............     80 "GHTED   Valley; or, the Memoir of Miss Bolton ............  75 "TTLE Annie's First Book. Square ........................    85 ----  - Annie's Second do. Square ..........................  40 "TTLE Lessons for Little Learners. Square ................    50 "VING to Christ .................    ...............     40 "UTHER'S Commentary on the Galatians. 8vo ...............   1 50 MACKAY, The Wycliffites ..........................        75 --- Family at Heatherdale. 18mo .......................  50 MAMMA'S Bible Stories ......................................   50 Do.    do.    Sequel ...............................50 MARSHALL on Sanctification. 18mo .........................    50 MARTYRS and Covenanters of Scotland. 18mo ...............     40 McCHEYNE'S (Rev. Robert Murray) Works. 2 vols. 8vo.... 8 00 Life, Lectures and Letters. Separate ................... 1 50 ----- Sermons. Separate .................................... 2 00 McCLELLAND (Prof. Alex.) on the Canon and Interpretation.     75 McCOSH on the Divine Government, Physical and Moral ...... 2 00 McCRINDELL, The Convent. A Narrative. 18mo ............      59 The School Girl in France. 16mo ..........,..........   50 McFARLANE, The Mountains of the Bible. Illustrated.......     75 McGHEE'S (Rev. R. J.) Lectures on the Ephesians. 8vo ...... .2 00 McILVAINE'S Truth and Life.   A Series of Discourses ........ 2 00 MEIKLE'S Solitude Sweetened. 12mo .......................     60 MENTEATH, Lays of the Kirk and Covenant. Illust. 16mo..      75 MCHAEL Kemp, The Happy Farmer's Lad. 18mo ..........       40 MLLER  (Hugh), The Geology of the Bass Rock. Illustrated..   75 MSSIONAR  Y of Kilmany.. ....................... ......    40 MSSIONS, The Origin and History of. 25 steel plates. 4to.... 8 50 MOFFAT'S Southern Africa. 12mo    ........................... 7 MONOD'S Lucilla;' or, the Reading of the Bible. - 18mo .......  40 MOORE (Rev. T. V.) Comrn. on Haggai, Zechariah and Malachi.   8       CARTERS! PUBLICATIONS3 MORE'S (Hannah) Private Devotion. 18mo ...................     50 Do.     do.     do.     82mo. 20 cents. Gilt...   80 MORELL'S History of Modern Philosophy. 8vo.............. 8 00 MORNING of Life. 18mo      ......   ...................   40 MORNING and Night Watches ............     ..................  60 By the same Author:- FOOTSTEPS of St. Paul. 12mo. Illustrated ........... 1 00 FAMLY Prayers.    12moo ..............................  75 WOOD-CUTTER of Lebanon, and Exiles of Lucerna....       50 THE Great Journey.   Illustrated.......................   50 THE Words of Jesus ...............................      40 THE Mind of Jesus ....    ...........................   40 MY School-Boy Days. 18mo. Illustrated....................      80 MY Youthful Companions. 18mo     Illustrated ................  80 The above two in one volume .........................     50 NEW  Cobwebs to Catch Little Flies ..0.................   .  50 NEWTON'S (Rev. John) Works. 2 vols. in 1. Portrait....... 2 00 NOEL'S Infant Piety. 18mo ...............................      25 OBERLIN (John Frederick) Memoirs of ......................     40 OLD White Meeting-House. 18mo ..........................      40 OLD  Humphrey's  Observations -Addresses - Thoughts for Thoughtful-Walks in London-Homely      Hints-Country Strolls-Old Sea Captain-Grand parents--Isle of Wight- Pithy Papers-Pleasant Tales-North American Indians. 12 vols. 18mo. Each ...    ...............   .........  40 OPIE on Lying. New edition. 18mo.     Illustrated..........   40 OSBORNE (Mrs.) The World of Waters. Illustrated. 18mo...      50 OWEN on Spiritual Mindedness. 12mo.......................      60 PALEY'S Evidences. Edited by Prof. Nairne.................    1 25 Horae Paulinse. 8vo ..................................    75 PASCAL (Jaqueline);. or, Convent Life in Port Royal. 12mo..    1 00 Provincial Letters..................... .....*......... 1 00 PASTOR'S Daughter. By Louisa Payson Hopkins ............      40 PATTERSON on the Assembly's Shorter Catechism ...........      50 PEARSON on Infidelity. Fine edition. 8vo. $2. Cheap ed...      60 PEEI?of Day ..................  ........................  .  80 By the same Author:- "NE upon Line .....................*...*.....-...      80  PRECEPT on Precept ...............................      80     lNEARE  Home..........................................    0 FAR Off..............................................     0 /SCRIPTURE Facts ....................             50 PHLIPS Devotional-Guides. 2 vols...........           1 60 ---o Young Man's Closet Library .......................... r-  ,       s     , tt      , - ' ' '     7s   CARTERS' /UBLICATIONS                9 PHLIP'S Mary's, Martha's, Lydia's and Hannah's Love of the Spirit. Each .......................  ...........    40 PIKE'S True Happiness. 18mo ............   ....  ..........   80 Divine Origin of Christianity .........................    80 POLLOK'S Course of Time. Elegant edition. 16mo. Portrait 1 00 Do.     18mo. Small copy. Close type .............     40 Life, Letters and Remains. By the Rev. J. Scott, D D... 1 00 -- Tales of the Scottish Covenanters. Illustrated,.... ...  50 Helen of the Glen. 18mo. Illustrated .................   25 Persecuted Family              ................  25 - Ralph Germnell    !"    (   .........25 POOL'S Annotations. 8 vols. 8vo. Hafclf, $12. Cloth.... 10 00 PRAYERS of St. Paul. 16mo ...........     ..................  75 QUARLE'S Emblems. Illustrated .............................    00 RETROSPECT (The). By Aliquis.     18mo ....................  40 RICHMOND'S Domestic Portraiture. Illustrated. 16mo.....      75 Annals of the Poor. 18mo ............................    40 RIDGELY'S Body of Divinity. 2 vols. Royal 8vo............ 4 00 ROGER Miller; or, Heroism in Humble Life. 18mo.........      80 ROGER'S Jacob's Well. 18mo ......      ................    40 Folded Lamb. 18mo ........      ..................  40 ROMAINE on Faith. 12mo     .........  ................    60 Letters.  12mo ...........  ........... ............  60 RUTHERFORD'S Letters. With Life by Bonar ............      1 50 RYE'S Living or Dead. A Series of Home Truths..........      75 Wheat or Chaff ......................................     75 -  Startling Questions .................................   75 Rich and Poor........................................    75 --  . Priest, Puritan and Preacher ..........................  75 SAPHR (Philip) Life of .....................................   80 SCHMD'S Hundred Short Tales.............................     50 SCOTIA'S Bards. A Collection of the Scottish Poets.   ...   2 00 SCOTT'S Daniel. A Model for Young Men     ................ 1 50 (Thos.) Force of Truth. 18mo........................    25 SELECT Works of James Venn, Wilson, Philip and Jay.......    1 50 Christian Authors. 2 vols. 8vo.......................2 00 SELF Explanatory Bible. Half calf, $4 50. Morocco ........      00 SERLE'S Christian Reemembrance ...5...................0.. SHERWOOD'S Clever Stories. Square......................      50 Jack the Sailor Boy........... ........25 Duty is Safety................ .......  .         25 --- -Think before you Act................................   25 SINNER'S Friend.   18o ...................................   25 SIGOURNEY'S (Mrs. L. H.) Water Drops. Illust. 16mo......      75 - --- Letters to my Pupils. With portrait. 16mo .........   . 75   10       CARTERS     PUBLICATIONS. SIGOURNEY'S Memoir of Mrs. L. H. Cook ....................      75 (  -- Olive Leaves................. .....50 -  Faded Hope...........................................     50 -  Boy's Book. 18mo ..... ...  ..........................   40 -  Girl'sa Book. 1   8   m .................................... 40 r...  Child's Book  Squar ...............................    85 SINCLAIR'S Modern Accomplishments......................       75 -- Modern Society ...... . ...................        75 - -  Hill and Valley.......................................    75 Holyday House........................................     50 -  Charlie Seymour......................................    80 fSMTH'S (Rev. James) Green Pastures for the Lord's Flock... 1 00 SMYTH'S Bereaved Parents Consoled. 12mo................       75 SONGS in the House of my Pilgrimage. 16mo ................75 SORROWING yet Rejoicing..................................      80 STEVENSON'S Christ on the Cross. 12mo ....................      75 --   Lord our Shepherd. 12mo.  ............................   60 Gratitude.  12mo ................T5.....................   75 STORIES on the Lord's Prayer...............................     80 STUCKLEY'S Gospel Glass..................................      75  SUMNER'S Exposition of Matthew and Mark. 12mo.. .......       75  SYMNGTON on Atonement. 12mo .........................        75 TALES from English History. Illustrated .....................    75 TAYOR'S (Jane) Hymns for Infant Minds. Square. Illu st..      40 --  --- Rhymes for the Nursey. Square. Illustrated ..........   50 Limed Twigs to Catch Young Birds. Square. IIust...      50 -  ife and Correspondence.  18mo ................ .  ,   40 -  Display. A Tale. 18mo ..............................     80 Original Poems and Poetical Remains. Illustrated .....    40 (Isaac) Loyola; or, Jesuitism in its Rudiments .......... 1 00 --- ---  Natural History of Enthusiasm. .................   75 -  (Jeremy) Sermons. Complete in 1 vol. 8vo ............ 1 50 TENNENT'S Life ...............-......................        25 THEOLOGICAL Sketch Book. 2 vols ........ .......... ... 8 00 THREE Months under the Snow.. 18mo.. ......................     80  THORNWELL'S Discourses on Truth .........................!1 00 TUCKER, The Rainbow in the North. 18mo ..................      50 --..- Abbeokuta   or, Sunrise in the Tropics. 18mo ..........   50 The Southern Cross and the Southern Crown    ........... 75 TURNBULLS Genius of Scotland. Illustrated, 16mo ....... 1 00 Pulpit Orators of France and Switzerland.... . .. ....... 1 00 TYNG'S Lectures on the Law and GospeL-TOWith portrait..... 1 50 -  Christ is All. 8vo. With portrait .....................  1 50 Israel of God. 8vo. ]Enlarged edition .................1     0 R- ich Kinsman ........................................1 00   r- "         CARTERSy     PUBLICATIONS." TYNG'S Recollections of England. 12mo ..................... 1 00 ---   Christian Titles .............................   ..  .....75 A Lamb from the Flock. 18mo ........................       25 VARA; or, the Child of Adoption ............................     00 VERY Little Tales, First and Second Series.   2 vols...       75 WARDLAW    on Miracles .....................................    75 WATERBURY'S Book of the Sabbath. 18mo ................        40 WATSON'S Body of Divinity. 8vo .......................... 2 00 WATTS' Divine Songs. Illustrated. Square .................      40 WEEK(The). Illustrated. 16mo ............................       50 WHATELY'S Kingdom of Christ and Errors of Romanism ....        75 WHTECROSS' Anecdotes on Assembly's Catechism..........        80 WHTE'S (Hugh) Meditations on Prayer. 18mo ..............       40 - - Believer. A Series of Discourses. 18mo. ..............    40 -- Practical Reflections on the Second Advent. 18mo .....    40 -  (Henry Kirke) Complete Works. Life by Southey ...... 1 00 WILBERFORCE'S (Wm.) Practical View. Large type. 12mo.1 00 Life. By Mary A. Collier ..............................    75 WILLISON'S Sacramental Meditations and Advices. 18mo....       50 WIlLSON'S Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life. 16mo. Illust.     75 WINSLOW     on Personal Declension and Revival ..............   60 - M- idnight Harmonies ..................................    60 WOODROOFFE'S Shades of Character.. ........................ 1 50 WYIE'S Journey over the Region of Fulfilled Prophecy .....      80 YOUNG'S Night Thoughts. 16mo. Large type, with portrait        00 Do       "  "    .Extra gilt, $1 50. Mor.$2. 18mo.   40 BOOKS NOT STEREOTYED. - BICKERSTETH'S Works. 16 vols. 16mo .................... 10 00 --- On John and Jude ......................... ..60 BINNEY'S Make the Best of Both Worlds ....................      60 /  B RIDGES' Manual for the Young ..............................    50 BUXTON (Sir T. F.), A Study for Young Mfen .................     50 CHART of Sacred History. Folio ............................1 50 I)A COSTA'S Israel and the Gentiles. 12mno .................. 1 25 ----- Four Witnesses .................    ................. .  2 00 EADIE on Colossians ................................. ...* ...* --- on Ephesians ..........................................a 00 FLETCHER'S Addresses to the Young .......................       60 HALL'S Forum    and the Vatican .............. ................  00 tIEWITSON'{S Remains,     2 vols....................... .. ..... 2 00   12      CARTERS' PUBLICATIONS. HOWELL'S Remains ........................................   75 "ONDON Lectures to Young Men, 1858-4 ....................1 00 "s   "i       "   1854-5.................... 1 00 MALAN'S Pictures from Switzerland .......................   60 OWEN'S Works. 16 vols. 8vo........... 20 00 PRATT (Josiah) Memoirs of.................................. 1 50 SMTH'S (Jno. Pye) Scripture Testimony to Messiah ........... 5 00 SELF-EXPLANATORY Bible, half calf, $4,50 mor............ 6 00 SWETE'S Family Prayers ....................................  60 THOLUCK'S Hours of Devotion .............................    60 VILLAGE Churchyard, 18mo ...............................    40 ---   Pastor. 18mo ..............................       40 -  Observer. 18mo ...................................... 80 WILSON (Prof.), The Forester, a Tale .......................... 75 WORDS to Win Souls. 12mo ................................   75 THE FIRESIDE SERIES. A Series of beautiful volumes of the Narrative kind, uniform hi bind- ing, and prettily Illustrated. 18mo. Price 50 cents each. The following are now ready: MABEL GRANT. A Highland Story. THE WOODCUTTER OF LEBANON. "OUIS AND FRANK. CLARA STANLEY. A Story for Girls. THE CLAREMONT TALES. THE CONVENT. By Miss M'Orindell. FAR OFF. By the author of the "Peep of Day." NEAR HOME. By the same author. HAPPY HOME. By Dr. Hamilton. JAME GORDON; or, the Orphan. / THE CHLDREN OF THE MANSE. By Mrs. Duncan. TALES OF THE SCOTTISH PEASANTRY. SCHOOL DAYS AND COMPANIONS. THE INDIAN TRIBES OF GUIANA. HOLIDAY HOUSE. By Miss Sinclair. OLIVE LEAVES. By Mrs. Sigourney. BROTHER AND SISTER. POLLOK'S TALES OF THE COVENANTERS. THE RAINBOW IN THE NORTH. THE INFANT'S PROGRESS. By Mrs. Sherwood. THE WORLD OF WATERS. BLOSSOMS OF CHLDHOOD. MAY DUNDAS. A Tale. ABBEOKUTA; or, Sunrise in the Tropics. THE FAMLY AT HEATHERDALE.   4i ' /    
         
       
   
