
    ----CITATION----
        Glen, Kneller.. Isabel Carollton .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6531
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Isabel Carollton
             
                  ISABEL  CAROLLTON: PERSONAL    RETROSPECT.  KNELLER GLEN. BOSTON: PHLLIPS, SAMPSON AND COMPANY. NEW YORK: J. C. DERBY. 1854.     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by PHLLIPS, SAMPSON & Co., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of theDistrict of Massachusetts. Stereotyped by HOBART, & ROBBINS, New Englaud Type and Stereotype Foundry,           ,             * .   TABLE OF CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGN MY MOTHER'S DEATH; WITH SOFE ACCOUNT OF MY UNCLES  FAMLY, , .   . . .....       . .....  . 6 CHAPTER    II.         i COUSIN MARY MEETS WITH AN ACCIDENT, ... ...  .  18 CHAPTER III. DETAILS FRESH MSFORTUNES, WHCH RESULT IN HOME LEAVE- TAKINGS,  ...............       .....   29 CHAPTER    IV. IN WHCH COMMENCES MY ABODE IN THE GUNNESON FAMLY- .48 CHAPTER V.              s A NEW ACQUAINTANCE-TO AGREEABLE, .   . . . . .. . . 66 ECHAPTER            VI.           . A PIC-NIO ;-A FRIGHT;-AND A SPECIMEN OF FAMLY GOV- ERNMENT ........                 70 CHAPTEI    VII.  A SOCIAL EVENING AT THE COLONEL'S. ....   ......  98 CHAPTER    VIII. A TEA-DRINKING AT MBS. COO^', .   .    . . . . ,  .117     IV         TABLE OF CONTENTS. CHAPTER IX. PAc IM. GUNNEBSON'S PIPE DOES HM BAD SERVICE, INDIRECTLY BRINGING ABOUT MY FIRST OFFER, .........      189 CHAPTER X. A PATTERN NURSE,     .      ........ ... ...163 CHAPTER XI. WEARY WATCHNGS; AND A STARTLING SURPRISE, ..   . ... 175 CIAPTER XII. A MSERABLE JOURNEY, ............      ..    . 200 CHAPTER XIII. ILLNESS, SUFFERING, AND DESPONDENCY, .... ........   216 CHAPTER XIV. A DARK DAY, CLOSING IN SUNSHNE ;--COUSIN MARY, ALSO, FOR, THE BEST OF REASONS, CEASES REPINING AT HER LOT, . . 284 CHAPTER XV. I MEET WITH AN OLD FRIEND, WHO FURNISHES ME WITH A KEY TO THE CHARACTERS OF SEVERAL NEW ACQUAINTANCES,  . 271 CHAPTER XVI. HOME AGAIN --SURPRISES, AND COUNTER-SURPRISES, ..  . 288 CHAPTER XVII.  A CHAPTER OF EXPLANATIONS,    ..............810 CHAPTER XVIII. WEDDINGS -AND A GLIMPSE AT WEDDED LIFE, ........    . 881 ft-        ' #          .     CHAPTER I. MY MOTHER'S DEATH, WITH SOME ACCOUNT OF MY UNCLE'S FAMLY. "SABEL," said my aunt Otis, "would it not be better for you to leave the room, if you cannot avoid making a noise? I fear your crying will disturb your poor mother." "' O, do not send me away from her!"I pleaded. "I will be so very still, if you will only let me stay." I resolutely choked back the rising sobs, that they might not annoy the dear invalid, who, I had just been told, was so soon to be taken away from us. She opened her eyes, saying in a faint voice, "Come to me, dear child." My aunt re- moved the little table that stood before myymother, covered with tea-cups and vials filled with medicinal preparations. I rept softly to the bed-side, and, taking her cold, purpling hand, tried to warm it by holding it between both my own, bending down my head that she might not see the tears that would flow. *"-Mother, will you forgive me, if I. have not always been kind to you, and minded everything you have told me to do?"                        - "I am so very weak," said she, in a voice so low and feeble that I held my breath to catch every syllable, "that I cannot say to you all I wish. You have been always kind  and obedient to me, my dearest earthly treasure, and, now that I am going to leave you, you must love and obey your aunt, who will be a mother to you, and be kind and affection- A 1*     6,        ISABEL CAROLLTON: ' ate to your cousin Mary. Do not forget what I have said to you in times past, about the duties you owe to the great and. good Being in whom I place my trust. He has promised to be a father to the fatherless; and to his tender mercies I now commit my only child. May she so live, that, although I can nevermore return to her, I may still meet her in that better world where we shall never again be parted." She partially raised her head from the pillow, drew me towards her with a look of deep tenderness in her dark blue eyes, that my memory will ever retain. She sank back, closed her eyes, and an ashy paleness overspread her counte- nance. I was terrified, and thought her dying. The nurse said she was very much exhausted by talking with me, and I must not see her again until next morning. I never saw her again while she was living. When day dawned she had passed away from us; the soulless clay was all that remained of what had been my mother. With a feeling of indescribable awe, I followed the physician into the room where she was " laid out." Dr. Smythe took my hand and laid it against her rigid, sunken cheek. I shrank from the chilling contact. He passed his hand gently over the thick auburn tresses, that lay so motionless on her marble temples, saying, as he did so, "This earthen casket is no longer valuable, excepting as a memento of the priceless jewel it once contained. You must no longer, dear child, think of it as though it were still your mother; she has left it nol and is, perhaps, still near you, and watching over your hap- piness.  Our departed friends may be near ps, although we are unable to see them while imprisoned in these bodies, from which the captive spirit looks dimly forth, discerning only the gross material forms which surround it." If he intended these remarks to console me, they were labor lost, for they were- beyond my childish comprehension. To me, the insensate form, lying so cold and silent before me,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.        7 was still my dear dead mother, who would never speak to, listen to, or love me more. When I saw her laid beneath the cold, damp soil of the. village church-yard, I thought, in my youthful inexperience, that I should never be happy again; that my whole life would \ be filled with "grief for my irreparable loss. But time, the universal soother of the bereaved, gradually, and almost imperceptibly, blunted the keenness of my sorrow. When my father died, I was too young to comprehend my loss, so that my mother had been to me everything, - teacher, companion, guide. We had lived with my uncle Otis ever since I could remember. My father had bequeathed to us  L nothing but his good name, and -the inexpensive articles com- prising our household furniture. -Consequently, when my uncle invited us to come and make our home with himself and his wife, who was my mother's sister, the invitation was gratefully accepted. We had been members of my uncle's household eight years. My only cousin, Mary Otis, was two years older than myself. After my mother's death we became almost inseparable companions. My aunt was as kind to me as to my cousin; but her temper was less happy- than my mother's had been. The most trifling misdemeanors, perpetrated by Mary or myself, caused her serious annoyance. If we soiled the carpet on coming in from the street with shoes imperfectly cleaned, tore our frocks, crushed our bonnets, lost our shoe-strings, or spoiled our gloves, -all of which casualties were of too frequent occur- rence in our sports at school, her brow was clouded with a frown not easily removed. This constant mental irritation had a most pernicious effect upon her bodily health. She became nervous and dyspeptic. My uncle was one of the most kind-hearted and good- tempered of men.  We always found ip him a- ready and willing listener to all our little grievances. He sometimes     8         ISABEL CAROLLTON:  even acted as umpire, in matters of dispute between us; so  skilfully adjusting our difficulties, as not only to effect an  amicable settlement, but leaving both parties satisfied with  each other and with the result of his arbitration. He was much respected and looked up to by the residents of our  village. He was now justice of the peace, and had been for several successive years elected senator to the state legislature, until he had declined a further nomination; his business having been gradually extending itself until it left him little time for the performance of public duties. He was the owner of the prettiest cottage and the most flourishing store in Elderbank. In the latter was to be found every variety of goods, domestic and foreign; from a child's toy, or a lady's laces and embroideries, to implements for agriculture, or the "last improved cooking-stove." How delighted were my cousin and myself, when he was sufficiently at leisure to invite us over to the store, which was but a short distance from the cottage! With what an eager curi- osity we examined the multifarious contents of the large glass show-cases, jars of candy, piles of books! &c. The candy- jars, however, were the objects, for years, of our most ardent desires; my uncle's insensibility to the sweetness of their allurements seeming to us perfectly unaccountable. He sometimes presented us with story books, requesting us to read aloud to him alternately, and exclaiming at almost every paragraph, "Very well, very well, my girls; you will beat the parson yet, if you continue improving so fast; indeed, I woulderather listen to your reading of these books now, than to hear him read them." When he saw a customer coming, he very gently hinted to us, that, as my aunt was not very well, we might be serviceable at the house, in rendering her  more comfortable; and that perhaps it would be as well,  solely on her account, for us to run home. This insinuated  command we generally obeyed literally, seizing our bonnets *I   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.        9 by one string, and swinging them to and fro in our hands, as we ran skipping along the street. If my aunt saw us from the window, she was sure to meet us at the door with her customary admonitions. "Why Mary, and Isabel! what possesses you to be flying through the village in this manner? Withbut your bonnets, too; you 'll- be brown as gypsies. What is that stain on your new frock,  Mary?  You must have been leaning against a molasses barrel, or something worse. March yourself out into the kitchen, miss, and don't come back here uintil Bridget has made you look decent. Tie up your shoes, Isabel; then go up stairs and brush the hair out of your eyes. I wish you would try and behave a little more like young ladies, instead of being such a constant trial to me." I often puzzled my brain to find out why we were so much happier with my uncle than with aunt Mary. How happy we were when we saw him start from the store on his return home! With childish glee we ran to meet him, and, one hold of each hand, told him of everything that had occurred during his absence; requesting permission to repeat our visit at his counting-room, - which request he usually promised to grant, on the condition that we would try, in all things, to please my aunt. All this was when we were younger; now that Mary had reached her teens, with the dignified consciousness of approach- ing womanhood, we only walked as far as the little garden gate to welcome his return. We were sometimes desirous of pointing out to him some new improvement which had taken place in some of our flower-beds- a newly-blossomed rose or hyacinth. It was at his desire that we took the whole care of the flowering plants and shrubs, which bordered the walks, after the gardener had transplanted and arranged them for us in the spring. He has since told us his reasons for requiring this of us. He thought, probably with truth, that the pale faces and     10   *     ISABEL CAROLLTON: puny, fragile forms of some of our school-companions, so strongly in contrast with our own physical vigor, were attrib- utable not only to the highly-seasoned, stimulating food, so freely introduced into the stomach, without thorough mastica- tion, but also to their being debarred the pleasant out-of-door exercise, so indispensable to the perfectly healthful develop- ment of the youthful system. He declared that those of our countrymen who attended exclusively to the mental education of their children, neglecting their physical improvement, acted as unadvisedly as a watchmaker, who should labor assiduously to bring the internal mechanism of a chronometer to a state of the highest perfection, and enclose it in a case too frail to resist .the " wear and tear " to which it must necessarily be exposed to accomplish the purpose for which it was made. Revenons a nos moutons, perhaps his opinions on this subject would be more appropriate in a practical treatise on the laws of hygiene, than in these reminiscences of my early years. Our evenings always glided pleasantly'away, for my uncle was with us then, and aunt Mary's troubled brow would brighten into cheerfulness under the influence of his genial good-humor. " Occasionally, however, her tendency to fault-finding was slightly displayed towards my uncle, who parried her thrusts gently, and with invincible good-nature. For instance, she commenced one evening with,- "I wish, my dear, you would not soil that spittoon; it took Bridget a full hour to polish it this morning. Besides, you ought not to spit at all; don't you know, English travellers write about the vulgar American habit of spitting? I'm sure I read so in some book or other." "Now don't worry yourself into a headache," he returned, soothingly. '"You must remember that I am afflicted with a slight cold on my lungs, -an infliction probably unknown in the clear, transparent atmosphere of the bright sunny isle t   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       " which the tourist, whose opinion you seem to think so in- fallible, claims as his native land, -and, while the membrane of my throat is so irritable, I must expectorate occasionally; but, if you think it more cleanly, I will use my handkerchief instead of the spittoon, in imitation of our dear relatives over the water!" A year had passed away since my mother's death. It was a bright day in " the leafy month of June." Mary was out testing the merits of a spirited pony, which her father had presented to her a ffw weeks previous. My aunt sat bolt upright in an arm-chair, nodding occasionally,.then drawing herself up again, with a half-suppressed yawn: her dignified sense of propriety, joined with a fear of crumpling the folds of her black silk dress, or the artificial'flowers decorating her tasteful French cap, preventing her from leaning comfortably back, and enjoying a quiet nap. The long windows of the room where we were sitting were open to the ground, and the fragrance of the summer flowers perfumed the air. The honey-bee banqueted daintily from mignonette and delicate white clover-blossoms; now and then. one alighted near me, as I sat by the open window, with a soft hum of friendly recognition. My visits to the aviary had been so frequent and prolonged, that the little creatures had become quite fearless of my presence. An elegant equipage rolled up the carriage way, and stopped at the garden-gate. A tall, fine-looking gentleman, apparently not much over thirty years of age, descended from the carriage, and, handing out a little girl of about my own age, walked with her towards the house. "I think," said my aunt, " he has stopped at the wrong place. I never remember to have seen him before." A minute later Bridget's head was poked in at the door: "Plase, mem, there 's a jintleman in the payrler, wishes to seen ye; there's the carud he towld me to gin ye."     12        ISABEL CAROLLTON: My aunt read aloud, "Wilfred Glenmore," and left the room to go to him. She soon returned, however, accompanied by the stranger, who remarked, on entering the room, "I merely asked to see you'alone a moment, Mrs. Otis, because I did not like to speak of my daughter's ill-health in her presence, lest I should alarm her." My aunt glanced at me and then at him, inquiringly. "Let her remain, certainly," said he. "Is she your daugh- ter?" ". My daughter is not at home. This is my niece, Isabel Carollton." "I need not inquire after her health; one need only look at her blooming face to be satisfied on that point; but, to return to the object of my visit. Blanche's health is very delicate, and seems to be constantly becoming more so. Her physician -tells me that it is of vital importance that she should leave the city, for the present, to escape the east winds and the chill, bracing sea-air, so frequently prejudicial to health. Dr. Smythe, an old friend of mine, whom I consulted on the subject, told me he thought you might possibly be prevailed on to do me the great favor of allowing her to board with you, through the season just commenced. I should consider no remuneration exorbitant, that might gain for my child a cheerful home like this; a pleasant companion of her own age, too, - for I am sure Isabel will be a friend to my little Blanche, and be in favor of her coming, too; let us hear what she has to say about it." He passed his hand over my head caressingly, while I, with a shy diffidence, which I had striven in vain to conquer, mur- inured a few half-intelligible sentences, expressive of the pleasure her society would afford me. He thanked me with as much kindness and suavity as he would have bestowed had my answers been perfectly comprehensible, To my relief, he turned again to my aunt, saying,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       13 "I hope you will decide to let her remain with you. You cannot conceive with what anxiety I mark every symptom of declining health! She is all that is left to-me! She has no seated disease, as yet; but her mother died young. I fear Blanche has inherited her delicate constitution." My aunt looked undecided, saying dubiously, "I should be very glad to accommodate you, sir, but my own health is far from being good, and I don't know how I could endure any more care than I have now; my two girls torment me almost out of my senses, sometimes; I don't know how I should get along with another; she might be getting homesick, too, if she is not used to living in the country. I would like to see her before I decide, as I hardly looked at her just now." Mr. Glenmore left the room, and returned, a moment later, leading in his daughter, who would have been very pretty had she looked less sickly. Her figure was slight; her shoul- ders thin and drooping; her mouth expressive of sweetness and good-nature. Her blue eyes were shaded by tong, dark lashes of the same color as her hair, which, still unbound, covered her neck with a natural and graceful mantilla of ring- lets, My aunt regarded her with a scrutinizing look, which Blanche returned by a timid, appealing glance, that instantly softened the gaze of my aunt into one of compassionate kind- ness. "Come to me, my dear," said she;  doO you think you would be contented to live with us here in the country, away from your father?" "Yes, indeed; although I wish papa' could stay, too. It will be so much pleasanter to hear the singing of the little birds, in the morning, than to be waked by the rumbling of the great, heavy carts, as we are at home." "I would be glad to remain with you, Blanche, but my 2     "        ISABEL CAROLLTON: engagements, for this week at least, will not allow me to be absent from home even for a single night." If you will leave yodr daughter with us for a week or two," said my aunt, " we can then tell better how we shall get alongtogether." "Very well," said Mr. Glenmore; "I have no-fears for the result of the trial. I had purposed remaining for a few days at Elderbank, but, unexpected circumstances having occurred to prevent my doing so, I am forced to hasten my departure, and leave you somewhat abruptly. I will send whatever you need, Blanche, by the express. If I forget anything you desire, write to me for it; at all events, write frequently, that I may know if your health is improving. Make your- self as happy as possible. Remember you are to be much in the open air; never mind your complexion! I hope you will be transformed into a plump, buxom, country lassie before I see you again." Taking an affectionate leave of his daughter, he reentered the carriage, which was driven rapidly away. Blanche remained with us through the summer. I was very glad to have her as a companion. Mary was now about fifteen years of age, and, during the last year, had grown quite tall and womanly, attending the village parties and assemblies, while I was still a child in feelings and appear- ance. I thought, too, that she preferred Charles Merritt's company to my own. He was " reading law " under the super- vision of our neighbor, Judge Ashleigh, who pronounced him "a young man of intelligence and talent, who would be sure to 'go ahead,' and make somebody in the world." If Mary wished to stroll through the shady lanes of Elder- bank, to exercise on horseback, or to be rowed across the wil- low-fringed pond that lay a short distance from the house, he was only too happy to accompany her. It seemed to be all the same to them if they walked, rode, 9o boated, provided   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       15 they were together. In these little excursions, they talked so much more to each other, than to me, that I finally came to the conclusion I was de trop, and remained at home for the future, when invited to accompany them. This youthful attachment between Charles and Mary gave my aunt considerable trouble. She detested flirtation, and thought them both "too young to know their own minds." Charles was but twenty. When my uncle was appealed to on the subject, he merely said, laughingly, , Do let the foolish children walk together, if they like; they will get tired of it if they are only let alone. But just let me set up my author- ity to prevent their being together, and it is my candid opin- ion that all the bars and bolts in the country could n't sepa. rate them." When Blanche first came to us, a short walk fatigued her so much, that, without the support I gave her, she would have been unable, on our return, to have reached the house. But she soon gained so much strength, that she was able to roam with me daily, for hours together; sometimes in the thick old woods, plucking wild flowers. The scarlet honeysuckle, pale anemone, star-shaped trilium, and the pink and white hard- act, which our grandmothers used as a substitute for tea in revolutionary times, all rewarded our search, and formed the pride of our nosegays. To the extreme annoyance of my aunt, her vases and champagne glasses were put in requisi- tion to hold the floral treasures we brought home with us. At other times we sat on the brink of the pond; Blanche dreamily watching the waving shadows of the tall trees in the liquid mirror, lying placidly beneath us; while I read aloud from one of the books her father had sent to her, or gathered wild berries on the grassy hill-side. Those were calm, happy days, over which I still love; in memory, to linger. When the short, chilly days of autumn came on, Mr. Glen l! *m               3     16        ISABEL CAROLLTON: more came for his daughter. He was surprised and delighted at the clearly perceptible improvement that had taken place in her health, and warmly thanked us for our kindness to her. "O, papa!" said Blanche, "what shall I do, when I get home, without Isabel? I never could have Stayed out doors so much if she had not been with me. She read to me, and did everything to amuse me. I wish she would go back with us and stay always!" Mr. Glenmore smiled at his daugh- ter's enthusiasm, and, after remaining for a time silent and thoughtful, turned to my uncle, and asked him; abruptly, if he would be willing to part with me; offering, with his con- sent, to adopt me as his own daughter, and treat me, in every respect, the same as Blanche. Uncle Otis said it was impossible for him to consent to this arrangement, as he had promised my mother, on her death- bed, that he would not part with me until I arrived at years of discretion. Had he consented, I should have gone with them willingly, as I had grown very fond of Blanche, and changeofscene is never displeasing to the young. When Blanche had really left us, I became so dull and lonely that, in order to occupy my mind, I devoted a much greater proportion of time to my studies than I had previously given them. Often did I bend over my school-books, during the long winter evenings, until the contents of the whole became blended into one indistinguishable chaos of absurdities; the hexahedra, et cet., of my geometry, mingling grotesquely with algebraic problems, and even forcing their unwelcome presence into the midst of chemical oxides and alkalis. If I turned to history, similar contradictions (not wholly the result of wearied energies) still met me. Noble, high-minded kings were metamorphosed into detestable tyrants, cowards, oppressors and murderers of their subjects: one page recorded the exploits of a hero; the next, those of the same person transformed into a fiend. I was glad my own countryhad I   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.        17 no records of past ages,- if they were to chronicle the deeds of such vile characters as distinguish many of those, who, ren- dered conspicuous by the insignia of royalty, disgrace the annals of olden times. Mary, meanwhile, was dancing the polka and schottisch at many an evening party. The name recurring most frequently on her list of partners was that of Charles Merritt. My cousin was decidedly the "( belle of the village." No rural fete was considered perfect if not graced by her presence. In society she was a universal favorite. Quick-witted, gay, and light-hearted, she. was the life of every social circle, Her album was crammed with "poetical effusions," abounding in expressions of undying friendship and ardent admiration. Nu- merous were the bouquets of rosebuds and passion-flowers that found their way to her, accompanied by sweet-scented little billets-doux, the very mottoes of which, from their quaint devices of Cupid's hearts and arrows, breathed vows of admiration and despair. She bore her honors meekly, and was always, when at home with me, so kind and unaffected, that I never felt disposed to envy, in the slightest degree, her superior beauty and accomplishments. As some recompense for the want of enjoyment in general company, caused by my habitual diffidence, I won the highest prize, which was awarded, at the annual school examination, to the pupil who had made the greatest improvement during the year. Mary was one of the first to congratulate me on my success, although she had been my most dangerous compet- itor for the silver medal, and Charles Merrit was present when it was adjudged to me. 2*     CHAPTER II. COUSIN MARY MEETS WITH AN ACCIDENT. THE spring after Blanche left us, we received from her a large package, containing a small but choice selection of books for Mary, and a guitar with several sheets of new music for myself; together with a very kind note from my former companion, begging me to think of her when I practised the song, commencing, "A place in thy memory, dearest." I was delighted with my new acquisition. My aunt said she liked it much better than the piano, as an accompaniment to a song, because it was not quite as noisy, consequently, less apt to give her a headache. Rather faint commendation! but I sup- posed this was partly owing to her having been worried by the blunders of the new cook. Uncle Otis had invited two or three gentlemen- business acquaintances from the city--to dine with him. Our cuisi- niere was "fresh" from the land of shamrocks and blighted potatoes. Dinner-time came, but no summons from the din- ner-bell. Aunt Mary became anxious, and, proceeding to the kitchen to investigate, found Marjory taking the potatoes from the saucepan, with the tongs. When reprimanded, " sure and throth," said she, "I wad be jist murthered with the stame if I tuck thim out wi',me hands." But the worst was to come; the chickens were boiled, heads, limbs, and all. She said she had "jist sthripped aff the fithers intirely, and thin cooked them the way she was larnt in the ould counthry."   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       19 I do not remember how the mistake was rectified, if remedied at all; but my poor a'unt was in a perfect fever of anxiety, through the whole dinner-hour, lest some new error should come to light; her face flushing, and the perspiration starting to her brow, at every course that was brought in. After the guests had departed, she shut herself into her own room, tell- ing Bridget to "admit no one, as her head was splitting, and she must lie down." Mary and I were ensconcing our- selves coseyly in a large, comfortable arm-chair, preparatory to reading "Ivanhoe," and the "Black Dwarf," when Harry Boynton was shown into the room. He was a cousin of my uncle's, not very much younger, but still a bachelor, and a great favorite with us all. We had not seen him for a long time, as he lived at a consid- erable distance from us, and, travelling in a stage-coach over the execrable roads, that, for a part of the way, intervened, was a process too tedious to be lightly undertaken. "Where is Mr. Otis?" he asked, after the usual compli- ments on meeting after a long absence; "I called at the store, but he was not there." We had seen him, a short time before, going towards the greenhouse. Mary ran out to find him, and quickly returned with a request from her father for Mr. Boynton to come to him. We accompanied him. He received a cordial recep- tion from my uncle, who bestowed on him an impr6optu lec- ture on the culture of grape-vines, while we plucked some opening rose-buds, with which to loop up Mary's dress for the evening party, and a white camelia for the braids of her dark lair. Charles Merritt loved best to see it so arranged. "Come, girls," said Harry, "I beg pardon, suppose I ought to say yong ladies,"allow me the favor of escorting ypu to the aviary, where we have decided to adjourn." We each accepted an arm, and, as we walked along, my uncle expati- ated on the docility and intelligence of bees in general, and     20         ISABEL CAROLLTON: his own in particular; declaring it to be his opinion that they knew him perfectly well, and that, although they might pos- sibly sting a stranger who disturbed them, he had always found them quite harmless, even when he had assisted in hiv- ing them after swarming, with hands and face unprotected, so that he had afterwards found them inside his sleeves and cravat. '"Step round to the back of this hive, Harry, and you will have a better view of them." 'He opened a small door and we could see the bees at work on the honey-comb. My uncle suddenly started up from his stooping posture, exclaiming "Godfrey! what's that in my ear?" "Don't swear," laughed Harry. "I never do; but what the deuce is it? Do, Harry, there's a good fellow, run and get the tweezers, or nippers, or some- thing, and pull it out; it's no laughing matter, let me tell you. I 've heard of people's dying from getting even a pinhead in their ears." "Do not be alarmed," said Harry, "( it is only a little in- offensive bee; I dare say he will soon give it up as a bad job, and back out." "Horrors!" cried my uncle, " how the little imp scratches and tickles! I can't stand that!I " and, with a comic con. tortion of face, he held his head on one side, and, after giv- ing it several shakes, the poor, half-dead insect fell to the ground. An expression of pain had passed over his face a moment before, and his air was quite crest-fallen, as he ob- served ("I really did not think one of the little creatures would have stung me; but it must have had an uncommonly good disposition to have borne such a deuce of a shaking with- out resenting it." He started for the house, with his hand to his, ear, and we soon followed him. Harry said a few words to hinm, in a low tone, and they both went into a small room, which, from the circumstance of its containing a single, well-filled bookcase, my uncle chose to   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.        21 designate his study. It was to this room he always retired when desiring to be alone; we never intruded upon him. - He was often closeted here, with Harry, during his stay; until my aunt grew anxious to fathom the purport of these private conferences. .The following colloquy, occurring in my presence, will serve as a partial explanation. "I wish to ask why you and Harry are so often shut up alone together," said my aunt; "it is very unlike you to have any concealments with me." "Indeed, it is, my dear; and I am not going to commence having any now. We are merely talking over and arranging a little business- affair. You know Harry has purchased a valuable quarry of marble, at Wood Falls, and has begun to build some large stone mills for sawing and polishing the marble. From want of ready capital he has been forced to suspend operations, much to his disappointment." "I hope he has not come to request assistance from you; it is only four or five years since he failed in business!" "I remember; but he has been doing well since, and does not wish me to lend him money --merely my name on his paper, and the Vermont Bank will accommodate him with all he needs. He does not ask even this, without giving me good security. I have seen some specimens of the marble, which were really beautiful; not quite equal to the Italian, but it will have a finer polish when the large mills are in operation. Are you satisfied now?" "Not perfectly so, yet!" "Well! don't try to puzzle your head over business mat- ters; you don't understand them; women never do; and try- ing to do so will only make you nervous. Let us have some music, girls; there comes Harry to turn over the leaves for you." The subject was not again alluded to in my presence. When Mr. Boynton left us for Wood Falls, my uncle     22        ISABEL CAROLLTON: accompanied him; and, on his return home, was loud in his praises of his cousin's activity and enterprise; prophesying that we should live to see him become a millionaire, and sport- ing an equipage as perfect in all its appointments as that of the elegant Mr. Glenmore. "Come, girls," said my uncle, one bright, cloudless morn- ing, " get ready quick, if you wish to take a drive with me. I am going over to Coverly, and would like company. You must both be ready in half an hour if you wish to go." "How far are you going?" asked Mary, as she was run- ning up stairs for her hat and shawl. "- About fifteen miles; we shall not get back until late in the afternoon." I looked at aunt Mary, who was lying on the sofa, her head wrapped up in towels dripping with cold water. "You will not like to be left alone all day, will you, aunt, when you have such a bad headache?" "Not very well. I do not know what I should do, if any of our friends should come to spend the day. I am afraid they would find me rather dull company; but I do not wish to deprive you, or Mary, of the pleasant ride you are antici- pating." "O! II would rather stay at home with you than to go, now I know you wish it. I know, too, that Mary would pre- fer going to either reading or gardening, which I shall like quite as well." When Mary came down, she generously tried to persuade me to allow her to remain at home with her mother. I refused, decidedly, to avail myself of her kind offer. When my uncle found that only one of us was going with him, he assented to Mary's proposal to go in the little open stanhope, in order to enjoy a better view of the meadows, hills, and dingles that skirted the way. In high spirits, and with a promise to return before nightfall, they left us.   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      23 Evening came, but they did not return as we expected. The hours wore tediously away, and, at ten o'clock, we were still anxiously awaiting their arrival. My aunt said, "there was no occasion for alarming our- selves, as business matters had undoubtedly detained him longer than he had anticipated;" but the trepidation of her manner, and the nervous start she gave at every sound, con- tradicted the tenor of her words. At last, our listening ears caught the sound of steps coming up the garden path. The door opened, and my uncle, with. a large handkerchief bound around his head, entered the room alone. My aunt sprang from the sofa with a piercing shriek, - Mary! where is she?-dead?" "She is only slightly injured; we were accidentally over- turned. Do not alarm\yourself; there is no occasion for it, believe me." "You are deceiving me; let me go to her this moment; do not try to conceal anything from me." "I have not done so, She is coming to you. When I say that she is not much injured, I tell you the truth; but, as it is her limb that is bruised, she cannot walk. I will tell you how it happened. We stayed later than I intended, and I was driving pretty fast on my way home, to make up for lost time, when a man, suddenly starting up from behind a wall that had previously hidden him from our sight, frightened our horse so much that he became perfectly unmanageable, and ran away. I held him in with all my strength; but it was impossible to stop him; so I gave up the attempt, and only tried to keep him in the road. In turning a sharp angle, we were upset, and thrown to the ground. "My head, as I was thrown from the vehicle, coming in contact with a tree, I was stunned by the blow. When I recovered my senses again, the first thing I saw was Mary, lying partly in a small pool of water, pale and motionless.     24        ISABEL CAROLLTON  An icy chill ran over me,- don't be alarmed, -for I thought, if she had been alive, she would have drawn herself out of the water. I ran to her, and, as I attempted to lift her in my arms, she screamed with pain; begging me, with tears in her eyes, to let her remain quiet, because one of her limbs pained  her so excruciatingly that it would kill her to be removed. I found I could do nothing for her, alone, and flew to the nearest house for assistance, which I obtained, and then suc- ceeded in raising her from the cold, damp earth, and placing her on a litter; they are bringing her home on it now. I came first to tell you what had occurred, and prevent your being frightened." Voices were now heard approaching the house, and we hur- ried to the door to meet the sufferer. "Do not be alarmed, madam," said Dr. Smythe; "I trust your daughter's injury will prove nothing very serious. Her ancle is badly sprained, and the limb much bruised and swol- len, but I have discovered no broken bones; nothing that a few weeks' quiet and your own excellent nursing will not per- fectly restore." How much the kind, cheering tones of his voice reassured and inspirited us! Certain it is, that the language and de- meanor of a judicious physician exert an influence quite as powerful, as that effected by his prescriptions. Human fore- sight, however, is proverbially fallible; Dr. Smythe did not prove a true prophet. Weeks passed away, - wearily enough to the poor invalid, - and still she could not put her left foot to the floor. Weeks resolved into months, and, instead of improving, her limb con. tracted, and decreased in size. Even Dr. Smythe became less sanguine in his hopes of her ultimate recovery, and ordered a pair of crutches, so -constructed, that. she was able, with their assistance, to get about the house without using the diseased limb.   ISABEL CAROLLTON:        25 No one seemed to sympathize more sincerely in her misfor. tune than Mr. Merritt. The gay, buoyant spirits, that had formerly rendered him so agreeable a companion, had now fore saken him; and an earnest, subdued sadness had 'taken their place. After Mary was able to leave her room, he often came and sat beside her, as she employed herself on some delicate piece of needlework, or reclined listlessly on the sofa, - her bright, sparkling animation, too, had fled,- watching her pale, but still beautiful countenance, with an expression on his own which I did not know whether to translate as one of pity or of love. He came in, one day, when my aunt was absent, and Iwas alone with Mary, trying, by the effects of my own cheerful-. ness, to enliven the drooping spirits of my cousin. He was pale, and much agitated; after conversing for a short time on indifferent topics, he said abruptly, "I have called to bid you farewell - perhaps for a long time." "Where are you going, and when will you return?"' asked Mary, in a low, tremulous voice, without raising her eyes from her embroidery, although her hand trembled too much for her to proceed with her work.  "I cannot answer your last question; I wish I could I am going to Elkton, a small town in the far west.' I have finished my course of reading with Judge Ashley, and he advises my going there, to commence the active duties of my profession. He says I shall meet with much less competition there than here, where there are so many lawyers with estab. lished reputations, whom every one will sooner employ than a new beginner." I think they hardly perceived me as I glided quietly from the room, and left them by themselves. EHalf an hour elapsed before I heard his step crossing the hall. I intercepted him, and, as- I bade him adieu, held out my hand, which he grasped warmly; emotion prevented his speaking, 3     26       A PERSONAL BETROSPECT. and he hurried away. I went into the room where I had left Mary, to see if I could soothe her, but she had gone to her own room. I waited a long time for her to come down again, and then went in search of her. I found her calm and still, but her red and swollen eyelids filled me with pity. I took her thin white hand in mine. Do cheer up, Mary; you know it is always darkest just before daybreak; you must look forward to the bright days to come." "O, Bel! I can look forward to nothing. I shall never walk again!" and she burst into a passion of tears, weeping so violently that her whole frame was shaken convulsively. "Don't, Mary, give way so to sorrow. We hope and ex- pect you will recover the use of your limb in time, and Charles has promised to return again; you will be happy with him yet." "Never!" she exclaimed with unwonted bitterness; "I shall never be of any use in the world. Why should he marry me? I should only be a dead weight to him, a clog upon all his exer- tions; for he is poor, and has his own way to make in the world."  "You are doing wrong in indulging such thoughts. Remem- ber whose hand sends the evil as well as the good. He loves us and would not needlessly afflict us. The pressure of adversity may be necessary to drive us to His arms for refuge. Think, too, how tenderly your father and mother love you, and how unhappy every sorrow you endure makes them;-- Charles, too,--he will not break the engagement which binds him to you." "I am not engaged to him. Father said we were too young to bind ourselves, by promises, which the better judg- ment of riper years might cause us to break, and peremptorily forbade the engagement, which Charles earnestly requested him to sanction by his consent. O, Bel! I never had your calm, even temperament! I am always either enjoying or   ISABEL CAROLLTON:        27 suffering. I know you would bear my lot better than I do, and Isuppose you blame mypnpatience; but sometimes 1 feel so very wretched that I would as soon die as live. Let me tell you, pain and sorrow are very different things when we have to endure them ourselves, from what they seem when we see others afflicted by them." I strove to speak a few words of comfort, but she went on with increased vehemence. "Why should I wish to live? f shall neither be happy myself, nor make any one else so. I can now conceive the possibility of any one's being tempted to take their own life; but I shall never do worse than to wish myself dead. I remember to have read somewhere Plato's opinion about confirmed invalids -' Let them die, the sooner the better." "Pray stop, Mary! no wonder you are unhappy, with your heart full of such bitter thoughts. Why should you go back to an old heathen philosopher, when we have the Bible to guide us? Besides, you have even misinterpreted him: it is not of people who have met with accidental injuries that he says, 'let them die,' but of persons with ruined constitutions, or of those dying by inches, of chronic diseases brought on by their own excesses,-- where the brain is too much impaired to admit of intellectual exertion. But never mind what Plato said, as long as we have the purer philosophy taught by our Saviour. During his life, the sick and the afflicted were the peculiar objects of his beneficence, and many a kind promise has he left in his Word for their consolation. Do not say again that your life will be useless, for, as Dr. Smythe says, your example of patient endurance may be of more benefit to others, than all you could otherwise have accomplished by your most active exertions." "Did he re ally say that?" "He did, indeed. Is not that a fresh motive for your     28       A PERSONAL RETROSPECT. enduring what we all feej to be a great trial, with the resigna- tion of a Christian?" Her tears were the only answer I received, but they flowed calmly now, and a minute later she said, gently, "I know I have done wrong, Bel. I have resolved, again and again, to bear my lot in life cheerfully, whatever it may be, but con- stant pain is so dispiriting, and I am so weak, that I cannot always do right." "No one can, or, at least, no one does; but we know where to go for assistance; if wee pray earnestly for strength it will be granted us." She removed her hand from her face, and looked up with a smile, still sad, but hopeful. -"Will you leave me alone for a short time, now? My head aches intensely, and Hwish to be quite calm when mother. returns, so that she need not be distressed about me." I kissed away the remaining traces of tears from her face, and telling her, when she was ready, to come down to the parlor and let me read aloud to her, I left her. I soon heard the sound of her crutches on the stairs, and running to meet her, I assisted her in descending. "I shall not soon forget again," she whispered, "' The great and glorious Giver, who doeth all things well.' Will you sing me that. song, Bel?" I instantly did as she desired, and then read aloud to her from "Paradise Lost."   CHAPTER     III. DETAILS FRESH MSFORTUNES, WHCH RESULT IN HOME LEAVE- TAKINGS. MSFORTUNES never come singly. The first intimation my uncle received that Harry Boynton was not "going ahead" prosperously, was in the form of a notification from the-Ver- mont Bank, that the notes of which he was the endorser had become due, and still remained unpaid. My uncle immediately. wrote to Harry requesting an explanation, and received, for answer, a letter, avowing his utter ruin. He reproached himself bitterly for having induced my uncle to lend his assistance, declaring he did not feel his own losses half as keenly as those he feared causing one who had a family dependent on him for support. The following is the account he gave of his business affairs. The stone mills were completed. They were admirably con- structed, and the internal machinery worked to perfection, giving a superior polish to the really beautiful marble. But the expense of transporting so heavy a material to the nearest market for it was so heavy as to swallow up the greater part of the profits accruing from its sale. In his calculations of loss and gain this difficulty had not been sufficiently con- sidered. Besides, he had borrowed so largely, that, to use his own language, " the interest was all the time eating up the principal," and he had to pay so much for freght, that when the notes were due, he was unable to meet the demand for 3*     30        ISABEL CAROLLTON: their full amount. One of the principal creditors becoming alarmed for the fate of his loan, instituted legal proceedings against him for its recovery, obtained an execution, and threw him into jail; but, on promising to place everything he had in the world at the disposal of his creditors, he was 'set at liberty again. When the notes, for whose payment my uncle was responsible, came due, he was still in jail, and pride had prevented his writing from such a lodging. The mills were to be sold at auction, the ensuing week; and uncle Otis determined to be present at the sale, as he had taken a mortgage on them to secure himself from loss, and hoped affairs were not in quite as bad a ate as Harry's fears represented them. His journey to Wood-Falls, however, and a thorough investigation of Harry's liabilities, and his means of meeting them, destroyed every hope of making any honor- able arrangement with the creditors, excepting by reducing my uncle to the condition of a bankrupt. The mills were sold for but little more than enough to pay off the amount of a mortgage held against the estate, previous to the one given, for security, to my uncle; who returned discouraged, haggard, and careworn. My aunt bore this reverse of fortune bravely, doing every- thing in her power to soothe or cheer my uncle's dejection; her efforts sometimes seemed almost vain, as I frequently heard him walking back and forth in his room, long after I had retired to rest. When he spoke of selling the store and removing from our cottage-home, so endeared by long-cherished memories and happy associations, his lips quivered, and his voice became husky from stifled emotion. He seemed to have exchanged characters with my aunt, whose habitual weakness and irritability had disappeared, as if by magic, leaving her firm and unflinching in the endurance of the trials that so sud- denly beset h&. Is it not ever found that the weakest woman, in the hour of suffering, evinces greater powers of endurance t i   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       31 than the strongest member of the  sterner sex," whose up- right, haughty spirit would sooner break than bend to the sweeping blast of adversity? My uncle paid the full amount of the notes endorsed by him. When this was done, there was left only the small farm- house, - into which we had removed, - and a few acres of land attached to it, which he could call his own. " At least," said he, as he threw himself into a hard, wooden chair, after signing the deed that made our home another's, " I am now literally obeying the Scripture injunction, ' Owe no man any- thing.'" Every article of furniture, not absolutely essential to our comfort, every painting, pier-table, lounge, and even my aunt's gold watch and chain, had' been disposed of. Not a single luxury, unless Mary's piano could be regarded as such, was retained. They could not deprive her of what was now almost her only source of amusement. I remember still the sadness of my parting from my child- hood's home. The room where mymother had breathed over me her last words of undying tenderness, seemed ever haunted by her presence. The very garden, trees, and shrubs, I had learned to look upon as friends. Even the little limpid brook, that flowed at the foot of the sloping lawn behind the house - where my cousin and myself, in days lang syne, had caught the tiny." pin-fish " and placed them in artificial ponds of our own construction, hoping to see them become tame enough to eat the crumbs of bread from our hands, all ending,'as experi- ments too often do, in the death of their objects - murmured regretfully, and a passing cloud overshadowed its face as it reflected my tearful, farewell glance. My punt's health, and, I think, her spirits, were better in our new home, than they had been for several previous years.4 She had no time to be nervous; and the constant active exer- cise her various household occupations forced her to take,     32   -     ISABEL CAROLLTON: greatly alleviated her suffering from dyspepsia and its attend. ant headaches. Dr. Smythe still continued to call on Mary; although he' had long since ceased offering any professional advice, thus tacitly acknowledging the hopelessness of her case. He one day brought with him a medical journal, which he presented to me open, desiring me to read a short article which he pointed out. After doing so silently, in obedience to a motion from i him, I handed it to Mary. It contained an accurate descrip- tion of the result of an accidental injury, similar to her own, which had been permanently relieved by the skill of a cele- brated surgeon in the city of B--. I saw the flush of hope glowing on her cheek as she read, but it faded away as she closed the book and returned it, saying, "Do not show it to father and mother; it would only be giving them needless pain, for they cannot afford the expense of sending me to B--, now. Some other time I will tell them, perhaps; when they have not so many things to trouble them. After all, it might not avail anything, if I did go."  "Poor child!" said the worthy man, going to the window, and pretending to be much absorbed in the contents of a passing tin-pedler's wagon, flourishing his pocket-handker- chief, and blowing his nose vehemently, -" if all my skill could have restored you to health, you would have been well months ago. I have done everything for you that I could have done, had you been my own child, and afflicted in the same manner; but my practice in surgery has been limited, and as I have failed to help you, I do wish you could have the benefit of greater experience and a more extensive prac- tice than I have had. I walked over to propose something "of the kind to your father." "Not to-day, Dr. Smythe; you really must not say any- thing about it to him, until I give you permission.) His i'l    A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      33 spirits have been so terribly depressed of late, that I would not add a single feather's weight to sink them lower; it would half kill him if he thought I was not having every- thing done for me that could be done."  His answer showed that he was hardly disposed to promise, as she desired him to do, that he would not mention the subject to her parents; and it required a considerable degree of persuasion, on her part, to induce him to act according to her wishes. When he ]eft us, it was with an unwonted expression of discontent settling over his usually open, benevolent-looking physiognomy. Hour after hour I lay awake that night, trying to think of some employment by which I might earn the required sum for Mary. I thought'it would be but an adequate return for all the kindness and care bestowed, by my uncle's family, on one who had been left a destitute orphan, dependent on them for support, if, through her means, their only child should be restored to health. I thought of seeking a situation as gov- erness -of becoming a teacher in music or drawing-but where was I to obtain the requisite pupils ? I certainly could not do so, and 'remain in Elderbank. I would have applied to Blanche Glenmore to assist me in attaining my object, but she with her father was absent, travelling on the continent of Europe. All my midnight cogitations were ineffectual to enable me to decide on the avocation to which, until the accomplishment of my newly-formed purpose, I was to devote myself. Next day, I went to Dr. Smythe, whom I had ever found a kind and ready adviser, and begged him to use his influence in procuring a school for me; or to suggest any other way that occurred to him, in which I could earn some money, as I had firmly decided that, by one means or another, I must have some. He poohed, and pshawed-called me a Jew, for being, so young, a lover of " filthy lucre  -took off his spectacles, wiped and replaced them, and ended all these preliminaries by giving me an approving nod, and      34        ISABEL CAROLLTON: seriously setting himself about thinking what could be done in the matter. He held between his thumb and finger a huge pinch of maccaboy, at which he -snuffed with an abstracted air, every motion of his hand scattering a pungent odor, which so excited my olfactories, as to keep me sneezing until the tears ran down my cheeks. A sly smile stole over his face as he turned to ask if I would object to going a considerable distance from my uncle's. His only sister had married, and now lived in Willowhridge; if I desired it, he offered to write and ascertain if the town were well supplied with teachers; if not, he laughingly observed, he would give me as good a recommendation as his conscience would allow him to do. I was too intent on my object to think of the distance as an objection, and with many thanks accepted the proposi- tion. My uncle and aunt, when first consulted, refused to hear of such a thing as my leaving them, but were finally prevailed on to-allow me to do asI thought best. A week passed before I again heard from Dr. Smythe, when he came over, bringing  a letter from his sister, Mrs. Gunnerson, containing an answer favorable to my wishes. There was, she wrote, no private school in the town where she resided, and she had ascertained, on inquiry, that she could procure for me twenty pupils, if I chose to commence one. If I decided to do so, her husband would obtain for me a school-room, on my writing the time I wished him to engage it. Dr. Gerould, a gentleman as respectable as any one in Willowhridge, was going to the city in about a fortnight, and- she could request him, if I liked the arrangement, to call, on his return through our village, and escort me back with him. To this plan, so thoughtful in all its details, I returned an eager assent; immediately commencing preparations for my speedy departure. The dar arrived too soon. It was on a   A PEElONAL RBEtOSPECT.       3 cold, misty April morning that the stage-coach stopped at the door. I searched through the house for my uncle, but he hated leave-takings, and, consequently, was invisible. ,' Good- by, aunt; good-by, Mary; keep in good spirits and write me often. Do not come out, either of you, into this damp air; I can see you as you look from the window."  I was deceived in my belief, for, as I looked around, when going down the little garden path, to catch a last glimpse of those dear faces, there was a mist before or in my eyes, that hid them from my view. A young, fine-looking man stood holding open the garden- gate, who gave me a single glance, saying, as he looked expectantly at the door of the house, ,, Can you tell me if Miss Carollton is nearly ready ? ', "I am Bel Carollton," was my reply. "Indeed! well, this is Dr. Gerould; a justly, and univer- sally celebrated dental operator; who, for want of some kindy-disposed friend to perform the good office for him, is forced thus modestly and unassumingly to present himself." The humor and vivacity that sparkled in his dark hazel eye, induced me to answer in a style similar to his own, that I was " almost overwhelmed by the honor of making so dis- tinguished an acquaintance." This declaration he affected to receive as a matter of course, saying, ,, Now that we have been formally introduced, allow me to assist you into the coach, and pardon me for having kept you so long standing on the damp ground, but all my ideas were so confused to find you the teacher elect; all my former experience having led me to expect an older, and - yes, I will say it-a less fair votaress of Minerva."  " There is not the least occasion for excuses, sir, and, if there were, I should feel myself bound to accord free pardon for all, after listening to so gallant a defence." I was already seated in the coach, and felt a crimson flush     36        ISABEL CAROLLTON:  burning my cheek at the battery of glances directed towards  me. Dr. Gerould perceived my embarrassment, and, dropping the light tone in which he had been speaking, with 'consider-  able tact, called the attention of all, to the " beautiful scenery" (bleak hills, bare trees, and desolate marshes) that bordered : our way. When, later in the day, we were really passing several charming localities, I found it very pleasant to have -i an intelligent companion to point out the principal objects of  interest, and unite in my admiration of them; but of this pleasure I was soon to be deprived. The coach stopped:-- "Room for any more passengers?" cried a voice at the open door. "Only one vacant seat," was the reply. An animated colloquy, inaudible to us, ensued by the roadside, when a head was again thrust in at the door of the vehicle. "Well, gentlemen! here are a lady and her two daughters, who wish places inside; are any of you willing to take an outside seat to accommodate them?" "Not in this drizzling rain - east wind, too,"--mut- tered a thin, sallow-faced man from one corner, as he drew his Spanish cloak closer around him, with an involuntary shiver. No other answer was volunteered. At this juncture, a tall, coarse-featured woman, thrusting the driver aside, resow. lutely ascended the steps, beckoning her two overgrown daughters to do the same, and stood waiting for the desired seats, which the present occupants were evidently expected to resign. "Can't wait much longer, anyhow," shouted our impatient Jehu, outside. Dr. Gerould could endure this scene no longer, and rose to leave; his looks expressing strong  disapprobation of this determined intrusion, and his own con- sequent expulsion. The " lady " appropriated the seat he had  left with an independent, consequential air, which seemed to say, I won it by my own unassisted efforts (effrontery or impudence would have been the word applied to similar "efforts" in a gentleman), and no thanks to anybody.   A PERSONAL RBETROSPECT.     3? Two more of the unprivileged sex were forced to betake themselves to the top of the coach and the trio of ladies (?) were accommodated.   * I was condemned to silence for the remainder of the day, excepting at the hour of dinner; and, even then, the doctor vouchsafed me but a few sentences; for a pouring rain had "set in" and quenched the last spark of his former good- humor. He was again compelled to take an outside seat, and when we stopped, at seven o'clock, he strongly reminded me -with his disconsolate air, dripping elf-locks, and well-soaked boots - of a certain " knight of the rueful countenance," I once read of. He conducted me to the public drawing-room, where the blazing hearth was surrounded by our fellow-travellers. "Is this the only fire in the house?" he asked dryly. "No," replied the landlord in a voice somewhat surly; probably on account of the tone of impatience with which the question had been put, "there is one in the private drawing-room, No. 1." "Then, my dear fellow, will you show us the way to it? for, whenever I take a shower-bath of more 'than four hours in duration, as I have done to-day, I never find a fire unacceptable to prevent a cold chill, you know. Shall I take your carpet-bag, Miss Carollton?" "If it will not trouble you." "Trouble me! not in the least; it gives me pleasure to be of service to any lady who does not demand it as a right." And he glanced at the stout lady and her two daughters, who "Iooked daggers" at him in return, for daring to insinuate that they had no right to drive every gentleman from the coach, if found to interfere with their convenience. A glowing wood-fire gave a bright and cheerful aspect to the small room into which we were shown. "I fear, Dr. Gerould," said I, on enteiring it, ", that last ;- 4                      -     g3g   ,  ISABEL CAROLLTON:  remark of yours has not succeeded in gaining you the friend- J ship of the lady at whom it was addressed."  "Lady! pshaw! that term is, or should be, suggestive of everything graceful, retiring, and charming in woman: I will i not have it profanedaby being applied to one bold and unfemi-  nine like her. I do not think I am in a particularly amiable  mood to-night - as you have, of course, already perceived- - but you would not be surprised at it, if you only knew what  an uncomfortable time of it I have had through the day;  struggling frantically to keep my umbrella over my head,  while the uproarious wind seemed equally determined to  I obtain possession of it. I do assure you I tugged at the cane right bravely, until my relentless antagonist, by a sudden and vigorous effort, nearly pulled me over the railing and succeeded, in the midst of broken bones and severe contusions, in turning my faithful protector inside out, and leaving my devoted head entirely exposed to the pitiless peltings of the storm. And now you must excuse me long enough to order a warm-bath, if I can procure anything in the form of a bathing apparatus, holding more than a pint wash-bowl." He-ran back a moment after to say, "Pray make yourself comfortable while I am gone. You might as well have a  Norwegian bear for a protector on your journey, as myself, for all the attention you seem likely td receive from me; one  of them could growl as agreeably, I 've no doubt." Before I could answer, he was gone again; but soon returhed, his appearance much improved by well-polished boots and immac-  ulate linen. "You must pardon me again for having kept you waiting. One would think that water was as scarce here as in the burning deserts of the East, by the stinginess with which it is doled out to poor wayfarers for their ablutions at our public houses. Why, there was positively no sort of a bathing-tub in the whole establishment; and when I asked for a comumon   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      3 wash-tub, they declared there was not one in the house that was not in use. But I never put my hand to the plough and look back; so I vowed, if I could do no better, I would have the water thrown out of the trough the horses drink from, and make the best of that; when luckily a servant thought of the half-hogshead we saw at the corner of the house, as we drove up, doing duty as a cistern by catching the rain-water that spouted from the conductor. This answered the purpose admirably; and the temperature of the water they filled it with would have delighted an Oriental, who, I believe, derives the highest satisfaction from being submitted to the operation of parboiling. But come, the tea-bell has rung. Willl you be afraid of the dampness of my coat, if I offer you an arm " The long table was well filled, and no one seemed disposed to say much, with the exception of Dr. Gerould, who, sotto voce, talked unceasingly. "One would think that everybody here had just lost some near and dear friend, and were feasting on the 'funeral baked, meats,' to see their glum-looking faces. Why don't each one try to chat a little with their right hand neighbors, if it is only a little nonsense, to keep their mental wares from growing rusty, by being too long closely packed together? Here, waiter, have you anything in the house stronger than water?" "This is a temperance house, sir," was the reproving reply. "Then I must submit to my fate, ^i.? ad hoped, Miss8 Carollton, that a glass of port or she;yu would have kept my courage from oozing out at my fingers' ends; for, Mrs. Stout, opposite, not content with all the suffering she has caused me, is attempting my annihilation by frowns the most portentous."  "Stage waiting," r'esounded through the hall of entrance. "I shall go-no farther to-night," said Dr. Gerould,-deid- edly; , so do not hurry yourself. There is another convey-  ance, which starts from here in the morning."      40        XISABEL CAROLLTtON After we had returned to the cosey little drawing-room, he commenced conversation by saying, "Shall I tell you all I know about the people you are likely to become acquainted with at Willowhridge?" O0, do! if you please." "Well, Mrs. Gunnerson is the mother of eight sons; the eldest about fifteen, I should think, and that is all that can be said about her. She is always to be found at home, as, with the exception of an occasional half-day at church, I never hear of her leaving her own domicile. It seems to me that her strength is more severely taxed than that of the southern slaves philanthropists are going mad about; for she is not merely the servant of her 'liege lord and master,' but  the only one to labor for the whole household. "Her husband is a good-natured, shiftless sort of a man;  thoroughly clever, not according to the English acceptation  of the word, but as we define it. I dare say you will think your new home a very good imitation of Bedlam, until you get accustomed to the uproarious merriment of the young Gunnersons."  "Possibly; but I am resolved to make the best of every- thing," said I, with a forced, but determinately cheerful, laugh. "( And now, if you please, will you tell me something of the young ladies I shall be likely to meet with?." I I' I will, indeed, if you wish it. First, there is our 'village belle,' Corinna Howard, a decidedly handsome, showy girl; ,next          .... ( You have not told me if she is a brunette or a blonde." "O, a brunette, but not very dark-complexioned; now shall I proceed to my second portrait?" "You have hardly completed the first yet." He rose, and walked to the window, saying, rapidly, "She has dark,glossy ringlets, small, even teeth, brilliantly white, a figure like that of a sylph,-pshaw! what a hackneyed   A P-RSONAL RETROSPEOT.      41 comparison!--like those of the generality of American girls one sees walking the streets any day. Her eyes are indescrib. able." "Black?" Yfes; and so deep, one would hardly dare attempt to fathom them." "Dare not! why?" I would, if possible, have recalled the question, which had almost unconsciously escaped my lips. "Lest one should read in their depths," he replied, with an abstracted air, ", somewhat to prove the spirit less symmet. rical in its proportions than the lovely casket which enshrines ie sat gazing out at the window long after he ceased speaking, seeming hardly a ware of my presence, and evidently seeing none of the objects at which he was so fixedly looking. He was busy with his own thoughts, and forgot the other sketches he had promised me, It was nearly night on the day following when hepointed out to me the mountain-tops, crowned with evergreens, which gave to the state its name. Our tedious journey was nearly ended; we were in Willowhridge. We soon dashed up to the only ' hotel" the town afforded. "There is Mr. Gunnerson, waiting for your arrival, said Dr. Gerould, nodding toward one of the loungers on'  piazza. I looked in the direction he designated, and saw a short, stout man, with red hair, and a face, sunburnt and freckled, with the exception of the upper part of the forehead; which was delicately fair. He was talking with several of the bystanders in a loud, and far from musical, voice. When the coach had fairly stopped, he cught up his well- worn, napless hat and, Pdutting it on, ad givng a th     42        ISABEL CAROLLTON. the crown which thrust it down almost over his eyes, came -up to the window. Dr. Gerould introduced us. "I want to know," said he, jerking his head, but maintain- ing an immovably perpendicular attitude, "if this is the new school-ma'am. Well, old Dobbin is all ready, so we might as well be goin'." The doctor assisted me to alight, and then reentered the coach to ride as far as his office. I stepped to the side of Mr. Gunnerson's vehicle, and stood expecting him to help me into it; but the idea of so doing seemed not to have entered his head. As I was clambering in, unassisted, of course, I caught a sly, mirthful glance from my recent travelling com- panion as he was whirled away. I ' . l   CHAPTER IV. IN WHICHI COMMENCES MY ABODE IN THE GUNNERSON FAMILY. "DID you ever keep school afore ?" was the first question by which Mr. Gunnerson broke the silence of our homeward drive. "O, no, sir ! I have but just left school myself." "I guessed as much; but there's no knowin' but what you 'll get along just as well as though you had taught a hun- dred years. I s'pose you ain't old enough yet to mind my asking how old you may be." "I am seventeen."  "That's purty young to be sent among strangers, with nobody to look after you. Why, lets me see, my oldest boy is a'most sixteen, and he could no more cut his own fodder than he could fly,; but I 've always hearn tell 'at boys wvas a plaguy sight greener at the same age than gals. What are you about there, lazybones ? get into the road, you 'tarnel critter, you '11 have us over next!". tHe gave the reins a violent jerk, cracked the whip, and ended by taking his quid from his mouth, andfiring it at his horse; all of which demonstrations set the little, fat, phthisicky animal into a floundering gallop, which continued about a minute, when the former slow pace was gradually resumed. We were in a  large, open vehicle, constructed, probably, out of regard to the convenient stowage of the eight boys, In descending the first hill we encountered, whioh was more     "        ISABEL CAROLLTON: declivitous than anything I had ever before imagined, the seat (a portable one) was gradually nearing the front of the wagon, and I was in momentary fear of being precipitated with it over the head of the horse, which -seemed almost in a direct line beneath us. But we stopped at last before a large house, of a single story. It had never been painted by mortal artisan, - I mistake; old father Time is no more an immor- tal than his cotemporaries, -and he had stained the outer walls of a dark cloud-color, less beautiful, perhaps, than some others, but recommending itself by its durability, and the evenness with which it was laid on. "Holloa there! George Washington," cried Mr. Gunner- son to a tall, strapping youth, who stood staring at us from the doorway, "( come out here, and let down the bars, so that I can drive into the door-yard, not stand gaping there as if you niver saw nobody afore." Thus adjured, this promising namesake of our glorious ancestor came to our assistance, and we were admitted into the enclosure surrounding the house. It was quite destitute of ornamental trees or shrubbery, with the exception of a few scraggy lilac bushes, which grew on either side of the door. He -conducted me through a cold, unfurnished-looking entty into a small kitchen, having a fire-place about half its own size, with fuel sufficient for a week's consumption piled upon the massive andirons. Opening a door from this room, I was ushered into the family sitting-room, which looked out upon a tempting prospect of pig-pen and hen-house, with a cider- mill and barn in the background. Mr. Gunnerson presented me to his wife, a pale, fade, care- worn, but by no means unhappy looking woman. She sat rocking the cradle, containing "the youngest;" the next elder was asleep on a bed, in one corner of the room; while several others were amusing themselves on the floor by build- ing houses" of cobs, and kept quiet by innumerable injune-   A PEBSONAL RETROSPECT.       45 tions from their mother not to "make a noise to wake the baby." But an unlucky move of one of the little juveniles sent the already top-heavy superstructure with a crash to the floor; whereupon, from bed and cradle, commenced a duet, which, like many another vocal performance, was more bene- ficial to the lungs of the vocalist than entertaining to his audience. When order had been restored, we proceeded to the kitchen to take tea. Delicious corn-cakes, home-made butter, honey, maple-sugar and pumpkin-pie, most plentifully set forth, formed our not uninviting repast. On rising from the table, Mrs. Gunnerson proposed conducting me to my own room. We entered the entry before described; the parlor led out of it, and, in passing through this room, the cursory survey I took of it showed me a floor painted in imitation of marble, an old-fashioned secretary, bras candlesticks ornamenting the mantel, and, suspended from the centre of the room, d la mode du chandelier, a large, whirligig-like fly-trap. My own room, which was back of the parlor, had, like the rest, a dreary, unfurnished look, but was, notwithstanding, clean, airy and spacious. Before unpacking my trunks, I dragged them to the side of the room least exposed to view from the windows, as they were destitute of either curtains or shutters, and my fears were constantly picturing to my sight a pair of fierce, gleaming eyes peering in upon me from the pitchy darkness without. Mrs. Gunnerson kindly sent one of the children to light a fire for me. When I was left alone again, I felt " blue " and disconsolate, almost frightened at the task I had undertaken; but when I retired to rest, all was forgotten in that calm, dreamless sleep which is seldom wooed in vain by those blessed with youth and health. When I was awakened by the slant rays of the new-risen sun, I thought not of the intense longing with which I had, the previous evening,     "        ISABEL CAROLLTON: desired to look upon some face not new and strange to me,- to listen to the cheering words of some voice not unfamiliar, but with courage, of the duties before me. Springing up, and making a hasty toilet, I hurried to the windows of my room, hoping to be greeted by a prospect of gently undulating fields, green, grassy meadows, or graceful waving woodlands. I could not refrain from an exclamation of disappointment, as my eyes rested upon a huge wood-pile, shutting out the charming utopian landscape beyond. How often does daylight dissipate the shadows that over- cloud the spirit in the hours of darkness! I was now ready to meet any little desagrgmens incidental to my new mode of life unflinchingly; for, thought I, after all, I am not called upon to endure any actual hardships, only the deprivation of some of the luxurious superfluities to which I have, since childhood, been accustomed. When I repaired to the sitting-room, I found the family already gathering round thie breakfast-table. "Good-morning," said Mr. Gunnerson; ( glad to see you looking bright as a shilling this morning. I was afeared last night 'at you was a-goin' to have a fit of the blue-devils, you looked so solemncholic-like, and --" "How can you talk so, Jeroboam?" here interposed his wife, a reproving frown gathering over her face as she looked at him. "O, hang it, Polly! I 've telled ye over and over agin 'at I can't talk at all if I 've got to bother my head to have every word I say cut and dried 'cordin' to rule. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, you need n't set with your mouths open, a-staring at the new mistress-any longer; for I'm in a hurry to have you go down to the ten-acre lot, and salt the sheep. A marciful man is marciful to his dumb creeturs."       X   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       47 "To his beast," said Mrs. Gunnerson, in a low, deprecating tone. "Botheration! if a beast ain't a creetur, what is it? I should like to know; you know what I meant, and that's enough. 'T is hard learning an old dog new tricks, as you 'll find out, if you try to get me into the notion of talking gram- marfied. Miss Carollton, will you have the goodness to give Henry Clay two or three slaps on the back; he's choking to death and getting black in the face a-trying to swallow that hunk of beef-steak without chawing it up." He was soon relieved from the perilous effects resulting from his attempt at swallowing his breakfast without the trouble of previous mastication. Unwonted silence reigned throughout the room for a full minute, when a smell of singed hair became offensively perceptible, accompanied by a fierce caterwauling from the chimney-corner, where several of the younger children were seated on square blocks of wood. "What are you about there, boys?" cried their paternal relative, in a tone of extreme irritation. "Come to me this minit, Daniel Webster; why, I will tear you into shoe-strings, afore I 'll have such a 'tarnal racket as this here." "I wa' n't a-doin' nothin', father," whimpered the young reprobate; 't was only little Martin a-tryin' to take up the cat with the tongs, and they's so hot a-layin' on the coals of fire they burnt her, and made her squeal." "Well, you just dare to let me hear any more noise from either of you, and I 'll have you all down in the potato-field, pickin' stones, in less than no time." I thought of a very different breakfast-room, - quiet, and well-ordered, the windows curtained by a rose-covered lattice, - and smiled to conceal a starting tear. "Would you like to begin your school to-day?" asked Mr. Gunnerson, "or will you wait. till the beginning of the week?"     48        ISABEL CAROLLTON: "I would much prefer commencing at once." "Then I will send one of the boys round to all the houses to tell your scholars to be on hand. You won't have none of my scapegraces to learn, enyhow. If I send them to the district school six months in a year, it's as riuch as I can afford, and more 'an I ever had done for me. All the cipherin' ever I done was with a piece of chalk on the tail- board of my cart, when the cattle stopped to breathe. But that's nothin' to do with your case. Hows'ever, I hope you 'll like the school-'us I 've hired for you. It used to be a doctor's office; but when his house was burnt down, he moved up into the village; so I had it fixed up, and some desks put in. I hope it will suit you." "Thank you, not only for your good wishes, but for your kindness in putting yourself to so much trouble in arranging everything conveniently for me." My thanks seemed rather to discompose him; for, rising from his seat at table, and uneasily scratching his head, he walked stiffly out of the room. A pleasant half-hour's walk brought me to the school-house, - a lovely place, on the verge of a dense forest of sugar- maples, oaks, elms and evergreens,-the graceful branches of the overarching trees interlacing, and forming a natural canopy over its low roof. The situation was 'elevated and airy. In the direction opposite the forest, the eye swept over an extensive prospect, bounded in the distance by the irregu- lar summits of the Green Mountains. Beautiful little mossy dells, almost hidden by their verdant banks and overhanging shrubbery; deep, sheltered woodland glades, here and there seen through budding branches of the trees, and illumined by light as soft and pure as that shining though alabaster,- all- combined to form a varied landscape whose beauty de- lighted me. Nature had donned a captivating demi-toilet,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      49 to usher in the sunny month which robes her in violets and nectarine-blossoms. On my entrance, I found about twenty misses already assembled, and seated at their desks. I had been led to sup- pose, by a remark from Mr. Gunnerson, that some of them would be accompanied by their younger brothers, but now found this not to be the case. "Good-morning, young ladies," said I, looking around on the assembled group. No one responded, and I thought my reception rather a cool one. I asked if any persons should call on them at home, if they would not greet them with the customary salutation, and if the respect they extended to every other person was not equally due to their teacher. Looks of pleased surprise, accompanied by a murmured "good-morning" from all sides of the room, were my sle answer. My pupils were neat and intelligent looking ; the youngest, ten; the oldest, about my own age. One of the last-named, a very beautiful girl, -I immediately supposed to be the Miss Howard whom Dr. Gerould had described to me. There were the thick, black curls, brilliant white teeth, and elastic, graceful figure; while her manners had an artless, child.4ike simplicity his description had not prepared me to expect. But when I required a list of names, she wrote hers Slinn  Lee.     I found my pupils less advanced in their studies than those of the same age-in Elderbank, but soon ascertained that -this was not the result of a want of mental capacity, but the effect of their not having enjoyed equal advantages for im- provement.  I plunged into my new employment with all the energy of which my nature was eapa&le. I eagerly perused every work on education I could procure, eonsidering no exertion too laborious that would benefit those entrusted to my charge. 5     50        ISABEL CAROLLTON: My endeavors were, with few exceptions, zealously seconded by my pupils. I became deeply anxious for their improver ment and welfare, both in and out of school. My interest in them was no transient one; for, even now, I feel a thrill of pleasure on hearing of the success and happiness of any one of them, or an emotion of pain at any misfortune that has befallen them. A month had flown by, when, on returning one day from school, I found a lady sitting engaged in easy chat with Mrs. Gunnerson, who presented her as "Mrs. Grant, one of our neighbors." She possessed one of those kind, benevolent faces that inspire confidence at once, and I answered her nu, merous inquiries about myself and my school, with an easy frankness. quite at variance with the habitual reserve natural to my character. She had just commenced a question regarding the books I had been recently perusing, when an exclamation from 'Mrs. Gunnerson interrupted her. "Mercy on us! these children are always up to some kind of mischief; they are enough to worry one's life out." And away she hurried in pursuit of the small delinquent, who had seized the cambric ruffle she was stitching, from her lap, and, with fingers bedaubed with maple syrup, was endeavoring to fasten it to the end of Mrs. Grant's sunshade, for a "whip."' Mischievous as you' think him," said Mks. Grant, with a good-humored smile, "I daresay you would rather -have him destroy every ruffle in the house, than see a hair of his head injured." "Yes, indeed, a thousand times," replied Mrs. Gunnerson, catching him in her arms and kissing his round, healthy cheek, all-the latent tenderness of the mother's heart being aroused at the bare thought of harm's beftling her darling. "Have you as many books as you desire to read at pres- ; .; se -:s,'                         s     .    A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       S1 ent," resumed Mrs., Grant, " or shall I have the pleasure of lending you some?" "Thank you, I have very little to read now, and shall be very glad to avail myself of your kindness." "Well, then, no more compliments, but put on your bonnet and walk home with me, to choose for yourself." "Is it far distant from here?" "Not many rods beyond your school-room." "O! I remember the lovely cottage, almost overrun by woodbine end climbers." I equipped myself for the walk, while my newly-acquired friend exchanged parting compliments with Mrs. Gunnerson. The walk toward the close of the day proved cool and re- freshing; I felt none of the fatigue and lassitude I had ex. perienced in returning home an hour earlier. Passing over a smooth lawn shaded by ornamental trees, and fragrant with the flowering shrubs that bloomed in the borders, we entered the widow's tastefully arranged parlor. "Do play me one. tune, it is so long since I have had the pleasure of listening to one," said I, on noticing an elegant piano which stood invitingly open. "I would be glad to please you," she replied, 4" but I do not know one note from another. The instrument does not even belong to me; but to a gentle ana who has boarded with me for several years, a Mr. Livington, wtio does business at the large brick store near the church. He has been at New York for a week, now. If he was at home he would give us some music. Draw that ottoman up beside me, and tell me how you like Willowhridge, and 'hldwyou are pleased with your school." "I like teaching much, as ydt, excepting when I have a headache, or one of the parents senditmea message that sounds like fault-finding. I exert myself so hard to do everything w             *   e       (     52        ISABEL CAT0RLLTON: which I think will promote the best interests of my scholars, that anything approaching to censure wounds me keenly." "You must not be too sensitive about the opinions of oth- ers. Strive rather to do what is right, and preserve the ap- proval of the silent monitor within; this is of far higher value than the approbation of your fellow-creatures--so liable to errors and mistakes of judgment." "I hope I shall beiefit by your advice. There goes oneof my pupils, now  Minna Lee. Her improvement is so rapid that she never causes me a moment's anxiety. Where does she live? - I wish to call on her." ' In that small, miserable-looking dwelling you can see from the-window. She is an orphan; and her adopted mother is in very reduced circumstances. I will relate her history to you, as far as I am acquainted with it myself, after we have taken tea." "I fear, Mrs. Grant, I shall be unable to listen to it this evening, as I must take my leave of you very ioon, in order to reach home before dark." "Indeed, you must not; I will send Thomas, my gardener, to carry you back' at nine o'clock, if you will remain with me -so long." To this arrangement I gladly acceded, the offer of a pleas- ant, social evening, having become too great a rarity to be neglected. When, after tea, we were again seated together, I ventured to remind her of her promise to relate to me all she knew of Minna Lee. "Mr. Lee was an artist," she commenced, "residing in one of our New England cities; young, handsome, sanguine, and enthusiastically-devoted to his profession. The bold, pictu- resqlue scenery of Willowhridge brought him here in search of fresh scenes- for his easel. During one of his forest rambles he met Harriet Liscombe, a beautiful young girl, and good as *   A PERSONA RETROSPECT.       53 fair. Her sweet, delicate beauty took his fancy at once, and I believe he fell in love at first sight, as people. say. "To cut my story short, he succeeded in getting an intro- duction to her, and in -the course of a few weeks they were married; much to the displeasure of her friends, who consid. ered her too young,-- she was but sixteen,- and looked upon him as a mere adventurer. The happy couple returned to his former place of abode, and years went by before we heard from them again. "When tidings did come, they were far from being what we wished to hear. He had not been blessed with influential friends to bring his paintings forward into the notice favor- able to their disposal; while his pride and that high-wrought sensitiveness, so often a characteristic of genius, made him shrink from soliciting the patronage of the vulgar, purse- proud aristocrats, who sometimes wandered into his studio, superciliously gazing at, and criticizing the productions of the poor, unknown artist, until he would have felt a sense of per- sonal degradation in applying to them for aid. "The incessant toil he was forced to practise, in order to procure the comforts necessary for the decent support of his family, was not only impairing his eyesight, but was slowly destroying the healthful energies of both body and mind. Mrs. Lee had become the mother of two feeble children,' and as her. own health was delicate, she was quite incapable of affording the slightest relief to her over-tasked husband, by laboring to contribute her mite toward their maintenance. To increase their burdens, his only sister, when the chills of death were already creeping over her, earnestly requested that he would adopt her infant child, 3inna, as his own. He could not refuse her dying request. "It was a long time before we heard from them again, and then we were told that the long-continued severe application he had undergone, had ruined a constitution never vigorous, 5*     54        ISABEL CA*OLLTON: and he had become imbecile in mind and body; incapable, in his turn, of doing anything for his family. "His wife, on the other hand, had regained her former good health, and rented a large boarding-house, which she soon succeeded in filling with transient lodgers and perma- nent boarders. By the most persevering efforts, aided by strict economy, she not only succeeded in keeping the family comfortable, and supplying her invalid husband with the li^- uries which are only necessary comforts to one in his situa- tion, but actually deposited a small sum, yearly, in the sav- ings-bank, against a rainy day. Her whole married life was one prolonged struggle with adverse fortune. 4 Mr. Lee's health, at last, became so very precarious,'that the physician whom she called in advised her to remove from the unwholesome air and noisy streets of the city, to some quiet country town. With her hard-earned and carefully- hoarded savings, she purchased, and came to live in, this very house. Their only surviving child died a few months after their arrival here; the poor father soon followed it to its nar- row home. "It has always seemed to me the height of injustice-the way in which her property was settled; she retaining but a third, and the remainder going to enrich some relatives of her husband, mean, miserly fellows, of whom she .had scarcely heard before, and who had never had the generosity to step forward and lend a helping hand in their hours of need, when her husband was still alive; but, now that he was no more, they came manfully forward to claim their 'lawful rights.' "I know men sneer, and scoff at the mere mention of 'wo- man's rights,' as though the very name were a chimera; but I would ask of them, humbly and candidly, what right had man to make a law which could deprive this bereaved, af- flicted woman, of the fruits of her own personal iadustry? I have heard it said that woman's moral subjection-and enslave-   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       55 ment to man is only the fulfilment of the divine curse pro- nounced upon our transgressing ancestress. Even if this be so, the undisputed 'lords of creation' will consult their well-being as much as our own, by not abusing their rights and becoming tyrants; for, in undermining our happiness, they will be sure to sap the foundations of their own. All his- tory and experience prove this to be true. "But, to go back to my story, Mrs. Lee was obliged to sell her 'thirds,' and remove to the miserable dwelling where she and Minna have since lived. The relatives who had claimed the widow's small fortune, offered to take Minna, and (bring her up like a lady,' but the little girl cried so bitterly at the idea of leaving her adopted mother, that the latter resolved to yield to the wishes of the child, and her own inclinations, and not part with her. Mrs. Lee has now become old and infirm ;- she is about my age, but labor and care make her seem much older;-- she still continues to take in needlework to patch out their scanty means of living. She does all Mr. Livingston's sewing, at double the price he would have to pay any one else for doing the same work; but she does not know that. Minna is untiring in her efforts to assist her - mother, when out of school; indeed, she would stay at home all the time if Mrs. Lee would allow it; but she wishes to- give her an education that will fit her for teaching.  "In many respects she reminds me of her deceased uncle. She draws quite well, and plays and sings surprisingly well, considering the small amount of instruction she has had. "Whenever Mr. Livingston has had a half-hour to spare, he has spent it in teaching her what he knew himself of music." What a paragon of perfection this Mr. Livingston must be! thought I. I began to be afraid of him, and was glad he was absent.     CHAPTER V. A NEW ACQUAINTANCE-- TOO AGREEABLE. AFTER Mrs. Grant had concluded her history, and we had inished our comments on the same, I took a large pile of music from the piano, and began to examine the heterogeneous materials of which it was composed. "Perhaps you play, or sing," said Mrs. Grant, inquir- ingly.  "I used to do both," I replied, "but suppose my fingers have grown rather stiff from want of practice." "Never mind that, but come and sing me 'Home, sweet home.' I was never weary of listening to it when a child; and I think, like wine, it improves by age." I went to the piano and sang it for her. She then selected several others she -desired to hear, and finally placed before me a brilliant opera air, arranged as a duet. I had commenced singing it, to gratify her,- although with a single voice the effect was but meagre,- when a vehicle was heard driving up the avenue to the house. Mrs. Grant walked into the hall, and returned a moment after, accompa- nied by a stranger; the dreaded Mr. Livingston, who had returned unexpectedly to town. "Miss Carollton was just singing your favorite air, as you drove up," said Mrs. Grant, after completing a formal intro- duction. "Then I beg she will allow me to share the pleasure of   A PERSONAL RET.10SPECT.       57 listening with you," was the gallant reply, in a voice deep- toned and musical. I wished to decline, but as I had no good excuse to offer for so doing, I re-commenced the song; but the idea of play- ing before a practised connoisseur in the "( science of sweet sounds" so aroused my old feeling of diffidence, that, before the conclusion of the first stanza, my voice trembled so ex- cessively that it was in danger of being entirely lost, when the full, clear tones of his voice came to my support, and I was at ease again. After we had concluded singing, he did not seem to be aware that I had nearly failed in so doing, but glided easily and nat- urally into conversation. He is, at least, thought I, delicate and unobtrusive in his kindness, and a much less formidable personage than I had anticipated. Mrs. Grant called upon me to select the- .boks ahed had offered me; and, as I proceeded to do so,: Mr:Livingston also offered me the use of his own small library, entering into a warm eulogium of the literary productions of his favorite authors, whom I agreed with him in admiring, as far as my limited reading enabled me to judge of their respective merits. His acquaintance with the standard works of literature I found to be so much more extended than my own, that I gladly embraced his offer to select for me such books as he had found well worth perusal. The voluminous pile soon laid before me attested the faithfulness of his search. The time came for my departure from my new friends. My books, with myself, were already deposited in the capa- cious chaise, and Thomas wais drawing up the reins prepar- atory to starting, when Mr. Livingston, who was standing beside the vehicle, asked, with some slight embarrassment of manner, if I would object to a change of drivers, as there was nothing he would prefer to a short drive on a balmy even- ing like the present. *r     58 -ISABEL CAROLLTON: As I was not disposed to object, the change was' soon effected. He was an ardent admirer of fine scenery, and directed my attention to the lovely picturesque views I had before observed; but which looked still more beautiful as seen by the "soft silver light of the moon." "Indeed!" he exclaimed, as we arrived at Mr. Gunner. son's, "I am quite disposed to quarrel with the way, which never before seemed so provokingly short." I did not express a similar opinion, but blushed with con- fusion, as I thought that I could not conscientiously disclaim one Very like it. When I was once more alone in my own dormitory,'I re- called, by the aid of memory, every look, tone and expression of my agreeable companion of the evening. At first sight, or when his countenance was in repose, he had little pretension to beauty ; but when he became interested in conversation,- as he had been while expatiating on the relative merits of a vari- ety of literary compositions,- his face was actually radiant with an intellectual, soul-lit expression, infinitely superior to mere harmony of coloring, or personal symmetry. His eyes were brilliantly black; his forehead not high, but broad; and his thick hair, of the same dark shade as his eyes, brushed ' back from his brow, fell over his temples in luxuriantwavy masses. His figure, which was rather slight, was a little above the medium height, and graceful in its proportions. His hands were white and delicate as those of a woman; and, to complete the tout-ensemble, he had a well-bred ease, and un- assuming elegance of manner, which I bhad never seen pos- sessed, in an equal degree, by any other person, with the exception, perhaps, of Mr. Glenmore. - A few- days' after this, Minna Lee requested me, at the close of school, to walk home with her, and call on her mother. A short walk brought us to the miserable dwelling of the poor widow. Everything about the house was scrupulously clean;   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       59 and a few flowers, blooming on either side of the stone door- step, showed the results of Minna's taste for floriculture. I found Mrs. Lee a dignified and ladylike woman, although everything about her bespoke the extreme poverty she was enduring. Her white hair was covered by a snowy cap, and. her pale, attenuated face, which bore'traces of many an hour of suffering, was expressive only of pleasant emotions, as her eyes rested tenderly on the beautiful face of her adopted daughter. "Come with me, Minna," she said, at last; "I have some- thing in the parlor to show you, which will give you a great deal of pleasure." We both followed her into the adjoining room, where stood the elegant rosewood piano I had already seen at Mrs. Grant's, presenting a striking contrast to the painted wooden chairs, pine-framed looking-glass, and neatly- sanded floor of the " parlor." "O dear, mother!" cried the excited Minna, in delighted accents, "I am so very glad. I wanted one so much, but never expected to have one. How came it here " "Mr. Livingston had it sent over, my dear, after coming, in the first place, and asking if I would oblige him by allow- ing it to remain here for the present, as Mrs. Grant's rooms were so filled up with furniture, etc., that it was not conve- nient for it to remaii there; and if I would let you practise on it to pay me for storing it for him. I am sure that he said all this to prevent our feeling under any obligations for the loan of the instrument.' Just sit down and let us hear how music sounds with bare walls and floor." "I cannot read music, yet," said Minna, looking timidly at me; "I only sing by ear, and make up a few chords, as I go along, for an accompaniment; " and, seating herself at the piano, without any prelude, she commenced the words of a simple air. He'r voice was one of the sweetest I had ever listened to e        60        ISABEL CAROLLTON: clear as a flute, with every intonation so melodious that it re- called to memory the warbling of a bird. "How I wish," said she, on concluding, "that I could learn to play scientifically!" "You must let me teach you all I know of music," said I. "I have time enough to do so, out of school, and it will be of service to myself to review the instruction-book." Minna's thanks were much warmer than so simple an act of kindness deserved. Mrs. Lee grasped my hand with an expression of gratitude lighting up her thin face, that more than repaid me for any fresh exertions my self-imposed task might occasion. "It is not that I am anxious she should become what is called an accomplished young lady," said she, with emotion; but I shall not always - perhaps not long-- be with her; and, while my life is spared, I wish her to acquire every- thing that may, when the time comes, be the means of procuring her a respectable livelihood." , "There is Mr. Livingston going by now; I must thank him," cried Minna, springing up and leaving the room. A moment after, I saw her from the window, standing by him at the road-side.  He looked up, caught my glance, and entered the house with her, saying, ",Well met, Miss Carollton; I was on my way to Mr. Gunnerson's to bring you this letter, which I just took from the office for you. I have also a new publication at Mrs. Grant's, which I think you will like to read. I will c  find it for you, if you will come there with me." Accordingly we walked together to Mrs. Grant's; she met me with her usual cordial welcome. "Here is the volume I spoke of," said Mr. Livingston, handing me Thackeray's latest. "How did you like my selec- tion of last week?" "Much; it showed me that you did not absolutely con-   A PERSONAL- RETROSPET.      6(1 demn the perusal of fictitious writings, as I had supposed you would do. I was charmed with the simplicity and humor of Miss Burney's early productions." "I thought 'Evelina' would please you; but you per- ceived, doubtless, that the number of novels I selected for you was quite limited in comparison with the historical, critical, and biographical works. The former were sufficient, however, to serve as condiments for the more substantial mental regimen I took the liberty of recommending. It is only when read exclusively, that the effects of the better class of novels are pernicious, it seems to me. But I am detain- ing you, and can discuss the subject equally well when walking home with  you, if you do not deny me that pleasure."  I had not time to reply, before the door was thrown open, and two young ladies, whom Mrs. Grant presented as Miss Howard and her cousin, Miss Welles, were ushered into the room. For the first time I had an opportunity of observing Dr. Gerould's belle-ideal of feminine grace and beauty. She wore on her head only a veil of blonde, which she removed on her entrance. Her hair was tastefully disposed, and boind with a wreath of rose-buds. Miss Welles was rather plain, but animated and intelligent-looking, quiet and self-possessed in manner, and seeming even reserved; perhaps, because her companion was so exactly the reverse, talking to Mr. Living- ston incessantly about persons and things of which I was profoundly ignorant. "Excuse me, ladies," said she, at last, as if suddenly recollecting herself, I believe I am inadvertently monop- olizing Mr. Livingston's attention. I really did not intend 'tenir toujours le de' dans la conversatio,' as my old gov- erness, Mademoiselle Miaise, would have said." Sinking back on the sofa with an air of affected languor, she waved her delicately-gilded fan just enough to impart a graceful 6     62         ISABEL CAROLLTON : motion to the sweeping curls that shaded her faultless neck and shoulders; stealing an occasional glance into an opposite mirror, to ascertain if this new phase in her appearance was sufficiently becoming to be persisted in. Mrs. Grant inter- rupted the unbroken silence that ensued, by some common- place inquiries concerning the health of Mrs. Howard. Mr. Livingston turned and addressed a few remarks to Miss Welles; but Miss Howard, not desiring to be eclipsed, inter- rupted her cousin's replies by asking, "Have you opened that box of embroideries you promised to reserve for my inspection, Arthur?" "It was opened this very afternoon. You should have called and looked at them as you came by. I think they will please your taste, the shades are so brilliantly contrasted." "I shall stop on my return; and I must shorten my call here, or there will no- be sufficient daylight left for my exam- ination of your needle-wrought fabrics. Excuse the shortness of our stay, Mrs. Grant. I hope we will soon have the pleasure of seeing you longer at our house. Come, Mr. Livingston, you will accompany us. I could not think of permitting any one else to show us the chenille-wrought laces, your selections are always in such indisputably good taste." "Pardon me," he replied.  "I shall hardly be able to comply with your wishes, as I have just made an engagement, or rather, an offer, to walk home with Miss Carollton." Her large, brilliant eyes dilated, and her finely-arched brows were raised, seemingly in astonishment, that he should consider so trivial a circumstance as a barrier to her expressed desires. "Indeed!' said she. "Well, I daresay Miss Carollton will dispense wit byour attendance, as I am-so very desirous to see your new arrivals;" and she threw nie an impatient, almost supercilious, glance of interrogation.  k -                         -   A PRSONAL RETROSPECT.       63 "Certainly," I replied to the mute question, "if Mr. Livingston desires it." He gave me a reproachful look, merely saying, in a cold tone, "Thank you, Miss Carollton; I am ready to accompany you, ladies." His parting bow was stiff and formal, and mine more dig- nified than was quite natural; for there was in my heart, I fear, a tinge of angel and uncharitableness toward the beau- tiful girl, who made me a condescending curtsy as she swept past, her heavy silk flounces rustling against my plain muslin dress. Miss Welles took my hand kindly, striving by her own warmth of manner to efface the impression produced by her companion's want of courtesy. "Does she, too, reside in Willowhridge?"I asked of Mrs. Grant, after they had all left us. "Not permanently," she replied. "She occasionally comes over from an adjoining town to spend a few weeks at her uncle's. How do you like Corinna Howard?" "I think her style of beauty almost perfect," I answered evasively. "O, she is very well as far as looks, go; but that cannot be supposed to have much effect on an old lady like myself. Her manners do not please me; they seem forward and pre- suming, demanding the admiration of all who approach her. Poor girl! she has been so much flattered and. sought after, that she must have possessed more than common strength of mind to remain unspoiled by it." "Have you been acquainted with her since she was a child?" "Not quite; her father removed here from Philadelphia a few years ago; and he is as much of an aristocrat as wealth and political influence can make the first nn in a village' of our democratic republic. We all thought his daughter was, or would soon be, the affianced of Dr. Gerould, he was sB     "        -ISABEL (.AROLLTON: devoted to her, and she received his attention, with such evi- dent pleasure; but now she seems bent on captivating Mr. Livingston. "Nothing disgusts me more than to see one, who might be a most charming girl, making a fool of herself by manoeuvring to win the regard of the opposite sex, which, to be of any value, must be freely given. Such arts are generally their own rewaid; for man values objects in proportion to the labor their attainment costs him." I was in no mood for conversation; I had been so bitterly annoyed that I could hardly refrain from tears, and hastened home to ascertain the contents of my half-forgotten letter. It was from cousin Mary. Her health remained unchanged. My uncle had accepted the situation of book-keeper in the store of which he had so long been the owner; but the seden- tary habits which this imposed, so contrary to his usual mode of life, had so affected his health, that he was forced to resign it. He had been quite ill. Dr. Smythe had feared a brain fever, but he was now convalescent. My aunt and cousin had, without his knowledge, taken in needle-work to add: to their scanty stock of comforts. I re- solved, as soon as I collected the sum for my first quarter's' tuition, to remit them the whole amount. Weeks passed un- eventfully by. Minna was rapidly improving in every study she had undertaken; her mind grasping and retaining, with little effort, whatever was presented to it. Even the mechan- ical difficulties in the execution of music, so tedious to ordi- narybeginners, she was steadily overcoming. I* occasionally met Mr. Livingston in attendance 6n Miss Howard. I always received from him a courteous token of recognition; from her a nonchalant nod. It was August. I had taught three months; and, on the day which had closed my first term, I requested the presence of all the parents to examine the improvement, which I flat-   A PERSONAL' RETROSPECT.      65 tered myself had been effected by my pupils. Their white muslin dresses offered a cool and pleasing contrast to the festoons of flowers and evergreens, with which they had decorated the school-room. The spectators were more numerous than I had expected, and the exercises met their unqualified approval. I had re- ceived words- of encouragement from some, of praise from others, and was again alone. Notwithstanding my youth and inexperience I had succeeded in my undertaking; but of how little value seemed the approbation of strangers! My head ached intensely from over-excitement; and my eyes filled with tears as I thought of the beaming looks of parental ten- derness which had rewarded the progress of my scholars, and contrasted with theirs my own forlorn and friendless condition. A low rap at the door startled-me; but, supposing it to be one of my pupils returning for some forgotten article,-no unusual circumstance - I wiped my eyes, and merely saying, You may come in," was surprised by the entrance of Mr. Livingston. He advanced with cordially extended hand, say- ing, I could not resist the temptation of coming in to offer my congratulations on le grand succes which has, to-day, re- warded your exertions. But how is this  I expected to surprise you in all the flush of triumph; instead of which, you look, to borrow an old saying, as though you had lost your last friend." "Indeed! you have almost guessed my thoughts, although I think I have very few to lose here," said I, with an effort to speak cheerfully. "You must accept me as a most devoted one, then, 'for lack of a better offer; and you must let me inquire, in order to perform the first office of friendship,-that of soothing little - troubles,- what it is that causes your sadness. Is teaching too harassing for you " 6*     "        ISABEL CAROLLTON: O, no! it is not that; I am quite ashamed to tell you what trifles have power to annoy me when I am fatigued and a little ill; it was only that the kindness lavished on their daughters by my visitors to-day, reminded me that I was an orphan, and alone." "Now th'at I look at you, I think you are less rosy than when I first saw you. Your health must be looked after. Have you no relatives?" "An uncle, with whom I always resided until I came here."     "Do not think me impertinent, or prying, if I ask why you left him ; believe me, I am not so; but you seem so young to be left dependent on yourself, among entire strangers, that if I see any way in which my services can benefit you, I hope you will not refuse them." I briefly, but ingenuously, recounted to him my uncle's misfortunes in business, and consequent loss of health and spirits; together with my own desire to be no longer a bur- den upon them, but even to contribute my mite toward lessening the unavoidable privations of those to whom I owed' a happy home in earlier life. He thanked me gravely for my unreserved confidence, while I felt a flush burning my , cheeks as I reflected how much of my own personal history I had. obtruded on the notice of one, almost a stranger. His keen eye detecting my embarrassment, he remarked, earnestly, "You shall never have reason to regret telling me this. It recalls the memory of my own early days. I, too, am an orphan; both my parents died at New Orleans when I was a child. I will tell you .more of my past life some other time-- not to-day -- I fear it would not contrast favor* ably with the simple purity of your own; and, now that I have inquired into all the symptoms of your malady, as a physician would phrase it, I shall prescribe gentle exercise   A PEcSONAMs RETOSPECT.        67 and cheerful society; the first dose --a walk with myself as far as Mrs. Leil- to be taken immediately."  * 3 Minna met us at the door with a face full of alarm, telling us that her mother had just had a severe fit of coughing, and, on removing the handkerchief which was pressed to her mouth, it had been saturated with blood. We entered hastilv and found 'Mrs. Lee calm as usual, but with a face of deathly paleness. Mr. Livingston proposed going for Dr. Lirating, but Mrs. Lee declined the offer, saying, " her lungs, when last :exam- ined, were found to be so much diseased, that her ultimate recovery was impossible; she had a pectoral beside her, which relieved the paroxysms of coughing; this'was all that could be done for her." "And knowing all this," said Mr. Livingston, you can think and speak of it with calmness." ("Our divine Father," returned she, breathing with diffi- culty, " never permits our trials to exceed our powers of endurance. I do not believe any one can view, at a distance, the mysterious ' king of terrors' without shrinking, in dread anid awe, from his- nearer approach; but many have gone through the last great conflict, not only without fear, but filled with joy at the prospect of a blissful immortality." "Yes," returned he again, "( in that hour, when - the out- lines of this life are growing indistinct to their failing vision, they learn to look upon it, as it really is, merely- the vestibule to that glorious spiritual temple whose only entrance leads through death's dark portals.'" "It is always," said she, 1" peculiarly pleasing to see one, like you in the full flush of prosperous life, fearlessly avow- ing sentiments, which many seem, by their silence, almost ashamed to profess."        .  "I would not cherish them 'if ashamed to lavow them," he replied earnestly.   :' It always did seem unaccountably     68         ISABEL CAROLLTON : strange to me, that any one should shrink from the open expission of his humble adoration for that al powerful Being, without whose protecting support none of us could exist for a single instant." "Who can account for the manifold& perversities of the human heart? I think I could leave this world of suffering, sin and sorrow, with hardly a pang of regret, were it not for the grief of my poor Minna, when she is left alone in the world." The tears she had hitherto controlled flowed fast as she thought of her adopted daughter. "Pray calm yourself!" said Mr. Livingston. "Nothing could be worse for you than this agitation. I give you my promise that Minna shall never want a friend while I live. I will do all that a devoted brother could do to make her comfortable and happy, if need be; so set your heart quite at test about her." "Do you not think, Miss Carollton, that it would be better for us to take our leave now? I suppose quiet and repose will prove more efficient, as restoratives, than anything we can offer -Mrs. Lee?" "I-ow  differently," said he, as we regained the narrow foot-path that ran beside the road, " similar trials affect dif- ferent individuals! These' very trials, that make Mrs. Lee seem  almost too good for this world, would produce, in a character destitute of her high principles, only moroseness or misanthropy/' "They would, indeed.  I felt self-reproached, when with her, to see with how much more calmness she endures heavy afflictions, than I the trifling ills that fall to my lot." "I hope you will never be called upon to suffer the severe discipline she has gone through. I suppose it is not necessary for the perfection of every character." "Do your words imply a belief in- human perfection? If so, I shall not dare to let you become well acquainted with my   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.        69 own character,- lest its numerous faults should cause the loss of your friendship."         ' "Do not even allude to such a hypothesis; it is written, (By their fruits ye shall know them.' If both our past lives were to be tested by this infallible criterion, I am-well aware that the preponderance of faults would not be found on your side. In the secluded country-life you have always led, you can hardly conceive the inducements to folly, dissipation, and crime even, which, in a large city, tempt the young and inex- perienced." "t But," said I, ( do you think those who have never' been equally tempted deserve superior credit for riot falling into temptation?" a I plainly see," he replied with a smile, ( that we must change the subject of conversation, or we shall be getting lost and mystified among the dark, never-ending labyrinths of metaphysico-theology." t      e     CHAPTER    VI. A PIC-NIC; A FRIGHT; AND A SPECIMEN OF FAMLY GOVERN- MENT. '"WHAT a fine day!" said Mrs. Gunnerson, one lovely afternoon during my vacation. "( How I wish I could go out and enjoy myself rambling about, as I used to before I was tied down with all these children!" "And why can you not?"I asked. "Because I can't leave the boys without somebody-to look after them. The last time I left them alone I got such a horrid fright when I came back again; why, there was'Henry Clay and Thomas Jefferson, drunk as pipers, with sucking cider through straws, from a barrel in the shed. I came very near sending for the doctor before I happened to find out what ailed 'em, by smelling their breaths. You never saw such a looking object as John Adams was. Some way or other he got knocked into the fire, and burnt half the hair off his head, and his clothes too ; one of the boys hauled him out, and one of the others, that was scar't out of his wits, you know, up and threw a pail of water at him, pail and all, to extinguish him, you know, that knocked him down and cut a great gash in his forehead, against the corner of the table. "Daniel Webster, too, had been cutting up, though not so bad as the rest. He had only climbed up to the top-shelf in the buttery, to help himself to pumpkin-sauce, and when his hands got slippery he couldn't hold on to the shelf any   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.        71 longer, so down he come, preserve-pot and all; there was no bones broke, to be sure, but he was nicely daubed from head to foot, I can assure you. And now, do you blame me for always staying at home?" "It does seem rather dangerous to trust them," replied I, repressing the covert smile with which I had listened to her grievances; " but, if you will trust them to my care, I will promise not to leave the house during your absence."      S With some hesitation she accepted my offer. After her departure I sat down by the cradle, for the youngest had already a will of his own, and practically refused to yield himself to "Nature's sweet restorer," unless the cradle was' kept in motion; so I rocked him and read, frequently raising  ' my. eyes from my book to inspect my somewhat noisy charge. "Come, children," said I, tiring, at last, of the confusion, "if you will all be very still, I will tell you a story." "e O, do!" cried one; 4' tell us about little Red Riding Hood." "No, don't!" cried one of the others, 'cause when you telled it afore, I was afraid to go to sleep in the dark, for fear a great wolf should get into bed, and eat me all up." "Tell uth about the boy that went up the bean, that grew way up to the thky," said little lisping Thomas Jefferson. "I will tell you about a beautiful girl that wore glass slip- pers," said I; (" you never heard it before." They all gathered about me, with the exception of the dis- contented lisper, who, falling back upon his reserved rights, constructed a coach from all the chairs in the room (I was driven to a cricket, as a last resource), and, tying the lines to the door-latch, mounted a light-stand, which offered tempting accommodations' as a coach-box, and -commenced belaboring the sides of the dresser -,his imaginary steeds, for the- notice -with so hearty a good-will, that the contents of the shelves     72         IABEL CAROtLTON : capered and danced jigs more fantastic than were ever con- ceived by genius the 'most eccentric. At last, the din became unendurable, and, springing to my feet, I hastily lifted him from the table and sat him on a block of wood, in the corner. I watched him for a few moments, as he sat quite still, look- ing keenly at me with his small, roguish eyes, but afterwards ceased to notice him, as I proceeded with my story. My little audience were listening intently, with eyes dilated and lips apart, as I detailed, for their amusement, the wonder- ful metamorphoses effected by the fairy godmother of the fair Cinderella, when suddenly my comb was pulled from my hiair, which fell loosely over my shoulders. I turned quickly, and, before the tiny hero of coach-box memory had time to effect his escape, repossessed myself of the article purloined. This only made bad matters worse; his' feelings, so long restrained, now relieved themselves by loud and angry screams, which so much disturbed the slumbers iof 'the youngest," that I thought it better to restore the comb, for the time, in order to insure quiet. I had nearly succeeded in hushing to repose the startled occupant of the cradle, when, at the sound of a gentleman's step in the room, I raised my head, and beheld Mr. Living. ston, who excused his unannounced entrance, by declaring that he had nearly pounded the skin from his knuckles in the vain effort to summon some one to the door. The noise inside accounted for his having been unheard. It was now too late to fly, and, rising, I replied confusedly, and with a burning cheek, to his eager apologies. Seizing the opportunity when the attention of the young pilferer was absorbed by the newly- arrived guest, I regained my comb without trouble, and ex- . plained to him the reason of my dishevelled looks. ' "Never mind your unbound tresses," he playfully rejoined. "Upon my -word, I think your coiffure unusually charming. You need no assistance from art tre bien coffee, and were   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       78 you to sit for your portrait I would advise a similar arrange. ment; but I am forgetting the object of my call. I came to request the pleasure of your company on a short equestrian excursion this bright afternoon. The rest of the party await us under the old beech-tree by the road-side. I intended to have given you more time for preparation, but unexpected engagements prevented my coming over before. I hope that will not prevent your joining us, however."  "Thank you; I regret sincerely that I cannot be one of your number; but Mrs. Gunnerson has gone out and left me as charge d'affaires, and I promised not to leave the children during her absence." C"How very unfortunate!" he exclaimed, with an air of evident chagrin, which, without my knowing why, filled my heart with an emotion of pleasure. "I But," he continued, after a moment's pause, I( can you not tell me where she is?  I will take their old gundalow, or whatever they call the vehicle, and go after her." "I have not the least idea where she has gone, and even if I did know, I would rather deny myself almost any pleas- ure than to recall her; it is so very seldom she has an oppor- tunity of going out." "You are very generous," said he; " but," and he cast on me a quick, penetrating glance, "would you really like to go with-- us--if there were no cause for "your detention at home?" "I would, indeed; I can think of nothing I should enjoy with -a higher zest." Of nothing?  I can." "Of what?" Again he regarded me with that scrutinizing look, whose meaning I could not comprehend; then replied, in a voice scarcely above his breath, c( A single kind glance from an eye of azure; but I am forgetting myself; these children, too-     74        ISABEL CAROLLTON : will you come with me to the road-side, and speak to Dr. Gerould and Miss Howard, who are of our party?" "I cannot, without breaking my promise, leave the house; but I will come into the parlor, where I can see them i equally well from the window."               I Coaxing one of the little, unruly flaxen-heads to take my post at the cradle, we proceeded to the next room. "How brilliantly beautiful!"I exclaimed, with involun- tary admiration, as my eye fell on the queenly figure of Miss X Howard, displayed to advantage by the graceful, easy attitude with which she maintained her conspicuous position. The black feather drooping from her dark velvet cap contrasted  finely with the deep bloom exercise had brought to her    cheeks. With her small, delicately-gloved hands she daintily held the bridle-rein of her impatient steed, which, with fiery  eye and dilated nostrils, at every toss of his head, spotted his dark glossy coat-with flecks of snowy foam. "She is," rejoined my companion, " as Voltaire once said i of a noble dame, ' belle, brillante, et figre.'" - "Come, Miss Carollton," cried the merry voice of Dr.   i Gerould, "your fiery Bucephalus is becoming restive, and I : beg you will hasten--" A general laugh from the whole party interrupted him. As  it subsided, one of them remarked, pointing to a sorry-looking animal, "I He looks very like a fierce war-horse, does he not? He would hardly'win a race, in a trial of speed with the broken-down plough-horse Irving has somewhere described." "Nonsense!" rejoined another, "(he is better than he looks. Who will bet against me that he cannot go his mile in two forty?" adding, in a lower tone, "whoever takes the trouble of counting the seconds, in such a contest, is a clown for his pains. But how were we to get a dozen saddle-horses that   were passable without a livery-stable in town?" "How much I regret that you are not to be one- of our     A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       75 number!" said Mr. Livingston, addressing me; " none of the others will sympathize, as you would do, in my admiration of the glorious scenery I had anticipated so much pleasure in pointing out to you." , Ladye fayre," cried Dr. Gerould, in a mock-heroic tone, as he dashed up to the window, and, removing his broad- brimmed "Panama," bowed himself until his well-curled locks almost mingled with his horse's mane, " was not that profound obeisance worthy the chivalrous devotion of a knight of old, when women were angels - ten thousand pardons,- they are so still. As a meet guerdon, then, for my most humble de- voirs, prithee, banish from thy presence yon craven deserter, who has so long left us to do battle with the blood-thirsty myrmidons of the insect tribe, which are continually making fierce and unprovoked assaults on our good steeds and their defenceless riders. The bright eyes of woman should rather incite us to deeds of renown, than enchain us in inglorious ease; bid him go forth, then"---- He was here interrupted in this animated strain of badi- nage by Miss Howard, who entered the yard and approached him. Without deigning me the slightest token of recognition, she addressed herself to Mr. Livingston, who was now leaving the house, begging him, as he was already dismounted, to look at her saddle-girths, which required tightening. He glanced an instant at her horse, then, turning to the man who stood holding the one intended for myself, coolly desired him to examine the fastenings of Miss Howard's saddle, and see that they were properly adjusted. A cloud of displeasure darkened her haughty brow as he leisurely remounted, and, waving me a parting salute, joined the main party by the road-side. Dr. Gerould, with his wonted good-humor, instantly leaped from his saddle, and, throwing himself lightly on one knee, quickly arranged everything as she desired. Without     76        ISABEL CAROLLTON: vouchsafing him a single word of thanks, she gave tne spirited animal which bore her a slight blow with her riding-whip, and, as he bounded fleetly away, a second brow was clouded. A few minutes later the whole party disappeared behind a neighboring hill, leaving me at liberty to return to my self- imposed task, no longer a tedious one, for my spirit was revelling in a profusion of bright day-dreams, while memory echoed the tones of a voice which had power to thrill my heart, like the subdued notes of softly-breathed music.  A few days later I received, from Mr. Livingston, a note  of invitation to a rural pic-nic, which was to take place in a shady grove not far distant. I returned one of acceptance. The morn of the fete dawned clear, and oppressively warm. I had not completed my preparations for the occasion when  Mr. Livingston arrived.  "' Will not the deep shade of the forest, and the cool mur- murs of the green-fringed brooks, be delicious?" he asked,  joyously, as I met him at the door. '"Enchanting; but come in a moment," replied I; "I am hardly ready, but will not detain you long."  When I returned to the parlor, where I had left him alone,  during my short absence, I found him quite absorbed in ex- amining the contents of my port-folio, which he had taken  from the top of the secretary, where it had been placed beyond the reach of the "young destructives."  "Were these drawn from nature?" he asked, without    X raising his head. "With few exceptions, they were," I replied; " at least as far as I was able to imitate her inimitable handiwork." "From what, or where, did you take this beautiful cottage, with its flower-bordered lawn, and smooth carriage-way, winding through those magnificent old elms?" "That was the home of my early years, until misfortune compelled my uncle to relinquish it." '^ * :      "         ' ii   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       " "Indeed! I always sympathize deeply in the sufferings of one, who is forced, when past the prime of life, to abandon the home endeared to him by the happy associations of long years of prosperity. The pliant sapling may be transplanted with little injury, and soon accommodates itself, in its young vigor, to the new soil which fosters it. Not so the full-grown oak, which droops and pines for its native earth, even if torn from it for a more genial and balmy clime; but we have something better to do thah stopping here to moralize; be- sides, I have a favor to ask of you. I wish very much for a pencil-sketch of a most romantically-situated cottage, in a secluded mountain glen, not far from where we are going. If you will allow me to carry your drawing materials, perhaps, when you are tired of rambling, you would not object to using your pencil for the gratification of a friend." "And for my own, too; take them by all means." Half an hour's rapid drive brought us to the festive scene, a thickly-wooded grove, where hundreds were already assem- bled. Music from an invisible band floated on the air, or reverberated from the lofty brows of grim old rocks, among the trembling leaves of the stunted trees, that clung trust- ingly to the flinty protectors whence they derived their scant sustenance. We walked further on, where shouts of clear-ringing laughter proceeded from the younger portion of the crowd. "Now," said I, to my companion, " before I am fatigued, will you conduct me to the cottage you spoke of this morn- ing?"  "If you desire it, certainly," he replied; and, mnaking the best of our way through tangled bushes and underwood, we gained the summit of one of the precipitous hills that skirt the base of the mountains, from whence a most enchanting prospect abruptly revealed itself. Nearly at the foot of the gently-sloping glen that lay 7*     78        ISABEL OAROLLTON: beneath us, stood a small rustic cottage, whose smoke-wreaths were curling in fantastic cloud-shapes through the thick foliage that screened it from the fiercer rays of the noontide sun. A narrow limpid stream, still further down, wound, with soft liquid murmurs, through the alders and fern that sometimes entirely concealed it from our view. Groups of cows reclined lazily in the shady nooks of the pasture, while, occasionally, one stood quietly ruminating in the pellucid waters. On the  opposite hill-side a flock oP sheep were nibbling their accus-  tomed herbage.                       : "Are you disappointed in your expectations of my favor- ite glen?" asked my companion.  "Agreeably so," I replied. "I had anticipated nothing  half so charming as this." "Will you believe," he rejoined, t"that, when we came in  sight of here, on the day of the horseback excursion, and I stopped to admire the scene, Miss Howard, who was riding  near me, exclaimed, ' O, shocking! What a horrible place that  must be for musquitoes! If it was my place Hwould have all those great trees chopped down, they must make the house so dark.' The remark really annoyed me, it jarred so harshly  on the very different feelings with which I was regarding the natural beauties of the scene. But do you think you can  sketch it for me?"  "I fear," I replied, after a short pause, during which I again surveyed every feature of the tempting landscape," that my limited skill will do little credit to the beauties you admire with such enthusiasm; but, if you will leave me a short time, I will do the best in my power."  He arranged a comfortable seat for me on the moss-covered. decaying trunk of a fallen tree, that lay in the shadow of a clump of larches, and withdrew.               I watched his receding figure until it was entirely hidden by intervening trees, and a feeling of fear crept over me at  I? , '  -    A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       79 the gloomy stillness that reigned unbroken in the forest be- hind me; while the cottage before mentioned was too far distant to yield me assistance should I require it. I regretted that I had not desired my companion to remain within calling distance; but it was now too late, as he was out of hearing; so I resolutely endeavored to banish the alarm that oppressed me, by commencing my intended sketch. The outlines were still unfinished, when, raising my eyes at a slight rustling among the bushes, I saw, through the ferns, the hideous coils of a large snake; while from his dis- tended jaws darted a fiery, forked tongue, the sight of which nearly paralyzed me with terror. All that I had ever read, or heard, of rattle-snakes, and other venomous monsters of the serpent race, which infested the mountains, and, after charming by some diabolical fascination, destroyed their intended victims, recurred almost -instantaneously to my memory. For a minute my intense fright chained me to the spot; the next I was rushing through the forest, in frantic haste, heedless whither it led me, so I but escaped the ruthless foe whom I supposed still in pursuit of me. In my headlong flight, I ran a much greater distance than I was at all aware of; and was finally compelled to an abrupt pause by an impenetrable thicket of blackberry briers.- I looked back over my shoulder, fearing to behold my supposed pursuer, but saw only the waving foliage of the dark, sigh- ing forest, which was so dense overhead that scarcely a ray of sunlight penetrated its depths. A new fear seized me. I had come so far I might be una- ble to find my way out of the woods. I could not tell the direction in which I came. After considerable search I found a narrow sheep-path, which I determined to follow, thinking it must lead me to some habitation. I listened intently, but in vain, for the faintest sound of \     80        ISABEL CAROLLTON: music, which had been quite audible where Mr. L. left me; then, with a sigh of vexation, walked hurriedly on in my  chosen path. I followed it with difficulty, over rocks and through narrow, marshy dells, for nearly a mile, when my ex-  ertions were rewarded by my coming unexpectedly upon a hopelessly impassable quagmire.               i After considerable cogitation, I resolved to follow back the same path, trusting I might find its opposite terminus more favorable to my hopes; but, instead of this, after I had fol- lowed it until thoroughly fatigued, it diverged into a number of paths, which completely bewildered me. I selected first one, then another, which,' perhaps, brought me back to the same point from which I had previously started. The rus- tling of a leaf made me start, and every clump of firs or tangled bushes might be a covert for some ferocious monster. At last I became too much exhausted to proceed, and, sitting down on a moss-covered stone, dripping with moisture in the deep shade, I gave myself up to the most dismal fancies; actually weeping, like a child, as I was, from fatigue and apprehension. A faint sound, like that of a human voice, brought my heart, with a bound, to my throat. I sprang to my feet, making my way rapidly in the direction whence the sound proceeded. Soon, stopping to listen more intently, a distant halloo was distinctly borne across the air. A few minutes later, and I joyously responded to a call on my own name, from a voice I knew full well. "What has happened to bring you so far away in the woods?" cried Mr. Livingston, as, pale and breathless from - running, he came up to me.      -           i "I have been rushing hither and thither in search of you," continued he, " for the last two hours; and had almost decided to go for assistance, when here I find you, alone, in the heart of the forest, those tiny hands covered with blood, while you i              i!]is '            '   $;   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       81 are trembling like an aspen. Sit down on this rock, fad tell me all that has happened." I was only too glad to be seated; but, now that my fears were gone, I began to be ashamed of what he might consider my very foolish flight; so I replied, with an attempt at a laugh,--" O, nothing very terrible! My hands have only got a few brier scratches. A hideously large snake was crawling directly towards me." (I could not help shudder- ing at the remembrance.) "I ran in an opposite direction, which led to the woods. I never once thought of being lost, until I found I could not find the way back again." I hardly dared to raise my eyes, lest I should find him laughing at my folly; but, when I did steal a glance at him, his face expressed only grave and anxious sympathy. "I cannot be too thankful," he said, after a pause, i" that no serious accident has befallen you. Several rattle- snakes were killed near here, last year; and, if you have seen one, I am not surprised at your alarm. I only Heproach myself for having left you alone. You will not succeed so easily in getting rid of me another time." I smiled at this playful threat. He declared his intention of tearing his linen handkerchief in strips, to bind up my gloveless hands, which I positively forbid his doing; but, as they were filled with thorns, which were becoming every moment more painful, I effected a compromise by permitting him to extract them. "I hope," said he, as the last one was removed, " that your wanderings of to-day may not be emblematical of your future pathway, and that you may meet more -of life's roses, fewer of its thorns." "Many thanks," I replied. "I shall deem myself but too fortunate, if I escape with only a few scratches from the briers that hedge life's pathway." "True," said he, '( every one has his own peculiar suffer-     82        ISABEL CAROLLTON: ings, both physical and mental; the bitterest are those we are conscious of having drawn upon ourselves by past follies, from these,- the worst of miseries,-- I may safely predict your exemption." "Not so fast," said I, "lest the non-fulfilment of your pre- dictions shall prove them to have resulted from your own charity, rather than my deserts." And I declared myself sufficiently recovered from my fatigue for a fresh start. "Then let me precede you, as a pioneer," said he. "Do you not see," he continued, as he held back a large thorn- bush for me to pass, "how much more safely you can traverse life's pathway, with a strong arm near to ward off the innu- merable ills we are all heir to?" I scarcely knew how to answer, so remained silent; my cheeks burning crimson as I felt, rather than saw, the earnest gaze with which he was regarding me; for I kept my eyes on the ground, lest they should betray more than I wished HM to know. We approached a high stone wall, which I was unable to climb, alone. He assisted me to reach the topmost stone, then, vaulted lightly over at a single bound, saying, as he stood ready to give me his aid in descending the opposite side, "You accept my services, but are determined not to acknowledge that they are either needful or agreeable." "I am very grateful to Mr. Livingston," I replied, with indifference, assumed to veil my embarrassment, " for all the trouble he has given himself on my account; and beg he will not wrong me, by thinking I do not appreciate his kind services." "I have not the slightest claim upon Miss Carollion's grati- tude; and ought, indeed, to thank her for permitting my attendance," said he, with a sudden resumption of his usual dignified reserve. How sorry I felt, as we walked along without speaking, that I had replied in such a cold, stiff manner to his playful tk   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       88 questioning; and I secretly resolved, at the first opportunity, to exert myself to remove the formal barrier that had sud- denly separated us. I raised my eyes to his face on making this resolution. He was watching me as I did so, and asked, "Well; what is it?" , What is what?"I asked, in reply. "Why, that thought that has brought the sunshine back to the most transparent face in the world." "Only a wish to atone," said I, with some hesitation, " for answering you so -so unamiably a few moments since; please to forget it." He drew through his arm my still bleeding hand, saying, as he pressed his own over it, "That is the best substitute for glove or bandage, that, on the spur of the moment, I am able to devise." We approached the place where he had left me. He made no allusion to my suddenly interrupted sketch, excepting to remark, as he gathered up the scattered drawing materials, that he should no longer require a souvenir to remind him of his favorite landscape, as every feature was indelibly en- graven on memory's tablets. He proposed that we should return home, before rejoining our friends at the pic-nic. I looked at the tattered fringe that bordered the hem of my dress, and gladly assented. With a renovated toilet I returned to the grove, still musical with the confused ,hum of merry voices. We soon encountered Dr. Gerould. Miss Welles was leaning on one arm, while the tips of Miss Howard's white-gloved fingers rested on the other. "Delighted to meet you!" cried the doctor, gayly, as he released Miss Welles' arm, to wipe the perspiration from his forehead. "We were getting quite impatient at our long     84        ISABEL CAROLLTON: and fruitless search through the crowd for you, were we not, Miss Howard?" Miss H. did not deign an answer, as she looked at me with a slight, and anything but friendly, nod of recognition. I stepped aside to return Miss Welles' most cordial greet- ing; and then I heard Miss H., who had taken my place beside Mr. Livingston, telling him that she had been trem- bling for the last hour, from the fear that some accident might have befallen him. I turned toward Dr. G. with some interest, to ascertain the degree of pleasure he might receive from her undisguised attentions to the new-comer. Whatever his feelings might  A have been, his manner betrayed no uneasiness, as he said, ( Come, ladies, I think we have stood in this melting sunshine . long enough, in all conscience. I for one am broiled to a.  nicety. There is a tempting seat yonder, cushioned with : i moss, a little brook rippling past it, too. Is n't it a fit rest- s ing place for dryads, naiads, and all that sort of classical nonentities? Come, shall we go?   " " I prefer," said Miss H., accepting Mr. L.'s proffered  ! arm, " to gather a few wild flowers on the verge of the wood- land."  I can remember now, although years have come and gone since then, how magnificent-looking she seemed to me, as she . stood there, bonnetless, the long, heavy fringe of her parasol- ette drooping over her head like a canopy, and a wreath of  i wild flowers, carelessly entwined, surrounding her queenly head like a r6oyal tiara. Again I felt how small and pale I must look, in contrast with her rosy brilliancy; and a pang I shot through me, I was afraid to ask myself why, as they  i slowly sauntered away from us. Dr. Gerould found a seat, soft and mossy, for Miss Welles, and, throwing himself on the ground at her feet, motioned me i to share their natural divan; but the banks of the little   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       85 gurgling streamlet seeming to hold out greater attractions, I promised a speedy return, and followed its graceful bend until I came to a clump of elders, beneath which I seated myself, on the green velvety turf, that ran down to the very water's edge. Here I amused myself by plucking the leaves above me, and watching them as they fell, one by one, on the tiny wavelets, and floated away, basking one minute in the bright sunshine, the next, borne resistlessly beneath the dark shadows. Were they not truthful emblems'of mankind, ceaselessly drifting down life's varied stream? I felt myself, for the time, decidedly in the shade. But why, I asked myself, should I remain moody and alone, when my companions, - whose cheerful tones were constantly borne to my ears, would gladly welcome me to share in their lively chit-chat? Because Mr. Livingston's society gave me more pleasure than another's, was I to keep aloof from every one else until his return, and let him perceive that I had been pining, in green and yellow melancholy, for his dear presence? He had certainly shown me much kindness, but'he was equally thoughtful and obliging for others; quite as much so for Minna Lee, and, perhaps, the same to Miss Howard, who was far superior to me in personal attractions, and social position; why, then, should I presume to build false hopes, because he had shown me the same good-will he extended to all? Humbled in my own esteem, and almost despising my- self for my involuntary weakness, I returned to my friends; and, taking the seat I had previously declined, endeavored, by constant forced gayety, to conceal, even from myself, that I was suffering from a slight attack of the heart-ache. "I should like to know," said Dr. G., abruptly, " if they have determined to keep us fasting the whole day; for my part I must plead guilty to being most unromantically hungry. I suppose you and Ellen would not, for the world, 8                    .     86        ISABEL CAROLLTON: be so grossly unrefined as to acknowledge tne possession of a good keen appetite; one requiring more substantial refresh- ment than nectar and ambrosia. Here comes Arthur, alone. Where have you left Miss Corinna?" "Seated at the table, beside her father," replied Mr. L., ' and I have come for you." "You are none the less welcome on that account," said the doctor, rising with alacrity.               We soon came in sight of the long tables, spread in a deliciously cool and sheltered glade. Thev were ornamented I with festoons of oak-leaves, tastefully interwoven; and cov- I ered with a profusion of fruits, intermingled with edibles of a a more substantial character; tall pyramidal bouquets tower-  : ing above the whole. Large numbers of children, for whom no seats were provided, were grouped picturesquely about. A mountain crowned with evergreen, its clear ,outlines    sharply defined against the deep blue sky, formed the back- I ground to a picture which an artist need not have despised. We were seating ourselves, when Colonel Howard, who had obtained seats at the opposite side of the table, a little further up than ourselves, came round to Mr. Livingston with a request that he would favor Corinna with his presence for a few moments, as she wished his advice on a subject she had forgotten to mention when with him. For a moment he    I! hesitated, then excused himself, and went as requested. He had been absent but a minute when Mr. Gunnerson came up with a queerly-dressed old lady, who was puffing asthmatic- ally with her efforts to keep pace with the sturdy strides of  her companion, and leaning heavily on his arm.        a "O,-Luddy!!" cried she, "I 'm all out o' breath; and I can't-stan' it to go much further, nohow."         aj "Well-" replied he, "I 'll find a place for you to set down, . purty soon. O, here's the schoolmarm; p'raps she 'll take care on ye, mother, while I go and take the heads off o' them   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       87 rip-stavers of boys; they 'll catch it, I can tell 'em, if they don't mind their p's and q's!" I was:in too perverse a mood to tell them the vacant seat was engaged; so, she quickly appropriated it, and commenced mopping her face, most vigorously, with a red silk pocket- handkerchief, which she had drawn from a capacious red bombazine " work-bag," which she seemed not a little proud to exhibit. The whole assemblage were soon busily engaged with the tempting collation before them. "Here, gran'ma'rm, is a glath of thpruth beer, pa thent you," said Thomas Jefferson, who had come behind us unper- ceived, and stood'holding a tumbler of the foaming beverage. She received it, as a matter of course, without a word of, kindness to the bearer; but, as he turned to go away, she called out, "Here, you little sarpent you, don't be in sich an unmassiful hurry. I want to send an errand by you; tell your Uncle Rehoboam to send me my spe'tacles; he's got 'em, and I can't tell who's who- without 'em. There," she continued, after receiving, and -composedly adjusting them across her nose, "now I 'll see if I don't know nobody amongst all this parcel o' folks. Who's that gal?" she asked, after a pertinacious stare toward Miss Howard, point- ing in the same direction with her spectacle case. "Massy on us! she turns up her nose, as though there war n't nobody nor nothin' here fit to be looked at. She would n't be bad-looking nuther, if she did n't think she was so mirackerlous harnsoroe, herself; that spiles it all for me." I affected to be deeply engaged in listening to the conver- sation of Dr. Gerould, who sat at my right, that I need not be under the necessity of replying to one, whose remarks were anything but agreeable, in a mixed company, ag her voice was pitched on a high, shrill key, and was, I felt quite sure, audible at the opposite side of the table.     88        ISABEL CAROLLTON : "Come to think" she added, "I bleeve I know who she is, after all; I see her one day, when I was a-goin' by the ker- nel's front yard, where they have all sorts of pimlicos a-growin', and she was paradin' up and down, a-sweepin' up a terrible dust with her long skirts, so I half-way stopped, and sez I, 'I spose, Miss, you take all the care of them 'ere flower-beds, and a cute-lookin' lot of posies you 've raised there, too.' Marcy on us! she straightened up as though she'd been the Queen of Sheeby, and strutted away so terribly grand and stuck-up, that you couldn't have teched her with  a ten-foot pole." "What is that-old screech-owl yarning about?" asked the doctor, with a glance at her so irresistibly comic that I smiled  in spite of myself. Hush!" said/Miss Welles; " it always grieves me to hear the aged spoken of with disrespect." "Pardon me!" cried he, deprecatingly; with your most gracious permission, I beg leave to inquire upon what edify-  ing subject yonder charming-lady of fourscore, - I mean the  one wearing the yellow frisette and the snuff-colored nose, - is conversing upon." You are incorrigible," murmured Ellen, biting her lips to i conceal a smile.  My tormentor next perceived Mr. Livingston, -who had remained a considerable time standing behind the colonel and his daughter, but had finally taken the vacant seat  t beside the latter, - and her inquiries took a new direction.  "Bless us!" she continued, ain't it the new storekeeper she's a doin' her very purtiest to catchl? Now, du tell! Well, anyhow, I hope to marcy she won't get him, for he's as pleasant-spoken a man as I 've set eyes on this many a day; gives me my two cents' worth of real Scotch yellow as per- litely as though I'd bought a pound on't. He'd better keep out o' her way, I can tell him; for, 'cordin' to all Sally   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       89 Tweazle sez, and she orter know sunthin' about it, for she's worked there, for I dunno how long, she'll make a man a most ruinatiously extravagant wife. On'y think! she don't even pump the water to wash her hands in, or comb her own hair. I hope none of our Willowhridge gals won't git none of her ridiculous lazy notions into their heads; layin' abed till noon, and then imaginin' they 've got the dyspeptics; and fussin', and takin' on, cos- they don't have enough exercise, wishin' they could ride horseback, when they'd better, by half, be churning, or cutting up cheese-curd, or sunthin' to earn the salt to their porridge." Suddenly reverting to the first subject of her monologue (for the mischievous, mirthful glances, directed toward us from all quarters, had given me too much annoyance to permit my replying to her remarks), she added, "I du r'ally hope her purty face won't make a fool on him; becos, if she once gits him, if she don't nose him round I'll lose my guess; and worry him into forty connipshuns, and wear the -the-" "Bifurcated garments," suggested Dr. G., in a voice so perfectly imitating the nasal twang of the old lady, that Ai burst of half-suppressed laughter immediately ensued. At this instant an acorn, either falling from the oak hang- ing over us, or thrown by some fun-loving youth, glanced from the crimped frill of her muslin eap and fell upon the table. "Who did that?" she cried angrily, as she gave a frown- ing look about her. "Well! if this don't beat all; youngsters now-a-days ha'n't no more manners than so many jackanapeses. I never! I should like to have seen me or my brothers a-firin' things right in the face and eyes of our elders; if we had n't ha' got our ears tweaked, I 'll lose my guess." "I should not have objected to witnessing the latter part of the operation," said a low voice near us. 8* e     90        -ISABEL CAROLITON:  "Please take this plate of tongue and help the ladies," said a friend to Dr. G., with a sly smile. "Could not think of it," he replied; " we have a super- abundance of the delicacy, if one had the courage to cut it in slices." I looked toward Miss Howard, with some curiosity to dis- cover, if possible, whether she had been a listener to any of the flattering remarks by the " charming lady of fourscore." She returned my-glance by one which was, even for her, unu- sually haughty and disdainful. Her companion was hidden from me by a flower-spray drooping from one of the vases. At the conclusion of our repast, Mr. Gunnerson came for his revered- relative, who, having first declared herself as dull as a door-nail and as tired as a donkey, with other equally elegant comparisons, evidently pet phrases with her, suffered herself to be led away, at a pace that it fatigued one to look at. A friend of Miss Welles volunteered her a swing in a hammock, swung up for the occasion, and, as she accepted the offer, I was -left to a teteta-tete stroll with the doctor. I was, at first, so much preoccupied as to answer his questions somewhat at random; but, as he chatted on in his usual ani. mated style, I soon became an attentive listener, and time flew lightly past. The shadows of the trees were lengthening on the green- sward. Already many of the assembly were starting for home. I looked around in various directions for Mr. Liv- ingst.on, and felt halfvexed that he was nowhere to be seen. Col. Howard was entering the carriage, where his daughter and niece were already seated. "Where can your truant,swain have strayed ? " asked Dr. Gexould; adding, "s I think, for want of a better escort, you must allow me the pleasure of protecting you home. Ah! there he comes, looking as though he had been battling with    A rPESONAL BIETRQSPECT.       91 a whole legion of blue - personages nameless in the presence of angels - and had been worsted in the conflict. Why, my dear fellow, what have you been about? If we remain here much longer we shall have the whole forest to ourselves. I had almost succeeded in persuading Miss Carollton to drive home with me. How would that arrangement suit?" "If Miss Carollton prefers accompanying you, of course I have neither the right nor inclination to prevent her doing as she chooses," he answered coolly, without even looking at me. "Pshaw! don't be so crusty at my nonsense, Arthur. You could n't get angry with me if you tried. As you were not forthcoming, and we were among the last left at the grove, ordinary politeness required me to escort her to a place of safety, in preference to leaving her here alone, like another forlorn babe in the woods. But, to do the lady justice, she seemed rather loth to accept my invitation; and, now I have placed her under your -protection, I am, like the sub actors in a scene, ready to bow myself off the stage at the appear- ance of the real hero. A pleasant drive to you; au revoir." A few minutes more, and we were on our way to Mr. Gun- nerson's. My companion seemed unusually dull and taciturn. I accounted for his moodiness by supposing he had met with some annoyance unknown to me. "I fear you are sadly fatigued by all the exertions of the day," said I, in order to break the awkward silence that reigned between us. "Not in the least," he replied, in a voice so harsh and constrained I could hardly have recognized it as his own. ss I see you are kindly endeavoring to account for my dulness, when contrasted with the brilliant conversational powers of your recent companion, on the supposition of previous fatigue. My conscience will not permit my availig myself of the excuse your remark suggests."     92        ISABEL CAROLLTON: "Mr. Livingston!"I exclaimed, in surprise, "what strange motives you attribute to me! I entirely disclaim them. My remark implied nothing but solicitude for your comfort."     ' He eyed me a moment searchingly, saying, as he averted his glance, "I feared my arrival was rather inopportune;" adding, abruptly, '( Do you not think Dr. Gerould an unusu- ally agreeable companion?"  "4 He certainly does converse very pleasantly," I answered; "and I think all his acquaintances will agree with me in that opinion; do not you?" "Do you wish me to say precisely what I think?" "I do not wish you to say anything else," I replied.  "Well, then, I must say I never saw him appear so like an  arrant coxcomb as he has done to-day," he exclaimed, with an energy I thought the subject did not demand. He paused  a moment, as if undecided whether or not to proceed, then added, doubtfully, "He seems to me to be so unlike yourself, that, I will confess, I am somewhat surprised- at your being so completely fascinated by him." "And I must confess," said I, laughing, " that yoti never seemed to me so unlike yourself, so ready to jump at strange, untenable conclusions, as at this moment. Do you not sup- pose that one might spend an hour or two in pleasant chit- chat with another person without being irrevocably charmed by him?"  "With a lovely woman beside me, I fear I might be irrev- ocably charmed,' as you term it, in even less time than you speak of," he quickly rejoined.  "I will repeat that highly flattering remark to Miss How- ! ard," said I, a little maliciously.  "You can do so, if you please," he replied, a little impa- tiently, " although you very well know I was not thinking   of her in the least when I made it."  i   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       93 "I had always supposed," said I, abruptly changing the subject, "that you entertained the highest regard for Dr. Gerould. I think you once told me he was one of the best friends you had in the world." "And so he was, and is still," he replied, with a consider- able abatement in the frigidity of his demeanor, " and, after all, I do not know but--if the truth must be told- I have been abominably cross and unjust to everybody; there is n't a better fellow living than the doctor. They say it half atones for a fault to avow it frankly. You must know, furthermore, that I have been anticipating a great deal of pleasure to-day, and trifling circumstances have so often thwarted my intentions, that it is really ridiculous to think how irritable I have become. In the early part of the day I really was most exceedingly alarmed lest some frightful acci- dent had befallen you. Well, 'all 's well that ends well;' so there's nothing more to be said about that. We returned to the grove, and, as I stopped to speak a few wordsbwith Miss Howard, without the least reference to my wishes, away you went with Dr. Gerould, apparently quite delighted at the exchange, as you had very good reason to be." I smiled to think I had believed the very reverse of his statement. "Do me the favor," said he, "to translate that smile into plain English." "It was my impression," said I, "that you left me in order to assist Miss Howard in searching for wild-flowers." "Did I?" he asked, slightly reddening; "then my memory is getting treacherous; at any rate, I must have thought you would prefer the exchange. But you have not heard me through; I am determined to make a full confession, then you may impose any penance you think the case merits. As soon as politeness would permit, I left Miss Howard, and rejoined your party. Her father came for me, as you recol-     "        ISABEL CAROLIGTON: lect, when we were sitting down at table. She wished to con. sult me about an architectural design for a new summer-house, and, while I was descanting on the comparative merits of Grecian and Gothic arches, you allowed some one to appro- priate the seat to which you knew I purposed returning. I think that was decidedly unkind of you." /I could not deny this; and, as I was not at all disposed to confess that I had been piqued at his apparent neglect, I only said, "Please proceed," and he resumed: A"On leaving the table I went directly in search of you, and soon found you, sauntering slowly .along with Dr. Gerould, so mutually absorbed in an animated dialogue as to be quite unaware of my approach; so I resolved not to intrude myself upon your notice." "It would have been no intrusion," I returned; , and so far as I have had any share in annoying you, it is sincerely regretted. Believe me, it was perfectly unintentional; I would not knowingly have vexed you." "I did not intend my words to imply the slightest reproach to yourself," he rejoined, ," but as an apology for my own ill- humor. But is it possible we have, so soon, reached that odious domicile?" and he looked toward the low, unpainted,. disproportioned dwelling, now my home, with intense dis- approval speaking from  every feature. "List!" he added, "some dire calamity must have befallen its inmates; those piercing screams certainly indicate intense suffering." Mr. Gunnerson made his appearance at the door, thrusting his arms into the sleeves of a coarse woollen frock, as we drove up to the c" bars," which afforded the only means of ingress and egress to the not smooth-shaven lawn, fronting the I house.                            H "He does not seem much alarmed, at any rate," said Mr. Livingston, sotto voce; then, raising his tone, he inquired if any I one was hurt.   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       95 "Should n't wonder if there was," was the laconic response accompanied by a grim smile, we were at a loss to account for. ,( Nothing serious, I hope," persisted Mr. Livingston. "Nothin' very alarmin'," was the reply, in a gruff tone. "You see, them rapscallions o' boys have been-a cuttin' up, the very worst way, out in them 'ere woods, and I tol 'em, and tol' "em, I 'd jest as true larrup 'em, if they did n't mind their eyes; but, Lordy, it did n't do a mite o' good; I s'pose they thort I 'd forgit all about it; and the very next thing I seed George Washington a-doin', was a throwin' a whole lot o' them nasty burdock burrs on to the backs of some girls' gownds; so, when I got 'em all home, I jest went out and cut about a dozen real tinglers of sticks, and guv the whole boodle on 'em about as neat a bastin' as you ever see laid on. Some on 'ema stuck to it they hadn't done nothin', but, dang it all! there's no knowin' when to bleeve 'em, and many'  the time they do raise all but the old boy, when there's nobody by to correct 'em; so I 've gi'en every darned one a good thorough tannin', and I do hope it will larn 'em a good lesson." With the air of a man who had accomplished an arduous duty, and performed it faithfully, too, did the Gunnerson paternal, from the bench beside the front-door, whereupon it usually rested when unemployed, turn up a milk-pail, and, with stolid self-complacency, proceed therewith toward the barn. 4( A pretty system of family government, and executed with rare gentleness!" said Mr. Livingston, with a curling lip; adding, , it is really preposterous to think of your calling such a cheerless, dreary sort of a place as this ' home.' It would seem little less appropriate to transplant a delicate, rose-tree to one of those half-weeded potato-fields, yonder."  I thanked him from my heart for this apparent interest in my welfare; but young ladies, in the present state of society,     96         ISABEL CAROLLTN : must not always, frankly express what they feel; it would be considered unfeminine, and, of course, reprehensible; so I answered laughingly, "I think those specimens we saw in the woods to-day, from which I received such outrageous scratches, would be highly honored by a transfer to society, so much more highly cultivated than any to which they have been hitherto accustomed." "Those were sweet-briers," he retorted, archly, "which never seem misplaced; charming alike in garden, field, or gay parterre. Adieu, ma belle eglantine." I returned a most elaborate curtsy to this pretty speech. He raised his hat, with an unexceptionably Grandisonian bow; and I was left to enter the house alone.  As I passed through the parlor, on my way to my own room, the sound of an occasional whimper, or half-subdued sob, reminded me of the recent castigation; and, availing  myself of a door slightly ajar, I peeped in to observe its effects.  "Well, I don't want to go nowhere ag'in, if I 've got to  take sech a horrid lickin', for nothin', when I git home," whimpered little John Adams, wiping off a tear, which was by no means of a pearly hue, as his face was none of the clean- est. ( Look o' them black and blue marks on my shoulder, George! Oh-h-h! did n't he hurt most darndly?" and tears started afresh at the remembrance.  "Pooh!" said the elder brother, " he did n't hurt me none."  "Why, you yelled the loudest of any on us," suggested the first speaker, his brown chubby face expressive of innocent surprise. "What of that?" was the retort, with a wise shake of the head; *" did n't I know pa would keep a payin' on, till we made jest so much noise? So, as quick as he teched me, I put - in with all my, might; so I did n't ketch it half so long as the rest on ye."   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       97 "I only wish I was a man," said another delinquent; and, catching up a partially-broken switch, he dealt an unoffending bed-post a series of vigorous blows, with a gusto, quite incom- prehensible, until the words, "If that was pa, would n't he holler some?" escaping his lips, furnished a clue to the mystery. But enough of this; even had I the ability to preach a homily on family government, this is no place for it. 9     CHAPTER VII. A SOCIAL EVENING AT THE COLONEL'S. How keenly I enjoyed that week's vacation; my spirits rising, elastic and buoyant, upon the withdrawal of the weight of responsibility-that had oppres'sed them! But the bright days glided quickly past, and again I resumed, with recruited. energies, the duties of teaching. Nearly a week had gone by, when, 6ne afternoon, as I finished the explanations and corrections attendant on the concluding recitation for the day, pretty Minna Lee came up to the desk, with a message from Mrs. Grant, desiring me to come in and sit with her an hour, after school. Accordingly I walked over to the charming cottage, and found an agree- able lady, "4 fair, fat and forty," engaged in lively gossip with Mrs. Grant. I was surprised, when she introduced the stran- ger as Mrs. Howard ; her manners being unaffectedly cordial, without the least approach to that air of thaughty assumption, which characterized her husband and daughter.       i "( What a stranger you make of yourself!" said Mrs. Grant, good-naturedly. "One would think you might be a little less chary of your company, coming so near me, as you do, every day."  I made some indifferent apology, not daring to tell her the true cause of my infrequent calls; that I was almost certain to meet Mr. Livingston there, and did not wish to be thought desirous of courting his society. After some further conversation, of so little interest as to   ISABEL CASOLLTON:        99 have escaped my memory, Mrs. Howard turned toward me with a genial smile, saying, "I am very glad to have met you here, as Corinna intends having half-a-dozen friends to tea with her, to-morrow, and will, I know, be delighted to count you among the number." I decided at once, in my own mind, not to go; as I felt quite sure I was not a favorite with her daughter, in whose presence I always felt uncomfortable, and sometimes, truth forces me to confess, positively unamiable. I attempted to excuse myself, on the plea that the distance was too great for me to walk; but this objection she overruled, by proposing to send her carriage for me; so that I was at length forced to yield a reluctant acceptance. to the unwelcome invitation. The next day, punctual to the appointed hour, the colonel's carriage arrived for me; and, as I had not even a headache to offer as an excuse -for th non-fulfilment of my engagement, I seated myself, with a sigh of resignation, on its pale-blue damask cushions, and was whirled rapidly away, over a nar- row, hilly road, quite sufficiently rough and stony to afford the degree of jolting commonly considered requisite to soothe the disordered digestive apparatus of dyspeptic invalids. The door was opened for me to alight, at the terminus of a wind- ing pathyay, leading to the house. As I walked slowly along, I had time to admire the pure white altheas, contrasting pleasingly with the scalet berries of the mountain ash, which bordered the way. Antique iron vases, filled with blooming annuals, and an occasional marble statue, gleaming out frop dark masses of shrubbery, gave a charming effect to the exten- sive,. but well-kept lawn. The dwelling was a large, square t structure of stones; a wide verandah extending around three sides of it, shaded here 'and there by trellises overrun by creeping plants. The whole looked to me cold, almost for- bidding; and, even then, I could, have found it in my heart, if ita  ri     100       A PERSONAL RETROSPECT. pride had not sustained me, to have made a precipitate, and p&ost inglorious retreat. -know of no sensation more unpleasant than that produced by the near approach to a strange dwelling, which one pur- poses entering, without being at all certain of a cordial reception from its inmates; at least I thought so, as I ascended :the broad granite steps, and, with a trembling hand, grasped -the silver bell-handle. A servant-girl admitted me. We had hardly reached the top of the long- flight of stairs, up which she was conducting me, when a fresh summons from the bell recalled her. "The:re's the dressing-room, Miss," said she, pointing to an open door, as she hurried away, promising to return in a few moments and show me to the drawing-rqom. I was not sorry to be left a short time alone, hoping to regain + my accustomed composure before her return. I was leisurely divesting myself of bonnet and shawl, when I became aware that two persons were conversing, in not very low tones, in the adjoining room. The door separating us, although not seemingly ajar, was, probably, not tightly closed; and, as the 'heavy tapestry carpet deadened the; sound of my footsteps, :theywere doubtless unaware of my proximity; so I became a pained and unwilling- listener to a dialogue, very far from having been intended for my ears. I recognized Miss Howard's voice, as she said, ( For my I part, I cannot conceive what put it into mama's head to go and invite her; I -could have sent fr her myself, if I had desired her company; but it's so like mama, who seems to think similarity of age is the only desideratum to be consid- ered in selecting my acquaintances. By the way, only think of it, when Mr. Livingston found her, at the time that she con- trived to lose herself in the woods, for the purpose of keeping -him with her half the day, she was engaged in a violent fit of weeping, and "-  "You do her injustice; she is very far from being the kind i   ISABEL OAROLLTON :       101 of person you think her," interrupted the soft, silvery voice of Ellen Welles. Tears of mortified feeling sprang to my eyes, but I pressed them resolutely back, determined that, if she discovered her remark had been overheard, she should not know how deeply the groundless suspicions it implied had wounded me. ("She positively reminds me," resumed Miss Howard, "of that celebrated Egyptian queen, who frequently caused Mark Antony to surprise her in tears, hoping thus to excite that 'pity which is akin to love.' No doubt she has read it all, and is 'acting upon hints otherwise acquired,' as Dr. Watts says, somewhere." "Now, really, that's too ridiculous," said Ellen, laughing; "( have you been bitten by a green-eyed tarantula, that makes you so unwontedly bitter?a" Jealous! of her!" was the scornful response; "an upstart, whom nobody knows, or wishes to know, living with those low-bred vulgarians, the Gunnersons. How Mr. Living- ston can so far forget himself as to notice her so much as he does, passes my comprehension." "So ho!" laughed Ellen, " there's Where the shoe really does pinch, is it? and you have your doubts of the gentle- man's fealty." "Pshaw! how very provoking you are to-day!" was the rejoinder, in an accent of intense disgust. "I shall not break my heart for him, or anybody else, I promise you." "Of course you will not," said Ellen, a touch of irony perceptible in her voice; "you are quite too discreet to indulge in any emotion that might injure yourself. But, seriously, if you are indifferent to him, why do his attentions to another annoy- you?" ("Because," she replied quickly, "he is the only really eligible parti in the' place. Dr. Gerould, in my opinion, is twice, as agreeable, but he is only a poor dentist, and I have 9* ,     :102       A. PERSONAL RETROSPECT. no fancy for painted floors and wooden chairs; with a plain straw bonnet, and ninepenny calico, for full dress. You see," she continued, in a confidential tone, " that father suspected me of cherishing une grande passion pour le pauvre gentil- homme, so he just took the precaution of hinting to me, that, if I made so foolish a choice, my dowry would not be forth- coming; so there's no more tobe said about him. But Mr. Livingston doesn't quite please me, either; particularly when he takes it into his head to criticize my reading; for, he always takes it for granted that I am familiar with every book in our library; so away he goes, talking himself into raptures  about the profound research of this author, and the remark- able literary acumen of that one, whose very name, perhaps, I never heard of before. I do wish he would be a little more like other folks, for -it is the greatest bore in life to have to look intelligent and interested, when I am exercising all the tict I am mistress of, to suppress a yawn without a contortion of countenance, and know no more what he is talking about  than the man in-the moon." "I don't see any reason for your subjecting yourself to all this annoyance," was Ellen's naive repark, X "Papa thinks him a paragon of perfection, and he has gold enough to gild the rough corners of life," was the cool response. "I must not remain here longer; what shall I do with my- self?"I exclaimed, half aloud, in a perfect fever of impatience,  at the non-appearance of the servant to conduct me down  stairs. I actually contemplated the possibility of rushing into the next room, confessing the unpleasant desertion of the chamber-maid, and requesting Ellen, somehow or- other, to extricate me from the absurd dilemma; but I had not suffi- cient courage, effrontery, or whatever you may please to term it, to carry this preposterous idea, into execution. The only other alternative left me, that of attempting to /         i   A PERSONAL RRTROSPECT.       103 discover the room where the family were assembled, by my- self, seemed almost equally undesirable; but, after a moment's painful cogitation, I decided upon so doing. Accordingly, although with a most fervent wish that I was at home with the despised Gunnersons, I laggingly commenced my descent. A door was softly opened, before I reached the bottom stair, and the missing Abigail made herself visible. "La, Miss, I'm so flustered, and so sorry I could n't curm right back ag'in, as I said I would," were her first words; ( but you see 't was "an old straggler that rung; so I had to go and ask Sarly, the cook, you know, for some cold meat for him, and when I 'd cum back he 'd jist marched hisself into the' hall, and how did I know but he 'd be a makin' off with the silver card-basket,or sunthin'? so I had to keep an eye on 'im till Sarly cum." She threw open the door of the drawing-room, and Mrs. Howard, with the hearty cordiality which characterized her, came forward, with extended hand, to-welcome me. I could- have blessed her for the genial warmth of manner with which I was received, contrasting, as it did, with the sentiments of bitter disdain I had so recently heard falling from the lips of her daughter. She presented me to her two nieces, who were sitting beside her on my entrance; and, grasping the bell-pull, despatched a messenger in quest of the young ladies, declaring she had not the least idea where they might be found. I could have enlightened her in that respect had I been so disposed. The two Misses Grahame were the possessors of pretty, deli- cate, inanimate looking faces; had apparently seen some fifteen or sixteen summers; and, I could not help surmising, were little accustomed to society, as well as myself; although, from the formal propriety of their deportment, they might have re- ceived,-so I conjectured,--a most stringent lecture on etiquete, before being allowed to visit their more fashionable '-^I                 .      104  '      ISABEL, CAROLLTON: relatives. They constantly maintained a rigid perpendicular- ity of position, quite distressing to behold, never for an instant using the back of their chairs as a support, or moving their heads quick enough to disarrange the row of little "water-curls," which were plastered on their temples. Their hands they kept crossed in their laps, in a devotional attitude, and, to all my desperate efforts at conversation, returned only monosyllabic replies; retaining that unalterable immobility of feature that rendered their appearance so decidedly statu- esque. Corinna and Ellen soon entered the room ;- the latter  greeted me warmly, the former holding out two fingers, with A careless nod; which salutation, thanks to the conversation I had overheard, I returned with a cool nonchalance quite  equal to her own. She threw herself into a chair, with a restless air, which said, as plainly as words could do so, there is nosone*Were.*hom  it is worth while to exert myself to entertain. Soon, rising, she motioned Ellen to accompany her, and they passed into the garden.  Mrs. Howard seemed disconcerted by her daughter's incivility, and when she returned with some small, delicate flowers carelessly twisted among her dark curls, said, with an attempt at playful ease, "Here is your friend, Miss Carollton, destitute of a single ornament, natural or artifi- cial; why do you not offer to arrange her tresses as becom- ingly as you have done your own?" I detected a slight curl of the red pouting lip, as her mother pronounced the words "( your friend;" but, to my sur- -prise, she expressed her willingness to comply with the sug- gestion, if I would come and sit on a small rustic seat, to  which she pointed.                      l To this I readily assented, hoping, in some measure, to dis- arm her of the prejudices she cherished in my disfavor. This was by no means easy of performance, as she twisted the  flowers among my braids, with an air si glacial a forbid-  I   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      105 ding, that I thought her even less conversable than her cousins in the drawing-room. She had just declared the hair-dressing completed to her own satisfaction, when Mr. Livingston and Dr. Gerould were seen through the shrubs, walking, arm in arm, across the lawn; and she hurried me into the house in order to receive them; which she did with a sparkling animation that made her look very charming. Her languid, supercilious manner vanished as by enchantment. I felt that I was constantly under her keenest supervision, and became constrained, and ill at ease, wishing myself anywhere but there. After tea was over, Dr. G. requested some music, and Miss Howard permitted him to conduct her to the piano. First arranging her flounces to fall gracefully over the stool, she next coquettishly threw back the curls from her face, adjusted the frills of snowy valenciennes about her wrists, refastened an elegant bracelet, drew up her mits, and, all these prelim- inaries gone through, commenced by raising her hands nearly parallel with her head, and bringing them down upon, the keys with a crash that nearly made me jump from my chair; repeating this performance several times, only varied by sev- eral smart runs up and down the whole length of the key- board at railroad speed, by way of symphony, she finally came to the words of the song. The first line was sung in a clear, full soprano, which would have been very pleasing, had it not been. drowned by the for- tissimo accompaniment; that finished, she soared in a rapid crescendo flight, away up the scale, poising on A, above the clef, with a prolonged die-away shriek, so like a cry of dis- tress that it made me shiver, and drove Phaon, the lap-dog, howling out of the room. Dr. G. continued turning over the leaves of the music, with the utmost suavity, until the close of the bravura; whgn, leading her to a seat, and handing her a Chinese fan, he- de.     106  -      ISABEL CAROLLTON: elared himself " perfectly astonished at the effective style of execution she had succeeded in acquiring, since he last had the pleasure of listening to her." "Thank you," said she, carelessly, like one who receives only deserved commendation; 1"I think I did not quite throw away my time last winter, which I spent, you know, with my aunt Brava, in Philadelphia; as I took lessons, all the time I was there, of Monsieur Archet, who said, repeatedly, that he had never before succeeded in bringing out a voice so wonderfully, in so short a space of time:"Turning to MSiss Welles, she continued, "Please, cousin Nelly, to play us one of those easy little things you are so fond of practising;" adding, in an apologetic tone, 4 I would play more, myself,   but Monsieur Archet said it would be like casting pearls be-  fore swine, to perform one of those grand overtures he taught me, before ordinary listeners; and I think he was more than half right, for I have often observed that common dancing tunes attract more applause than the brilliant musical com- positions of the great masters." The doctor bit his lip, whether to hide a smile at the su- preme self-conceit this speech betrayed, or from chagrin at being thought incapable- of appreciating one of the " grand overtures," I was unable to judge. Ellen had already taken her place at the instrument, and selected one of Beethoven's strangely thrilling sonatas. Lightly striking the keys, she gradually increased the sound, until, rising higher and higher, the spacious rooms seemed overflowing with the- vibrations of the delicious -harmony. Commencing a diminuendo movement, with equal skill, the melody grew lower and sweeter, until it seemed to float away j with the sigh of the passing breeze. Dr. Gerould brokethe silence that ensued, by declaring he had never heard anything sweeter than the tones she had pro- dueed by the aid of the harp pedal.   A PERSONAfL RETROSPECT.      107 4I beg pardon," said Ellen, with a quiet smile, , but I have made no use of either pedal." His only answer was a look of surprise, in which I joined, for the last piece had sounded peculiarly soft and harp-like, after the stunning bravura which preceded it. Miss Howard petitioned for "something lively;" one of Strauss's delightful waltzes was the result. The doctor seized Miss Howard's hand; and they were quickly whirling, in graceful circles, about the room. I thought, from the wistful glances she now and then threw towards the bay window, where Mr. Livingston with her father stood talking politics, as I judged from the words "r tariff, home-protection," &c., which occasionally fell on my ear, that an exchange of partners would not have been dis- agreeable to her. Complaining of fatigue, she withdrew from the encircling- arm of the doctor, who sought me out, with the request that I would waltz with him. Having no taste for spinning round until half-dead from giddiness and exhaustion, I declined; and was endeavoring to frame an apology that would be decisive, courteous, and at the same time one that would not raise a sneer at my pru- dishness 6n the face of the fair Corinna, when he said, with a light laugh, "Ah! I see how it is; you are always reading my friend Arthur's favorite books, but won't dance with me; which plainly proves that you indulge only in intellectual pastimes, and consider tripping it on ',the light fantastic toe' quite beneath the dignity of 'intelligent, rational beings,' as parson Spriggins has it." "A blue-stocking, upon my word, my ' favorite aversion,"'" ejaculated Miss H., in a suppressed tone, but distinctly au- dible to me. "I do not deserve your compliment," I replied to the doe- tor, in an unsteady voice, - for, notwithstanding all my efforts     108        ISABEL OAROLLTON:  at self-control, it would tremble, -- and if there were a suffi-  cient number here to form a cotillon or quadrille, I might1 convince you that I am far from undervaluing the 'poetry of motion;' but waltzing was never an agreeable exercise to me." " Well, perhaps we can manage it," said Miss Howard, " for here comes Mr. Livingston, who cannot refuse to make one in a quadrille, I am so extravagantly fond of dancing;" and, with a smile of winning sweetness, she stood awaiting his  decision. "You must excuse me, this time," said he, coolly, "for it really seems to me much too warm for dancing, or even re- maining in these warm rooms this evening; so I will not linger to mar your enjoyment of the 'favorite amusement' in  which I just saw you indulging."  Then, turning to me, he continued, with a smile, "I know  you will forego the pleasure of a hop, and be kind enough to  come out on the verandah for a bit of a promenade with me."  Had a glance the power to kill, that instant had I been  struck dead by a lightning-flash from the sparkling orts of the slighted beauty. As I was passing a large mirror, on my way to an open French window, I caught a glimpse of myself and at once, com- prehended Miss Howard's ready acquiescence in her mother's proposition of orniamenting my plain braids with flowers.  She had twisted a wreath of scarlet verbenas around the Grecian knot in which my hair was bound; and, on the very pinnacle, had placed a full-blown yellow daha, which not only offered a most odious contrast to my bright auburn hair, but, at every motion of my head, swayed about on its long, flexile stem like a unique, flaunting cockade. , "I am going to be very presuming, as friends are some- times privileged to be," said Mr. Livingston, as we/were slowly pacing up and down the verandah, inhaling the per-  fumed air, "and criticize your coiffure." " ?*!. *"         - ' *  ' * !!   A PERSONAL SETROSPECT.      109 - I know what you would say," replied I, "for I just saw it, for the first time, in the glass; but do not think my own taste is so execrable; I should never have dreamed of appro- priating such gaudy decorations. It was- " I checked myself abruptly. I had been about to make a very unkind remark of Miss Howard, but a moment's consid; eration made me shrink from so pitiful a mode of revenge, for the petty annoyances she had caused me, as prejudicing against her a person whose good opinion she highly valued. "t What were you about to observe?" he asked quietly. ," Something ill-natured, that it were a thousand times bet- ter should remain unsaid." . "You are a good-natured little creature," said he, "to re- frain from censure; but she does not merit your forbearance." "I am positively afraid of you," said I, surprised at his apparent divination of what had been passing in my mind. "Have you a piece of the fairy crystal that renders the thoughts of others visible to its possessor?" "I am not so fortunate," was his laughing response; "but I happened to be an' accidental witness,' as lawyers say, to the finishing touches of Miss Howard's skilful mode of hair- dressing. It did not require even Yankee shrewdness to guess the rest. But, by the way, I really would not object to pos- sessing a modicum of that same crystal, for a short time." "Doubtless not," I rejoined, " but how would Mr. Living- ston fancy having the supposition reversed, and all his own feelings as legible as the pages of an open book?" "That," said he, " would depend, essentially, upon who was to peruse them. I would rather enjoy it, than otherwise, if you were to be the reader; for, you know, many of our dear- est aspirations and most cherished day-dreams get the dew of romance brushed from them by being clothed in the ordi- nary garb of every-day language. But why can you not call 10 ,     "O 1     ISABEL CAROLLTON': me, Arthur? I would much prefer it to the more formal appellation you so constantly bestow on me." 1 replied by merely saying, ".My friends at home always called me Bel." "Bel," he repeated, " that sounds curt and abrupt. Those to whom you accord the privilege of thus designating you should mitigate its harshness by some, qualifying adjective; dear Bel, or dearest Bel, is much more euphonous." He took from my hand the flaming daha, which I had removed from its more conspicuous position; and, as we were passing an urn containing a blooming Chinese rose-tree, he plucked a single half-open bud, and placed it in my hair. "There," said he, as he contemplated the effect, " in my humble opinion, that is quite sufficient. I think young ladies should never be allowed more than two or three flowers, at most, as an ornamental addition to the toilet; for I dislike exceedingly to see thie dear-creatures transformed into port- able miniature conservatories." When we returned to the drawing-room, Col. Howard immediately seized upon tMr. Livingston, and again engaged him in an eager political discussion. They belonged to oppos- ing political parties, and our host was seemingly not averse to making a proselyte of his guest. "We have all heard before," said Miss Howard, near whom I was sitting, " of people who ' strained at a gnat and swal- lowed a camel;' too fastidiously delicate -to -be guilty of waltzing in a well-lighted room, but not having the least objection to strolling through dark, shrubberied garden-walks with a single gentleman attendant." This remark was ostensibly addressed to one of her taciturn cousins, but, doubtless, intended for my ear. If so, the shaft f was harmless, as she knew I had not been off the verandah. Dr. Gerould, by whom her observation was overheard, seemed disagreeably surprised, as he noticed the hateful sneer   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       Il which disfigured her beautiful mouth, and changed his seat -for one near Miss Mills, with whom he was soon soberly dis-. coursing,--a rare thing with the volatile doctor,--and apparently deriving much pleasure from drawing out her opinions on various subjects. Even when differing from his own preconceived ideas, with such unassuming diffidence were they expressed, - such a sincere desire to be corrected and convinced when wrong, --that the dissimilarity only added a higher zest to the conversation. Miss Howard allowed this to proceed for some time; but at length her impatience at the turn affairs were taking be- came too strong for endurance, and she went over to the sofa where Ellen and her companion were sitting, somewhat apart from the rest of us. A short conference, in an under tone, succeeded, when they rose as if to accompany her. "Come, Mr. Livingstoh, we want you, too," said Corinna, in a positive way, that hardly seemed to admit of a refusal. "You do, indeed!" said he, with a slight laugh; " you do me too much honor. Well, in what way can I be of ser- vice?" "O, I shall require nothing that will put your gallantry to a very severe test!" said she, with a slight increase of the -bloom on her cheeks, (' only that you will make the fourth at a game of whist.,' "Pardon me, but I never play," said he, with courteous but grave decision. ( What, not know how to play whist!" 'she exclaimed; "then I must take compassion on your ignorance, and give you a short gratuitous lesson in the mysteries of the bewitch- ing science; so, come." "Still must I beg you ll excuse me. Ignorance of the game was not my reason for declining, as I understand it even better than I wish I did." "Then what, in the name of all that 's absurd, is the rea-     12        ISABEL CAROLLTON:  son ?" she asked, concealing her chagrin beneath a forced smile. " We are not, asking you to sit down to a gaminge table, and I had not the most remote conception that you were so puritanical, to say the least of it, as to shy at inno- cent amusements." A contraction, as from sudden pain, distorted his features; perhaps no one perceived it but myself, as it was gone almost instantaneously; and he calmly-replied, " Card-playing affords no amusement to me, and Ihave, besides, a reason, satisfac- tory to, myself, for avoiding it, which you will, doubtless, for- give my being indisposed to make public." "Most assuredly," was the reply; " 'a wilfu' man maun ha' his own way,' and I think you, just now, the very imper- sonation of wilfulness." With an affectation of playful resentment, while from her eyes real anger was gleaming, she went to persuade her father to become the '' fourth " in the proposed game; and, having gained his consent to do so, they all withdrew to the card-table. Mr. Livingston was pale and agitated as he crossed the room, and stood in the shade of the. heavy damask curtains that fell over the bay-wintdw. He was so evidently suffer- ing, that my sympathy was awakened; and, at the risk of being thought forward and presuming, I ventured to follow him, and ask if he were ill. I  Not in the least," was the brusque reply; "but I suppose you, like the rest, think my refusal to oblige Miss Howard in what she thinks a very trifling matter, the result of a merely wilful whim." "It is plain," said I, "that you do not possess the fairy crystal, or you would suppose nothing of the kind. You per- ceive' that I have' sufficient faith in your veracity to believe you had good reason for declining to play, although, of course,   A PERSONAL RE'IROSPEOT.      118 no one is obliged to give an account of every motive that induces him to action." "You will be less trusting, when you have received a few hard lessons in worldly wisdom," he returned, with some bit- terness; "but you are right this time; the very sight of those pieces of painted pasteboard is revolting to me, as they revive old associations which I would much rather forget. Now don't look so frightened, little innocent; nothing horrible, only very unpleasant to remember. I am half-disposed, upon the whole, to tell you all about it. I am sure you would be an agreeable confidante, you so well understand the art of listen- ing; never interrupting me to speak, but, at the same time, permitting me to read all you might say on that open, trans- parent face of yours. Another motive for selecting you as a confessor would be that you could inflict no penance that would be very shocking in the performance. 'I forget; you might banish me from your -presence, which would be an insupportable punishment; but you would not be so cruel. Whatever may occur, promise me you will not do that." "I never make promises," said I, shaking my head, with a smile, for I thought he was talking quite at random. "Is this so very difficult a one, that you will deny me?" he asked; and I really did begin to think him a little wilful, when he gravely insisted on my making him the desired promise, with a pertinacity which admitted of no denial; thanking me, on giving it with as much empressement as though I had ielded a concession that was of some importance . to him. "But," he resumed, i I must not begin my history ' -'%^- of the past now, for it is inexcusable my monopolizing you for the whole evening, and leaving our hostess to entertain those weary, distrait-looking nieces of hers. Poor things; I - have hardly heard them speak since I came, and Suppose I ought to go and play the agreeable, to the best of my ability, as some atonement for past neglect." 10*     "        ISABEL OAROLLTON- : Accordingly, we recrossed the room together, and Mr. Livingston drew up a chair to the lounge, on which the taciturn sisters were NOT reclining, - 0 dear, no !-- but sitting bolt upright, martyrized models of propriety.  I took a seat beside Mrs. Howard, who very graciously motioned me so to do, and, making an exquisitely-embroidered fire-screen a peg on which to hang our conversation, we were soon deep in the mysteries of zephyr wools, chenilles, flosses and bead- work. I was not, however, so completely absorbed as to be incapable of catching, now and then, some fragments of the one-sided dialogue carried on by the opposite trio. Said Mr. Livingston, " If I have been rightly informed, this is your first.visit to our quiet little'town." ' Yes, sir," was the laconic reply. I hope," he continued, "that we shall so far succeed in making your stay agreeable, that you will not repent having come among us, and may be induced to repeat your visit." No reply, unless some nervously uncomfortable contortions of face and figure were intended as such; so he thought it incumbent on himself to go on with, "I dare say you are fond of riding, so that we can get up an equestrian expedition, for exploring some of the grand, picturesque scenery of the neighboring towns." Miss Susan twisted her handkerchief into a perfect sem- blance of a string, before jerking out the words, " Thank you, sir." "There is a remarkable echo up among the rocks, only a short distance away, which yoti must listen to before leaving us," he continued, in a tone so cordial that I thought their embarrassed reserve must have melted away before it; add- ing, "we have also a wonderful grotto to show you, so full of mineral treasures,: that a geologist would go mad over them for days." Miss Emily, to whom   the last remark was addressed,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       115 seemed sadly at a loss for a reply, and, from sheer gaucherie, in toying with her reticule, broke a band of the ornamental bead-work that fringed it. "Really," said he, unable to repress a smile, "your organ of destructiveness, as phrenologists would say, seems very fully developed, and I would advise your placing that unfor- tunate little fancy article under my protection for safe-keep- ing;" and he held out his hand as if to receive-it. Instead, however, of giving it to him, she, with rather an indignant look at such a proposition, put it on the cushion behind her, out of his reach; and then, for the want- of something better to do, she commenced twirling the bracelet that encircled her arm, until it unclasped, and fell to the floor. Mr. Livingston was stooping to pick it up, when she also bent forward for the same purpose, and their foreheads came in collision, with a violence well calculated to promote the sudden growth of several organs unchronioled in the annals of the scientific. "Oh-h-h!" was the simultaneous exclamation uttered by both. ' I beg ten thousand pardons for my stupid carelessness," said Mr. Livingston, still vigorously rubbing his knitted brow. Miss Grahame looked at him with staring, tearful eyes, but was past making any attempt at a reply. "Had you not better wet a piece of brown paper; and apply it, to prevent discoloration " asked her aunt, with th6 utmost kindness of manner, adding, "*you will find a flacon of cologne on my dressing-room table." With an air of infinite relief at escaping from the room on any terms, did she avail herself of this implied permission so to do. Her sister wistfully eyed her retreating figure, and, as it disappeared through the door-way, faltered out, "Can I go, too, aunt?"     "6        ISABEL CAROLLTON. "Certainly, my dear child; do anything you please while with us, only make yourself comfortable." Probably the " dear child" took the only means of obey- ing this latter injunction by hastily leaving the room. Half an hour later, the whist party, having finished their game, returned to us again. Servants came in, bearing trays of fruit, confectionary, iced sherbet and coffee. These discussed, I thought it time to take my departure, if I would not make the duties of the ensuing day a weary task to both teacher and taught. Mrs. Howard insisted on ordering the carriage round to the door for my conveyance home. "I had promised myself the pleasure of being your escort," said Mr. Livingston, on handing me into the vehicle  "but it is much better as it is, for you will thus be spared the fatigue of a long walk." "After all," said I to myself, as I looked back from the carriage-window, and saw him still standing, with his hat off, where I had left him, "this -has been one of the pleasantest evenings of my life."   CHAPTER VIII. A TEA-DRINKING AT MRS. COOTES. I suPPOSE the contrast offered by my next tea-party to the one last described, furnishes the reason for so common-place a matter being so vividly retained by memory, as to find a place in these reminiscences. It was a damp, chilly day in the early part of November, when Mr. Gunnerson proposed, as it was a half-holiday with me, that I should accompany himself and wife on an after- noon visit to his sister Nabby, alias Mrs. Coote. More to avoid wounding their feelings by declining, than from any anticipations of pleasure derivable from the visit, I consented to go.. sAs Mrs. Coote lived several miles away, and the- youngest three boys were to " ride in the hind eend o' the waggin," as their father phrased it, the capacious vehicle before mentioned was put in requisition for our conveyance. When we were all bestowed to the satisfaction of the lord and master of this unique equipage and its contents, a chirrup set Dobbin off at a slow jog-trot, which pace he steadily maintained, despite the repeated admonitions from his driver to " kad up, lazy," with jerkings and slappings innumerable from the stiff leathern reins. I was beginning to think our drive interminably long, when we drew up at a low, one- story dwelling, beautified by a heavy coating of dark-red paint, and Mrs. Coote's round, freckled face, radiant with welcoming smiles, greeted us from the door-way.     "8        ISABEL CAROLLTO : Mr. Gunnerson led the way up the narrow path, bordered by withered stalks of hollyhocks and sunflowers, and the rest of us, after getting out of the clumsy vehicle the best way we could, without assistance from any one, were follow- ing him, single file, when suddenly the front-door swung  together with a bang, and Nabby was forcibly ejected there- from into the unexpectant arms of her brother, who slipped from the narrow stone step, reeling back against his wife, wh'o, in her turn, was precipitated against me with a force that crushed my bonnet over my eyes, and sent me against Thomas Jefferson; thus was the unlooked-for impetus com- municated, like an electric shock, through the entire proces- sion, which was brought to a dead halt. "Lord ha' marcy on us! what did it?" groaned forth the head of the party, picking up his fallen hat, and tenderly stroking it with a red cotton bandanna, utterly regardless of the shrill screams sent forth by baby, who took this mode of vehemently protesting against the summary smash-up it had received in its mother's arms.' I 'll find out what did it, and that quick, too," said Mrs. Coote, making a vigorous assault upon the closed door, which, however, only opened a few inches, and then struck against some solid substance, which impeded its further progress. 'Shet that door in there, Nathan," she vociferated, peremptorily, " so we can open this one." A door inside was heard to latch, when the outside one easily yielded to her efforts. "Now come in, - only two at a time, though," said she. In obedience to this mysterious injunction, Mrs. Gunner- son apd myself entered the small entry, which might have been four feet square. -When I explain that into this Lili- putian hall opened four doors from its respective sides, all swinging inward, the cause of the collision, which resulted in Mrs. Coote's expulsion from. the premises, will be evident,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      119 at once. She shut the outer door, before being able to open the one into the " square room," where, entering by couples, our whole party was soon congregated. As its mistress seemed to consider this reception-room something a little beyond the common order of things, I may be permitted, en passant, to devote a single paragraph to its description. To begin at the foundation: the floor was covered with a striped woollen carpet, red and green, in speaking of which Mrs. Coote was wont boastingly to assert that she had ' spun and wove every thread of it." The rug was also manufac- tured by herself from colored thrums drawn through coarse sacking, and represented a basket of flowers, in which blue roses and purple pinks predominated. The walls nearly half way to the ceiling were constructed of quaintly-panelled wood-work, the inside of the panels painted yellow, with a. dark-blue bordering; the remainder of the way they were decorated with a perfectly original species of painting. Each picture, covering about a. square foot in space, was daubed on the rough, gray plastering. From a pea-green grass-plat sprang what, I suppose, was intended for a birch-tree. The branches were not curved, but struck out boldly and at equal angles- as though made of iron -all round the stem of the tree. And, truly, they had need to have been made of something tougher than ordi- nary fibrine filaments, to support, without bending, the super- abundance of novel foliage with which they were loaded. The brown, tassel-like blossoms, suspended therefrom, were so admirably proportioned as considerably to exceed the tree- trunks in point of size; while the claws of the birds perched among the foliage were larger round than the sprays on which they rested. I was scarcely surprised when Thomas Jefferson, pointing up to the blossoms beforemnentioned, asked if they wath cat- erpillarth ;" for they did not look very unlike lusty speeimens     120       , ISAbBE, CAROLLTON ; of the embryo butterfly, impaled, and writhing on their flexile stalks. A small looking-glass, in a carved cherry frame, was supported by knobs, containing the "' profiles" of its master and mistress, cut from white paper, with a black background of the same. From the top of the mirror, as a crowning adornment, protruded divers peacock-feathers, and sprays of scarlet-berried asparagas. A triangular dresser occupied one corner of the room, through the glass doors of which might he seen a diminutive china tea-serv,-- an heirloom in the family,-and a variety of toys, somewhat defaced, owing to the destructive propensities of the juvenile Cootes, by whom they had been successively owned. There was a noseless doll, a three-legged horse, and a headless dog, which, on pressing a tiny bellows, to which it was attached, barked almost " as good as new." In the opposite corner stood an old-fashioned field-bedstead, on which a plethoric feather-bed was rounded up, at so steep an angle that it seemed a wonder how visitors were to reach so elevated a position without a ladder; or, supposing this feat in climbing once accomplished, how they were to pre- vent themselves from rolling back again. A display of what I supposed to be huge pumpkin blossoms embellished its cop- per-plate hangings, for which grandmother Gunnerson was industriously knotting a white cotton fringe. On either side of the ample fireplace stood a straight-backed rocking-chair, upholstered with woollen patch-work, and lux- uriously stuffed, with the self-sameddown dame nature had for- merly employed in making the toilet of the identical geese, whom I had just seen pursuing, with serpent-like hisses, a screaming child, unfortunately the wearer of a-scarlet shawl. But, woe betide the luckless individual who was seduced into an inadvertent attempt at rocking in one of these treacherous seats! It would have been in the highest degree unsafe for any of us to have ventured a laugh, at the expense of the   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      121 irate Mr. Gunnerson, in consequence of the abrupt termina- tion of the short rockers, he came very near tipping over backwards, and, in springing forward to restore the balance - delusive hope! - the chair slipped from beneath him, and, as he still retained his hold upon the arms, came down with a whack upon his devoted head. The dimity curtains that shaded the small-paned windows, were looped back by bands of scarlet cloth; the cornices were covered with the same material, and the tarnished gilt epaulets, attached to the centre of each, afforded a clue to the origin of the whole. Our hostess being called out to the kitchen, invited us to accompany her, if so disposed; and there I obtained fresh proofs of her housewifely thrift, by peeping in at the open door of the buttery, the shelves on one side of which were garnished by goodly rows of cheeses; while the wall of the opposite side was screened by a network of sausage-links. Around the kitchen'were festooned multitudinous strings of well-dried apples, relieved by an occasional flitch of dried beef, one of which she took down and began to shave it into thin slices for supper. Her husband soon came in from the barn, where he had been attending to the creature comforts of honest Dobbin; and, making me a sidelong bow, proceeded to the sink, where he commenced a vigorous scrubbing of hands and face, from an iron skillet placed there for the purpose. His ablutions completed, he seized a coarse tow cloth, and rubbed his little, round face therewith, until it became as smooth and shining as laundry-polished linen. Turning to his wife, who was btistling about with great activity, he said,- in a voice so full and sonorous that it seemed as ill adapted to his pinched and weazen throat, as was the ample coat he wore to his meagre form, around which it hung in anything but graceful folds-, "Well, Nabby, I 've bought neighbor Jockley's gray "     122        ISABEL CAROLLTON: colt; that is, I 've made up my mind to take him, though I have n't ezackly told him so. Supposin' you go out and look at the critter; you can if you're a mind to." This permission was accorded with an assumption of con- jugal authority as lofty as though he had stood seven feet in his stockings, instead of reaching, as he did, when very erect, to his wife's broad shoulders. "Well, then, you must have an eye to the things while I'm gone," said she, throwing a handkerchief over her head, and going out at the back-door. In obedience to her request, he proceeded to baste the three chickens (which were suspended before the fire, to roast, by strings attached to hooks in the ceiling) from the dripping- pan, placed underneath them. He next lifted the cover from the iron bake-kettle that hung over the blazing logs, and went through a close inspection of the muffins therein;-manu- factured, by the way, from wheat of his own raising;- replacing the heavy lid, he heaped upon it a fresh supply of live coals, and turned round to toast his back, after the most approved Yankee fashion. Elevating his eyebrows, and purs- ing up his mouth into an expression consequentially self- satisfied, he commenced a remark, which was brought to an unforeseen termination, and thus lost to the world forever, by his receiving in the back a sharp blow from the envious crane,- which had a perverse habit of swinging out over the hearth on the slightest provocation,-that sent hMm stagger- ing into the middle of the room. The half-cooked poultry followed, tout de suite, but, being checked in mid career, by the cords that held them fast, they were brought back by a sudden jerk, that sent showers of grease and stuffing over the outraged Mr. Coote; and left them performing a succession of rapid gyrations about the hearth, which resulted in a plen- tiful besprinkling of the pies, apple, pumpkin, squash and cream, set there to warm. N.   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT;      128 "Thunder and blazes!" cried he, on gaining his equilib- rium, as he eyed the cause of all this commotion with a wrathful glance, "I'd knock the old thing to Hull-gull, this minit, if 't wan't for goin' without my supper. Who'd ha' thought of its raising such a de'il of a row? I might ha' known the old rooster would ha' been in the mess; he always was an infarnal ugly beast, and he's contrived to gie' me a wipe on the hand, this time, that won't git well in a hurry. Don't say a word now, Nabby, for it can't be helped," he added, as Mrs. Coote reentered the kitchen, "and you won't have to hint again about a cooking-stove. We 'll have one; though," he continued mournfully, "I shall think I 'm froze to death if I can't see a blazing fire; -nothin' but an iron box to warm a body at." I decided that Mrs. Coote was thoroughly amiable, when she quietly, but effectually, put everything "to rights; " not even remarking, as her sister-in-law would have done, under similar provocation, that the men could n't bear the sight of a speck of dust about the house, although they were the very ones to litter up things so that nobody could keep them tidy. Mr. Coote had recourse, a second time, to the skillet, before he remembered to ask of his " better half," "Well, what do you think of the colt?" "O , I told him, as the horse was spavined, you 'd hate to see him about, and so he'd better drive along," she replied, with a manner unusually dutiful and submissive. "All right," said he, with an air as condescendingly ap- proving, as though the decision had been of his own making, and he was bound to maintain it; " for You know, as well as anybody else, that if there 's one thing I do despise more 'n another, 't is to see a poor, lame critter a limpin' about the farm." "I do think," said she, very meekly, "that it was as mean     124        ISABEL CAROLLTON as dirt of him, to try to put off such a dead-an'-alive sort of an animal as that, to you." ",As mean as dirt!" echoed he, " though, to be sure, I did n't notice particularly that anything seemed to be the matter of the colt; but he knowed there was somethin', of course; and I guess when he borrers my harrer agin, he 'll know it." I began to comprehend the truth of an observation dropped by Mrs. Gunnerson, before our arrival, namely, that "Nabby managed everything her own way; but, bless you, her hus- band had n't the remotest idea of such a thing." She had sense enough to perceive that openly detracting from his prerogative would only result in placing herself in a ridiculously false position, in the eyes of the world; for the wife of a hen-pecked husband is regarded with dislike and contempt by both sexes. Therefore, while she permitted him to wield a powerless sceptre, to which she ostensibly bowed in dutiful compliance (thus gratifying that innate desire of ruling his own household, inherent in the breast of every man), with a firm and skilful hand she grasped the reins of government, and guided affairs, indoors and out, with a shrewd intelligence which proved her well qualified to per- form the onerous duties of her usurped dominion. When she announced supper as being ready, the boys, from the next room, rushed out pell-mell, making a simul- taneous dive for the places designated as their own by the pewter plates and drinking-cups. Although served up on dishes of commonest earthen ware, and partaken of with highly inelegant double-tined forks of steel, our repast attested the superior attainments of our hostess in gastronomical science, and might have delighted the most fastidious of epicures. Grandmother Gunnerson attempted, during its continuance, to instil into the plastic minds of the intractable juveniles, some of the rudiments of   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      125 tea-table etiquette. Among other equally valuable instruc- tions she informed them, that " it was n't manners to look straight into people's faces, when their own mouths were wide, open, yawning;" and, furthermore, that they were, "by no manner o' means, to hold chicken bones in their hands, while gnawing the meat from them!" Thomas Jefferson, in attempted obedience to the latter injunction, was SAWING away with might and main;-it would be preposterous to apply the word cutting to opera- tions effected by knives as dull as those furnished us;- when, losing his hold with his fork, away flew the wing of the bird on which he was practising, plump into a bowl of gravy; with which unctuous compound his venerable relative was so liberally besprinkled, that, in high indignation, she declared that her fingers itched to get hold of him. The poor child, in fear and confusion, hid his face behind his porringer of milk, from which he began to drink in huge gulps; and, con- triving to swallow a mouthful "the wrong way," he became - half-strangled with a violent fit of coughing; getting so pur- ple in the face, that we were becoming really alarmed, when Mr. Gunnerson flew to the rescue, and, lifting him up by the shoulders, administered a succession of far-from-gentle shakes; a sovereign panacea, in his estimation, for every variety of strangulation; and not to be lightly impugned by others, as, in this instance at least, it proved a successful remedy. But I will not inflict upon my readers - always supposing thit this common-place narrative is sufficiently fortunate to secure any - a tedious category of youthful delinquencies, Tea being over, we again encircled the parlor fire. Mr. Coote procured a small piece of rough board, and, having marked it off into squares with a bit of charcoal, he placed white and colored'beans on the opposite sides, and sat down, with his brother-in-law, to a game of " checkers."  A part of the boys were sitting on one side of the hearth, "*     126        ISABEL CAROLLTON: parching corn, by stirring it about with the tongs among the ashes and embers in which they had buried it; every snowy kernel that popped out among them creating a merry and somewhat noisy scramble for its possession. In the opposite corner were the rest of them, equally well amused in roast- ing chestnuts. Mr. Gunnerson, with a clap of the hands, and a hearty guffaw, soon announced the fact of his having beaten his opponent in the game they had been playing. The latter, wiping from his brow the sweat induced by this unwonted mental exertion, pronounced himself " dry as dust," and despatched Reuben for a mug of cider, and a basket of butternuts. After indulging in a liberal potation of the for- mer, he called for a 4 goose and hammer," and, after crack. ing - or apparently endeavoring to crack - his fingers, a few times, from want of recent practice, he became highly suc- cessful in similar endeavors on the tough-shelled nuts. A knock was heard at the outer door. "Walk," was the only word he vouchsafed to call out, in his own peculiarly grating, overgrown voice; and forthwith entered -Mr. Livingston. "Well, I never!" exclaimed Mrs. Coote, coming forward to meet him; " if you a'n't the very last person we thought o' seein'; " adding, with ready hospitality, " but you 're none the less welcome for all that." He explained his sudden call, by saying he had been out all day settling a few out-standing debts; and, getting thoroughly chilled in riding homeward, he could not resist the temptation, when seeing us look so bright and cheerful, from the road, of coming in to warm himself. Mrs. Coote, earlier in the evening, had objected to having the curtains let down, saying she always felt as though some. body was trying to peep in - or "peek in," as she phrased it - at the window, if she could not see out, to be sur8 that nobody was lurking about the house. In the position in which I sat he might have seen me from the road; and I asked   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       127 myself if this might not have had some share in inducing him to enter. I stole a glance at him; but the cool, imperturbabil- ity with which he was discussing the merits of a new winnow- ing machine, With our host, effectually dissipated any such pleasing illusion. Besides, since recognizing me on entering, by a formal bend of the head, he had seemed scarcely aware of my presence. Slightly piqued at his apparent indifference, I resolved to repay it in kind; and, affecting an interest I scarcely felt in grandmother's netting,--pardon, dear reader, the harmless deception,--I requested to be initiated into the mysteries of its execution, giving my undivided attention to her teachings thereon. "As likely a young man, as there is a goin'," she remarked, by way of interlude, with a nod in the direction of the new- comer. As I was too busy to reply, she went on with, "If you 'd bleeve it, now, he tries jest as hard to have me suited, when I go down to his store for a couple of cents' worth of snuff, or a steel thimble, and is as perlite and sociable, as though I was a lady of the land, instead of a poor old woman of four- score and upwards. Now that 'ere is what I call bein' a r'ale gentleman; none o' your upstarts, that are mincin' and meach- in' to the big-bugs, and as short as pie-crust to common folks. I 'd rather meet a rattlesnake than one o' them kind o' folks that's so near-sighted they can't see nothin' but- silks and satins, an inch front o' their noses." Her quaint strictures were brought to a close by the ob- ject of her former laudations; who, after rising to accept a plate of nuts, removed his chair, before reseating himself between that of the garrulous old lady, and my own. "Industrious as ever," he remarked, gayly, with a look at the pile of fringe that was sliding from the lap of the former. "It's a habit I learned, many a long year since, she : v     128        ISABEL CAROLLTON: returned, with considerable self-complacency; "and I don't think I shall ever get over it, now. Well, well, it's better to wear out than to rust out, as I've often heard tell." I   ("You furnish us with a practical illustration of the truth- fulness of the old adage," he rejoined, carelessly; adding, as he turned to me, " but what has become of our young friend's appetite? I do not perceive but that her plate is piled up as high as when I first came into the room." Before I had time to reply that I had been otherwise engaged, the venerable matron took it upon herself to declare, that, before losing her teeth, she should have found it no hard matter to have "punished" twice the quantity to which I had been helped; adding, by way of explanation, "But what are we to expect from gals, brought up as they are now-a-days? Why, only look at her hands! they don't look much like our Nabby's, do they now?" and, with mater- nal pride, she cast a look toward the broad, red palms, and short, chubby fingers of her only daughter. Mr. Livingston, after glancing in the direction indicated, shrugged his shoulders, with a humorous smile. She next appealed to me, to " own up, honestly," if I had ever, in the course of my life, happened to perform a good hard day's work. "Many a one," I answered, unhesitatingly; " for my aunt Otis is an admirable housekeeper; and, of late, we have kept no servants," "No HELP!" said she, pointedly. "Well, I should hope you did n't need any, with such a small family; but I should like to know your notions of a hard day's work; let's know what you used to do." "O, I made bread, and pastry, and all that sort of thing!" I replied; not a little annoyed, at being thus drawn out, before the fastidious Mr. Livingston. "BREAD and PASTRY!" she repeated, contemptuously.   A PRRSONAL RETROSPECT.      129 "Did you ever make cheese,- or card wool, or weave a web of cloth? That 's what I call work." "Doubtless you have done your full share of it, too." interposed Mr. Livingston, blandly. This was fairly mounting her on her favorite, hobby, and away she started at full speed, as follows: "You may well say that, sir. Why, I made the whole of my first ball-dress, with my own hands, from hetcheling to bleaching (you know, in revolutionary times, the women had to make their gowns, or go without 'em), and when 't was all done, I danced in it, too; good old reels and hornpipes, not walked and sozzled about, as folks do at balls, now-a-days, but went through every figur', as though there was some life in us. O, folks a'n't half so happy as they was in old times, when they had hard work to do, and a plenty of it!" "Mother's more 'an half right, there," remarked Mr. Coote, sententiously; "for man was doomed, by Providence,. to airn his bread by the sweat of his brow; and, if he's determined that he won't do it, why, a-hem, the fact is, some worse curse will- cleave unto him." "True as the gospel," she resumed; "but folks do seem to act, now-a-days, as though nobody but men ought-er work for a living; and they must n't think o' sich a thing as gittin' marri'd, till they git forehanded enough to support a woman without liftin' her fingers. A great sight a wife must think of her husband, when she 'll let him slave himself to a 'natomy to keep her at home in idleness, a studyin' the fashions, or a hammerin' away upon her piany-forty. Things were n't managed so in my day; and men did n't have to wait till they was rich old bachelors, before they could have a home o' their own; but, as soon as they got a few acres of half-cleared land, and a log-house over their heads, they settled down at once, with thrifty, saving wives, that did their full share to- wards keeping the family comfortable. I know all about it,     130       ISABEL CAROLLTON: for me and Reuben, that's dead and gone this many a long year sence, begun the world with next to nothin,' and if ever there was a happy couple, on this airth, we was one." She paused with a deep-drawn sigh, and commenced slowly twirling her thumbs about each other. "I suppose," said Mr. Livingston, to divert her thoughts from a painful subject,'" that, with your multifaribus duties, you scarcely found time for making long morning-calls upon your neighbors." "Bless your heart!" she returned, brightening into cheer- fulness again, "' we never heard of sech a thing as making calls; and, as for-neighbors, we hadn't only'one within a mild of us; and when I wanted to make 'em an artenoon visit, my good-man used to take my little foot-wheel on his shoulder, as soon as dinner was over, and off we started. You see I could n't afford to set with folded hands, while he was hard at work. Well, when we got to the door, we did n't have to waste a whole half-hour pullin' a bell, or thumpin' a knocker, but we jest pulled the string that h'isted the wooden latch, and walked right straight in. Then Reuben run back to make up for lost time; and Polly Towling and me worked away for dear life, to see which on us could draw the smooth- est thread from our distaffs, and fill the fullest spindle in so many hours. I always used to start for home a leetle arter sundown, for I did n't care about meetin' a hungry wolf in the dark when I was alone." "Rather an ugly customer for an unprotected woman to fall in with at any time," remarked Mr. Livingston, with an appearance of considerable interest. "Young ladies never thought of being scar'd out o' their wits, at sight of a spider or a harmless snake, in them days," she rejoined, with spirit. Mr. L.,threw me a glance, most maliciously significant, as she went on. "I never thought o' bein' afeard o' the varmints in broad daylight, and not much, ]   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      131 after dark, nuther; for, when I had to go out alone, then I used to take a good hard-wood firebrand along with ie, and keep whirling it about with the tongs; they was as afeard of the sparks as they was of the evil one." 4( There 's bravery that the ladies of the present day would hardly dream of imitating," said Mr. L., with a somewhat incredulous smile. Taking this remark as a personal compliment to herself, she was thereby incited to fresh details of the marvellous; asserting roundly, that, as for bears, she would hardly have taken the trouble of turning out of his way, if she had met old Bruin himself; averring that he was never a dangerous beast, excepting when goaded by hunger, and, even then, would find a fat sheep much more to his taste than any other specimen of the genus mammal. "Not that I was willing he should help himself from the flock, by any manner o' means," she quickly interposed; "and that was the very reason why I used, when I was a girl at home, to spin in the porch through summer-time, so as to keep an eye on the sheep-pastur'." "I don't see how you could have prevented it," said I, "if one of the brutes had shown a desire for dining on lamb." "Why, I could ha' rushed out with the dogs, and drove em off, could n't I?" she returned, sharply; " unless," she continued, " he 'd been too quick for me, and r'aly got one o' the poor creeturs in his mouth; and then you might as well ha' follered a cat runnin' xff with a mouse." "Did the wolves ever -molest your flocks?" asked Mr. Livingston, with a languid sort of interest. "Bless my stars! I guess they did," was the ready reply; "and would ha' tooken the whole on 'em, if we had n't a shet 'em up nights in a fold; and sometimes, as it was, a whole parcel o' the pesky brutes would come at a time; and, while a part of 'em scar'd the -sheep away from one side, and made     132        ISABEL CAROLLTON: 'em all crowd ag'in the other, the rest o' the torments were round here, ready to bite whole mouthfuls out o' their backs, or wherever they could get at 'em, between the wooden slats o' the fold. O, it's many a long year since I heard the howl of a wolf!" "I should esteem it no great Joss," said Mr. Livingston, carelessly. "There's where you and I don't agree, then," she returned, firing up into new life, i" for I'd give more to hear 'em ag'in, than to listen to the best band o' music that ever played, that's what I would. Fust one would begin, 'ay at one part o' the woods that run back from my father's log-house; then, pretty soon, another would strike in, in some other direction, and then another would foller suit, and another, and another, till there was as great a concert, through the thick pine woods, as you 'd hear from a frog-pond in spring, and twice as powerful. O, that was rare music, to lull a body to sleep! that is, if you had a good strong roof over your head, and it did n't come too near." "All things considered," said he, inquiringly, " you would give the preference to the olden time rather than the present?" "Yes, by all odds, would I," she replied, warmly. "You see," she added, smiling, "I foller the good old fashion of not bein' so mincin' and perlite that a body can't speak out their mind freely. Why, now-a-days, the very ministers have got to be so mealy-mouthed that they smooth over all the hard words in the Bible, by givin' on 'em new-fangled names; the very devil comes in for his share o' perliteness, and gits the grand title of 'his Satanic Majesty;' and, good land! when the parson marries a couple, he don't think of doing anything so shockin' as makin' the bride promise to obey, 'thout he does it in some round-about sort of a way; but, if you've no objections, I SHOULD jest like to put a flea in your ear, and advise you, if you 've any notion of that high-strung   A?rNAL RETROSPECT.       133 gal I saw you waitin' upon at the pic-nic, to have that clause of the marriage-sarvice insisted on strong." His color heightened a little at this allusion, so coarsely personal, but he replied, with an assumption of gravity that completely imposed on the good woman's credulity, "Don't make yourself in the slightest degree uncomfortable on my account; the promising to obey would be quite immaterial to me; but, you may rest assured that, as long as I retain an arm to my shoulder, she will obey, whoever she may be." All this was said with an air so provokingly cool and nonchalant, that I could not refrain from retorting, "I hope you may catch a 'Tartar,' that your domestic theory may be thoroughly tested." ," Thank you," he replied, with a low bow to myself, and a look half in jest and half in earnest. "If I am successful in winning the object of my most devoted aspirations, I shall undoubtedly do so." The words were still on his lips when the strokes of the old family clock resounded through the room. Rising hastily, he began putting on his overcoat. "You a'n't a goin' so soon," remonstrated Mr. Coote. "I must, indeed," was the reply, " as I have several let- ters to finish for the morning's post, and; shall be forced to sit up half the night, as it is."  "Then Reuben may run to the barn, and lead your horse up to the door," said our considerate host, "for I ha'n't no opinion of urgin' folks to stay longer, when 't a'n't no-ways convan'ent for 'em." A fruitless search was instituted for a missing riding-whip, belonging to the departing guest. I remembered, at last, having seen him lay it on the top of the dresser, and went to get it for him. On turning round, to come back, I found he had followed me; and, on receiving from my hand the object of search, he remarked, in a suppressed tone, "I find it use- 12     134        ISABEL CAROLLTON: less to wait longer, trying to find an opportunity of speaking a few words with you. Never mind, this time, but I MUST see you soon;" and he bent on me that earnest, imploring gaze, that always made my face burn crimson. "Horse all ready, and waitin', sir," shouted Reuben, out- side. Dropping one of his gloves, he stooped to pick it up, and, in rising, touched my hand with his lips, then hurried away amid a parting volley of " good-nights " from all present. His parting words left me in a flutter of confusion; new, but not without a strange charm, which, even now, I can hardly define; and they so haunted my memory that the gos- sip on olden times, with which the venerable dame still strove to entertain me, to borrow a-provincialism, " came in at one ear, and wert out at the other." But she evidently considered me a good listener, attributing my silence to absorbing in- terest in her narrations, rather than to indifference. I was not sorry when Mr. Gunnerson, after suggesting the probability that!" them boys would be raising the old Harry, if they were left alone much longer," proposed starting for home. Compliments innumerable were thereupon bandied about; with pressing invitations to come again, and that very soon, expressed with an energy that proclaimed them sincere, at least, if not in the best taste in the world. Mrs. Coote seized the poor babe, and, despite its tearful, struggling resistance, wrapped it in shawls and blankets, numerous as the enveloping folds of an Egyptian mummy; its cries waxing feebler and fainter, until I verily believed it had been smothered into silence, and ventured a timid remon- strance; to which the inexorable matron replied sharply, "You don't know nothin' o' the natur' of babies; they're twice as easy froze as suffocated." On our way home Mr. Livingston's last words again seemed   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      189 ringing, with harmonious cadence, through the still night-air. What could he have meant? again and again, I asked my. self. Nothing, perhaps, whispered prudence, more than to enjoy a friendly chat with one toward whom he has invari- ably manifested the kindly interest of an elder brother. Deprived himself of kindred ties, he could, of course, sym- pathize more fully than others with the trials of my pecu- liarly isolated condition. . Why, then, did I cherish his lightest word, as though it were an oracle of wisdom, and carefully treasure up his very looks, as food for after-medi- tation? I was humbled and ashamed at the result of these heart- probings. I thought of dear cousin Mary; unfortunate - forsaken. Had not Harry Grey, with honeyed words and tender glances, won from her the gift of woman's love,- priceless, because it is her all, and, once given, may never ke reclaimed again,-and, when a life-long misfortune weighed down her spirits with crushing power, had he not wantonly thrown her love from him, as though it ,had been a worthless bauble? After all, thought I, as, with an effort, I threw off the gloom that was stealing over me, there is no harm done yet; for I care no more for him than he for me, and he MAY marry the beautiful Miss Howard yet. My heart sank like lead in my bosom at the- bare supposition. I tried, and nearly suc- ceeded, in convincing myself that this was because I thought her too heartless to make him happy; of course, I could have no other interest in the matter; so I resolutely deter- mined to drive from my imagination all the foolish phantasies lurking there, before they succeeded in gaining a permanent footing; a resolution much more easily formed than executed; for, even when exorcised, they took some other shape, and, before I was aware of it, had gained possession of my thoughts again.     136        ISABEL OAROLLTON  "What's the matter with you?" asked Mr. Gunnerson, so abruptly as to startle me from my not wholly pleasant musings. "You don't say you've got a fit of the doldrums, after spending the evening with such a right-down likely chap as Mr. Livingston, don't ye think so, hey?" I was thoroughly disgusted with this coarsely familiar mode of expressing himself, in regard to one so infinitely his superior; so I replied, with what I intended for an air of dignified reserve, "So far as I can judge from so brief an acquaint- ance, he seems an agreeable acquisition to the social circle." "Cool, i' faith!" he returned, bursting into a short, explo- sive laugh; " why, there is n't a girl in town, not one, that would n't jump over a five-rail fence to get as much attention as he shows you; not'ithstanding they-don't know nothin' about him, afore he come to these parts." He really had shown me more attention than others, then. This thought, despite the warning voice of prudence, gave, me considerable pleasure, and I inquired, with- some curiosity, how long he had been a resident of Willowhridge. "Four years, or thereabouts," was the reply; " and he don't look much, now, like what he did when he fust come among us, I can tell yer. He seemed reg'larly done up, then; as thin as a hatchet, and as down in the mouth as a sick monkey." "Why, Jeroboam! how can you talk so of a gentleman?" interposed his " better half." "Don't call me by that cantankerous name; it makes a feller feel as old as Methus'lah," he retorted, crossly. "Why, dear me, I should think you'd like to hear it; for  it once belonged to one of the salts of the earth," said she soothingly. "The salt o' the airth be buttered, and the deuce take it, for me, and the name too, for I don't want none on't," was the irreverent rejoinder; which so shocked his wife's sense I *                   its   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      137 of propriety that she relapsed into indignant silence, and he thus returned to the broken thread of his remarks: "As I was sayin', Mr. Livingston had a scar'd look when he first come from Orleens, and not much to be wondered. at, nuther; for I should think a'most anybody would look a leetle streaked that come from a place where they was liable to ha' been drowned in their bed, without a minute's warning, any time the mighty Miss'sippi should take a notion to bu'st through them trumpery banks of a levee. But he has picked up wonderful, sence he's come to the North; and I 've heern tell of his bein' worth a mint o' money. And Mrs. Grant says he owns two ships in York city, that's worth more 'n our farms- both-put together; and that he'd live there himself, only he 'd a great deal ruther live in the country ;-shows his sense, there, I reckon. I never was in York but once, my- self; and of all the racket and hurly-burly that ever I heerd in my life, that capped the whole. Why, I would n't, as true as I'm alive, make my home, year in and year out, in such a bedlanm of a city, if you' d give me the best house in it. Why, if you just stopped a jiffy when you was walkin' along the sidewalks, as they call 'em, ten to one if some great double-fisted feller did n't pitch into yer, and. all but knock yer breath out o' yer body; and then, women march straight ahead, there, without looking to the right or left, to see whose eyes they 're a-goin' to gouge out with those leetle sharp- p'inted weepons round their sunshades; and then there was the hogs, as bold and unmannerly as the worst on 'em, a-pokin' their nasty snouts atween a feller's feet, and a-trip- pin' on him up, every time they could git a chance. But allI that was nothin' to gittin across the streets when you wanted ter; I 've had ter wait a half an hour, sometimes; and when I'd think I could see my way clear through all the carts and o'nibuses, and started upon the dead run for t' other side, more 'n as likely as- not, 'fore I got half over, somebody, 12*     138        ISABEL CAROLLTON, a-drivin' like Jehu, would bawl out, so that I thought I should be run over in no time, (Git out o' my way there, can't yer?' or, Mind yer eye there!' or 'You 'll ketch it, old cove!' That's all the manners-they show to strangers. If that's all the good their city edication does 'em, they are welcome to keep it to themselves, for all 'at I care." As I was not sufficiently interested to inquire further into his metropolitan experiences, he, too, became silent. On our arrival at home the babe was found, by what I considered a miraculous interposition, to have escaped suffo- cation; although, on being exhumed from the numberless integuments which had enfolded him, he presented a peculiar parboiled appearance, from the profuse perspiration in which he had been soaking; and was too languid to manifest his well-being by the usual sign - a hearty fit of crying. His mamma, however, seemed perfectly satisfied, remarking, as she laid her cool hand on his dripping head, "It is impossi- ble he can have taken any cold." "I should think he had tooken hot, though," retorted her husband, gruffly; "and what good it does the poor thing to be stewed up in that style, is more'n. I know. You don't think the air 'll p'ison him, do you?" The boys were found -soundly asleep in bed; and the fire, concerning which they had received such repeated directions to "be careful," was found so deeply imbedded in ashes, that Mr. Gunnerson, surprised at the quantity, asked, with a puzzled air, how there happened to be so many in the fireplace. His wife, with a meaning smile, glanced at a liberal supply of the same, scattered from the kitchen ash-hole to the sitting-room hearth, and - he was answered. We quietly retired to rest, little dreaming how soon we were all to be dispersed from the shelter of the old family roof-tree.   CHAPTER IX MaR. GUNNERSON'S PIPE DOES HM BAD SERVICE, INDIRECTLY BRINGING ABOUT MY IBRST OFFER. I MGHT have been asleep an hour, or a little longer, when I awoke with a confused idea that some one was screaming in the distance. . Raising my head drowsily from the pillow, half believing it to have been the effect of a dream, I dis- tinctly heard the shout of "Fire!" from the road, not very far away. As I sprang out of bed Mr. Gunnerson called my name, crying 'ut, in his own lusty voice, "Jump out of the window, for the house is a-fire!" I replied by echoing the word "fire" at the top of my voice, for I was too much frightened to know very well what I was about, and several minutes passed before I succeeded, with my trembling fingers and nervous haste, in partially dressing myself. I then attempted to raise a window, think- ing, as it was but three or four feet from the ground, I could easily leap out; but, to my dismay, I found the sash to be so much swollen by the recent damp weather, that, with my utmost exertions, I could not start it an inch. The others  tried to throw up, with similar ill success; and then ran into the parlor, with the intention of opening the door that led therefrom into the sitting-room, occupied by M. an Mrs. Gunnerson as a sleeping apartment. It had escaped my, memory that the bedstead had been lately removed, so as to come directly across the door, and thus prevent all ingress in that direction.     "O-        ISABEL CAROLLTON  " Please to let me in," I cried, as I endeavored with fran- tic efforts to push open the door, spite of all obstacles; for the smoke was now becoming quite dense, and the crackling roar of the flames, in the western part of the building, inspired me with a strange terror. I listened for some reply, and Mr. Gunnerson's voice, in loud, authoritative tones, came to me from the children's room at the back of the kitchen. The front door suddenly suggested itself is a way of escape. Rushing breathlessly across the parlor into the small entry, I caught the key from the nail where it was hanging, and endeavored to fit it into the heavy lock, - no easy matter, when the tears were gush- ing from my eyes from the effects of the smoke, and almost blinding me. My exertions, although crowned with success, were useless; for all my strength was insufficient to turn back the heavy iron bolt in its clumsy socket. A ray of hope fell upon the despair that was fast gaining possession of me; not in the direction of the kitchen did it point me, for the fierce crackling of its boarded walls warned me from entering there; nor up the open stairway, for small tongues of flame were already darting out, and eagerly lap- ping the sides of their devoted prey, rendering the times blackened rafters above distinctly visible. But to return to this new mode of escape that had presented itself to me: it was to smash out one of the parlor sashes, and make my egress through the opening thus effected. This project, so feasible, why had it not occurred to me sooner? It was too late now; a sudden giddiness came over me, and I could only breathe in short, suffocating gasps. I extended my hands, in a vain effort to grasp something for a support, and, as the agonized cry for help I strove to utter resolved itself into an inarticulate murmur, the air seemed receding from me in palish-green waves, and I fell heavily on the floor, the sound   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      14 of crashing glass being the last that met my ears before I became completely insensible. On regaining consciousness, I found myself lying, with a thick shawl folded over me, upon an old wooden settle at a short distance from the house; and, as I opened my eyes, the flames were shooting up angrily from the further side of its roof. Mr. Gunnerson stood beside me, holding a large, brown, earthen pitcher, into which Mr. Livingston--who also stood near me- dipped his fingers, and threw a few drops of water upon my forehead, positively forbidding the former to dash the whole of its contents in my face, as he was, evidently, not a little disposed to do. ," Well, thank goodness," said he, " you 've come to, at last. I declare to goodness I began to git as narvous as a witch; but it s all right now. Who 'd a' thought, as crank as she is, that she could n't ha' jest got out o' them little, low win- ders? I should ha' sartainly looked after her, if I'd a thought there was the least mite o' danger; but the long and short of it was, I was so took up with them boys, I could 't think o' nothin' else, for there was every mother's son on em a-tryin' to git into t' other one's trouses and boots. Hang me, if I did n't have to throw every one on 'em out o' the window, and their clo'es top on 'em, for the smoke was a-git- tin' so thick I could ha' cut it with a knife, and I could n't stan' it." He turned towards the roaring fames, that every minute rose higher, and with a fiercer curl, in the air, and the quiver- ing of his lips belied the light-hearted carelessness his words had seemed to imply. As Mr. Livingston bent over me, saying, "Thank Heaven, you are safe now!"I noticed for the first time the extreme pallor resting on his face, his hair hanging about it in elf- locks, that were almost dripping with moisture. i*     "2        ISABEL CAROLLTON: "Who brought me here?"I asked, after vainly endeavor- ing to recall all that had passed. "Myself," he replied, " as I happened to be the first one to discover your dangerous situation." "Then I owe you my life," said I; and, as I remembered thanks were always due for the slightest favor, and were quite inadequate now, I added, hastily, I can never be suf- ficiently grateful, never." "Purely accidental, my arriving as I did," he returned, with an attempt at his usual self-possessed ease of manner that proved an entire failure; ," besides, you see I have not hurt myself by exertions in your behalf, so, please never mention it again. Are you better now?" "Thank you, much better," I replied; "I think I can get up now." But I had over-estimated my returning strength; for, as soon as I raised my head, a deadly sickness came over me, and I was fain to let it fallback again. : "You'd better keep' still there a spell longer, 'cordin' to my notions," said Mr. Gunnerson, in his rough way. "You must not attempt to rise until I give you permission to do so," said Mr. Livingston, with an assumption of that firm but kindly authority to which every true woman willingly, gladly yields implicit confidence and submission. I had no choice but to remain passive. "I hope you are not cold,"'he continued, as he wrapped the shawl about my shoulders. "Did you. ever see a fire before?" asked Mr. Gunnerson. "Never a house on fire," I answered, languidly. "Then lend a hand there, and we 'll slue this old consarn round, so she can see the whole on 't," said he, addressing a clownish-looking fellow who, with open mouth and eyes, was devouring the scene. He responded to the request by catching hold of an arm   A :PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      143 of the settle, and wheeling it about so awkwardly, that I had very nearly been jerked off upon the ground. ", There, now you can have a fair view on 't," said Mr. Gunnerson, in a voice deplorably doleful, "and I hope you 'll never see your own home in the same sitewation; for it makes a man feel as blue as a whetstone to see the fire a-eatin' up all his property, an' no knowin' where any more's to come from." t Don't be down-hearted, now," said a neighboring farmer, who had just approached us, " for all hands on us has agreed to make a general turn-out for the woods to-morrow, and git out the frame for a new house, a tarnel sight better thairthat old shell ever was; so, put the best foot for'ard, and keep a stiff upper lip, and we 'll have you right side up again in no time. See," he added, " here's one of the blemishments for the new best-room that is to be;" and he carefully placed on a corner of the wood-pile the time-honored fly-trap, with its long streamers of faded pink silk, which had for long years been swayed about by every breath of air that floated through the old domicile. At this moment a crash at the back of the house attracted our attention in that direction, and the various articles com- posing an old-fashioned china tea-service, the pride and delight of its mistress, were seen issuing from one of the sit- ting-room windows. "Goodness, gracious!" exclaimed farmer Worthyman, "your wife 's jest as crazy as a bed-bug, a-heavin' all her cheeny cups and sarcers out on ter the ground, as though they was made of iron. Had n't we better git her out o' that, for the roof'l1 be fallin' in bym-bye?" Away they hastened to the burning dwelling, which now presented an imposing spectacle, the entire front being envel- oped in one massive sheet of roaring flame. The south-east- ern angle was still comparatively uninjured, and men, with.  .8.  .     "4       -ISABEL CAROLLTON:  fire-buckets in their hands, were hurrying up and down the ladders placed against its walls for that purpose; while a number of persons were gathered about the well-curb, the heavy sweep of which rose and fell with unaccustomed :velocity. A Finding all efforts to save the house unavailing, the ladders were removed to the barn, and, by keeping its roof drenched with water, the falling cinders were extinguished, and Dob- bin's premises ultimately preserved. "I think I feel strong enough to walk, now," said I, get- ting up, and drawing my shawl about me. "Then we will go," he returned, offering his arm, with grave kindness. ' I do not know where to go," said I, hesitating to accept it. "Had I not better consult Mrs. Gunnerson? I should prefer doing so." "By no means," said he, decidedly. "You are trembling from weakness yet, and must give the care of yourself up to me for this once; and," he added, "Mrs. Grant, who was here not long since, went home to send Thomas with the chaise to convey you to her house. Is n't she one of the best- hearted creatures in the world? Ah! here he comes; and now I shall not leave you until safe under her protection. This way, Thomas," he continued, to the servant with the vehicle. "Yes, sir," was the prompt reply; " and here's the cloak you sent for, Miss Grant says. Be I goin' to drive home, or will you?" "I will," replied Mr. Livingston, throwing the cloak over  my shoulders, and helping me into the chaise. "Is it known how the fire originated?"I asked, when we were fairly on our way to Mrs. Grant's. "It caught in the hen-house," he replied; " and, as Mr. Gunnerson remembers to have stopped for the eggs, on his   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      145 way in from the barn, I have a strong suspicion that a sparkl from that interminable pipe of his, falling among the straw, caused all the mischief; but that is only my opinion, you know; it may not be the correct one." "I dare say it is," said I; and now do let me tell you once more how deeply grateful I am --" Don't mention that again," interposed he, with something very like impatience in his tone, adding, hastily, "When I saw you lying before me, dead, as I supposed, or rather, feared, the perfect agony of suspense I endured until I knew you were still alive, taught me a lesson I shall forget only with my life, - the sweetest or bitterest I have ever known, as you shall receive it. May I tell it you " "If you please," I replied, trembling with the vague con- sciousness that the hour which was to settle my future destiny had arrived. "It is that I love you better than myself or any one else; for I would have risked my own life, had it been necessary, to have- saved yours, and for no other person in the wide, wide world, would I have done as much; and I shall be a happy man if you can give me the hope, that, some day not far distant, you will become mine, and mine only, forever." How every word thrilled through me filling my eyes with delicious tears of rapturous excitement! But I was never demonstrative, and had, for weary weeks, been striving -so earnestly to banish, or conceal, even from myself, the more than friendship with which I had learned to regard my pres- ent companion, that, although I knew he was eagerly await- ing my reply, I could not, at once, break through my habitual reserve, and frankly confess all. So, in 'my confusion, I stammered out something, I scarcely remember what, now, about the undying gratitude I should ever owe him. I thought he seemed disappointed, as, without another word, he leaned back in the corner of the vehicle, anal I 13     "        I5Ajft-L OARBLL0to N heartily reproached myself for having responded so coldly to his wairmhearted declaration. I hope I have not offended you, Arthur," said I, anx- iously, after we had driven some distance in silence. ',Offended me! no, dearest; Iam the offending one. I know it is abominably selfish for me to think only of my own happiness, while you are still suffering from agitation and exposure; but this uncertainty is-so intolerable, when a sin- gle. word from you would terminate it,--and you will not speak it^" iHe bent his head towards me to catch the whispered "I ill" -I forced myself to utter. -Taking my hand in his own, with a warm, firm clasp, we relapsed into silence; there was no further need for words. Life's future pathwayseemed opening to my enchanted vision, -one long) golden vista of rosy hours; all thorns would be swept back from it by the strong arm on which I should ever lean for protection and support. He was the first to break silence by remarking, R But I must think of yon as well as myself, Bel; for I am not quite so bad ats to be willing to accept happiness at the expense of your own. Indeed, that would be hardly possible; for I shIould be miserable to see you so. And if you are accepting me solely from the promptings of gratitude for the slight service I twas :so happy as to render you, and your doing so -involveslthe least .saerifice of your own inclination, withdraw your"hard at once, and I give you my promise, upon the honor of a gentleman, never to seek it again." My-only reply to this unselfish proposal-so like himself -Was the tacit one of allowing tmyhand- to remain as it was; and the next moment our vehicle tilted to one side, and had been very nearly upset, by running one wheel O-ver a large stdtii in the gutter. He had negleted' his Amliee-as drive, a tweahad got :off :the'road -    A PEBSh$A; QROPBTUISBT.      147' -4 Does it rain ." I asked, as he guided the horse back, "for, at that last jolt of the chaise, I felt several drops fall upon my hand."                  .  "It must have been water-drops shaken from my coat- sleeve," he replied, "; for I remember, now that I think of it, that, as I reached the foot of the open stair way, when searl - - ing for you, some one, who had cut a hole in the roof above,  thoroughly drenehea me with a bucketof water." The lWt words were emphasized by a prolonged shiver.  "You ought not to have remained so long with wet cloth- ing on, in-this .damp night air, for I should never fcrgive myself if you were to catch your death-cold in saving my life. It was that, then, that. gave your head that dripping. look I noticed when I first opened my eyes. Do, pray,. drive on faster."  "Are you .in such wonderful haste, to be rid of me.?" he asked, laughingly.  "I shall be perfectly miserable until out of your company,"' returned I, in the same tone.  He drew up the reins more tightly; "Chablie" quickened his pace proportionately,. and we were soon at the door, where Mrs. Grant was awaiting us.  Mr. Livingston bade us good-night, or rather "good-moru- ing," in the hall, and immediately retired.     . "oCome up stairs with me, my dear child," said Mrs. Grat, putting her arm about my shoulders:(for she was much ther than I), and, with motherly kindness, drawing me along with 'her, as she added, I have some hot herb-drink read y r you up here, for I suppose you are half-dead with the head- ache, and all that, and will not be quite yourself againfor a week   .            .  .      '* "Thank you, I feel already as well as ever," I reoied eheerfnlly, for my heart was overflowing -ithhappiness :. "I must say," said she, looking full at me, "th at yO,.do     *148       -ISAt  CARO&LLTON - rely look perfectly well; I believe excitement does young people good, for I never saw such a glowing color on your cheek before. Well, well, that is the advantage you have over us, who are going the down-hill of life: as soon as you git over any suffering, mental or bodily, it's all forgotten; but the reaction on our half-unstrung nerves is often as bad as the pain itself. I am quite certain I should have felt its effects for a whole month, if I had gone through what you have. But wasn't it a lucky thing for you that Mr. Living: ston' happened to be up, writing letters? He was the first one to see that the hen-house was on fire, from his chamber-win- dow; and he knew, it was so near the house, that would go next. He had the advantage over us, too, of being already dressed, so that he was half way there by the time we were ready to start. Dear me! I don't believe I could run so fast, again; and I hope I shall not be obliged to,:very soon, for I don't feel any. the better for the exercise." It was a pleasant, airy, chamber, that into which she led me. How distinctly I remember the cheery fire that blazed uton its hearth-; the soft, muslin curtains drawn over the windows;' the oval toilet-mirror, in its rose-wood stand; and the colored engravings, whose ebony frames offered such a pleasing contrast to the light, delicate paper-hangings-covering the walls! A couple of antique silver candlesticks stood on the mantel; a table covered with books and writing materials, and a small French bedstead, with mattresses, ovfer which was spread a- snowy counterpane, completed the furniture of this cosey little dormitory.  A :strung smell of sage pervaded the air, and a stout servant-girl was smoothing the sheets with a quaintly-shaped warming-pan, just to take the chill off, she said, for the bed had not been lately used. "Do you think,' asked Mrs. Grant, "that you can make S  a s ri   A PERSONAL RITROQPCT.      1 49 yourself comfortable here, until spring? Mr. Gunnerson will be. in a new house by that time."   .. ,. "Comfortable!" I repeated; "how can I help being lhappy as the day is long, with such beautiful things about me, and you so very kind? But, dear Mrs. Grant, I am afraid I shall give you so much trouble."  "Never speak of troubling me, again," she-rejoined pleas- antly; " for I am often dull and lonely of an evening, and I expect you will read or talk me into spirits; and, in return, I shall try and make you feel quite at home with us. Dolly," she added, to the maid, "there's Mr. Livingston's bell; you may go and see what's .wanting." Dolly departed on her mission, and quickly returned with a vase containing a bunch of exquisite flowers- half-blown roses, pale passion-flowers, and purple violets. "He said they were to be sot on here," said she, contriving to spill half the water they were in, up the sleeve of her dress, as she placed the vase on the mantel.  "I should think he would hardly have room for them in his chamber or dressing-room," remarked good, unsuspicious Mrs. Grant; -for I never saw rooms so strewn with 9rna- mental, useless knick-knackeries as his are, in my life; but he might have sent them down to my room, if he had wanted to get rid of them. I should have told him so, but I thought be would be very choice of anything from the colonel's green house; " and she gave me a significant glance, which made me blush painfully, although I knew she was mistaken in her conjecture, . "But," she continued, "I must not keep you up until day- break, gossipping in this random way, when you ought to be sleeping. Come, Dolly, I believe I 'll have my bedwarmed, too, for I've had some pretty sharp rheumatic twinges since 'I 've been sitting -here." , She kissed my cheek on leaving me; and, although I     LtOU    .   .ISABEL CAROLLTON : returned the friendly token, truth obliges me to own it was without a tithe of the delight I experienced on pressing to my lips, before betaking myself to rest, the sweet petals of the bouquet that was filling my room with perfume. - Faint streaks of early dawn were tinting the east before I fell asleep; and it was eight o'clock, when I was awakened by a tap at the door of my room, "Who is it?"I asked, raising my head, "Me, Dolly," was the ready answer; " and Miss Grant sent me up'to tell you she's had a desper't poor night, and ha'n't slep' a wink sence she was up here; and says, would you be so kind, Miss, as to come down to her, cos she can't move hand nor foot, she's so bad with the rheumaiz." "I will be with her very soon," I returned, as, with all possible despatch, I proceeded to dress myself, and then hurried down to her sleeping apartment on the first floor.   : I found her wrapped in blankets, and- bolstered up in'a largesarm-chair before the fire; another servat-girl being vigorously employed in chafing her hand and arms. "Dolly,' said she, on catching sight of us as we entered the room together, "you must get along as well as you can, alone, and make everything as comfortable as you can about the house; for I suppose I shall have to try the cold sheets again, and shall require Bessy's assistance all the morning. Ohi-h-h! will you be so kind, Miss Isabel, as to rub my left arm? I shall go distracted with it! A word more to you, Polly; you needn't tell any one I'm sick, for I don't want all the neighbors rushing in, and plaguing me to death with advice to do this, and that, and the other; everybody recommending a different physician, till, if I pleased them all, I should have  all the doctors in the county at my bedside. Not vile drug will they persuade me to touch," she continued, getting more and more excited; "for I think, in nine cases out of ten, Nature 's the best doctor; and she has plentifully supplied   A PERONAL' RETROSPECT.       t us with an unfailing remedy for many forms of disease,  cold water, --which we can use without a Latin prescription, too.  5 'Get the tub ready."  Both-girls 4sappeared, and Bessy soon returned with atub       . of water,-on the- surface of which floated thin-cakes of ice. With considerable difficulty-for our patient was almostn- helpless--we succeeded in assisting her upon the bed ;ana then, implicitly following her directions, we soon haa her wrapped in a sheet, wrung from the half-frozen liquidWbefore mentioned, and so intensely cold, that merely touching it, with my hands set my teeth chattering; outside this refrigerating drapery, we folded half a dozen woollen blankets about her. She soon declared herself in a profuse perspiration, and much relieved by this severe hydropathic application  Dolly's headc was now thrust in at the door. "If you please, ma'am," she began, c" Mr. Livin'stone's out o'-Bilter, somehow or 'nother, for when he rung his bell, I carried up his hot water, as usual; but he told me to take it away agin, and  to ask you, would you be so' good as to step up there a:minit;  ! and:when I told him that was unpossible, for you, could n't stir a foot, he give a groan, and says he, I bleeve my heada's a bursting with the pain there is in it. So I come right- away to tell you about it, and see what 's to be done."-  "Isn't it too bad ." said Mrs. Grant, in a tone of piteous helplessness, throwing the steaming sheet back from her fae+e, and then drawing h6t hand under the blankets with a shiver, ask she added, " I hope, though, it is nothing - more thirea slight cold, that will soon pass away; at the same tImeI think-you had better run up --to his room, for you ctn tell,  better than the girls, if he js really, ill, and needs anything to take.'"  "Is he up?"  I asked of Dolly. "No, Miss," was the instant reply;  he said his heartfelt   162        ,ISABL CAROLLTN: as thougu it was too big, and was so heavy he could n't lift it off o' the piller." I looked at Mrs. Grant appealingly. You must not hes- itate," said she, persuasively; " for I fear hiq illess will prove something worse than a sudden cold. If you think so, afterT seeing him, perhaps he can be induced to try the cold sheets; if pot, I suppose you must send for a doctor: I can do nothing for him. Do not let any delicate scruples prevent your doing all you can for his comfort, under existing circumstances. iHe thought only of saving your life last night, and here is an opportunity for you to requite his kindness. Dolly may go with you, and kindle a fire in his room."' Ifollowed the latter up stairs, reluctantly, r ely, and with heavy forebodings, whi were not at all diminished, on entering th room, as I listened to th heavy breathing of its inmate, and noticle the crisppon everflush that burned on either cheek. A higher color mounted tos his very teple  observing had come to him.   ,  .           who "Mrs. Grant is quite helpless from rheumatism," I hastened to explain- as a-n% apology for my intrusion, " and desired me to come to you; besides, I could not let you suffer alone, thinking it possible I might do something for your relief." Ietthat my own faced was burninig, too  "Thank you, darling," he returned, in a low, languid tone, expressing deep gratitude, and, to my infinite relief, not a particle: of disapprobation, as he added, " you show me a kindness I had not dared'to ask, or even hope." Slowly the lid drooped over his eyes, sparkling with fever, and he mur- mured, "The light from the window distresses me.'  With alacrity I closed the inside blinds, dropped the our- tains over the windows, and, wringing a napkin from an ewer of cold water, laid it across his burning forehead. "Now," I asked, "do you not think it would be better to send for a physician at once?"   A PERSONAL RETROSPEOT       15& 4 Perhaps so," he replied; " and I would prefer Dr. Alipat, if I am to have any one." His voice, as he spoke, soundedthick and muffled. I was turning to go away, when he caught my hand, drew me towards him, and kissed my cheek, saying, "Good-by, dearest; let me look at you once more; who knows but it may be for the last time?" "I am not going to leave you, Arthur," I returned- as a: strange fear made my heart sihk: was he losing his senses? "You don't think I would leave you now," I added, "when- some one must take care of you." "Yes, some one," he rejoined, "but not yourself; for IL feel that some dread disease, infectious it may be, is creeping over me; and you must promise not to come, even to look at  me, if the doctor says O, dear me! you understand my meaning; but this dreadful stupor! I cannot shake it off. It fatigues me to try to think, exhausts me." "Don't make the effort," said I, softly; "I will think for you, only please to keep quiet." I ran- down to the kitchen, found Thomas there, and inquired the distance to Dr. Aliput's. He informed -me it. was about half a mile.  "Will you go for him as quick as you can?"I aslid, . hurriedly; " for Mr. Livingston is very ill indeed." "You don't say so!" he replied, starting up with ready sympathy,- for Mr. Livingston was a great favorite with the servants,-" then I'l1 ride his own-' Firebrand,' and grass won't grow under his feet while I 'm a goin', I can tell you. But what if the doctor a'n't to home?"     .  "Bring the first one you can find, only be quick':. I rejoined, feeling mnyself celled upon to make a decision of some kind.:-: "Never you fear," he returned promptly; " for any on us would go on ouir hands and knees-to serve Mister Livin'stone," and away he hurried.     .... -      164        I$AfIEL CAROLTON: I -peeped in at Mrs. Grant's room, and found her still wrapped in blankets, and fast asleep; I stepped back into the hall, softly, without disturbing her repose. Dolly was holding open the front door, and on the threshold stood Mr. Gunnerson. "You're the very one I wish to see," he exclaimed, on catching sight of me; " for, you see, I thought I 'd jest run over and bring you what little of yours was saved from the 4 fire; it 's too consarned bad 't:is n't more." So saying, he reached me a small trunk, containing a large piece of embroidery,- commenced before my uncle's failure, an'd still unfinished,-writing materials, and a few schdol- books. The money I had received for two quarters' tuition, carefully preserved to carry to my cousin at the: conclusion of my first year's teaching, was in a larger trunk, and was burnt, together/with my wardrobe -a scant one, to be sure, but my all, and valued accordingly. After inquiring for the health of his family, and learning from him that they were- all comfortably domiciled at farmer Worthyman's, I informed him of Mr. Livingston's sudden illness, and that I had despatched Thomas for a medical adviser. ' Pshaw'!" he exclaimed, " he a'n't as bad as that, though i S'posin' you jest let me step in, and take a look at him; I 've seen a power of sickness in my day, and there's no knowin' but I might make out what 't is 'at ails him." As I thought of no objection to this proposal, he preceded me up stairs. The sufferer lay, with partially closed eyes, in a heavy stupor, and did not even qbserve our entrance. Mr. Gunnerson, after eying him closely for several minutes, pro- nounced the disease "( fever of some kind," and gave it as his decided opinion that he had " not seen the worst of it; no, not by a long chalk," and proposed, with the assistance of a servant, to change the uneasy posture in which the sick mea was Jying, for one more comfortable,  ,/ ,i .   A PERSONAL IRETROSPECT.      15. I went in quest of Dolly, and on returning with her, after a .-arch of fifteen minutes, found the invalid quietly lying on the couch; and his companion looking unusually self-compla-, cent at having, without aid, accomplished the feat of getting him there. While I bathed his head, and brushed the heavy black hair back from his burning brow, Dolly arranged the mattresses, and spread cool, clean linen over them. This was hardly done, when I heard the clatter of horses' hoofs from the road, and,  peeping through the closed blinds, perceived my messenger, riding at full speed toward the house; and accompanied by a gentleman whose saddlebags sufficiently indicated his profes- sion. I met the latter at the outer door. He was a thin, spare man, with a narrow, receding forehead, sandy complexion, and eyebrows so light in color as to be quite indistinguishable. He had a habit of nearly closing one of his pale-blue eyes, while speaking, with a comic sort of squint; and, as the rest of his face was studiously composed to an expression of sol- emn sympathy for all the sufferings of humanity, present and prospective, which it was his province to alleviate, the, effect was singularly grotesque. But I must not keep him standing at the door for a full-length portrait. Introducing himself as Dr. Lesseman, he desired to be shown at once to his patient. As we were stepping past the open door of the breakfast-room, a tempting fragrance from hot muffins andcoffee issued therefrom, which proved irresist- ibly attractive to my companion. "I think I had better istep in here a moment, :and warm my hands; I never like to go into a sick-room with cold ones, if - I can avoid it."' I entered the room with him, of course, where Bessy was putting what she called the "finishing!touches" to' a well spread table.     e156       BISABEL CAROLLTN: ^ Do sit down, Miss, and eat something, for I 'm-- sure it's high time you broke your fast," said she addressing me; -^nd adding, "Miss Grant said, not an hour .ago, ' she did -hope you would n't think O' keepin' school while she 's so desper't 'poorly, but would stay and look after things till she Is 'bout house again ' but, if you a'n'ta going to eat nothing', you '1 be down as well as all the rest, and we shall have a regular hospittle here."  "Sure enough," interposed Dr. Lesseman, oracularly, for nutritious food is the most wonderful enantiopathic restora- tive, in any deran-gement of the system not amounting to actual disease, in our whole remedial list. By the way,-I should n't mind taking a cup of coffee, myself, for the sake of keeping you company." I sat down at the table, rather ungraciously I am afraid, in-compliance with this suggestion; and digested my impa- tience at the delay, as best I might, while the doctor did ample justice to everything set before him., Breakfast over, I was escorting him up stairs, when we met Mr. Guinerson, descending; he inquired if he could be of. any further serrvice.  I desired him, if quite convenient, to call at my school- rom, rin passing, and tell the pupils, assembled there, that I was unable to teach that day, and they need not come again until after hearing from me. This he readily promised to do, and I hastened on. With a step so heavy that it made me ache, Dr. Lessemau approached the bed-side of his patient, and placed one thumb upon his wrist. After' an interval of several minutes, his - face the while, gradually elongating, until it had acquired a length fearfully portentous, he pronounced it an aggravated ease of typhus fever. "How long do you think he will be shut up here?" I asked studying my  face by a strong effort.    A PERSONAL RETROSPEOT.       to R Rather a premature question," he rejoined, with a'dubi- ous shake of the head, and in a tone so cool and unc-oncerned that it grated harshly on my excited feelings, and very nearly made me hate the man.  "I will be candid with you," he continued, "for I decidedly disapprove the common practice of buoying up'patients with false hopes; although I do not, by any means, consider his recovery impossible; and I shall attend him as assiduously as though I considered that event probable." My heart seemed to leap to my throat at a bound, and, for an instant, everything in the room seemed swimming about me, and a cold shiver made me tremble in every limb. Lean- ing forward, so as to screen my face behind the bed-curtains, I pressed my hands hard over my eyes, which were gushing over with tears, and prayed with silent fervor, " O, Father in heaven, spare me this heavy blow! Restore him to health, I beseech thee, if consistent with thy Divine will; if not - --)"I could not say, "Thy will be done." The shadow of a heavy cloud seemed about to fall on me, - a cloud so dense that it-would make my whole pathway through life -lon and dark. With sickening apprehension, I shrank f&om con"-  - templating it. When I raised my head from my hands, the doctor was standing with his back to the fire, half whistling and half humming a favorite air, as he deliberated what steps to pursu-e. ' Ykou may dip that napkin in fresh water, and lay-it on &ls head again," said he, protruding his lips and elevating his faded eyebrows with conscious self-importance, on perceiving that IL awaited his directions. All this time Mr. Livingston had lain with closed eyes and immovable countenance, so that I had supposed him insenV sible to what was passing about him but, as he felt the ool- ing wateron- his fevered brow, e haised -his drooing eyelids, saying in a whisper, 4' I^- have no conf6derd ;in'thaA "     I   S-      -I5-AFii CAROLLTO' :  man's judgment.; he cannot tell how the fever will turn yet; soadon't-be alarmed, Bel." My heart was lightened of half its load. Dr. Lesseman soon proceeded to give off his professional directions for the treatment of his patient. "I have poured three drops of aconite," he began, "in a teacup of water; you will please give him a tea-spoonful every other hour; and here is an anodyne, ia powder, which- you will administer in case of extreme restlessness." There might have been a huncdredth part of a grain in each powder, and he took them from a square mahogany box, containing rows of tiny phials, looking as frail as breath- blown soa:p-bubbles, and,to my ignorant perceptions, seeming to have been made for the same purpose - to be played with. There was a rap at the chamber door.--"I wanted to speak to you a minit, Miss," said Thomas, as I stepped out upon' the landing. 't Well, what is it?"I asked. ", Why, you see," he resumed in a flustered sort of a way, "awhen I got to Dr. Aliputfs he was n't there, and the house- keeper said 'he was called out in the night, and ishe could n't tell nothin' about what time he'd be back; he might be at home in'no time at all, but she thought most likely he 'd be-gone all day; so I thought I 'd be on the safe side, and fetch home the first one I could get holdon, if he was n't nothin' but a little- pill doctor." "You did quite right," said I, turning to leave him. 'You ha'n't heerd the upshot o' the whole, yet," said he, stepping between me and the door, in order to'detain 'me, for t'other one is coming down the road, as tight as he can lick it, and I must be down there to take his horse."  : I was not, tken, sufficiently cognizant of professional piune- tilios, to be aware that the having called in rtwo rival?ayraeti, tioners might produce some -tnplteasant cottretemps,i:or I   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      15i might not have been so perfectly composed on returning to- the sick-rodm, where Dr. Lesseman was drawing on his gloves. preparatory to leaving. He proposed calling again in tho evening,:and again promised- to do everything in his power to promote his patient's recovery, although sadly fearing him to  be beyond the reach of medical aid. "If you will- wait a few moments,'" said I, without 'the- faintest perception of the storm I was about to raise, "' you will have the pleasure of meeting Doctor Aliput, wh-owas absent when we sent for him, but has returned sooner than: he was expected, it seems." "Dr. Aliput - pleasure! indeed!" he exclaimed, his whole-. face kindling into anger. "You should have informed me of that circumstance sooner, madam, and I would not have been guilty of interfering with Doctor Aliput's patient, and I can only say I very much regret having done so." "We sent for him," said I, " at Mr. Livingston's particu- lar request,"- a deeper scowl followed this declaration, - "and, as it was thought he would be out of townthrough the day, I thought it would, of course, be cruel to let a very- sick person suffer, all that time, if any other physician could afford him relief." "Of course," he rejoined, sneeringly; "and when the firsts called sees fit to make his appearance, the medical adviser. pro tern. sneaks off, or gets kicked out, for his pains. A pleasant prospect, -truly!"  "Why can you not consult together and give the sufferer the benefit of your united skill?"I asked, with a last des- perate effort to reconcile their conflicting interests. - Preposterous!" he muttered between his closed teeth; "what chance-would nature, and all the aids I should furnish her in the restorative process; stand with his phlebotomizing, and blistering, and drugging by -wholesale? just let me k-' I was not prepared to answer-this inquiry; and concluded     1o60   -ISABEL CAROLLTON: my conduct must have been highly reprehensible, although in what respect I was unable to decide, to have excited all this indignation. Seizing the teacup of aconite, he dashed its contents into the sink, and resumed the possession of the infinitesimal powders. *. Footsteps were already on the stairs; I opened the door and admitted Dr. Aliput. He bowed courteously to the irate homeopathist, who returned the salute, by throwing his head disdainfully back, and, as he made his final exit, bestowing on the new-comer a look that gave me some idea of the ani- mosity of professional rivalship. "So you are taking your turn at playing the invalid, friend Livingston," he remarked, a genial smile breaking over his fine, open countenance, as, with noiseless tread, he approached nthe bed-side; "well," he added, ' no one escapes, arid we must make everything as pleasant as possible for you, until you are able to get out again; then, won't you enjoy the charming prospects youadmire so much, with a zest you never knew before, from having lost them awhile?" "Then you think I really shall get out again, do you?" aasked his patient,.with languid interest. "I see no reason to adopt any other opinion," was the in- stant reply, in a tone of such cheering hopefulness, that, on both listeners, its effect was inspiriting. "Do you think," :he resumed, "-I could keep a smile on my face, if I thought an old friend, like you, in real danger? I am not quite so. adatmantine, if I have been in practice these twelve years." I thought he must have commenced practice very young, for, judging from his personal appearance, he might be still some years under forty. His hair was still dark and glossy, his teeth white and regular, his complexion healthfully fair, and his face free from the faintest indications of a wrinkle. Aftet bringing all his skill in diagnosis to bear upon thepres eut ease, h prrepared-his remedies accordingly, maintaining an   A PISaONAL BET OSPrCT.      161 appearance of boundless confidence in their curative powers. When he was ready to leave, in obedience to a motion of his hand, I accompanied him down stairs. "' How happens it," he asked, on reaching the sitting-room, "that I find you in sole charge of affairs here?" I blushed painfully, at this question; for, in my anxiety for Mr. Livingston, I had nearly overlooked the fact, that, to a stranger, my position in the family must seem an odd and unnatural one; and now I hardly knew how to answer him. Noting my confusion, he politely apologized for his abruptr ness, adding, "I merely wished to know why the good lady of the house is not at/her post, as usual." I now explained to him, that the family with whom I had been boarding having been burnt out the previous night, Mrs. Grant had kindly offered me a home for the present; adding, "as to herself, she is not quite well this morning, having had a very restless night, and, being asleep when you came in, I thought it best not to disturb her." ," Ah, ha!" he exclaimed, with a low and peculiarly musi- cal laugh; one of her old rheumatic attacks, ehI? and she is dead set against seeing the doctor! Well, I would pot intrude upon her by any means; perhaps she will get along better if she does not think herself sufficiently ill to be in need of medical advice.. She belongs to that class of people who ordinarily undervalue professional services, but rely on us most implicitly if anything really serious ails them. But, to return to my patient up stairs, I would suggest that he will require the most unwearying attendance." The smile on his -face changed to an expression of grave anxiety, that excited my apprehensions afresh. "You do not think him dangerously ill!"I exclaimed. ' I apprehend no immediate danger," was the oautious reply. '"He has a vigorous constitution, which willI e, "* v --.x        r      162        ISABEL CAROLLTON. enable him to throw off the disease, which has already obtained a very severe hold of him. Everything depends on the care he receives. Let him have only pleasant, cheerful objects about him, and never, by look or tone, betray to him that you entertain any doubts of his ultimate recovery; there is time enough for that when all hope is over, and he cannot be injured by it. Keep him perfectly quiet, also; and keep company out of his room, unless he particularly desires to see them, which I think unlikely. But I need not give any further directions of this kind; for you women have a thousand little nameless ways of dispelling the ennui attend- ant on sick-rooms, infinitely more effective than all our composing-draughts. One tfing more, do not wait for him to ask for drink, but offer it frequently, in limited quantities." : "But is he to have nothing to eat?"I asked, with a mental review of all the palatable broths and gruels with whose man- :ufacture I was acquainted.  "If he asks for anything, certainly," he replied, with a quiet smile; "but," he added, "you need not be afraid of my starving your friend" daying an emphasis on the last words that set my face aglow), "for the medicines I have prescribed are sufficiently nutritive, you will find, for one in his suffering condition. Furthermore, you will need an old, experienced nurse to assist you in carrying out my directions. IThere 's Miss Primlie; not exactly one I should have chosen for you, but the only one I think of now, who is dis- engaged. I think you hadbetter send for her at once; that is, if Mrs. Grant approves the measure. You will, of course, consult her, on the subject. As I think of nothing moreof importance to suggest, I will wish you a very good morning."   CHAPTER X. A PATTERN NURSE. I DID consult Mrs. Grant as to the desirableness of sending for Miss Primlie; and, as she thoroughly approved "the measure," Thomas was despatched with orders to bring her back with him, if possible. He returned with her, towards evening. I closely scanned her features as she came into Mr. Livingstoi's room, where I was. She was a tall, -spare woman of fifty, or thereabout, with small, pinched ;features, (the only exception, a nose disproportionately long), a sallow complexion, sharp, projecting chin, and thin lips, drawn down at the corners. Three ringlets, resembling nothing so-much as flexible cork-screws, fell on either side of her face, and ,curled so tightly that the roots of her hair seemed starting -from the temples. "If there is any truth in physiognomy, I shall not -uch like you," said I to myself, on completing my survey. - She disrobed herself of hood and shawl, and carefully folding the same, without an invitation from any one, laid them in the wardrobe that stood in a corner of the room. A dress of coarse, snuff-colored Circassian, high in'the neck, short in the waist, narrow in the skirt, and unrelieved by fril or collar, now revealed itself.  Its wearer next gave a scrutinizing glance at every object in the room, myself inclusive, and then asked,-in a short, snappish way, "Has he had nobody but you, child, to take o             .s      164       .ISABEL CAROLLTON:  care of him all day?" bringing out the word " child" in a tone I thought peculiarly offensive, . So I answered, a little resentfully, that I had faithfully obeyed the doctor's directions, in every particular. "That shows all you know about it," she retorted sharply; for a judicious nurse, in nine cases out of ten, has to vary them as circumstances require. For one thing, you've got twice as much fire as you ought to have." Seizing the tongs, she caught, two or three small pieces of wood from the andirons, and stood them in the corner in such a manner that they soon began to fill the room with smoke, and, with grumbling reluctance, she was forced to replace them. A small ormolu table next attracted her attention; some exquisite little figures in alabaster, a few ornaments in terra-cotta, and other fancy articles, were scattered over it in such a manner, that, without raising his head from the pillow, their owner's eyes might rest on them. I had thought their arrangement admirable; not so Miss Primlie, who removed them, every one, ranging them in rows, faces to the wall, on the top of the bureau.      - Removing one of the empty tables to the bed-side, she placed thereon all the cups and phials she could find, in par- allel lines of mathematical precision. The books- lying on a larger table, on the mantel, and even occupying some of the chairs - came in for a share of her supervision; and were all transported to the shelves of a dark closet, as she muttered to herself, '"Such lots of trumpery I never did see; just like these men; always a getting everything in a litter, and haven't any more idea than the man in the moon how to put them to rights again. Well, thank my stars! Inever was fool enough to tie myself to one of them for life; to make mysef a slave to their disorderly habits." : Soon there were rows of bare tables and chairs about the Bides the apartment, and she then found time .to attend to   A PERSONAL. RETROSPOT.  '  he wants of its occupant. After looking at him for a few    - noments in silence, she declared it was enough to make a  vell person sick, to lie in the way he did; and she lifted up lis head with a quick, jerking motion, that brought a heavy  ,roan from his lips.                     ? That sound gave me courage to entreat that she would "be careful, for Dr. Aliput said he must be moved very gently." "You had better be a little sparing of your tongue, Miss, or you won't be allowed to stay here," was the ungracious retort. "And I should like to ask who taught you any- thing about nursing? I knew all about it before you were born." I humbly acknowledged my ignorance of a nurse's duties, but added, "It seems to me he might be moved a little more gently; it seems dreadful to make one in his suffering con- dition endure any unnecessary pain." "When I want any advice from children, I' let you know," she returned, contemptuously; "but I, for one, have no idea of seeing the pillows tumbled, and the bed-clothes rumpled up in this style. It's just as easy, if he would only  think so, for him to keep quiet and bear it patiently, as it- is for: him to keep tossing about, and making me so much trouble." After pounding, shaking, and smoothing the pillows, she replaced them under his head, and tucked the quilts so firmly between the mattresses, that it would have been impossible for him to have moved himself at all, withqut assistance. I was half-disposed to come to open rebellion with her, when, in answer to his request. in a hoarse whisper, to beleft in quiet, she told him he would feel just as well when he got accustomed to his new position, aAd it made the room look so much more tidy. A moment's reflection convinced me that interference on my part wouldonly make badmatters worse; so P                   +t-      164   .    I', TSABEL CAROLLTON  I reluctantly retired from the unequal contest of words to. Mrs. Grant, whom I found in acute pain. She kept me ap-. plying an irritating lotion to her arms and shoulders, until eleven o'clock, when I was so perfectly "worn out" with fatigue and excitement, that, after a single peep at tLe rest; less inmate of the other sick-room, and the fair watLcer who still kept guard over him, I betook myself to rest. The clock in the hall was striking two, when I awoke from an unquiet slumber. After reflecting for some time on the propriety of so doing, I got up, dressed myself, silently prod ceeded to the door of Mr. Livingston's room, and listened intently for any sounds going on within. I heard no one moving, and, softly pushing open the door, I saw Miss Prim- lie lying on a couch; her deep, regular breathing attesting the soundness of her sleep. With noiseless footsteps I reached the bed-side, and, as I bent over its occupant to ascertain if he too slept, I was startled by his exclaiming, "Drink!- quick! I am almost dying with thirst!" Pouring into a tumbler of water a few drops from a phial, labelled , sedative mixture," I placed one arm beneath his pillow, and slowly raised his head, with my disengaged hand holdi-ng the glass to his lips. He eagerly drain d its contents. 4 Are you in much pain now?"; I asked, letting the pillow sink back to its original position. "My temples are aching intolerably,-- don't leave m 3 quite yet," was the scarcely audible reply. -"I am so glad you wish me to stay," I whispered in return.  Pouring a small quantity of spirits of vinegar into the palm of my hand, I applied the same to his throbbing tem- ples; repeating the appliiction again andiagain, until the ontractioa which - ad knitted his browa gradually i;elazxe&   A .PERONAL MTR1OSPECT.      167 into a more placid expression, indicating relief from the tor  ture he had been enduring; and, at last, I had the satisfaction of seeing him quietly sleeping.  The faint gray of early dawn was already beginning, in the east, to push back night's sable draperies, when Miss Primli turned on her couch; and, before she was sufficiently awake to be aware of my presence, I stole out of the room-as noise- lessly as I had entered, and was soon in the land of dreams myself. When next I awoke, my room was filled with sun, shine, and, hurrying through the process of dressing, I re- turned to the room I had so recently quitted. Miss Primlie, with her hair twisted up in odd little wads of newspaper,-above that part of her cranium where the organs of benevolence and reverence should have been, but were not,- sat in. an easy-chair before the embers smoulder- ing on the hearth, a shapeless wrapper drawn about her meagre form, her aspect even more vinegary than it had been the day before. "So, you v'e got along at last," were the first words of greeting she deigned to bestow on me; " and, as true as I'm alive, you're the first human creature I 've laid eyes on this whole morning. Heaven help the poor nurses! for nobody else seems to think of doing it, in this house, where they're expected to keep awake the whole livelong night, and not a mouthful provided to sustain their exhausted energies any more than if they had been sleeping, like so many logs, azs other folks do."  "Dolly had orders," I returned, in a voice as mild as I could force it to be, "to bring you a cup of tea and a plate of spice-cakes, at twelve." "Nothing but slip-slops!" she retorted, contemptaously; ' and I guess folks that wear themselves- out, night after night, taking caxe of the- sic, ueed something a--little more substantial than weak tea .and spieed flour to keep:their     1688     ISABEL CAROLLTON: strength up. I don't think a glass of wine, and a few sand- wiches, with a sharp, crisp pickle, would do them any hurt. And now, I 'll just thank you to go down to the kitchen, and tell that what 's her name ---to make my coffee strong, and to broil a chicken, or something decent, for my break- fast." "Miss Primlie!" said Mr. Livingston, so suddenly that she actually jumped from her -chair, crying out in a tone of surprise, "Good land! I did n't know you was awake-; how do you find yourself this morning?" "Better," he replied, in a voice much clearer than it had been a few hours before; adding, "4I was merely going to remark that you can be spared an hour to attend the prepa- rations for your own breakfast; Miss Carollton will remain with mein your absence. You will please, also, to despatch Thomas for Dr. Gerould. I must speak a few words with him.' She seemed about to object to this arrangement, but he bent on her a look so firmly decisive that she vanished. "Will you come to me a moment, Bel?" said he, as the sound of her footsteps died on the stairs. "I am very, very happy, to see you appearing so much better than yesterday," said I, approaching him. "And I," he returned, "am very sorry to see you looking so pale. All this care and anxiety, to which you are so little accustomed, will make you really ill, I am afraid. I shall consult Dr. Aliput on the subject; and, if he confirms my fears, I must not be so selfish as to permit your injuring your- self in my behalf." I declared myself quite well, and protested against being entirely excluded from his apartments; adding, that if he needed my care, no professional edict should deprive him of it; for any suffering would be preferable to the anxiety I should /w .    A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      ;69 undergo, if unable to ascertain, for myself, the actual progress of his disease.      - He almost crushed my hand in his own, pronouncing the single word " darling," with an intonation that convinced me he did not, at heart, disapprove my resolution. So I forbade his talking any more, with an assumption of authority that brought something of the old smile to his face, and sat quiet- ly beside him, until Dr. Gerould came in. ( "Well, Arthur, this is too bad, 'pon my soul!" was his earnest exclamation, as he warmly grasped the hand of his friend, who, with equal warmth, returned the pressure. I started to leave the room, thinking they might prefer being alone together, but was detained by a motion from the hand of the invalid. , ' Why did you not send for me at, once?" resumed the doctor.  "I thought I would wait until I needed your services more," was the concise reply; "6and you have been kind enough to respond promptly to my summons. I must4tell you, in- few words, how you can oblige me, for I cannot talk long." "That's right," was the ready answer, and remember, anything I can do for you will be done with pleasure; so pro- ceed."             r, "Thank you; I was sure I could rely on your kindness. I received intelligence this week, from Captain Gleason, informi ing me of the ' Glen-Avon's ' safe arrival at New York r She is now unlading at one of the piers; and if you will write the captain to get under way for New Orleans, in ballast, for a cargo of cotton, it will save me the trouble of thinking any more about it. I wish him to make all possible despatch; for,if he arrives there soon, he will obtain from three-quarters to seven-eighths of a penny, freight, which is more. than wtill be -given later in the season. As for myotheri- ship, the "eila Lorrell,' bound out, for Liverpool, I wish Captain 15     170       ISABELf OABROLLTON - Sturgiss to deposite the freight-money with Baring & Broth- ers, only reserving enough to purchase a cargo of salt at Cadiz, for Boston,- that is, if freights are dull at English ports i or tell him to act according to his own discretion in the matter. Being on the spot, he will be better able than myself to decide what is expedient." "I will write exactly as you have directed, and take ail occasional peep at the store, to be sure that all is right in that quarter. So don't trouble your head- about that; but save all your strength to grapple with the fever. and shake it off so much the quicker." I think I have 'repeated Mr. Livingston's directions, word for iord,as they proceeded from his own lips; for I repeated them over and over to myself, until they were firmly engraven on my memory; not because they contained anything of pecu- liar interest to ine, but rather to convince myself, byreflect- ing'on their perfect coherency, that his mind was no longer wandering, as-I had half feared it, to be the previous day, and that his illness was less serious than we had at first appre- hended.  - "He did not, however, reply to Dr. Gerould's last remark. A purple flush was settling over his face, and his breathing ,was quick and labored, like that of one in a state: of extreme exhaustion.--  "He must not talk any longer," said I, in a whisper to the former, as I stepped between him and the bed; " for Dr. Ali- put said it was essential that he should be kept perfectly quiet."  "And he repeats that opinion," said the latter, who had entered the room in time to hear the last few words I had spoken.      '  '"One hundred and twenty beats in a minute," he con- tinued, relinquishing his patient's wrist. "What have you been doing to excite him?-" -    A PEROQNAIL -RTROStPECT.      171 "Nothing, 'pon honor," replied Dr. Gerould, "with the exception of receiving a few business directions" -  "Let business go to the winds," was the somewhat impal- tient rejoinder, "for I, forbid its being even named in his presence again while he is under my care." ( If you need my services in any way, send for me," said Dr. G., aside. I promised to do so, and, with a crest-fallen air, he made his escape whiles Dr. Aliput was inquiring after the health of Miss Primlie, who had just come in. She declared herself almost " worn out with last night's watching," and hinted that, where the duties were so ardu- ous, she hoped her remuneration would be in accordance with them.  ( I wished to ask you, doctor," said Mr. Livingston, inter- rupting her, "if there is any danger of MissCarollton's taking the fever. Some time in the night, when I was in. intense pain, and the nurse asleep, she was good enough to come in, and do everything in her power for my relief; but, if there is any danger for her, I would prefer her remaining away."  ( If she will frequently inhale fresh air, and otherwise obey my directions, I will answer for her,".replied the doctor, in that low, cheering tone he always adopted when addressing the suffering. Turning to Miss Primlie, whose face wag dark with suppressed rage, he continued, "As your duties are so arduous, madam, I would recommend a division of labor. To-night you will please call Miss Carollton at one o'clock, or about that time, and let her take your place, while you have time for the repose you so much require. This soft couch looks rather inviting, eh? So you will not be out of hearing if your colleague should need the benefit of your larger expe- rience." She deigned no reply; and, as soon as he had gone,was seized with a fresh mania for putting things to rights. ound     172        ISABEL CAROULTON: the room she rushed like an incipient hurricane, prostrating chairs, crickets, or whatever else came in her way; handles flew from pitchers, cups and phials were overturned and broken; and, as a finale to this destructive scene, the hearth was swept with such hot haste, that a cloud of white ashes rose high above her head, and slowly circled down upon the marble mantel. A stifled exclamation, very like a groan, broke-from the lips of the invalid, as often as- she came near the bed. Although his eyes were closed, he seemed ever aware of her approach. Now and then her wrath exploded in scarcely articulate mutterings, like the following: -("All a contrived plan be- tween them, to put upon me. Just like that noodle of a doc- tor; with his smiles, and his bows, and his quirks; always ready to stick up for every young girl he comes across, no matter how big a fool she is. An artful little hussy Icall her, for all she contrives to keep such an innocent look on her pale baby-face. Directions to keep her from catching the fever! O, gracious! it makes me so hopping mad ' as though there was n't anybody else here, whose life was worth a straw. An unfeeling brute, just like all-the rest of the men! But I 've got a few words for his private ear, that will make him curl like a burnt boot; and there 's Miss Mag and Miss Vane that he 's made love to, till each one of them thiinks she 's as good as engaged to him; won't I put a flea in their/ears, too? And if he don't catch a piece of my mind, next time he comes, then I hope to sneeze." I took no notice of the e outhursts, taking good care to keep out of her path until they were over; then I went down to the breiafast-room, where Dolly and Bessy, looking unu- sually hot and flustered, were bustling about. As soon as I made my appearance the muffins, and toast were transferred from the hearth, where they had been kept warm for me; to the "table.       -   A PEBRSONAL RBTBOSPECT.     178 "This is delicious coffee," said I, as, from a cup of snowy , porcelain, I sipped the fragrant beverage.  , That one up stairs," returned Bessy, with an indignant toss of the head, " said it was nothing but slops, and on'y fit for the pigs to drink. On'y think of it! that nice trench coffee! Mr. Livin'ston says he never tasted any better; and she ordered me to b'il her some half an hour, before she'd tech it. I expect she 'l11 drive us all out o' the house, yet."' c"She said my muffins was burnt, too," interposed Dolly. ,c And the toast was all dried up," resumed Bessy. "And that the griddle-cakes were sour, and the bread heavy," continued Dolly. , And that the eggs was b'iled too little," retorted Bessy. , And the chicken br'iled too much,"' rejoined Dolly, now fairly laughing at what, a few minutes before, had seemed quite a serious matter. ' Thomas says," resumed Bessy, "c that he was glad enough to get rid of her; for, when he was bringing her over here, if he drove anyways fast, she'd declare she 'd rather get out and walk, than to run the risk of being pitched out and getting her neck broke, if the horse should happen to stumble; and when he drove slow, she said she might jest as well be walk- ing, as crawling, along at such a snail's pace. When he' went on the side of the road, to get out of the mud, you know, she was sure it was fors no earthly reason but to jolt the life out of her; and when he got back into the ruts again, she scolded louder than ever, because the mud flew over her. It's no use in life trying to please sech a cross-grained old thing." , Even Dr. Aliput," said Dolly, careful as he is not to speak a word against anybody, declared, this very mornin, that he should hate, above all things, to be, the Petrusheo- the Lord on'y knows what that is, I don't, - to have t taming of such a shrew."      \ I did my best to persuade them to bear all her freaks of f 15^     ,174       ISABEL CAROLLTON : temper with becoming patience, and not trouble poor Mrs. Grant by mentioning them to her; adding, that I hoped it would be but a few days, before Mr. Livingston would be so much better that we could safely dispense with her services. To this hope they both fervently responded, as I left them to go to Mrs. Grant, who was still unable to leave her bed. She eagerly inquired into every particular of Mr. Livingston's disease, and its treatment; lamented deeplr that, she was incapacitated from watching over him, worrying herself with fears that everything promotive of his recovery was not as faithfully attended to, as it would have been, could she but have superintended the same. Having partially succeeded in satisfying her on this point, I withdrew to my chamber, and indited a brief epistle to my cousin Mary, informing her of the recent fire, and my own narrow escape from it, having been brought out of the house insensible by Mr. Livingston. This was the first time I had ever mentioned his name in my letters to Elderbank; and now I merely wrote, that, as he was suffering severely from typhus fever, induced, probably, by exposure on the night of the fire, I had, at the request of Mrs. Grant, who was also ill, resigned the cares of my school-room for the present, in order to aid the nurse in her attendance on his sick-room; only adding, that the former had kindly extended me an invitation to make my home at her house, where the sick 'gentleman was also a boarder. Of my engagement to the latter, - if such it might be termed,- I said nothing, as I scarcely felt at liberty to do so without his permission.       t    CHAPTitR XI. WEABRY WATCHNGS, AMND A TAbRTI UR PRIST-- I WAS still dallying with my half folded missive, when Dolly came running up stairs to tell me the "colonel's folks" were below." Mrs. Grant had positively refused to see any ' one but Mrs. Howard; so I had been sent for, to entertain the rest of the party. I found Colonel Howard and niece await- ing me in the drawing-room. The former bowed condesend-  ingly, but did not honor me by a word of greeting; the latter made room for me beside her, by removing her aunt's bonnet and shawl from the sofa, and, in a subdued tone, we ex- changed a few common-place remarks, for her unole's presece laid a heavy restraint upon us. This was soon withdrawn; for, piling up -his feet on the back of- a chair, and pulling a newspaper from his pocket, in the perusal of a rancorous political speech he forgot our very existence. Then she  :became more eager and minute in her questioningsiabout the exact condition of the two invalids, and I moreuiffuse in my answerS.  In return for the information I gave her (not withholdlg, an account of Dr. Gerould's kindness, which brought a faint color to her cheek), she told me that her cousin would, doubt- less, have accompanied them, had she not, on the previous day, started for Boston, where she intended spending a month with a married sister of the colonel's,--a Mrs. Manlove,- whom Ellen described as a fine lady, absorbed in gayety and : $      176        ISABEL CABOLLTON fashion. She had been handsome once, so said my compan- ion, and still contrived, by the aid of the dentist, hair-dresser, and a magnificent toilette, to pass for a beauty, although, one who had seen her in uncurled tresses and plain morning ntglige, would hardly have believed this possible. At five- and-forty, her style of dress was as juvenile as that adopted by her daughter of sixteen, whom she thought quite a child, and still addressed as ma petite file. Miss Corinna received frequent invitations to the city, her aunt delighting to exhibit the beauty and accomplishments of so near a relative. It was not long before Mrs. Howard made her appearance, saying, they had driven over with the intention of carrying me back with them for a few days, as she thought I was not looking well, and the change would do me good, besides being a pleasure to Nelly, who would otherwise find herself quite lonely in her cousin's absence; " but," she subjoined, "Mrs. Grant seems so unwilling to part with you, at present, that I had not the heart to insist on it; so I fear your visit must be postponed to a more convenient season." I was very grateful for the invitation, and still more so that she did not urge its acceptance; for it would have made me miserable to have left my new home while its inmates were languishing with. illness. "Do you think," she asked, after a short pause, "( that Mr. Livingston would like to have me look in upon him, for a minute or tio? as I should really like to decide for myself how he is getting along. He need not exert himself in the slightest degree on my account, and I shall only speak long  enough to tell him how much we all feel for his severe suffer- ing." "I will step up to his room, and ask Miss Primlie if there is any objection to your seeing him," said I; anxious to pre- pare that punctilious spinster for the proposed interview, and   A PERSONAIL RETROSPECT.      171 give her time to get on her best behavior, in honor of the occasion. "I beg you will do nothing of the kind, Miss," interposed her husband, with dignified severity; adding, as he turned to his wife, "how can you be so preposterously absurd, my dear, as to think of exposing yourself so unnecessarily? for I am sure the fever is contagious, whatever the M, D s may say to the contrary." "Thank you, love, for your kind solicitude on my behalf; but you perceive that our young friend here constantly assists the nurse in the sick-room, - so Mrs. Grant tells me, without fearing, or experiencing, any evil consequences;-and, as old neighbors as we are, it does seem to me no more than civility requires, that I should go up and tell him that he has our most earnest sympathy,'if we can do nothing else for him; that is, if he would like to see me." "This young woman," rejoined the colonel, with a mag- nificent wave of the hand toward my humble self, " is not so firmly bound by family ties as yourself, and can, therefore, act as she pleases in the matter; while you, on the contrary, will permit me to be the judge, - acting as I shall deem etx pedient, and recollecting that, if you were to contract the dis- ease, your whole household would be exposed to its infection. I believe I have said enough to show you what are my wishes on the subject," 4"Quite sufficient," she returned, with the least dash of impatience in her tone. ' Without vouchsafing another word to any one, he strode majestically out of the house, his wife and -niece soon -ollow- ing him. When I reached the outer door with them, he, was standing behind the carriage, pointing toward a small quan- tity of dust that had collected thereon, and administering-a stinging rebuke to the cringing coachman for haing ieglecttd to remove the same. A small tarnished spot on the silver     178        ISABEL CABOiLTON: mounting of the harness next drew forth an additional reprib mand; after which he turned to his wife, who -still stood in the door-way, with the words, "I am waiting." "Don't stop for adieux, aunt," said Ellen, " or he will be angry, perhaps, and order Tim to drive off without us." In, accordance with this suggestion, they hurried down the steps and into the carriage, which was whirled rapidly away. After all, thought I, as -I watched the receding vehicle, I: do not see that his manners are much more gentlemanly-than those of Mr. Gunnerson, whom he holds in such profound contempt; and as for fine feelings, his are all corroded by- pride and selfishness. Late in the day, Mr. Livingston became much worse: and all the hopes of his speedy recovery, which, in the morn' ing, I had so confidently cherished, I then felt to have been delusive, as he lay for hours in a heavy lethargy, not even seeming to recognize his attendants. Late in the evening, Mrs. Grant sent for me. On enter. ing her room, the first things I perceived were two dresses, one, a delicate silk, pearl-colored and blue, and the other, a dark-green Thibet, - conspicuously displayed over the back of a chair. I knew at once they must be intended for me, as they were mucht too small to fit any other person in' the house. ' How very kind somebody is!" said I,with an inquiring look at- Mrs. Grant, who smilingly watched me, while dis. claiming for herself any share in the bestowal of the gift. 'Then they really are a gift; but from whom?"I asked, perfectly at a lossto conjecture who the donor might be. " uess once," said she. I cealled- to mind my few acquaintances, but recollected no one whom I thought likely to have given me so substantial a proof-of friendship.  A- fter- -playing with my curiosity as long as suited her, she   A PERSONALL - BETROSPJ.       *19 told me that Mrs. Howard, in the course of hermorning call, had been thoughtful enough to inquire how much of my ward- robe had been saved from the fire; and, on being informed that I escaped with only the clothes I wore, remarked that she had a couple of dresses made for Corinna several years since, which, even then, were uncomfortably small for her for which reason they had been scarcely worn at all, and she would send them over to me with pleasure, if sure that I would not, resent it-as an act of intrusive charity. "I told her," sub- joined Mrs. Grant, " that you had no such foolish pride, and would be thankful for the much-needed gift." And grateful I was; although, to speak truth, I would have preferred their having belonged to any one else rather than Miss Howard, As I lifted them from the chair, a blue. Cachemire shawl fell to the floor. Pieking it up, and care- fully folding the rich fabric, I was replacing it, when Mrs. Grant said, "That is yours, too, if you will please accept-it. with jmy best wishes."          . , Why, dear Mrs. Grant," I returned, throwing it in soft folds over my arm, "I never saw anything so beautiful!"  You ought not to give me so costly an article; it will not correspond with the rest of my dress." "I think it will match that pale-blue silk, and I am glad. it suits .yur taste," she rejoined, looking much. pleased, in . her- quiet way. "My intention in giving it was. to, let -you know how deeply I consider myself indebted to- you for taking charge of the: household affairs, I positively do not believe the girls would stay in the house with that wildfire of a Miss Primlie, if you did not throw cold water on the. wrath she is forever kindling them into."  -I told her how very much she over-estimated my de erts  that it was my greatest pleasure to make myself useful -t - everyinmate of the house, as they had shown me nothiag but kindness; and,-taking my. unexpected gifts. I went away     180       ISABEL CAROTLToN: abruptly; for my eyes filled with tears, as I recollected with how much more than friendly interest I had been treated by them all. But do not think I was unhappy; far-from it. I thought, with delight, of the disinterested affection, which, desolate and alone as I had formerly deemed myself, I had yet been able to win. MDy heart beat lightly at the pleasant reflection. A low murmur of pain fell on my ear as I passed the door of the sick-room. In an instant the whole current of my thoughts was changed. I even reproached myself for having been so selfish as to indulge a single joyous emo- 1on^e he was enduring so much agony. Next morning found him slightly improved again; but in the afternoon he was even worse than on the preceding one. Thus the long days wore slowly away, until three weeks had dragged themselves into the past, and still we looked in vain for any favorable modification in the disease. Even Miss Primhe was subdued into something like sympathy, and, with faithful alacrity, did what lay in her power to relieve the in- tensity of his sufferings; only remarking, occasionally, that her nerves were all on edge, and she didn't think she could hold out much longer at this rate. All the care of him did not, however, now devolve upon us, for his mind was constantly wandering, and he was often racked by paroxysms of delirium so Violent that the united strength of two men was scarcely able to restrain him; and his shrieks for aid to free himself from what he imagined their deadly gripe, made my blood curdle in my veins. On the twenty-second night from the commencement of his illness, Dr. Gerould and Mr. Gunnerson watched over him through the dreary hours. I caught the sound of his voice, raised high in incoherent ravings, as I lay trying to snatch an hour's slumber in my own chamber. Why should I repose in calm, refreshing sleep when a life,   A PERSONAL -RETBOSPECT.      181 as dear to me as my own, hung trembling in the balance 2 I got up, and crept to the sick-room, for'the unnatural tones of his voice were less thrillingly terrible there than in the dis- tance. As I glided noiselessly into a dark corner of the room, where the feeble rays from the nurse-lamp did not pen- etrate, a strange name burst from his quivering lips,--a woman's name, too,- Cornelia. Again and again, in the course of that seemingly endless night, did the same name escape him; often in accents of entreaty, sometimes in tones of reproach, but never in those of tenderness. I took partic- ular note of that; for, so frequent was the repetition of this name, that, had it been otherwise, I am sure, notwithstanding my overpowering anxiety, I should have been painfully startled. As it was, it grated rather unpleasantly on my ear, until I reflected that, with his eminent capabilities for win- ning friends, he must, as a matter of course, have many near and dear to him, although, during our limited acquaintance, he had never happened to mention their names before me. Besides, he might have numbers of female relatives, to whom his mind in its delirious wanderings would naturally revert. All these conjectures were superseded by a state of breath- less anxiety, as, towards morning, alarming symptoms began to exhibit themselves, and a summons was hastily despatched for Dr. Aliput. He was not slow in obeying it, and, with a gravely solicitous air, bent over his patient without a word of address to any one. There was no smile on his face, no effort to speak cheerily, to keep up the patient's spirits; they were beyond our influence now. "What do you think of him, sir?" asked Dr. Gerould, under his breath. I had crawled out of my dark corner, with the intention of asking the same question, but my words were paralyzed 16     182-       ISABlt CAROLLTOy;: in the utterance, through a sickening apprehension of receive -ing an unfavorable answer. "I have not yet given up all hope," was the hesitating re. joinder; " but, if the crisis is not over within four-and-twenty hours, I am afraid nature will be exhausted, and we must make up our minds to part with him." My ,heart sent out a quick bounding pulsation at these ominous words, that quivered through every fibre of my sys. tem, tingling to my very fingers' ends, then rushing back with such violence that I felt myself half-suffocated. I tottered outupon the landing, and, groping my way into my room, threw myself upon the floor, crying to the mighty Ruler of events, who holds our lives in his hand, wildly, impiously, it seems to me as I look back upon that hour; " O, merciful Father, press not this cup of bitterness to my lips  Thine arm is heavy upon me! Let him not go down to the dark grave, and be hidden evermore from my longing eyes! Afflict me, if it seemeth good in thy sight; but spare him, O, my Father, spare him!" Although I remained long on my knees, my head resting on a hard cricket, this was the ever-recurring burden of my eager petition. I reflected, not on the presumptuous folly and sinful want of faith, of which I was guilty) poor, short-sighted creature that I was, - in endeavoring to-dictate to the all-wise Disposer of all our blessings, the mode in which I would be afflicted. Why did not I trust in his loving. kindness, and beseech him to chasten me in the manner best adapted to discipline my perverted faculties, and fit ne for that brighter home, whose inconceivable glories are hidden  from us by the shadows of the dark valley through which we must pass to attain them? I believe I only thought of escaping the crushing misery of seeing the long white robe folded about that loved form, wrapping- it forever from my aching vision. I could not con-. *'   A PR$aOtNAL RETROBPCT.      18Oi template the probability of anything so terrible, with any* thing like calmness or resignation. It never once entered my thoughts to conceive that it was possible for me to experience a calamity, in comparison with which his death might be deemed a mercy. How should it? About noon the violence of his disease seemed to exhaust itself, and he sunk into a sleep, restless and perturbed at first, but gradually becoming more profound until he seemed in perfect repose, So motionless did he remain for hours, that Dr. Gerould was holding a small mirror to his lips to assurem himself that he really breathed, when he languidly unclosed his eyes. To my inexpressible joy, a calm, clear intelligence  replaced the insane gleam, which, for days, had been their only expression. "Will you move my head a little?" he asked, faintly. Dr. Gerould raised it very gently for him,--as a general thing his motions were too impetuous for a sick-room,-- and I flew to arrange the pillows; my heart overflowing with gratitude that my fervent, soul-wrung supplication of the morning had been heard and answered. We soon perceived that, now the false strength lenthy-- fever and delirium no longer buoyed him up, he was weak as an infant. The crumpling of a paper, or the creaking of a board beneath a heavy footstep, thrilled through his disordered nerves with painful distinctness; the ringing of a bell started large drops of perspiration from his brow, and, I verily be-. lieve, to such unnatural intensity were his senses excited, that. the fall of a pin upon the floor would not have failed to. attract his attention. I do not assert the truth of this belief, but such was my impression. We all glided about with stealthy tread, only speaking- under our breath; the very bells muffled into silende, so that the entire household was as hushed and subdued, as. though the dark angel had really entered the dwelling, instead of      184       ISABEL CARBOLLTONN: standing, as he did, upon the threshold, ready, if its inmate was not guarded with unwearying vigilance, to beckon him away to the spirit-land. Another week, and he was pro- nounced convalescent. Then Bessy and Dolly no longer spoke in whispers, but went about the house humming] simple airs, and singing snatches of half-forgotten, and not, unmusical old ballads. By the aid of the barber (who came every morning, and also performed the duties of a valet), the newly-convalescent was able to reach the arm-chair; and, when tired of the up- right posture, he rested his arm on my shoulder, and, with this slight support, reached the couch; between which and the easy-chair his time was pretty equally divided. One word about the barber above mentioned. He was the only 4' gentleman of color" the village afforded; and in his single person combined the varied vocations of tinker, boot- black, and rag-gatherer; nearly starving-so he protested, although his stout, obese figure presented no indications of the fact-on the emoluments of his numerous callings. He never seemed thoroughly to enjoy himself, unless when occu- pied in expatiating on his early home at the south, or in singing the old plantation-melody, "O , carry me back to ole Birginny!"- which he bellowed forth, while stropping a razor or soldering a porringer, with a gusto that proved how much his heart was in the words.  Miss Primlie's office of nurse having become merely a sin- ecure, she received a kindly notice of dismnissal, with so liberal a reward for her services, that, with her usually sour manner considerably mollified, she went so far as to volun- teer to remain a week longer, gratuitously, if she could be of further use. This offer so startled Dolly by its unwonted generosity, that she had eyes only for the speaker; and, in her abstraction, poured a basin of scalding broth, which she   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      185 was bringing in, up her sleeve, and with a stifled scream dashed out of the room, at a pace decidedly "fast." The offer which induced this. mishap, was, however, politely declined, and its author was herself again, muttering, in a discontented tone, that s she, for one, never wished to stay where she was n't wanted; and, for her part, she always knew it was just a man's cut-out to let a woman slave her- self to death's door for him, as long as he could n't get along without her comfortably; but, just the minute he was able to look out for number one again, and no thanks to anybody, he'd cut her adrift, and not care a red cent's worth whether she sunk or swum, till the next time he needed her services," "Have you any specific charges to prefer against me?" asked Mr. Livingston, with an expression of amused curiosity on his unruffled features. If so, speak out, and you may obtain redress for your grievances." "Why, nothing very special," said she, looking a. little ashamed, as she slid the patrician gold pieces he had given her into a gray woollen purse, among the plebeian copper coins therein contained; "but I do hate to see people all bound up in self, without thinking that there are other folks in the world who want to live as well as they." I agree with you there," he rejoined, a smile of peculiar significance curling his lip. A retort trembled on her lips; but she thought better of it, and, with a p'recise little -school-girl curtsy an4 a "good- day, sir," she turned to me with a toss of the head, and a parting snarl, in which I detected no articulate sound, and took herself out of the room. Soon after, I saw her walk- ing down the yard towards the barn, and, at the same moment, Thomas was seen issuing, upon a flying leap, from a baok-door of the same, invisible to her, making his way at top speed toward a stone wall. Over it he went, and was 16*     186        ISABEL CAIAOLLTON  hidden from sight on the other side. Through the barn, hen- house, and granary, did she extend her ineffectual search for the missing swain; shouting his name in a high, shrill key, time after time, with the subjoined request, that he would harness up quick and drive her home. Thus she sought him for the better part of an hour, only desisting when convinced that farther efforts would prove fruitless. Retracing her steps with an air of petulant disappointment, she disappeared down the street, on foot.- Not many minutes elapsed before Thomas's fur cap slowly rose above the wall, over which its owner had thrown himself. -Finding that the coast was clear, he cautiously made his way back to the barn. After laughingly expatiating on the benefits accruing from an amiable disposition, even in a selfish point of view, Mr. Livingston requested me to take down the bird-cage which hung in a niche of his dressing-room, and set it on the small table beside him. This done, the dark cloth was removed from it,- we had found it necessary thus to exclude the light from its occupant, to subdue the vivacity of his song.- and Dick, a long, green canary, first taking a critical survey of the ' apartment and its belongings, burst into a perfect furor of trills, shakes, chirpings, and warblings, which made me seriously fear a rupture of the tiny throat, which seemed stretched to its utmost capacity, as he swept from perch to perch in a perfect ecstasy of enthusiasm. "Well done, pet," .cried Mr. L., "you 've given me a right merry greeting, at any rate; behold your reward." A thimtle-full of boiled chicken - a great gourmand was Dick - was placed near him, on the table, and the door of his cage thrown open. As soon as he had sufficiently regaled himself off this rare dish, he hopped to the back of a chair, bringing first one aind then the other of his small, bead-like eyes to bear upon his master; evidently not quite satisfied r    A PEBSONAL BETROSPEC.      1t7 with his appearance, and, upon the whole, inclined to the belief that his gratulatory song had been a little premature. , Well, old fellow, I used to think you was my best friend" (Mr. Livingston was the speaker, not Dick), "but I'm afraid you must come down a peg, and be second-best now; or, not so fast, old boy, you will have two friends instead of one. How will that suit " and he extended one finger, on which the knowing little elfin instantly alighted. "Now go and make the acquaintance of your new mis- tress," said Mr. Livingston, holding him towards me. Although I felt my face reddening, I quietly reached out a finger to the diminutive sprite; but instead of alighting thereon, he pecked venomously at my outstretched hand, uttering, at the same time, a discordant, grating sort of sound, which he had learned in attempting to imitate the noise pro- duced by Thomas in sawing wood. "So ho!" laughed Mr. Livingston. "The wilful fellow has no mind to be a third party in the proposed triumvirate. Well, he will come to, in time; his master was not subjugated in a day." Mrs. Grant, whom I have so long neglected to mention, had been slowly improving in health, until she was able to walk about her room; although she had not yet been out of it. She often kept me reading aloud to her, from the works of  some favorite author, for hours together, so that Mr. Living- ston was necessarily left much to himself; although receiving not infrequent calls from his numerous acquaintance in the village, who often seemed to exhaust, rather than enliven him. Many were the protests he made against my long absences from his part of the house, insisting that he was still-an invalid, and, now Miss Primhe had gone, needed a double portion of my attendance. But I felt that he did not really require my services, and, consequently, was a little shy of R            *      188       .ISAEL OAROLLTO : being with him- when no one else was present-as much as heretofore. Later in the week we experienced one of those piercingly- chilly, uncomfortable days, sometimes inflicted upon us north- erners, in the early part of December. Dark gray clouds drooped wearily toward the earth, curtaining out the glad- some sunlight. - The few flakes of snow that fell were caught in their descent, and driven relentlessly about the bleak hill- tops by the pitiless blast, that, ever and anon, forced its way into the house, through crevices the most minute, with a shriek so like the wail of pain as to be dismally suggestive. Mrs. Grant, still sensitively alive to atmospheric changes, was undergoing a severe headache, which I had been endeav- oring to alleviate with a plentiful suffusion of camphor, with but indifferent success. At her suggestion, I then sat down -to read aloud to her from one of Miss Austen's charming novels, and her attention had been diverted from herself by the absorbing interest of the narrative, when, as the hand of the clock was on the stroke of ten, Dolly pushed open the door, with a request from Mr. Livingston that Mrs. Grant would come up and sit with him awhile, if she felt able. "Bless my stars! I do wish you could go," she went on to say, "for he ha'n't opened his lips to a single individiwal person, this whole mornih', 'cept the barber, and he must be mortal lonesome; for it 's so still up there, all but the howling o the wind,- that does make a noise like some mad creatur,- that poor Dick has gi'en out, and wound himself up into a ball ready to go to sleep." ( How very selfish of us to forget him!" remarked kind Mrs. Grant. She need not have included me in this observation, for he had not long been absent from my thoughts, in the whole course of the morning. She reflected some time, before decid- ing how to answer his invitation, and then said to me, Would you as lief go up, and tell him how hapvy I should f   A pRnSONAIi  RETROawCT. T19 be to see him again, and all that, you know; but that I am not quite as well to-day, and am afraid to go through the cold hall, but I will try and be with him to morrow, if he will excuse my not coming this time." Mr. Livingston received the excuses I bore him, without testifying much disappointment at the nonacceptance of his invitation; but begged me so earnestly to remain for a short time, that I went back to obtain Mrs. Grant's permission so tq do; which she cordially granted, proposing to take a quiet 7 nap in iny absence. , This is a sort of day," said Mr. Livingston, on my return, "to make one dislike solitude, and long for a home; a cheerful cosey, domestic circle, gathered about a bright glowing fire, would seem doubly pleasant, in contrast with the dark, dreary prospect Wvithout. You don't reply. Have you no visions of a bright home, in the future? You are looking a little out of spirits, now I observe you closely. What is it-? Does anything trouble you?" Nothing," said I, with an effort to shake off the unac married when but eighteen." "Would you be pleased to listen to a little reading l. I asked, to break the uncomfortable pause that followed this remark.  ," Certainly," he replied, abstractedly. I went to the dark closet in which his books were still allowed to remain, and, in looking them over, came across a manuscript containing a written translation from Homer. ".I must read this some day, with your permission, asI am never likely to peruse the original, said I, turnig oer its yellowishleaves    .    ..    -     190        ISABEL CAROLLTON: -"Now, if you like," he rejoined; " never mind if you do laugh at the forced, unnatural construction of its sentences. I am not sensitive about-my old school-boy blunders." Availing myself of this permission, I was soon, in fancy, listening to the winged accents of Jove the Thunderer, and his spirited, oft-rebellious consort, each of whom influenced so mightily earth's battle-fields. "Is not that passage admirable for its vividness of concep. tion?"I asked, on concluding a few lines, which struck me as displaying, in a remarkable degree, the lofty genius of the poet. "I believe -rather so-" he replied, hesitatingly, as though he had not fully comprehended my question. "You believe so!"I repeated, half vexed at his total want of attention; " let me see if you can even repeat the name of the goddess about whom I was last reading." "Smile-loving Venus, was it not?" he replied, with a look of arch humor. "Nonsense!" saidI, closing the book. -"I shall not waste my breath longer on such an inattentive auditor." "Thank you, you are quite right," he returned, " and will pardon me if I confess myself better disposed to talk than listen. Are you afraid of me, that you sit on the opposite side of the room " To convince him of the contrary, I drew my tabouret up beside his easy-chair. "   Are you fond of teaching school?" he asked abruptly, as soon as I was re-seated. "I do not dislike it, although I hardly think I should teach for the mere pleasure of the occupation, if I had no other inducement for so doing." "I thought as much, and shall not permit you, on any con- sideration, to return to that close, odious school-room again," said he, with a playful assumption of authority. "But I must return," I asserted positively, "for, as yet   /   ., A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      191 I have done nothing towards accomplishing the object for which I first undertook to teach." "Perhaps," said he, " you would have no objection to con- fide to me the mighty reason that induced you to leave friends and home, as the song says, and make your abode with strang- ers."- The faintest indication of a smile played over his face, and almost decided me not to " confide" in him; but, after a little hesitation, I related to him, frankly, the entire cause of my uncle's straitened circumstances, my cousin's unfortunate acci- dent, and her strong desire to see, and consult, a more em- inent surgeon than any in Elderbank. This wish, I told him, she had never mentioned to my uncle and aunt, lest they should pinch themselves, in the very necessaries of life, to save up the means of gratifying it. "And so you determined to earn the means for her at- tempted cure, yourself," he interposed gravely, " and spare them any self-denial they might otherwise submit to, for her benefit; is it so?" I ndded assent, pleased at the interest he evinced at my recital. You must be a little less thoroughly leavened with se6lf. ishness than the majority of the-world," he resumed, but this is not the first time I have had occasion to find that out. In that long illness which wore Miss Primlie to a 'natomy,-- o: she averred,- it was oftener you than she that I found bath- ing my head, or mixing for me a composing draught." "All pure regard for self," I returned. "It is so much pleasanter for me to have an amusing, cheerful companion, than such a stupid invalid as you were a fortnight ago; and as for my uncle's family, if you knew all the care and trouble I had caused them, you would see that all I can do, in return,' is no more than their due."-      '  ' You are modest in' your appreciationtof self,"' said he,     192        lSABEL -CAtOLLTO ': "and I like it, it suits me; I have no sympathy with arro- gant pretensions; but, Bel," he added, in low, persuasive tones, as he clasped my hand and drew me nearer to him, "I can aid you in accomplishing this' object, on which you have set your heart. This little hand once my own, your relatives will become mine. Why should we defer the ceremony that will give me the privilege of offering them - yes-- what I meant to say, was--of extending to them more substantial tokens of good-will than you will be able to procure by your unaided exertions 2 Why not name the -day now, as well as another time? What do you think of New-Year's eve?" :This question startled me, not a little; for if I had ever contemplaited-marriage at all, it had been as a distant event, in the far-away dreamy future ;- as a near reality it had never entered my thoughts; and my heart throbbed so heav- ily that I think he must have heard it, for he said, gently, 4"Do not be so much disturbed, Bel; you will not be so much afraid of me when you know me better." Then I found courage to declare that New-Year's eve was quite out of the, question, for it was impossible for me to get ready as soon as that. "I do- not see why there should be any getting ready about it, or any impossibility either," he persisted. "Does this look like -bridal attire?"I asked, directing his attention to my dark Thibet dress. "I will send to the store for a piece of silk, this very afternoon," he returned; the difficulties in the way only in- citing him to; fresh ardor; "and you shall accept the same as a birth-day gift. Then for the bridal veil! I 'll send to the city, express, for a whole case of embroidered blonde, or what not;" and he smiled at his own impetuosity, although his tone was still earnest, as he continued, "now for the next obstruc- tion in the way, for I feel the might of a giant nerving my arm; to hurl it- from the path."   A PESONAL, BSTROSPECT.       193 "It is not treating my uncle with 'becoming respect," said I, " to decide on so important a subject without first consult. ing him.' "' I had thought of that," he hastily returned, , and will write him before evening, to make everything straight in that quarter. I had also intended- to have claimed Mrs. Grant's congratulations, if she had been able to come up this after*- noon,- to-morrow will answer every purpose." Involuntarily I raised my eyes to his eager, animated face, over which played the faint tint of returning health, or it might have been a reflection from the crimson brocade of his dressing-robe, while his eyes sparkled with a fire that made me quickly withdraw my own, and his lips touched my cheek as he murmured, beseechingly, ," You will no longer refuse my request, dearest, " I drew away from him, for my quick ear had caught the sound of a light footfall on the landing; and, in the opposite mirror, I saw the door swinging noiselessly open as an un- known female figure glided into the room. Mr. Livingston, sitting with his back to the door, did not perceive her entrance, and was looking at me with a -counte- nance filled with surprise at my seemingly causeless agitation. But to return to the new-comer. She was a young and hand- some woman, with large, prominent, lustrous eyes, and oval- shaped face, clear olive complexion, and cheeks on which glowed a warmer, richer crimson than is imparted by our cold northern sun. A dark velvet- cloak was draped in heavy, graceful folds about her voluptuous form. All these observae tions I  made in that first fascinated gaze, which I riveted upon this strongly interesting personage, as she stood, motion. less as a statue, just inside the threshold, regarding my com- panion with a fixed stare, seemingly at a loss how best to make known her presence.  Suddenly it occurred to me that it was incumbent on myself to come- to her relief; which I 17     194       -ISABEL CAROLLTON: did, by remarking to Mr. Livingston that I supposed the lady at the door was waiting to speak with him. He turned his head quickly in the direction indicated, and, as his eyes met hers, the color faded from his face, until I was shocked at his ghastly paleness, while from his white and quivering lips burst the choking words, "O, God!-(Cor- nelia, - my wife, - at last!" He would have fallen to the floor had she not darted for- ward, and received his head upon her shoulder. The sicken- ing agony of that moment is indescribable. Like an electrical flash came to mind that presumptuous prayer, " , my Father, afflict me if it seemeth good in thy sight, but spare him!" Thus was it answered. My idol was spared to me, but its feet were of clay. "My wife!" how those terrible words, like. a death-knell, still rung in my ears. With desperate outward calmness, that gave no token of the whirlwind raging in my breast, I controlled myself, and asked her if I should ring for assist- ance. "No need," she replied, " not the least," without even looking at me; and added, a moment later, "he has only fainted. If you will help roll this chair up to the couch, I can rest his head on the pillows; he will recover sooner there." I obeyed mechanically, and with some difficulty he was removed from the chair to the couch. She knelt beside him, looking at him pityingly, as she passed her jeweled fingers through his dark locks, murmuring to herself, ' Poor Arthur! how much he must have suffered to have changed him so sadly. But I will atone for all; he may be happy yet." When he began to exhibit signs of returning consciousness, I crept away to my room. I could not much longer maintain the forced restraint I had put upon myself, and must give vent to the fevered excitement that shook me in every limb. ^.   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.    '  195 Throwing myself into a chair I sobbed aloud, pressing my handkerchief to my eyes, with the impression that I must burst into a convulsive fit of weeping; but not a tear came to my relief, and, involuntarily, I indulged in peal after peal of half-frantic laughter, the sound of which I deadened by burying my face in a pillow. Then I jumped to my feet, and with hasty, disordered steps, paced about the room, the rapid motion somewhat calming me. "My dream of happiness - is over; and I am alone in the world once metre," I said to myself, with bitterness. A pos- sibility that there might be some mistake suggested itself to my mind, accompanied by a half-formed resolve to rush back and implore him to explain all that had just -passed, that I might trust him again as I had ever done; but no, from his own lips had proceeded the words that proclaimed him a false, cruel deceiver. What wrong had I ever done him that he should thus crush me to the earth? I had smiled when. Miss Primhe had inveighed against the selishess of the whole sex; how did I know what mournful experience had fallen to her lot, in the past, chilling her once warm sensi- bilities? The close air of /my room seemed stifling me, and, catching my bonnet in my hand, I determined, to go out and take a rapid walk; violent exercise would do me good, and allay my burning excitation. As I crossed the hall, I wished it was to leave the house forever. As I opened the door to step out, a man, who sat waiting in a chaise, asked me re. spectfully, if it was a quarter past twelve yet. "About that time, I should think," I replied, not being desirous of risking the chance of meeting one of the servants by going back to ascertain. "I should like to know exactly the time o' day, if it's par- fectly convenient," he stoutly persisted; "-for that lady what I jest brought over here from Hobson's, says she to me,. Whea she got out o' the waggin, If I a'n't back agin-in fifteen     196        ISABEL OApOLLTON: minutes,' says she, 'you may go back without me, for there's no knowin' how soon I shall leave this place.' Them's her very words, I'm sartain; and, if she's made up her mind to stay, I should like to be off; that 's the long and short o' the matter." I formed a sudden resolution, the result of which was, that I asked if I could take a drive to the stage-tavern with him, if I would be ready in ten minutes, provided the lady con- eluded to remain where she was. ( Of course, and right glad of a passenger," was the fellow's ready reply, as he jerked his head forward, with a twitch at his napless beaver. I dashed into Mrs. Grant'sroom, without stopping for the ceremony of rapping, and cried out, without a moment's pause, "O, dear Mrs. Grant! I could n't go away without coming to tell you how grateful I am for all your kindness to me, and bidding you good-by!" "Good heavens!" she exclaimed, in-a tone of alarm, "have you seen a ghost, that your face is so white? Is the girl mad" (I believe I was very nearly, so), "that she must come frightening people out of their wits? And where is it you are talking of going to? Do tell what ails you." "I do not feel well," said I, pressing my hands to my burning forehead, 'and I am going home to my uncle's. Don't blame me, please. I know you would n't if I had time to explain all my reasons for wishing to leave you; but I can't now, for the man is waiting to carry me over to Hob. son's, and I must hurry." ," Man waiting!" she echoed, rubbing her head, and look- ing as though she was becoming infected by my madness. ( What does it all mean? Are you in such dread of being nursed by that ogress of a Miss Primlie, that you would rather run the risk of being taken sick on the road, and left to the tender mercies of strangers, than submit to her care?" l ,       t   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      197 I perceived that she had not the remotest suspicion as to how matters really stood; and, as I had neither time nor inclination to go into details, I gave her a parting kiss, and not very coherently begged her to remember me with kind- ness, and not do me the injustice to suppose that I was act- ing, in the present instance, from the dictates of a rash caprice, and hurried away; leaving the good woman in such a state of blank bewilderment, that I do not think it even occurred to her to offer any opposition to my departure. On reaching my own room, I crushed what few articles of wear- ing apparel still remained to me into the trunk before men- tioned, and pulled it out upon the landing, only stopping for an instant, as I was passing Mr. Livingston's door, to con- sider that this was, in all probability, the last opportunity I should ever have of seeing him; and to ask myself if it were not better for me to step in and speak a few words of farewell, when parting from him forever. As I thus paused, irresolute how to act, the soft tones of a woman's voice floated past me. The hiss of a venomous reptile would not have fallen less gratefully on my ear than did those soft, silvery accents. "What right have I to intrude on a private interview between husband and wife?"I asked myself, in bitter scorn of the weakness that had prompted me to desire one last parting look at the face I had loved so well. I passed on, being actually appalled at the passionate, almost fierce, hatred that blazed up in my heart toward the graceful creature who had unconsciously stepped between me and happiness. I had never before supposed myself capable of cherishing such a feeling of vindictive spite toward any living creature, as now swelled my breast. But this-burning indignation was quickly subdued, as I reflected, that, if she had wronged me at all, it had been done unwittingly on her part; and her position was even more pitiable than my own, neglected and forsaken 17*     198       tISABEL CAOLLTON: as she had -been. Perhaps, after all, it was I who had un- knowingly wronged her, by supplanting her in her husband's affections. I assured myself that he could never have loved her as he had done me. His glance, when first it rested on her, expressed only horror and aversion; but this fact afforded me no consolation, for his love was an insult. It was he alone who had so cruelly deceived me; he, whom I had looked upon as the very perfection of human excellence, for whose sake I had made untiring exertions at self-improve- ment, that I might become less unworthy of him. It was this fancied paragon of every conceivable virtue, who had heartlessly deserted the wife of his youth, and, to fill up the measure of his wickedness, would have finished by making me a participator in the hateful crime of bigamy; possibly to be cast off, when my turn came, as, with his first wife still living, I could have had no legal claims upon him. Did all this'account for the vehemence with which he had urged, nay, insisted, on our speedy marriage? I shuddered at the terrible gulf I had so narrowly escaped. A thousand "( tempest-winged " emo- tions swept through my thoughts, as I stood, self-absorbed, and utterly forgetful of external objects, on the top stair of the descending flight. ,' Half past twelve,-can't wait much longer," cried the impatient Jehu, thrusting his head in at the hall-door, and rolling his eyes in every direction, until he caught sight of me. I grasped a handle of my trunk, preparatory to dragging it down after me. On perceiving my intention, he hastened to relieve me of my burden, by carrying it himself. He held the head of his horse, to check his restiveness, while I attempted to step into the vehicle; but no sooner did my foot touch the step than the obstinate animal gave a plunge forward, which threw me to the ground, slightly graz- ing my shoulder against the wheel. I heard a faint scream   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.     * 19 from the house, probably from its mistress, who was sitting at the window. I gathered myself up, while the man was administering a volley of blows and curses to the vicious author of the mishap. It was only after repeated attempts that I succeeded in scrambling into my seat. Then the trunk was thrust into the chaise, so as to stand up endwise between us, and away we started. I bent forward to wave my handkerchief to Mrs. Grant, who still sat by the window, looking some vexed, and considerably regretful at my depart- ure, which she, doubtless, thought the result of unmitigated wilfulness on my part.      'CHAPTER    XII. A MSERABLE JOURNEY. THAT drive from Mrs. Grant's to Hobson's was, in every respect, a most uncomfortable one. The roads, for several weeks previous, had been soft and miry, and, by the transit of heavy carts and loaded wagons, had been cut into deep ruts, which, having been afterwards frozen, jolted our vehicle so severely, that the pain in my head became every moment more intolerable; besides, at every lurch of the wheels, the trunk was sent against me, with a force that crushed me still further into my corner of the chaise, invariably tearing the buffalo robe from my grasp, so that my hands were soon benumbed, and I was shivering with cold. I recollect speaking but once in the whole course of this dismal drive; and that was to ask my companion if he knew the name of the lady he carried to Mrs. Grant's. "Not a bit of it," was the ready reply. "She came down in the northern mail-coach, about two hours back, and seemed in a terrible taking to see Mr. Livingston; for, when Hobson asked her if she'd stay to dinner, and said he 'd have it on the table in an hour, she wa'n't willin' to wait nohow, and tipped the hos'ler a quarter, to pay for bringin' round the horse in less 'an five-minutes after she got there." I do not know why I had been tempted to ask the needless question, unless to give myself the perverse pleasure of lis- tening to the name of Mrs. Livingston.   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       201 The flaunting sign-board creaked harshly on its rusty hinges as, driving up to the stoop, fronting the flaring red house kept as a stage tavern, I alighted. "c Walk right in, ma'am," shouted a gruff voice, which I recognized as belonging to Mr. Hobson, - he bellowed bass at the village church, and the quality of the tones he was wont to emit was not easily forgotten, - who was standing in a large open shed on the opposite side of the way. I stepped into a low, dark entry, the air of which was per- vaded by subtle exhalations from broiled steaks, burnt gra- vies, and stale tobacco-smoke. Here I was met by an untidy, slipshod servant-girl, with frizzly ringlets hanging about a face which was none of the cleanest, and a dingy flounce, which mopped up the floor as she came towards me, coquet- tishly holding up one side of her dress to display a wrought under-skirt, which had once been white; and ogling Tim., the bar-keeper, whom  she saw through a glass door, standing behind his counter.  By this enchanting Phillis I was con- ducted into the most dreary, cheerless-looking apartment. I ever had the misfortune to enter. The loose casements shook and clattered in the piercing wintry gusts that threatened to tear themefrom their fastenings, and swept through the room in chilling currents. Adde'd to this cause for discomfort, the fire was almost out; and the dying embers had fallen back against the fender, and filled the. room with smoke that brought the tears to my eyes.  I would have rung for addi- tional fuel, but I searched in vain for any traces of a bell- rope, and  I did not feel disposed to grope my way back, through the narrow, dark passage I had traversed on my way thither, in quest of the unpromising servant-girl who had been my   conductress. So I drew up a straight-backed wooden chair upon the red hearth, some of whose bricks were broken and tipped one side, while others, had sunk to :the depth of several inches, and, pinning my shawl -more closely     202       i ISABEL CAROLLTON: about me, began chafing my aching hands together to get them warm. There I sat, miserable enough, for a long hour, gazing deplorably at a pitcher of withered stalks, with their pen- dants of dry, crisped leaves, which adorned the high mantel-. piece. I could not help thinking how lately it had been a blooming nosegay, and I thought of my own hopes, bright and glowing a few hours before, but now withering, fading from my heart. I bethought myself, at last, of examining the contents of an attenuated purse; which I drew from my pocket, and pro- ceeded to count its contents; thus ascertaining that, when my stage-fare was paid, a solitary twenty-five-cent-piece would be all that remained to me; enough, to be sure, to procure me a night's-lodging; while for any other incidental expenses which might occur in the course of my journey, I had no means of paying. This was unpleasant, at least, as I had not eaten a mouth- ful since breakfast, and, although I had not, as yet, experi- enced any inconvenience arising from want of food, it was, possible I might do so, before arriving at my uncle's late in the afternoon of the next day. " Where's the young woman that wants to go in the down- ward stage-coach?" bawled a voice from the passage-way. -I hastened to the door to make known my whereabouts. "How the devil came you in this out o' the way old shell of a room?" was Mr. Hobson's polite interrogatory, as soon as he perceived me. I explained that I had -been shown there by one of the domestics. 9"As big a set of blunderheads as 'ever stepped on two feet!-" muttered the wrathful publican; "to think of their showing folks into this old trap, when-there 's a rouster of a fire in the ladies' parlor. It's too bad, by Gimine! but it   A PERPSONAL RETROSPECT.      203 all comes o' having a new set o' help. I s'pose they 'll git worked into the traces, somehow, after a while; but they do raise the deuce in the fust place." He followed me, with a profusion of rough apologies, to the coach: into which he assisted me. A tall, gentlemanly per- son, in plain but expensively elegant garments, rose on my entrance, and made room for me beside him on the back seat. On the front one, facing us, sat two rather coarse-featured young women, of nearly similar ages, bearing a closeness of resemblance that denoted their near relationship to eachl other. They had high" cheek-bones, small, prying, gray eyes, complexions tanned and freckled, and noses turning up in a style indicative of any amount of inquisitive curiosity. I caught a glimpse of tinsel brooches, in the careless cursory glance I directed towards them, and saw that their cotfon- lace cuffs were lined with red cambric. As soon as we had fairly started, they commenced a scruti- nizing survey of my humble self, even bending forward, and peeping over the middle seat, -they were near-sighted, - to examine more thoroughly every article of dress I wore. "I hope you are. accustomed to this sort of-thing," oaid the gentleman at my side, in an ironical tone, ," or you will find the extremely polite attention with which you are at present favored positively 'overcoming." "Hulloa, there! hold on a bit, can't yer?" shouted some one on the road behind us, at the same instant. The horses were pulled up, and the man who had driven over from Mrs. Grant's, came puffing and blowing along with my trunk, which I had quite forgotten. With grumbling impatience at the delay occasioned thereby, our driver waited until it was strapped on at the back of the vehicle; then drove off, while I was repaying the kindness of the man- by thanks; the state of my finances, to my mortification, pre-     204        ISABEL CAROLLTON: venting the bestowal of any more substantial token of grati- tude.  The opposite passengers were carrying on, a whispered colloquy the whole time, during which they directed frequent side-glances toward me, with an occasional look of mingled awe and admiration at the sarcastic, keen-eyed man beside me, At another time, this ill-bred exhibition of rudeness would have afforded me considerable amusement, or annoy- ance, as the ease might be; but, as it was, I was in no mirth- ful mood, and soon became so much absorbed in my own miserable retrospections as to forget their very presence. I recalled to memory circumstance after circumstance, trivial in themselves, to be sure, but, now my eyes were opened, seeming sufficiently significant -to have aroused my suspicions that all was not as it should have been in Mr. Livingston's past life. I must have been convinced of this, -so I persuaded myself, --had I not cherished such blind, unbounded confidence in his superior goodness and high moral excellence. It was he who had so eloquently descanted on the temptations held out to the=young and unwary by every great city. Very true; and these might offer some ex- tenuation for the formation of a rash, impulsive marriage; but I doubted if they could afford any palliation for his deser- tion of his wife, much less, his endeavors to make me the victim of his duplicity. There must be some mistake, I repeated again to myself; for, with his high-toned morality, open-handed generosity, and genial efforts to promote the, happiness and well-being of every one about him, does it seem reasonable to suppose that he would knowingly have wronged me thus?  But there stood out, in bold relief, the stubborn facts in the case, which could be neither gainsaid nor put aside. The more I pondered on the subject, the more completely I became involved in the labyrinths of doubt and perplexity. Unbidden, the words   A PBRSONAL RETROSPECT.      205 he had once addressed to me rose to mind: "You will be less trusting when you have had a few more lessons in worldly experience." Little thought I, when listening to them, that he would be the teacher who wis to impair my faith in the goodness of mankind. It was late in the day when we drove up to a wayside inn. "Shall I help you out, Miss?" asked the gentleman at, my side, with a tone of kindly interest that caused an inter- change of nudges and significant winks between our two elegant travelling companions, who were picking up their umbrellas and covered wicker-baskets preparatory to alight- ing.  On ascertaining from him. that they had merely stopped for an exchange of horses, I decided to remain where I was, as I was conscious of a, heavy lassitude which indisposed me for the slightest exertion. Although but four in the afternoon, as I saw by the clock on a neighboring spire, it was nearly dark. A drizzling rain had set in, and the bare trees were dripping with moisture. Two young girls, with satchels of books, were walking down the main street of the village, sheltered by a single umbrella, from the back of which small streamlets trickled down upon their- clothing. Their thick shoes were coated with mud, some of which had transferred itself to their wet and draggled skirts, and they were laughing gayly at the sorry figure they cut. The sound of their mirth smote pain- fully on my ear. There was only a difference of two. or three years between their ages and my own; but I felt as if separated by half a lifetime from their light-hearted gayety, and said to myself, sorrowfully, " I shall never be young again. A waiter interrupted my wearisome ruminations, by thrust- ing in at the coahwdoor a- tray bearing wine and a plate of 18     206        ISABEL CAROLLTON  cake, explaining the action by saying, "The gentleman that rode inside sent 'em, along of his compliments; help your- self." I took a single seed-cake, and drained the contents of the wine-glass, for I was very thirsty. I thoughtlessly followed this trustworthy servant with my eyes, as he returned to the house, and saw him slide the jum- bles and cream-cakes remaining on the plate into the capa- cious pockets of his sack. The generosity of the stranger benefited him quite as much as myself. When the former resumed his seat beside me, I acknowledged his kindness with thanks. He shrugged his shoulders, turning away his head with a gesture of impa- tience, without any reply. "I-hope I have not been so unfortunate as to have given offence unintentionally," I ventured to say. ( Well, it is a little unpleasant," he returned, with a look of annoyance, " when, for once in a life-time, or so, a person makes up his mind to be a trifle disinterested, to have the fun of the thing cut short by having a full equivalent, and more too, thrust in his face in the shape of an uncalled for thankfulness. Deuce take it! I began with the intention of doing the polite and agreeable, but, 'gad, I 've ended by mak-  ing a bear of myself, as/usual." "-I will recall my thanks," said I, with a faint attempt at pleasantry, " if that will neutralize their effect." "You are pleased to quiz the old bear," he rejoined, while a curious expression, which was neither a smile nor a sneer, drew down the corners of his mouth. I had not time to utter a disclaimer, before a shout from the driver announced that the coach was waiting, and, in hot haste, the two absent passengers scampered down the piazza, with their hands full of gingerbread And molasses candy, and made a rush for their seats. Leaning my elbow on the side of the carriage, I resigned   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      207 myself, as before, to the hopeless depression, that left in my mind no room for other thoughts. We were miles on our way before a single word was spoken, to my knowledge, when the self-styled bear at my side laid a paw on my shoulder so unexpectedly, that I did not more than half succeed in re- pressing the startled exclamation that sprang to. my lips. "There it is again," said he. I never can do anything like another man! With the best of intentions, I was going to tell you that the rain has soaked through the top of the vehicle, and is dripping down over you; the most simple thing in the world, one would think; but no, I must make a boggle of it, and set you off into all sorts of young ladyish tremors. Don't faint; I've got some hartshorn or salts somewhere about me; these astonishingly delicate nervous systems are beyond my vulgar comprehension." "I am not faint," said I, quietly, for I was annoyed by his ironical comments on the slight scream that had escaped me, and which he evidently regarded as a contemptible piece of feminine affectation. "I am not quite well either," I added, as an explanation of my unwonted nervousness. "And I am a-- a bear, as usual," he returned, in a kinder tone. "Don't think of what I said. I think we had bet- ter occupy the middle seat; it seems dryer than this one. Give me your hand, and you will be able to effect the ex- change all the more easily." I gladly accepted his proffered aid, for the pitchy darkness added to the rocking motion of the carriage, made it difficult to move alone. A whispered dialogue immediately ensued between the elegant sisters, in which I distinguished the words c"mortal perlite," and "some frisky old widower,?' upon which they both tittered aloud. Weary hours went laggingly by, before we drew up at another hotel, where, the driver announced, we were to stop for the night. So we all got out, and I took good. care to /                       -    *     10        ISABIEL CAROLLTON  nd my way into the ladies' parlor, where the occupants of he front seat speedily joined me. "I suppose that's your name tacked on ter that pimlicued nunk out in the entry," remarked the elder of the two, as he pulled off a cotton-velvet bonnet, one side of which was idorned with a flaunting pink hollyhock, and held it toward 'he fire to dry. I merely nodded assent. '"You can't be going very far, with so little baggage," she subjoined, with true Yankee inquisitiveness. I did not feel called upon to reply to a mere insinuation like this.  "Elizar Ann and I," she resumed, after a pause of some  seconds, " have got two band-boxes apiece, and I, can't think of any way We could describe 'em, if they should get lost, 'thout 'twas by saying they were tied up in old, pillor-cases. 4 Don't you think, Miss What-d' ye-call-'em, that our names ought to be on 'em?"  I thought they might be safer with written directions on them, and carelessly replied to that effect.  She got up, upon hearing this, and went into the hall, whence she soon returned, bearing an unsizable reticule of snuff-colored silk, wrought with tinsel, from which she drew forth several squares of brown pasteboard, which she called . visiting-cards, requesting me to write "Miss Mariar Aman-  dar Primlie, Lowell," upon the same.  I was not so disobliging as to refuse compliance with this  simple request, although I had been previously reminded of  the irascible old nurse, -who had persisted in calling me "child" as often as she spoke to me,--by Miss Mariar Amandar's thin, spiral ringlets, and was none the better dis-  posed to cultivate her acquaintanceon that account.  "' You seem to be in trouble," said she, eying me sharply,  You s to e in' sai *               \      i   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      209 as I handed back the cards; "have you lost a friend, if I may be so bold?" .j I hesitated only a moment before replying in the affirma- tive; for was he not as effectually lost to me, as though he had been enshrouded by those cold, white folds, in which other hands shall array us all for our last peaceful resting- place? "It could n't ha' been a very near relation," persisted she, for I see you a'n't dressed in mourning, not even black strings to your bonnet." I shook my head sadly, for her words pained me inexpres- sibly. "Was it a gentleman or lady?" she persisted, eying me with a cold, pitiless stare, which made me wish to get out of the room, - a feat impossible to accomplish, as I did not know where else to betake myself. "You did not hear me, I suppose," said she, in an irri- tated tone, as though displeased at my want of communicat- iveness; "( I was asking if---- "I understand you perfectly," interposed I; "but pray excuse me; my loss is so recent I cannot yet speak of it with composure, particularly to strangers." "I want ter know if 'tis, though," she coolly rejoined, still staring at nie with unabated curiosity. I felt that polite forbearance would be thrown awayon her, and determined to repel her advances by a more strin- gent rebuff, if she did not let me alone. . But I was spared all further annoyance on the subject by the entrance of our other travelling companion, who drew up his chair beside my own; upon which, Miss Elizar Ann reached out one foot and trod on her sister's toes, whereat they exchanged significant winks, and then concentrated upon us looks of fixed and undivided attention.  18* ^     ISABEL CAROLL:TON       ' : :" If you will not resent the unasked advice of a stranger," -began my new friend, with an embarrassed air, "I shall counsel your retiring at once to your chamber. I was sorry to miss you at the tea-table; and, as you spoke of not being well, I took the liberty to order a fire in your room; the ser- vant-in the hall will show you the way whenever you desire to go." - His manner was so respectful, I bad almost said deferen- ,tial, that I never thought of resenting his advice, and felt nothing but gratitude for his repeated acts of kindness. Acting on his suggestion, I got up, without a word of thanks this time, and gave him my hand as I bade him 'good-night;" he retained it until he reached the door of the hall, where he consigned me to the care of a servant, to whoml he gave a few words of whispered direction, which I did not overhear. I looked  back over the banisters as I ascended the stairs, and saw him, with haughty nonchalance, surveying the Misses Emlie from head to foot through an opera glass. Mariar Amanda returned his glance with one of bold defiance, while Eliza Ann blushed scarlet; and, holding one large, brown hand before her face, slyly peeped at him between her fingers. On reaching a private apartment, I divested myself of my wet over-garments, and, hanging them over a chair to dry, -busied myself afterwards by walking up and down the com- fortable room until -my strength was entirely spent, hoping thereby to fatigue myself so thoroughly, that, when I betook myself to rest, I should forget all memory of the past in Blumber.- In this desire I was disappointed;- for, when- a domestic rapped on my door in the gray morning, I was still vaintly striving to compose myself to sleep. As the stage would not leave for an hour, I dressed myself slowly, weighed down, as I was, by that sense of depressing languor, whieh-is sure- to follow a day of intense excitement and a sleepless  A PERSONAL RETROSPECOT.      2 night. I had hardly completed a very plain toilet, when a second rap came to my door, and a tray containing coffee and rolls was set before me on the little dressing-table, "Is did not order this," said I, apprehensively; for I remembered I had not a cent to pay for it. "Number ten is where Iwas-told to fetch it," returned the imperturbable waiter, as he made good his retreat. "How shall I pay for it?" I asked myself; and: my eye rested wistfully on the heavy gold -ring that encircled my fin- ger; it was my mother's dying bequest, and: had been worn by my father in his lifetime. I looked upon it as a sacred memento of the past; but, if worse came to worst, I must part with it. Partially assuaging the burning thirst that still tormented me, by swallowing a cup of coffee. I went down stairs, and encountered the Misses, Primlie in the ha}ll where they were settling their bills with the landlord of the inn. I waited until they had stepped aside, and tIhen ap- proached the awful individual in steel-bowed -spectacles, who -sat. behind a baize covered desk, clinking the silver he. had just received between his broad palms. My heart was beat- ing rapidly, for I had a nervous -dread of the remarks:.he would undoubtedly indulge in -- he was a coarse, hard-feat- ured man-when I should offer him my mother' :ring instead of the coin usually tendered on such -occasions.  4' How much-- "I'stammered, for the hall was full of people, who were passing on to the breeakfasttable, as-das they jostled against me, I became too much confusedc to:finish my question.                 .  "I only want a quarter from you," said: Steel Speotacles (by this sobriquet I afterwards heard him designated),.,'u for the old 'un there "-jerking his thumb in the direotioaof the black-coated stranger, who-was pacing up and down: the piazza-- ' forked over; the dosh- for -breakfast at No; te',':ti-. With -a feeling of relief I drew my last: -eent- from my     212^-   TISABEL OAROLLTON:. ollapsed purse; and went out to the coach, which had driven up in the mean time. "You will find the front seat the most comfortable one,  under the circumstances," said my benefactor, who had al- ready taken his place inside, and smilingly reached out his- hand to my assistance; - the back seat was filled with cloaks, umbrellas, and other travelling appurtenances. "You cannot. prevent my feeling grateful for your kind- ness," said I, seating myself beside him, " if you do forbid my thanking you." i"How very womanlike that sounds!" he retorted, adding, "I do believe there never was one of the delightful sex, who did not contrive,by some means or other, to have her own way about everything, in spite of us; and then they bring it about with such delicate tact and address, that we are charmed into forgetfulness of our own wishes having been thwarted in the matter."     c. I was puzzling my head to decide whether this remark was intended to be ironical or complimentary, and revolving .in my mind a suitable reply,- for I was never quick at repartee, the .right thought often coming too late,- when the driver pulled open the door to ask if it would be any trouble to us, if the middle seat should be filled up with band-boxes; for their owners were afraid some o' their fixins might get wet, if it should happen to rain again, and they outside; and added, that he would n't consent to having the vehicle lum- bered up with such rubbish, if the other passengers had any objection. "I think the whole race of band-boxes an abominable nuisance, put upon the travelling community,", burst forth my companion, " and I go in strong, for their abolition; but, of course, if there are ladies in the case, there is nothing for it, with us much-enduring New Englanders, but the most abject submission; so, bring them along, Tim, for if they've at-   A PERSONAL sETIOSPECT.      213- made up their minds to have their baggage take an inside seat, why, in it must come, at some rate or other. Beg par. don," he added, turning to me, "you don't belong to that numerous class of ladies, who would, without the slightest compunction, request one of us to stand up for an indefinite period of time, if she happened to take a fancy to use the seat we occupied for a footstool." The Misses Primlie, as they entered the vehicle, tossed back their heads, and sniffed the air through expanded nos- trils, with affected disdain; but when they sat down, the bar- rier of band-boxes effectually screened us from their sight; a circumstance which quite reconciled me to the trouble occa- sioned by one unruly box, which repeatedly plunged into my- lap, whenever we were' descending a steep hill-side, and was as often replaced by the stranger. I did not leave the coach again, until it drove up to my uncle's. My unknown friend raised his hat with courteous politeness, as I stood beside the little garden gate I remem- bered so well; but Miss Elizar Ann and her sister were too much occupied in a close survey of the dwelling and its per- tainments, to accord me a parting salutation. Perhaps it was my own feelings that made the familiar garden look so dreary and disconsolate. No care had been bestowed on the flower-borders, in my absence, as I saw by the crisp spires of grass that had encroached upon them. The creeping honeysuckle, over the portico, had grown luxuriantly; but its training had been neglected, and its long, dry, leafless stalks were blown about, like faded pennants, in every passing gale, A pane of glass was broken in a front window, and theaperture had been closed by pasting over it a strip of white paper; and the chintz curtain falling over it was limp and almost color- less. All I saw looked pinched and poverty-stricken. I thought, with a cold thrill, that it was to these poor relatives, who had no certain means of procuring their daily bread,     214        ISABEL CAROLLTON. that I had come back, a penniless wanderer--an additional burden upon their ill-afforded bounty. I found my aunt and cousin sitting together in the break- fast-room, which looked out upon a low, marshy fen at the back of the house. They were not aware of my arrival-until I stood before them.   CHAPTER XIII. ILLNESS, SUFFERING AND DESPONDENCY. "WHY, mother, there is cousin Bel, home again!' ex- claimed Mary, in a tone of surprise and pleasure, as she threw down her sewing, and eagerly extended both hands to grasp my own. But aunt Otis frustrated her intention, by coming quickly towards me, untying and removing thy bon- net, and having pushed back my disordered hair from my temples, finished the pantomime by scanning my face closely, before she asked, ( What is the matter, child? Have you been having a fever yourself, and said nothing to us about it, that you have come back such a shadow? Really, there is so lit- tle of you left, that I should be afraid to trust you out in a high wind." There was a choking sensation in my throat, which I was trying to sub4ue, before replying to her questions. , I am sorry, from the bottom of my heart, that I ever let you go- away at all," she resumed, "for you could have been of great assistance to me, here; and I don't know as I have kept my promise to be a mother to you, and to know no difference between you and Mary; - a promise that poor, dear Isabel exacted from me with her last breath." At this allusion to my sainted mother, I burst into tears; and, burying my face in my hands, I wept with such uncon- trolled passion, that I shook and trembled in every limb. As soon as I could check this open display of sorrow, which ill-     216        ISABEL CABOLLTON: accorded with my usual reticence, I determined to unfold my whole heart to this sympathizing relative, my mother's only surviving sister. "' No," she resumed, after permitting me to weep uninter; ruptedly for several minutes, "I never will consent to your going away, and working yourself into such a state as this, again, never!" "It has all been of no use, too," I sobbed out; " for I have not brought back a cent of my earnings; I lost the whole at the fire." "No fault of yours, either," she rejoined. "I am sure we ought to be very thankful that a kind Providence spared your life." Tears gave me relief; they calmed the intense excitement of my whole system; but they seemed to arouse a feeling of impatience in my aunt, and she said, with some asperity, "Don't be a baby, Isabel; you must learn to bear pain with more fortitude, and not-give way to it so childishly; you used to have more self-control." How these few words, almost severe in their tone, repelled -me, and chilled my intended confidence! Perhaps she thought it for my best good, to be prevented from weakly yielding to the depressing effects of a slight indisposition. Although subdued and softened, herself, by adverse fortune, so that she was very unlike the stately woman,-her former self,- who, in dark rustling silks, and French caps of immaculate blonde, swept through the house, enduring untold vexation and dis- quiet at the sight of a finger-mark on the polished doors, a displaced book or chair, and last, but not least, the tumbled hair and soiled frocks of her intractable daughter and niece; still I felt that she would not meet my "confidential disclos- ures-" with the ready sympathy and counsel, which my own mother, had she been living, would have so tenderly imparted. As for making a confidant of my cousin, I felt convinced ,,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      217 that she had long felt a hopeless attachment for her early companion, Charles Merrit; and, if I should pour into her ear a history of my own wrongs, it would only recall- bitter remembrances and regrets, and confirm her belief in the faithlessness of mankind in general; - a belief which I had not the remotest inclination to aid her in forming, for I knew there were good men, and true, in the world, if I had been the dupe of a base deceiver. -So my heavy secret must be locked in my breast, and I must bear it as best I might, alone. My uncle soon came into the room, and I was shocked at his altered appearance. Although scarcely past life's prime, he; was beginning to stoop in the shoulders, and his hair had rap- idly whitened in my absence. I wrung his hand silently; he released it from my grasp with a groan, as of pain. "I could not have hurt you, uncle!"I exclaimed, in some surprise. "I have a rheumatic or neuralgic affection of the wrists," he, rejoined, with a dejected air, "and the -least bit of a wrench distresses me. The old man" -it was the first time I had ever heard him so designate himself--" is fast becoming a useless cumberer of the ground. It takes pretty much all my time to prepare for use what little fuel we consume; but I am in hopes to save up enough to get my life insured some day. 'T is all' I live for." "And not a bit for your wife and daughter! for shame," said my aunt, in a tone much kinder than the words she employed. "What good does my life do them?" he asked, with visible emotion. "Mary sits in one attitude from morning to night, wearing her life away sewing for the tailors' shops; while you scrub your own floors, do your own washing and brewing, and work harder than any menial drudge in a poor- man's 19     218        ISABEL CAROLLTON: kitchen; and what does it all amount to? We barely make out to keep body and soul together, that is all." "Let us trust in Providence," said my aunt, in a tone of studied cheerfulness and encouragement. "Think what a blessed privilege it is that we can all be together; and we shall be taken care of, mark my words; for not a sparrow falls to the ground without His notice. Why should you think of my hardships, when I find nothing in them worth complaining of. Besides, now that Isabel has come home, she will give me so much help, that I shall be quite-at leisure to read you to sleep, after dinner, on other days than Sunday." "She, poor thing," said my uncle, looking at me closely, "Iooks as though she would need more help than she can give, at present. She is in failing health, and flagging spirits, too, if her poor, wan face is a true index." "I shall be better, soon, now I, am home again. A little quiet will speedily set me up," said I, although scarcely cred- iting the assertion myself, (, and then I shall do my best to relieve aunt Mary of some of her numerous cares." "No doubt of it," said my uncle, absently. I moved my seat near the curious-looking easy-chair,-- made by cutting down a common barrel to the requisite shape, and then lining the inside, my aunt carefully stuffing the same with the downiest feathers plucked from her own poultry,--which my uncle occupied. He then inquired, with some show of interest, about everything that had hap- pened at Willowhridge during my stay there; while my aunt drew out a " four-foot" pine table into the middle of the room, and commenced preparations for tea, if the name be not a misnomer, as applied to our evening repast, at which cold water was the only beverage afforded us to wash down the buttlerless dry toast, which, with baked apples, formed the sum total of our frugal fare. When my uncle asked after the health of the gentleman,-he had forgotten his name,   A PERSONALx RETROSPECT.      219 and I did not recall it to his memory,- who had rescued me from the burning house, I answered briefly that he had been dangerously ill, but was now convalescent, and dropped the subject. To all his other questions I replied with the freest unreserve. When I mentioned that I had lain awake, the whole pre- vious night, with a severe headache, my aunt proposed that I should go to rest, early as it was, and try to " sleep it off." My cousin carefully folded the satin vest at which she had been industriously stitching, and prepared to accompany me. I car. ried the lamp, moving only at a snail's pace, for it was a slow and wearisome process for Mary to hobble up stairs, with only one available foot, and her odd-looking crutch. The house was so small that we both occupied the same chamber, where were two single beds, the same we had used when children, and which had been reserved for us at the sale of the princid pal furniture at the cottage. As I lay on my hard, uneasy pallet, thinking of the blank, dreary future, which was all I could now look forward to, the leaden-winged minutes slowly merged into weary-footed hours; and, thinking that I had staked my whole earthly hap- piness on a single venture, and lost, --irretrievably lost,-I sobbed convulsively, and my pillow was drenched with tears. I knew he had loved me; why, then, had I left him so suddenly, when his tenderness was so unutterably precious to me? Yes, I know his heart was all my own," I said to myself, with voiceless ecstasy; " and it is my life to be near him. Why, then, did I not beg that proud, beautiful woman, who holds him in chains, rather than silken cords, to give me some employment about her own person.; then I could have seen him - have listened to the music of those loved tones." "Fool!" said the still small voice of reason, " is this the way you redeem your promise-to drive his very image from your memory? Will you degrade yourself thus in your owi     220        ISABEL CAROLLTON: estimation, by permitting such absurd, such criminal folly, to dwell in your thoughts?" I listened in humble self-abasement, and formed wise resolves, while, with an inconsistency for which I scorned myself, my whole being yearned, achingly, for one more look upon the loved - and false. I thought my cousin had been asleep, until she asked, softly, "What is the matter with you, Bel?" and, when I made no answer, she subjoined, "Do come to me, please; perhaps I can cheer you up, so that the pain will not be so hard to bear; at any rate, the night won't seem so long, if you have somebody to speak to." I went to her, as she had requested, without a word of op- position, anrd with a feeling that no change could be for the worse. "What are you shivering about?" she asked, drawing the counterpane more closely about me, and throwing one arm over my shoulders. "I am so very cold," said I, with chattering teeth. "Cold?" she rejoined, in an incredulous tone; "that is - sheer imagination, nothing more, for your face and hands are burning." I insisted that I was cold, nevertheless. "You're terribly nervous, that's poz," she retorted. "O, Mary!" said I, scarcely heeding the pleasantry her words conveyed, "there teems to me, so much,- so very much suffering in life." "Don't think you are telling me anything new," she re- turned, with a sudden change of tone; i" for I used to think, years ago, that life was such a hard struggle, I was almost - I don't think I was quite-willing to lay down all its pains and disappointments, and be evermore at rest. I believe I am braver now; perhaps because I have grown accustomed to my lot."   A PERSONAL RETROSP9CT.      221 I wished she would have encouraged me, instead of speak- ing in this gloomy strain, and expressed something of the kind to her.  "True," said she, " this is not ' cheering you up,' as I promised. I must do better. Only think how much better off you are than myself. In a few days you will be as well as ever; but I shall be a life-long burden to my parents. I must sit still, and see mother working like a slave, and not raise a hand to help her. O, dear! It's horrible to look forward to a life of inactivity, when one is so young. Break- ing my promise again! Never heed me, but be quiet, and calm yourself to sleep, there 's a dear girl." She soothed me with gentle words, as though I had been a fretful child, until her voice died away into whispers, and was finally lost in slumber. Then I stole back to my own bed, for flashes of heat were darting electrically through my veins, and I was becoming very restless. I wished Mary had not been in the same room with me, for I was disposed to groan aloud, and feared to disturb her by so doing. I think I suffered quite as much physically, as from grief for the past; as there was a pecu- liarly writhing and twisting pain (this is the only way in which I can describe my sensations), through my temples, that made me press them between my hands, with the convic- tion that I should go mad, at last. Every half-hour through that tedious night, did I raise my throbbing head from the pillow, and peer forth into the darkness, hoping to discover some traces of the wished-for morning. It came at last, bringing my aunt with it. After observing me closely, and asking me how I had passed the night, she remarked, care- lessly, that, as my uncle was going to walk past Dr. Smythe's, perhaps it would be as well to ask him to call; as he would, of course, be anxious to hear from his sister, and might think 19*     222        ISABEL CAROLLTON: it worth while to prescribe some simple remedy for my head- ache. I got up, and stood before the little toilet-mirror, which was so small that I could hardly get a view of my whole face at a single glance, and was startled at my strange appear- ance. There was a heavy vacuity in my eyes, which were surrounded by circles of livid purple, and large blue veins stood out on my forehead. I became so giddy, in trying to brush out my hair, that I was glad to sit down on a cricket at cousin Mary's feet, and let her loop it back for me. In a marvellously short space of time Dr. Smythe appeared, and, after the usual preliminaries, pronounced me to be in the early stages of a nervous fever, not dangerous if it could be kept from the brain. In obedience to his suggestions; my bed was carried down to the breakfast-room, where I could be comfortably warm,--our chamber had no convenience for lighting a fire,--and where Mary could more easily watch over me. My head was next shaved; my long, luxuriant hair, the only personal attraction onwhich I could have prided myself, had I been so disposed, I saw falling about me, without a sigh of regret for its loss. Then leeches were applied to my shorn cranium, until I nearly fainted from loss of blood. Removing the cold, snaky reptiles, the physician gave me an opiate, and went away; having only mentioned his sister, to ask if she were well when I left Willowhridge. Gradually my senses were steeped in a delicious languor, and the past faded into an indistinct dream. My eyes closed, and I fancied myself floating on a golden chariot of clouds through purest ether; while dimly-seen forms, of more than mortal loveliness, hovered about me, scattering ambrosial odors from their robes of star-spangled azure.. Transient proved the ecstatic vision, and a profound depression seized me, as I felt myself thrust back from the borders of enchantment to earth's   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       223 stern realities. I asked, nay, entreated my cousin to prepare for me a fresh draught of the magic liquid. "By-and-by," said Mary, gently; but don't talk any more now; it will hurt you." I looked wishfully toward the phial, labelled "Elixir of opium," but I had not strength enough to enable me to reach the little table where it sat, so I was forced to yield to her implied prohibition; and it was not long before sleep came to my relief. When I awoke, Dr. Smythe was in the adjoin- ing room, and I heard him telling my aunt that she need entertain no further fears for me, as the dangerous crisis had passed. When the fever had run its course, I went through along and tedious convalescence, only relieved by occasional opiates, which I from day to day increased in quantity. The doctor had repeatedly desired me to discontinue them, and I had made several attempts to do so; but, after passing the greater part of the night in a state of excited sleeplessness, I had invariably had recourse, at last, to their soothing influence. But I was forced to swallow so much of the baleful drug, to make it effective as a narcotic, that it began to produce strange results on my distempered visuals. Loathsome gob- lins and shapes of revolting horror danced over my bed, with hateful grimaces, and indescribably hideous contortions of their fleshless limbs. I frequently awoke from troubled slumbers, so terrified at these fearful, fantastic orgies, that I was bathed in a profuse perspiration; and it was only by keeping my eyes wide open, that I could persuade myself of the unreality of this unwelcome phantasmagoria. When I mentioned this to the doctor, 'he resolutely pocketed, and carried away with him, all that remained of the precious elixir; and thereby saved me, perhaps, from becoming an habitual opium-eater. After a few nights of despairing sleep. lessness, and incessant longings for the inspiring drug, my     224        ISABEL CAROLLTON  nervous system began to acquire a more natural, healthy tone, and I was satisfied that Dr. Smythe had adopted the wisest mode of procedure in his power. One day, when about taking his leave, - for he still looked in upon me for an odd minute or two, occasionally, -he ex- claimed, O, I came very near forgetting your missive!" and handed me a letter; adding, "I took it from the office, when stopping to inquire for my own." I received it with some surprise, as I had no correspond- ents. After he had gone, I glanced at the direction on the outside, and the truth flashed upon me at once; the bold, flowing characters were familiar to me. I had seen the same in a copied translation from Homer. Old recollections, and emotions which I had hoped to be dead, came surging back upon my heart in waves so resistless that I clung to the arm of the chair to steady myself, for I was sick even unto giddi- ness; while tears, few but bitter, gushed from my eyes. "Shall I open it?"I asked myself, as I turned the unsiza- bly large epistle round and round in my hand. "I shall be glad to read any explanations, if he can give any, which will show his conduct in a more favorable light than I see it now." Then arose in my mind the unanswered question, why, with his seeming solicitude for my happiness, had he wished to involve me in inextricable misery? It was of no use, my exciting myself into a fever of doubt and perplexity on the subject. I could not solve the enigma. His character was a study of human nature quite beyond my feeble powers of comprehension; vain the attempt to fathom it. "It is a dangerous study," whispered Prudence, "and your only safety lies in forgetfulness." I yielded to her mandates with sinking spirits, when she suggested that it was worse than folly to enter into an en- tangling correspondence with a married man; and, further- more, that I must have no reminders of him; the best mode   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       225 of action being to return his letter unopened, that he-might have no temptation to write again. It did cost me a pang to enclose this first letter, -which, under different circumstances, I should have hailed with rapture, - in a fresh envelope; but I sternly persisted in what I considered an act of duty, and, having sealed and superscribed it, I concealed it beneath a pile of old papers, in a drawer. The next time I saw Dr. Smythe, alone, I summoned cour- age to ask him, - although the request was an embarrassing one, -if he would be kind enough to drop a letter in the office for me, without mentioning, the circumstance to any one. "Mum's the word," said he, with an affectation of pro- found secrecy; adding, slyly, "all women do so delight in a little piece of mystery." And, without even glancing at the outside, he slipped the missive between the covers of his book of memoranda. He met my uncle in crossing the parlor, and I heard the latter ask, in a tone of forced composure (for he had grown wonderfully proud, and shy of asking favors, since his loss of property rendered it impossible to return them in kind), if the former would make out his bill for medical attendance, and receive pay for the same in the produce of our small farm; as he had no ready money to meets the demand. My heart beat rapidly while awaiting the reply; it came instantly, and with the doctor's usual heartiness. "Bless you, my dear sir!" he began, " don't mention such a thing. I never meditated troubling you on that score. It is much better to teach these young girls to depend on them- selves, and accustom them to pay their own way while young; for, in this country of change and vicissitude, the rich of one week are obliged frequently to earn their daily bread the next, and it is well that all should be in some measure pre- pared for fortune's contingencies."     226        ISABEL CAROLLTON:' "Very true," said- my uncle, with a sigh, "but the sick must be taken care of; and I don't clearly see the drift of your remrks." "I was going to say," resumed Dr. S., "that I have a col- lection of old papers and letters, exceedingly valuable to me, which have become so badly worn and defaced, that I am anxious to have themr copied. As your niece writes neatly and expeditiously, if she will transcribe them for me, I shall consider my services amply repaid. I had resolved to broach the subject to her as soon as I considered her able to write." "I am able to do a little now!"I could not refrain from crying out, in the suddenness of my joy at this prospect of relieving my over-burdened uncle of some share of my sup- port. s"Listeners never hear any good of themselves," retorted the doctor, good-humoredly; "however, I will rummage my bachelor's den for the - rubbish, I suppose you will call it - and bring it you; but if I find you hurrying yourself, and getting fatigued over it, I shall put a veto on the whole pro- ceeding. I must run now, for Miss Everail ought to have had her dinner-pill an hour ago;" and he hastened away, as much to escape our thanks, I thought, as to prescribe for a fine-lady patient, up town; who, to borrow the doctor's words, "Iived on excitement, evening balls, and midnight suppers, and fancied herself to be afflicted with a mild form of chronic dyspepsia." Next day, sure enough, this unpretending Samaritan made his appearance, laden with a quantity of yellowish, venerable- looking papers, which, with many cautions not to fatigue myself by writing too long, he delivered up to me, with a ream of foolscap, and a card of ' Gillett's best." Behold me, then, every morning, at ten on the clock, luxuriously seated in my well-cushioned barrel-chair, trying to decipher the faded contents of some musty old epistles from a brother   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      227 practitioner, so filled with dry, scientific and professional details, that I could perceive no earthly benefit the doctor could reap from their preservation; and I gradually awoke to the suspicion, that it was the only expedient he had been able to hit upon, for relieving my uncle from an irksome sense of obligation, and, at the same time, tickling the fancy of the copyist with the idea of being usefully employed. Be this as it might, I was sure I could not inflict a greater annoyance upon my benefactor, than by hinting to him this surmise; so, pressing Mary's music-book into service, in lieu of a writing- desk,- I had not gained strength sufficient to sit bolt up- right, or bend over a. table,- I scribbled away thereupon with a will, making good progress in my daily task. This stated employment proved highly beneficial to my health; for the letters were so thickly interlarded with technical terms, and obscure allusions, scrawled in ill-formed, hardly legible characters, that, when not actually engaged in writing, I was puzzling over, and endeavoring to study out, their mean- ing; so that I had little time for the self-torture of dreaming over the happy past. About this time several of my old-school-girl friends came to eall on me; but, with a morbid fear of their comments on my altered appearance, I shrank from a renewal of the ac- quaintance; begging, so earnestly, to be spared the pain of seeing any one' until quite well, that Dr. Smythe was kind enough to give an order to that effect; and, by tacit consent, the breakfast-room was-yielded up to me, as my own peculiar sanctum. A single stick of wood was always smouldering on the hearth, which, when burned to embers, I replaced by a successor from the box in the corner. I remembered my uncle's lame wrists, and learned to maintain strict economy in the article of fuel. My aunt and cousin sat in the parlor on pleasant afternoons, and never denied themselves to the casual visitors, who, at rare intervals, dropped in, enlivening    228        ISABEL CAROLLTON: for a time the humdrum quiescence of their uneventful exist- ence. One day I sat writing by myself, as usual, when Mary- her face flushed by the haste with which she had made her way across the parlor - pushed open the door to my room, saying rapidly, "Do, Bel, quick, help me pull my chair in here, for there is Miss Sally Mudgit coming down the garden- path, and I'd rather be beaten than see her, any time. Do make haste." With considerable exertion, for I was still weak, the chair was rolled into my room, and Mary slipped the bolt into the socket, as a rap was heard at the outer door.  "No one hears her, but us; it is hardly fair to keep her standing there," I whispered. "Never mind; she deserves to be kept waiting for being so disagreeable to people who live in small houses. You've no idea how her manner towards us has changed since we came here; though the sickening flatteries she used to beplaster us with were almost as bad as her present venom." Raat-t-at; the sound came from the parlor door this time. "Don't move," said Mary, " for mother will hear her, now; and if she don't, it will be no great loss,- a call from Miss Mudgit." A pause, and then a sharp rap at our own door. Now I must go, thought I, preparing to rise; but a shake of the head, from Mary, with a threatening gesture of the forefinger, enjoined silence. Miss Sally probably became convinced that she was not to be admitted, for she went away, and soon the hum of voices from the kitchen proved that she had found my aunt. "We have been very rude, and she will not easily forgive us," said I, with some compunctious visitings of conscience. "Well, that woman does always contrive to make me feel so very miserable, every time I see her," rejoined Mary,   A PERSONAL RBETOSPECT.      229 deprecatingly; and I don't know as there is any positive necessity for allowing her to stir me up into anger and all sorts of uncharitableness, as often as she is so disposed." "Perhaps she might have been in an amiable mood, to- day - who knows? The most cross-grained people have occa- sional fits of good nature." "She never does," retorted Mary, with a return of her old impetuosity. "She is always as soft and fawning as a treach- erous cat, whenr she is about to favor you with a test of her agility in the scratching line-a caress from their velvety, feline paws is, to me, always unpleasantly suggestive of lac- eration from their hidden claws. It was only the last time she was here, that she said to me, with a look as sweet and innocent as though she was about to confer a great favor, 'Do you not think, my love, that if you were to exercise a little more, than you have done for the past year, you would regain your strength much more rapidly than you are doing now '--like recommending change of air and' scene to one who is kept a close prisoner, it seemed to me. "Then she went on to tell me about a young lady who had a limb which. she fancied to be lame;-- something like my case, Miss Sally presumed;-and, for a number of years, she shut herself up in the house, with the firm belief that it would nearly kill her to walk; but,- Miss Mudgit's voice became actually seraphic at this part of her story,- when the imaginary invalid had worn her poverty-stricken parents into the grave, by allowing them to support her in idleness, she was obliged to go to work herself, which she ought to have done long enough before; for she found, to her sur-, )rise,-mind you, she had as perfect faith in the reality of ker ailments as I have in mine,- that there was nothing the natter with her but a general debility and nervelessness. from rant of air and exercise. One would think she esteemed it great pleasure to be shut up here, month in and month out; 20 * f-     280    -   IABEL CAROLUTON; as though I should not be overjoyed to stroll about, as I used to do, in the grand old woods; and see the little brooklet, where we played as children, with its smooth pebbles. How I long to go! I am so tired of looking at the same things from one year's end to another. "Some days, you know, I am in too much pain to use my needle at all; and then, if I only had something new to look at,- a book, a picture, anything to break up this wearing mo- notony,- you cannot, imagine what a treat it would be. Why, I do believe I could tell you how many lines there are in that old engraving, pinned over the mantel; and I don't think a twig could be broken from the apple-tree, front of the window, without myadetecting its loss, I have looked at them both so much. I wish the piano could be exchanged for something I never saw; it 's such a sharp, wiry thing, I caat get much music out of it; but I suppose mother would inot like to part with the instrument' she learned to play on, when a girl; besides,such an old-fashioned box would n't sell for much." "You do not think you could bear your weight on your lame foot, do you?"I asked, when she had talked herself out of breath. "Mercy, o!" she returned, almost pettishly; " it can't be that you too think I am making believe lame. It is the hardest of all I have to bear,-- this want of sympathy among my friends;" and tears of resentful passion sprang to her eyes. Gulping down a rising sob, she interrupted my sincere denial of having, for a moment, entertained any such unfeel- ing suspicion, to exclaim, -"I should shout with the excruciat- ing pain it would cost me just to put my foot to the floor; and there is no mistaking such pain as that. Look," she added, as with one hand she carefully raised the ailing foot upon a cricket, "and see if fancy has anything to do with my helplessness."    A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       231 ("You have on one of my slippers," said I, in surprise. "I thought my shoes were much too small for you." "So they were; but now I can only wear one of my own; this foot requires a size smaller than the other." She looked down upon it with forced composure; but her voice was wavering as she added, "When it is once withered, I suppose all the doctors in the world cannot restore it again; and I must content myself to remain a burden on father and mother as long as they are spared to me; but if I should outlive them - who can tell Is n't there a place of refuge, some- where, for indigent females? Or, perhaps, I might live alone, like Miss Mudgit; and turn into a sour, spiteful old maid, like her. That would n't do, for I could n't support myself as she does by her needle, and be my own cook and laundry-maid, for I shall never walk again, never. Well,I will try to be more patient; and, whateverveoamfe me, I do hope I shall never become an object of disli and dread to everybody. I would not care to live with no one to love, or care for me." There was that thrilling pathos in her tone, which deep feelings, when aroused to action, ever induce, and it made me most anxious to comfort her. I earnestly assured her, that, as soon as my strength would permit, I would do my best to obtain pupils for a private school in the village,--I shrank from proposing a return to Willowhridge,- and strove to reanimate her courage, and inspire her with fortitude in endurance, until we had tested the skill of the celebrated surgeon recommended by Dr. Smythe; if he failed, then would be time enough for despondency.  She shook her head sadly, saying it would be downright selfishness in her to let me take another school on her ac- count, wheh my first attempt at teaching had worn me to a shadow. I sat thinking how much happier my uncle and aunt would     232        ISABEL CAROLLTON: be, with Mary quite well, and flitting about the house merrily as she used to do; and I inwardly resolved to do all in my power, to promote my own rapid recovery, that I might set about earning the necessary means for accomplishing this desirable result. This would give an aim and purpose to my existence, and effectually rouse me from the supine listless- ness which was becoming habitual to me. "d What are you thinking about, cousin mine . " asked Mary, brusquely. A"That you must be cured; and that, in one way or another, the means must be forthcoming." "Thanks," she returned, with a brightening aspect. A"I was afraid you was thinking what a weak, repining creature I had become. I know it is wrong to give way to such feel. ings, and I do not often do so; but, once in a while, I get so wrought up, pondering on - never mind, there's no use in calling that up again -that I must get the load off my mind, by communicating it to some one; and I know of no other person but you to whom I can complain; for mother has as much as she can do to keep father in spirits."' The latch to our door was softly raised, and, pausing, she turned her eyes on me with a significant gesture. "So I am to be excluded from your councils," said my aunt, outside; whereupon I drew back the bolt, and admitted her. "Is she gone?" asked Mary, in a nervous whisper, peep- ing first on one side of my aunt, and then on the other, to be sure that no one was following her. A"I hope so," was the hasty reply, given with more fervor than politeness, toward her departed guest. "4Then please to roll my chair back into the parlor,",aid Mary, with an air of relief; " for I cannot see to sew on black here, it is so dark, and I must finish my work before evening."   A PERSONAl BRETOSPECT.       233 She was soon industriously stitching at her favorite win- dow; and my aunt, after closing the door, threw herself into a chair, with a sigh of weary dejection. "I think," she began, with a dreary, half-suppressed yawn, " that this -is what' one might call a day of misfor-, tunes." 20*     CHAPTER XIV. A DARK DAY, CLOSING IN SUNSHNE; COUSIN MARY, ALSO, FOR THE BEST 'OF REASONS, CEASES REPINING AT HER LOT. WHEN I anxiously inquired of my aunt what new calamity was pending over us, she smiled faintly, while replying, "Per- haps I was wrong in applying the word misfortune to my small trials; but the truth is, I summon up all my fortitude to meet a great affliction, and bear it as well as most people would. It is only these petty annoyances, of daily occur- rence, that upset my equanimity."       " Being again pressed to relate what had troubled her, in this particular instance, she went on as follows: "In the first place, this morning your uncle's wrists were so bad that he could not split the kindlings for the fire, and I thought I should have been all day lighting- it; for it went out three times before I could make it catch. That made me behind- hand with the washing; and, after I had got the clothes hung out, what must the line do, in all my hurry, but break and let them every one down again? I could have cried, when I went out again to see how they were drying, and found every rag of them frozen solid into the damp snow; how they are ever to be got out is more than I know; for I worked over them till my fingers were numb, and I could not start them an inch without tearing them. Well, I staid out so long that the pea-soup for dinner got so badly burned that it was not fit to'be eaten."   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      23 "I did not think it tasted so very bad," said I, in as cheerful a tone as I could command. "I would as lief have eaten a bit of toasted cinder,"  she retorted, as though it relieved her to paint things in the worst possible light. "But that is all past; let it go.' I poured nearly all the water out of the boiler, for washing the dishes; and, when that was done, I ran out with a pail for some more, and, in my hurry, lost the bucket off the hook into the well; then I must needs stay, trying to fish it up, till I've got the most abominable toothache; and, when I came in, what little water I left in the boiler had steamed away, and there it was cracked clear across the bottom; I never was so worked up in my life." ", Could not my uncle have got the bucket out easier than you "I asked, really pitying her for all the vexations she had undergone. "He went up in town this afternoon," sai sshe, "and I wanted the water before his return; besides, with his lame wrists, I don't know how it would be. I would rather melt snow all winter, than have him do anything to make them worse than they are. By the way, that reminds me, as I was bringing in a pailful of snow to fill the tea-kettle, I found that spite- ful Sally Mudgit in the kitchen. Down she sits, and begins to tell over all the conveniences they are putting into the house that used to be ours. Heat carried all over the house from a furnace in the cellar, and water brought into every chamber from that cool spring on the hill beyond the house. I must own I did not feel in the best of tempers, and I could not help saying that it did seem a hard fortune, when a per- son was stripped, in their old age, of all the comforts they had been in the habit of enjoying through their whole former life.' Hard fortune!' said she, pouncing upon the words as greedily as a dog upon a bone; 'is this all'your gratitude for the many luxuries which have been granted you for so     i   286   ISABEL CA&ROLLTONf:   23t"   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.   many years, while they have been denied to thousands of poor people who were equally deserving? Are you such a wicked, thankless creature as to fly in the face of Providence because he sees fit to let you have your share of affliction? Doesn't he do everything for the best; and isn't it right that the proud should be brought low, and made to feel that they are no better than their neighbors, perhaps not half so good, if the truth was known?' Positively, she looked at me with such a malicious significance, that I'was tempted to tell her I was deeply engaged in domestic affairs, and, under the circumstances, her departure would be taken -as a per zonal favor." "Why did you not?"I asked. "Because it would have been of no use; she would not have budged an inch till she had said her say;' so I only remarked, coolly, that I had never doubted the goodness or wisdom of Providence; that I had merely been thinking how much more easily I  could have borne the loss of fortune, if it had not been for the helpless condition of Mary, who stood sadly in need of many   comforts, which, with our limited means, it was impossible to provide for her. ' Pooh ' said she, 'you speak as though no  one ever knew what trouble was, before. You're very much mistaken; there's many  a one has a  worse sorrow than having an only child a cripple for life.' The careless way in which' she said this made me feel as though I  should have sunk to the floor. I could n't speak another word; and I suppose she was satisfied with the effectof her speech, for she went away directly after. I am glad iiary did not hear her, she is so sensitive about her lameness.' How I  longed to assure my aunt that Mary's case was less hopeless than she supposed- and I was only restrained by m y promise to my cousin, which bound me to silence. But I was strengthened in my resolution tL do all in m y power to   hasten the time when she could have the benefit of better- medical advice than had previously fallen to her lot. For a while we sat in silent musings, until my auntee marked, with a start, the lengthening shadows that lay bn the snow; expressing surprise at my uncle's protracted absence; adding, with a blanched cheek, that she trusted no harm had befallen him, to complete the day's misfortunes. We were not kept long in suspense, for the next moment. Mary cried out, "There comes father down the road as fast as he can walk. Something must have happened, to make him" hurry so." We joined my cousin, and watched his approach from the', window, as he crushed the snow beneath his rapid footsteps. "Any bad news?.'  queried my aunt, the moment he crossed the threshold. ', Read it aloud," said he, handing her a letter, and wiping the perspiration from his flushed face, the expression of which convinced me we had no ill tidings to fear. "California post-mark," exclaimed my aunt. "Who in the world can it be from? I' "Your best mode of ascertaining will be to open and read it," was the pertinent rejoinder.    ,  The well-filled epistle was too long to be inserted here. A" brief synopsis of its .contents will be all- that is needful to: give. It was from Harry Boynton, who, finding that luck was against him, to borrow his ownmode of expression, hadi decided on going out to the land of golden promise, hoping; to find some means of reconstructing his fallen fortunes. He" had been in the "diggin's" for more than a year; where he had found plenty of hard labor, which had been plentifully: rewarded. Out of his earnings, he remitted to my'uncle a draft for a thousand dollars; promising to send fresh remit- tances, if prospered by health and fortune. His description of the country and its resources I omit, for, since then,- so       many of our enterprising countrymen have visited its distant shores, that its general aspect has become to us as familiar as household words. The color that flushed the usually pale face of my aunt proved how unexpected, to her, was this mode of procedure on the part of Mr. Boynton. But, to return to our moutos, he wrote that it really went against his conscience to send the money, when he knew a safe mode of investment, which would yield my uncle an annual return of fifty per cent.; and he warmly urged the latter, if not in immediate or press- ing need of the sum, to return it by next mail, and he would lay it out in stocking a flourishing ranche, which he had pur. chased near San Francisco; which city offered a ready mar- ket for his easily-raised cattle and produce. "Will you return it?" asked my aunt, demurely. My uncle shrugged his shoulders. "I have other uses for it. Harry is good-hearted, in the main, as this timely remit- tance, which I should never have asked him to make, shows. But he is so sanguine that he will run a great risk for a pos- sible success. I know him well, now; and perceive," he added, with a  little of his old vivacity, " that you wish me to own that I should never have been where I am, if I had sooner,acted upon your more correct estimate of his character; but I am not going to flatter you by making rany such cofsonfessi. But I will do what is better, set about looking up a domestic, who will relieve you from the drudgery of housekeeping.", "And your lame wrists," she returned, cc must have a long resting-time."  Mary said never a word; externally she was quite calm; but 1 saw that the thin hand, which rested on the arm of the chair, was trembling nervously; and her eyes were full of tears. I  felt persuaded that she was too much excited to speak; and imagined I was expressing the desire of her heart   when I said "Now Mary can see the celebrated Dr. H--d. Who knows how soon she may be well again?" ' My words did not seem to please my uncle. Arning. to my cousin, he rested one hand on her head, saying gently, Now my girl will have more comforts than I have been able to afford her of late; further than that, I fear money will not avail her. I know she will submit, without a mur. mur, to an inevitable evil." As Mary was still too much agitated to reply, I took it upon myself to say that the evil might not be irremediable; for Dr. Smythe had told us of a skilful surgeon in the city, whose treatment had been successful in curing similar cases. "Why was I not told of this before?" asked my uncle, in a tone bordering on sternness. "Because Mary would, not allow you to be troubled about it, knowing, as she did, that you had hard work to get along comfortably, without the extra expense of a heavy doctor'S bill." "I would have sold the last coat off my back, rather than have had her go without the best advice in the country, if I had supposed it could have been of any benefit to her." "I knew it; but I had no ambition to see my father going about in his shirt-sleeves, in this bitterly cold weather, for my sake," said Mary, smiling through her tears. "You knew it, did you? self-conceited puss!" retorted he. "Well, I am going to the city to-morrow, to get my draft cashed, and I will make inquiries about this wonderful doc- tor; and, if accounts are favorable, we must contrive some plan for placing you under his care. Don't be too hopeful, however; it is better to be too far the other way." "I don't know about that," said Mary. "I would be willing to bear considerable disappointment, for the pleasure of hoping a while."  When I bade my aunt " good-night," she touched my fore.   1     240        ISABEL CAROLLTON: head with her lips, - the first caress I ever remember to have received from her,- and whispered, "The clearest and brightest of sunsets often winds up a day of clouds and storm." There-was but little sleep for any of us that night; and the next evening my uncle returned from the city, whither he went in the early part of the day, with so high an opinion 6f Dr. H-  's professional merits, that it was forthwith decided that my aunt and cousin should start for B. on the following morning, that the latter might avail herself of his eminent services. My uncle had even gone so far as to be- speak the doctor's favorable attention for his daughter, and  to engage a boarding-place for her with a widow lady, who, With her aged mother, occupied a small but comfortable tene- ment in an unfashionable, out-of-the-way part of the city. Mary was in a perfect flutter of hope, fear and anxiety, at the prospect before her. We all sat up till a late hour, talk- ing over the arrangements for this sudden departure. My aunt thought I was not strong enough to be left with my uncle, in charge of the house. But I was determined they should not be delayed a single hour, on my account, so I declared that I was sure of getting along in some way, and, as a last resort, could call in a poor char-woman from the village, who would be glad to come to my assistance. The prelimi- naries thus happily settled, Mary was all ready to be lifted into the stage-coach, which drew up at our door at the speci- fied hour next morning; and fervent prayers for her speedy restoration followed the dear invalid, as she was whirled away. About a week from their departure we received a letter, in which my aunt could not sufficiently extol the kindness and skill of Dr. H., who had performed a critical operation on my cousin's diseased limb, with the most gratifying results. Nevertheless, he feared a repetition of it would be found   A PEBR*AL RETROSPECT.       241 necessary, so obstinate was the muscular contraction; after which Mary might safely be given up to my charge, and per-, mit the return of the writer, who seemed to think my uncle was suffering all sorts of discomforts under my household management. I was requested to broach the subject to him, and, with his consent, to start as soon as practicable for the city. He was overjoyed at the hopeful tone in which my aunt wrote; and not only approved her proposal to return home, but insisted on going to the village inn until she made her appearance; so far hastening my departure, that the very next day saw me on my way to the city. It was a dark, narrow street, that in which I alighted late in the afternoon; and, running up half a dozen clean stone steps, I rang the bell to a small wooden house, as I had been directed. A middle-aged lady, in a plain widow's cap of white crape, and a scant dress of black Alpine, opened the door, and silently admitted me. I asked for Mrs. Otis. With a smile and a curtsy she pointed to an open door at the head of the stairway, and withdrew. On gaining the landing, I had a full view of the room fac- ing it. A subtle, sickening odor filled the air, which pro- ceeded, as I afterwards learned, from the sponge saturated with ether, which Mary had been inhaling to escape all con- sciousness of the pain which must be occasioned by the second operation. She was lying on a single pallet-bed, with closed eyes, and a look of ghastly paleness on her face, partly occasioned by the wet napkin which covered her forehead to the eyebrows; her breath -was exhaled in quick, gasping sobs. At the foot of the bed sat a fair-complexioned, gentleman- like person, a little past life's prime, whose expression of self- reliance and conscious power convinced me I looked upon Dr. H---d. The ends of his fine light hair were curled under the overlying locks, about his neck, and up to his temr 21     242        ISABEL CAROTON : ples., With one hand, fair as a lady's, he was carefully wiping the glittering blade of some chirurgical instrument,- name unknown, - which he held in the other; while, with an air of calm assurance, he talked with his assistant, a younger member of the profession, concerning the relative merits of railway shares, and real estate, as modes of permanent invest- ment. But this careless chit-chat did not in the least prevent his quick-glancing eye from noting every movement, however slight, made by his patient, over whom my aunt was bend- ing, as she laved her head in cold water, from a ewer at the bedside. I was disrobing myself of bonnet and shawl, and not feeling quite certain what I ought to do with myself next, when aunt Mary raised her head, and, catching a glimpse of me, b eckoned me to her side. On tiptoe, I softly stole round to her. "O, I have had such a glorious dream i!" murmured Mary, a brilliant smile breaking over her face, like, a sudden gleam of sunlight through April clouds. a   ; "Tell us of what you dreamed," said Dr. H., who was at her side the instant she spoke; but she was wrapped in un- consciousness again, and his question was unheeded. "That is generally the way," he remarked; ( people who have been etherized know nothing of the pain they have been suffering, or rather, would have suffered, if they had retained the consciousness of pain. I have often had patients speak of having been enjoying pleasant dreams, at the moment they were 0loing shattered limbs, when they would otherwise have been writhing beneath the surgen's knife. It is one of the greatest discoveries of the- age;" he continued, warming into enthusiasm; ', the most beneficent agent yet brought to light, for alleviating the anguish of extreme suffering." "O, doctor! interposed Mary, in the manner of a person half-intoxicated, '" if you please, do you think I shall havm to go through all this again I      -   A PERSONAL' ETROSPEcT.      24 "Not a bit of it," was the confident rejoinder. "We all know that too much of a good thing is undesirable; and ether is a good thing; but you have had enough of it." An expression of satisfaction overspread her face. She' attempted to move, but stopped short, with a cry of pain. i"We know it is hard to bear," said he, feelingly; " but you have got through the worst of it now, and borne it like a hero, too, or rather like a true woman; and every one knows that her fortitude in the endurance of protracted suf- fering is worthy of all admiration, and superior to that of man in similar circumstances. Keep up good courage, You 've everything pleasant to look forward to. The bright spring-time is almost upon us. Imagine yourself strolling over the smooth turf, and listening to the songs of the birds in the trees." He held out his hand to my aunt. "Good-day, madam. I am happy to be able to congratulate you upon the success of our experiment. Reasoning from past experience, your daughter will recover the use of her limb more rapidly than I had at first hoped." Turning to me, he asked, "Who have we here --the new nurse you were speaking of?" My aunt replied affirmatively. "Allow me to look at your tongue, Miss," was his first salutation. Instantly the unruly member was protruded, for he was a man to be obeyed without questioning. A momentary glance sufficed. "Your nerves have lost their tone,'" said he, " and I shall prescribe a tonic. Now let the room- be darkened, and- leave Miss Otis alone; perhaps she may sleep. - However that- may be, it is indispensable that she maintain an attitude of perfect repose for the next few hours." With urbane courtesy the bland physician took leave ; and,     244        ISABEL CAROLLTON: after closing the shutters to Mary's chamber, we went into the closet adjoining, which served as a dormitory for my aunt. "So that is the celebrated Dr. H-- d," said I, as I seated myself on a trunk, " who stands at the head of the profession in New England. Why, he is less assuming than our own little bald-pated apothecary at Elderbank." "True merit," she returned, "( usually makes its possessor modest and unpretending, while overbearing arrogance as truly betokens a weak intellect. Now tell me all about home, and how you left your uncle." Mary was so comfortable, the next day, that my aunt con- cluded to trust her to my care; and, accordingly, left for Elderbank. For the succeeding fortnight the invalid, re- mained in a state of absolute quiescence ; then the physician ordered that she should make an attempt at walking across the chamber. This she declared to be impossible; but he strenuously insisted on her making the trial. Miss Melville, -  the lady in black," my cousin called her, - a kind-hearted woman of few words, who never made any proffers of assistance, but was ever ready to lend me a helping-hand in any emergency, gliding away, without waiting for thanks, the moment her quick perceptions showed she could be of no further use, - was summoned; and, by our united exertions, Mary was carefully lifted to the floor. "No, the terrible pain does not come back, as I supposed it would," said she; the anxious expression of her face giv- ing way to a hopeful look, as, supported by an arm of each, she slowly made the tour of the room, and was re-lifted upon her pallet, in a state of extreme exhaustion. A few more days and she walked about the chamber, by leaning on the back of a chair, and trundling it before her as a support; and when I had been with her a month, she wair able to go about the house, and even up and down stairs, by the aid of the   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      245 side-railing. She was no longer afraid of indulging bright visions for the future; and often planned the long walks she would take about the woodland, back of the cottage where we formerly lived, and up its broad avenue, shaded by elms and acacias. Had she been told that her last summer had been spent at Elderbank, she would have been not a little startled. But I must not anticipate. In her case, at least, coming events did not cast their shadows before. One day, when I was complaining of a headache, she avowed it as her opinion, that it was brought on by too close confinement to the house; and insisted that I should leave her alone, and go out for a breath of fresh air. Bonneted and shawled, I sallied forth for a walk. I had not reached the end of the street, when a gentleman on the opposite side- walk, who had stopped, and was closely regarding me, after a slight hesitation, raised his hat with a respectful salutation. Sensitively alive, as country-bred maidens are wont to be, to the exaggerated dangers of a lonely promenade- in a large city, I drew my veil over my face, and, without pausing for another look at the stranger, hastened on my way. When- fairly past him, it occurred to me that his countenance was not quite unfamiliar to me, although when or where I had seen it, I could not for the moment call to mind; and I did not dare to be guilty of the shocking impropriety, -in my estimation, - of turning round, and, by another look at him, satisfying myself on the subject. The whole affair was soon driven from my head, however, by the dazzling display of the shop-windows on Washington street. When I came back, Miss Melville met me in the hall, to say that a gentleman had been up stairs with my cousin, nearly the whole time I had been gone. Nothing doubting but that it was Dr. H., who would be surprised at my deser-' tion of my post, I ran up stairs, and pushed open the dor, with an apology for my long absence trembling on my lips; 21* I           ,f     246        ISABEL CAROLLTON: when, who should I behold, kneeling beside Mary, who was reclining on the sofa, with one of her hands clasped in his own, but the identical stranger who had so outraged my no- tions of propriety by bowing to me across the street! I did not know what inference to draw from this lover-like attitude; and was almost dismayed at my fastidious cousin's permiS- sion of such undue familiarity. Neither of them, in their preoccupation, seemed to have perceived me, and I was de- bating with myself whether -to retire without making them aware of my presence; when it occurred to me that he might be some dangerous person, who had contrived to gain admittance to Mary's room by imposing upon the credulous Miss Melville; and, for aught I knew, he might be subjecting his unresisting companion to a powerful mesmeric influence, which would give him an opportunity to make off with what few valuables the room contained. So many were, the awful tales of city depravity that I had listened to in my secluded country home, that this seemed no improbable conjecture. I no longer thought it right to withdraw without notifying them of my proximity. '"Here I am, cousin; ready to protect you, at all hazards! .' I cried out, darting to her side. She gave a little shriek, at the suddenness of the appari- tion; while the stranger, with a single bound, was upon his feet, reddening up to his very temples. In another instant he extended his hand, as though wishing to be friends; but I was not to be cajoled into placing myself in his power, and, with a look of resolute defiance, folded my arms behind me. "I leave Miss Otis to explain," said he, with a look of chagrin, making a precipitate retreat. "How could you have behaved so ridiculously?"Cried Mary, in a tone of vehement indignation. "You might have had a little consideration for my feelings, if nothing else. What did possess you to come tearing into the room like a   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      247 person who ought-to wear a strait-jacket? And then, to be so abominably rude afterwards; 'twas outrageous." "I did not know but he might be a thief, or some dishon- est person, who was here for no good," I stammered, in per- plexity,'at her evident anger, which might be an out-of-the- way symptom of mesmerism, I surmised. 4A thief!" she echoed, contemptuously; "so you think I would have received a villain in that way, do you?" She blushed, probably at the recollection of the posture in which I had surprised them. E"Well, this is the first time, I rather think, that Charles Merrit was ever taken for anything but an upright, honorable man, as he is." 4"6Charles Merrit'! I never once suspected such a thing," I protested; and now it was my turn to be overwhelmed with confusion. The whole state of affairs flashed across my mind, and I became aware, that, instead of acting with the praise- worthy courage, which I flattered myself I had been display- ing in my cousin's behoof, I had never made a greater fool of myself in my life. Mary forgave me, on being assured that I had not the most remote conception of his identity,- strange to say she had recognized him at first glance,- and laughed, while tears of vexation still filled her eyes, at the ludicrously injurious surmises I had formed in regard to his supposed character. , Where did he drop from?"I asked, when all' cause of dissatisfaction had been explained away. "Why, he went to Elderbank first, hoping to find us there; and father directed him to where we are staying. He always liked Charles, you know." She paused a moment, then added, i"Yes, I will tell you all about it, for you 've been too kind to be put off with a half-way sort of confidence. He says it gave him a great start when he found I was not at father'so for his first supposition was, that I had married, and moved t * * - . , -     248       ISABEL CAROLLTON: to a home of my own; an event which he considered quite probable, before undertaking his journey." "I am to understand, then," said I, rather maliciously, "that he has come all this distance to pay a short, friendly visit to one whom he expected to find surrounded by the matronly cares of her own household?" "He did not expect to find any such thing," retorted Mary, impatiently, "and if you are going to quiz, and laugh at me, I 'll not tell you another word." I elongated my face to a satisfactory degree of serious expression, and she went on. "You know I have been, all these years, believing that he went away without coming to any explanation with me, because he thought me such a help- less creature that I should only be a drawhack to all his exertions; but he says he had not the most distant suspicion that I should -not, in the course of time, be able to walk again; --Dr. Smythe had not given up the hope of eventu- ally curing me, when he left the village, you remember;- and, even if he had known that I was incurably lame, it would only have been another inducement to him to strain ,every nerve-those are his very words--to procure the means of surrounding me by all those comforts I should so much the more require. It is easy to talk, I know, but I believe him to be sincere. I am glad, though, that he came on before he knew I was in a fair way of recovery; so that I am perfectly sure that he never intended to desert me on account of my helplessness. If I could only have known this sooner! What a world of heart-aches it would spare us, if we had some infallible method of detecting other peo- ple's motives!" "What was there to prevent his writing you? "I asked, mentally assenting to the common-place truism she had just uttered. "He met with so much hard fortune," said she, "that he   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      249 was discouraged in the hope of ever having any kind of a home to ask me to share with him. In the first place, his trunk was broken open, on board the boat he sailed in for New York, and all his valuables stolen; so that, when he arrived at Elkton, he had nothing to start upon, and was obliged to go to work as a common farm-servant, for several months, before he could afford to rent the small law-office which was vacant in the thriving village; and, even then, he worked mornings and evenings to pay for his board. I sus- pect that pride kept him from writing to any of his friends, on account of his forlorn plight; but he says he did not con- sider it honorable to entangle me in a correspondence with such a beggar as he deemed himself, and, perhaps, prevent my accepting some better offer I might have in the mean time.; as though I could have had a better offer. I like him all the better for all the difficulties he has met and overcome." "Then he did overcomp them," said I, as she paused, evi- dently enjoying her own thoughts better even than expatiat- ing on the perfections of the true-hearted swain, whom she seemed disposed to exalt into a hero of romance. "O!" said she, coming out of her reverie with a start and a blush, "I left off in the middle of my story. He waited months in his office, and not a single client made his appear- ance in the whole time. He says, this idle waiting for prac- tice was much harder to bear than the severe labor he went through with on the farm. I can well imagine what a person, of his quick, nervous temperament, must undergo, from lead- ing a life of such wearying inactivity. At last this state of things became insufferably tedious, and he started off, afoot and alone, in search of some more promising location. He had travelled but a few days, when he was brought to a stop in his peregrinations, by a severe attack of fever and ague. Without money or friends, he says he must have died from want and exposure, if he had not been lifted from the ground,     250        ISABEL CAROLLTON:  where he had sunk, unable to proceed a step firther, by some laborers, who carried him into a farm-house, by the road-side, where he-was tended, and cared for, with true western hospi- tality." Mary paused a moment to wipe her eyes, and steady her voice, and thus resumed: "As soon as he was able to walk, he gave the poor woman, to whom he was so deeply indebted, a parting souvenir, more proportionate to his limited means than to his sense of grate- ful obligation, and, shouldering his pack, made the best of his way back to Elkton, intending to take up his abode with some friends there, until his health was more firmly estab. lished. It was well that he returned as he did; for he found the old established lawyer of a neighboring town, who had commanded the entire practice of the county for years, about starting for Florida, for the benefit of a pulmonary complaint, of a serious nature. Soon after he left, Charles welcomed his first client to his office,- a close-fisted old liti- gant, who preferred entrusting a case of considerable impor- tance to an untried practitioner, rather than be to the extra expense of sending to a distance for one noted in the profes. sion. You may be sure Charles exerted himself to the utmost; not sparing time or trouble to conduct the suit to, the very best of his ability, and with such success, that, before the close of the year, he found himself in possession of a practice that left scarcely a moment's time at his own dis- posal. This winter, for the first time since, he was able to spare a week for a journey eastward." "And uncle Otis told him where to find you, which shows that he has no objection to a renewal of the acquaintance." "None at all, for he gave his consent that he should visit me and all that, very readily." I smiled at the comprehensive " all that" to which her father had assented, and which she seemed in no mood to explain.   A PERSONAL UErROSPBCT.      251 I hope no one will think I regretted, or envied, the happi- ness which spoke in every look and gesture of the rapidly convalescing patient, if I confess having wet my pillow with tears, after retiring for the night. Her bright anticipations for the future reminded me so strongly of the time when I too had indulged in rose-tinted visions of romantic bliss, that,. while rejoicing for her, I wept for myself; looking forward, with a sinking heart, to the dreary path of uncheered loneli- ness which must henceforth be mine to tread. In vain did I say to myself that I was as well off as I had been before I went to Willowhridge, and still retained as many objects of interest. I could not shake off the depressing sense of isola- tion that crept over me. Mary would soon be independent of my exertions. What, then, would be my object in life?-- to relieve my friends of the burden of my maintenance? A most obvious duty certainly. But was I to live for self alone? Heaven forbid that the quick sympathies I was con* scious of possessing, should be benumbed and chilled for want of exercise. Why do I thus doubt Providence? I exclaimed: a greater than I is to guide my wavering steps through life. I have no responsibility in choosing my own pathway. Be it mine to make the best use of all his dispensations, whether afflictive or otherwise; ever yielding myself, with childlike faith, to the guidance of that Infinite Wisdom, which knoweth not to err. I fell asleep on the strength of this wise resolve, with a calm peacefulness, which bad not been mine for months+ Could we, at all times, thus resign this wearying care of ourselves to One who ever watches over us with lovingkind- ness, of what a grievous burden, needless to be borne, might we relieve ourselves! When I went into Mary's room, next morning, she was already leaning on the pillows of the sofa, looking unusually fresh and pretty, in her clean white wrapper. I busied myself in putting things in order about the room. She soon gave me     252       ISABEL CAROLLTON: a clue to her quiet cogitations, by asking, "'Is not everything connected with me turning out exactly as it ought to do?" "All 's well that ends well," said I. Don't be so cool, for all's well wheher or no," she retorted, with a sinile. I can see now, plainly enough, that every step of the way I have been over was planned for my best good-"        / "It does not require any great stretch of philosophy to look calmly upon afflictions that are over and gone," inter- posed I, on remembering how bitterly she had bemoaned the hard fate which had condemned her, as she supposed, to a life of suffering helplessness. "Listen, Miss Lackfaith," said she,.playfully; "you know I used to be extremely impatient, and fretful, if thwarted in trifles. Well, I do think, that, although I have not made the best use of all I have undergone, it has assisted me in over- coming this fault, in a measure; and it has quickened my sympathy for the afflicted. I can never again look upon suf- fering with indifference, or without a desire to do all in my power to relieve it. And another thing, I do not think I could have been as happy as I am now, if past suffering had not taught me how to appreciate present enjoyment. So it has been all for the best, has n't it, Bel?". "It is easy enough for people on whom the sun shines, to imagine that it is bright and cloudless everywhere," I re- turned, not very good-humoredly, I grant. "You old croaker!" cried Mary, still smiling; you are the least sympathizing confidante it was ever my ill luck to come across; but I am determined not to let you put me out of temper. What reason have you to complain, I should like to ask,. when you are gaining in health every day, and do not know what real trouble is " "I did not know you could spare a thought for poor me,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      253 when you have so many more pleasant subjects of medita. tion," was my somewhat evasive answer. "Now, Bel, it is really unkind of you to speak in that reproachful way, for you know I do not deserve it," said Mary, looking grieved. "So it is," I acknowledged, penitently, " and I will not stand in your sunshine ally longer." As an atonement I sat down and listened to a glowing description of life at the West; and echoed back the praises of honest Charlie, until he was in a fair way of being exalted into a downright hero, which freak of fancy was only prevented by his opportune arrival for a morning call. I met him with an apology for not having recognized him the previous day, which he received with distant coolness; but Mary, evidently desiring to see us on good terms, began, with many embellishments, to relate the extravagant notions we had cherished, regarding city imposition; adding, that I had, in consequence, mistaken him for some charlatan in dis- guise, who would, if tolerated, find means to spirit away the very chairs and looking-glasses, without even saying "by your leave." He listened, at first, with an expression of polite incre- dulity; but, before she had finished, joined heartily in the laugh she had raised at my expense; and which I considered but a slight retaliation for my ridiculous misconception of character. Harmony thus happily restored, he soon led the conversation to his western home. A pleasant countrytown was Elkton, whose delightfully-primitive inhabitants made up for the lack of polished refinement by their open-hearted cordiality. Carpets and couches were unheard-of luxuries in the quiet village whose tranquillity was never disturbed by the shriek of a locomotive. 'The masters and misses of the "first families " trudged barefoot to the summer schools, in company with the children of their poorer neighbors; and 22       ;     254        ISABEL CAROLLTON  the village squire was not afraid of losing caste by associat- ing with the veriest tatterdemalion the place afforded; the doctor and lawyer met the tinker and cobbler on terms of social equality; thus creating a feeling of amity and good- will throughout the entire neighborhood. Moral delinquency, or lack of ordinary intelligence, was the only hindrance to a man's obtaining the best society the town could boast. Ir.! Merrit had purchased a cottage on what he considered the most desirable site in Elkton. It was surrounded by large, stately trees of scarlet oak and hickoryT*while the carriage- way was shaded by rows of acacias, and prairie roses climbed over the portico. I thought him not indisposed to make some allusions to its prospective mistress, if my presence had not acted as a restraint; perceiving which, I resolved to leave them by themselves, and, therefore, proposed going out for a walk, and they opposed my proposition so faintly, that I went. I was waiting for an opportunity to cross Washington- street, which was thronged with every description of vehicle, when a rich open sleigh, drawn by a pair of superb chestnut horses, prancing to the music of silver bells, drew up to the curb-stone, very near where I was standing. I caught a glinipse of an elegantly-dressed gentleman and lady, wrapped in stone-marten robes, as I stepped back of the sleigh, to avail myself of an open space, in order to reach the opposite sidewalk. "' Can it be that she has forgotten us?" cried a musical, not unfamiliar voice, and, looking up, I recognized the occu- pants of the- vehicle as Blanche Glenmore and her father. The latter held out his hand smilingly, with an " excuse my gauntlet;" while the former asked me more questions in the next two minutes than I could have replied to in ten. "When did you come to town? why did you come? where are you   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      255 staying? how long will you remain? and how soon can you come to us?" formed but a moiety of the catechism. "t Give us your address, and we will call on you," inter- posed Mr. Glenmore, hastily; "for the horses are growing restive, and we are blocking up the way." I named the street and number where I was staying. The words were hardly out of my mouth when the high-mettled steeds were suffered to dash forward. When I reached home Mary was alone; Charles having gone away in company with Dr. H., who came in soon after I left, and gave it as his opinion that, within a week, his patient would be well enough to return home. She was in great glee at this intelligence, for she had feared a much longer detention. "Has Mr. Merrit told you of the final disposition he in- tends to make of that rose-crowned cottage? Of course, he does not mean to keep it long standing empty, as it does now," said I, after removing my walking habiliments. "Why, I suppose we shall live in it ourselves," she replied, with an attempt at dignified nonchalance, which her drooping eyelids and brightening cheeks showed to be but a pretence. "; Who, you and I 3 "I asked. :"Certainly, for Charles says you are to go with us, by all means, or I might be homesick, with no old, familiar face about me. Is n't he thoughtful?" I thought somebody else was, if he was not; for, full sure was I that my cousin must have suggested the idea of my accompanying them, or it would never have occurred to him; and I resolved to accept the kind proposal, if my uncle and aunt approved it, not only because an entire change of scene would be agreeable to me, but, also, that I should be likely to find many ways of making myself useful in the new home. After having duly discussed the pros and cons of this propo. sition, I mentioned my accidental meeting with Mr. Glen-     256        ISABEL CAROLLTON: more and Blanche, in the course of my walk, and their intended call on us. This announcement threw my cousin into a fluster and flurry quite unexpected to me. She was sure people accustomed to so much elegance would be shocked and disgusted at the smallness of our room, and the mean- ness of its furniture; we must manage, at least, to procure a Marseilles quilt, as a substitute for the faded patch counter- pane covering her bed; and that hideous Chinese mandarin, with a gash on the cheek, and its broken pigtail, should be hidden behind the fireboard. I protested against any such arrangement, alleging that, as we were only temporary occupants of the room, its furnish- ings 'were nothing to us; and that, furthermore, it was my intention to overwhelm my old playmate with such a shower of questionings as to leave her no time to ascertain whether the bed-spread was of cotton or brocade. "At any rate," persisted Mary, "( do tuck that ugly plas- ter figure, with its tallowy, half-melted face, under the bureau. Only think of the classic sculptures she is used to feasting her eyes upon."  "It will be so much the more amusing to her, if she hap- pens to see it, by way of contrast," said I; " and that'will be much better than wounding kind Mrs. Melville, by degrading her old favoritesifrom the posts of honor which are theirs by right of possession. Don't make yourself uneasy, Mary; Blanche is not the girl to judge a person by what is about her, or to be made uncomfortable at any deficiencies, if we only receive her with the cordial good-will she is entitled to." Notwithstanding this assurance, Mary went fidgeting about the room, endeavoring to add to the respectability of its appearance, by whirling round the cracked shade of the astral lamp, so that its fractured side should be presented to the wall; drawing down the scant window-curtains so as to   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      257 throw a mottled toilet-glass into the shade; and otherwise fatiguing herself, until the arrival of Blanche -followed up the narrow stairway by a servant bearing an immense bou- quet, and a silver fruit-basket of hot-house grapes- put a stop to her occupation. Blanche seemed sure of being welcome, and greeted us' with a light, airy vivacity that was quite in keeping with her piquant, animated face, with its waving, light-brown curls. Her girlhood had given but little promise of the rare beauty. she now possessed. Her cheeks were overspread with a faint color, delicate as the lining to a sea-shell, while the pure white of her complexion was brilliantly clear and transpa- rent. Her figure was slight, but well-developed and graceful, giving no token of the extreme fragility of her earlier years. Her father would have come with her, she said, if a prior engagement had not called him in another direction. She next remarked Mary's pale and delicate appearance, and asked an explanation of it. "I have been an invalid, for a long time," said Mary,. glancing uneasily at the servant, who still stood' in the door. way, which Blanche perceiving, extended her hand carelessly for the flowers, saying, "These are for you, Bel, as a reminder of the huge nosegays we used to cull in days of auld lang. syne." She then placed the grapes in Mary's lap, with the remark that they were better than pinks and roses for an in. valid, although she was sorry to find her laying claim to that title. The smart footman dismissed, with orders to return for her in an hour, Blanche threw herself upon a low footstool, be- tween us, with the comprehensive request that we would tell her all about everything that had happened since she had- a seen us. Learning of Mary's protracted sufferings, and the accident which occasioned them, for the first time, she caught my cousin's thin white hand, and congratulated her warmly-' 22*     258        ISABEL CAROLLTON: on the near prospect of her recovery; adding, "How deeply grateful you must be to Dr.'H---d. Had it not been for him you would never have danced again; never have strolled about those grand old woods, where you used to saunter with a gentleman I wot of, to get rid of Bel and I, and enjoy the sweets of solitude, eh?" Mary replied with a blush and a smile-an answer quite satisfactory to Blanche-to this bantering remark of our guest; which, a week earlier, would have given her unmiti- gated pain. She was quite at ease, since becoming aware that Blanche assumed no airs of superiority, and did not per- ceive that we were occupying a small, low room, with tawdry paper-hangings of red and yellow; and that, in the corner opposite her, a broken-nosed pitcher, of ignoble clay, rested upon a prim washstand, painted slate color; or, at any rate, was much too well bred to make any observations thereupon. The hour to which her call was limited flew quickly by, and when the carriage came for her, it interrupted us in the full flow of conversation. She entreated us to drive home with her, with an earnestness that showed the invitation was not intended as a mere compliment; and, when told that it was already too late for Mary to venture out, requested leave to send a vehicle for us next morning, that we might pass the day with her. I readily consented to go, but it required some persuasion on the part of Blanche, to make Mary consent to accompany me; and when, next day at the hour agreed upon, the dashing equipage of the Glenmores drew up to the door, her courage failed, and she positively refused to fulfil her en- gagement; so I was forced to go without her, being fully convinced that a long call from the assiduous "Charlie" would make ample amends for any loneliness she might feel in my absence. A short drive brought me-to the stately Glenmore man- sion. A colored porter admitted me to the lofty vestibule,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      259' whose polished oaken steps were flanked, on either side, by: tall oleanders, in full bloom. In the hall I was met by a: spruce footman, who rang a bell, on hearing my name, as a summons to Mademoiselle Laurie, who preceded me up the broad, circular stairway, carpeted with velvet, to the boudoir' of her mistress. Blanche skipped forward to meet me, with unaffected cor- diality, removing my bonnet and shawl with her own hands, and handing them to the astonished maid, while giving it as, her opinion that apologies were odious; for which reason she should say nothing about being caught en deshabille, having been occupied all the morning in training a refiactory bird, without the remotest suspicion that it was time to dress. I thought nothing could be prettier than her pink neglige, with  its snowy frills and undersleeves. She received the excuses I brought from my cousin with a  shrug of the shoulders, and, drawing me to a seat beside her on the lounge, chatted away about her own private affairs  with the most captivating unreserve; concluding by request- ing me to be equally communicative concerning my own past experiences. I told her of my school-teaching trials, and of the severe illness i had since undergone; but of that inner life of hopes and disappointments which had been mine to bear, I could not bring myself to speak. "Is that the cause of your shorn locks?" she asked. My head was shaven to facilitate the application of leeches.' I told her so. "How sad!" said she, drawing her own silky curls through her soft palm; "just at your age, too; and you used to wear such rich, heavy plaits of hair about your head; you look so odd without them." ,        -       - "I don't exactly perceive what my age has to do with it," said I, a little puzzled to make out her meaning.      260        ISABEL CAROLLTON: "Now, don't affect ignorance," she rejoined, "for I think any sort of make-believe contemptible. Confess, honestly, that you have not lived all this time without the least bit of preference for some one of your admirers,-of course you have not been quite without them,-- or whose sake you would have wished to look your best. Own up, frankly, there's a darling." I shook my head. "Frankly, I have nothing of the kind to confess. I know of no one in the whole world, out of my uncle's family, to whom my personal appearance would not be a subject of indifference." "Never an admirer in all Elderbank!" she murmured, in- credulously. "Never a one," I returned, glad that her question had taken a form to which I could so easily reply, without betray- ing the heart-sore her light words had been probing. Who among us has not some hidden grief, some buried hope, he would fain conceal from even the dearest and best of his friends?  "What a stupid set of louts you must have been sur- rounded by!" resumed Blanche, rather indignantly; "for though you are not one to be exalted into a divinity, or worshipped as a heroine, still you have a quiet sort of attrac- tion about you; and, I am sure, would make one of the truest, and most devoted " "Sp are my modesty!" cried I, placing one hand over her mouth, A" and let me tell you that I have taste enough- to appreciate the appointments of your boudoir." "I call it my retiring-room," said she; ( and 't is not every One who gains admittance here, I can assure you. I am really glad it pleases you, as I am sure it does, if you say so; for you don't talk for the sake of saying pretty things, and showing off your own conversational powers. You see I was determined that all the colors of the rainbow should not creep i   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      261 in here, as they do into so many American rooms. For in- stance, the paper-hangings, you perceive, are of a pale rose color, with a bordering of silver leaves."- I was tempted to ask her o inion of the red and yellow abomination figuring on the walls of my cousin's chamber, but, without giving me time; she pursued her own inventory.-"The silver table and candelabra of the same material are to match. Then the lounge and chairs are a pale-blue brocade, embroidered with rose-buds; and the carpet has a silver-gray ground, with blue wreaths scattered over it. Peep into my bed-cham- ber, and you will see that only my favorite colors gain admis- sion there; the silvered bedstead, with its garlands of blue convolvulus, corresponding with the canopy and curtains. Can you amuse yourself, a short time, with the books on the tazzia, while I give a few directions to the servants, as we are expecting a few friends to dine with us?" When she had gone, I drew my chair to the window, and gave myself up to the [to me] novel amusement of watching the passers-by, in the thronged streets of a large city, screened, myself, from observation, by the blue draperies depending from the cornices. It was a bright, cloudless day, and the sky was brilliantly clear and transparent, as far as the eye could reach. The air was soft and spring-like; the snow im- perceptibly, melting away; and innumerable were the peo- ple who were out enjoying an exhilarating sleigh-ride, with all the more zest, because, in all probability, it was the last of the season. A troop of young school-boys were making the street echo with their merry shouts, as they dragged after them gayly- painted sleds, bound, as I supposed, for a coast on the com- mon. In the opposite direction, a splendid pair of bays, attached to a sleigh whose tufted lining of crimson velvet fringed with gold marked its .aristocratic pretensions, were dashing along at a rapid pace. On it came. One of the     262        ISABEL CAROLLTON: foremost of the boys, a pale-faced patrician-like little felow, was running backward, seemingly quite unaware of its near approach.- "Out of the way, Georgey!" shouted one of his com- panions. Too late-! he was already under the horses' feet, and, in another moment, the sleigh had passed over him; but, as he came out between the runners, I hoped he had sustained no serious injury. Impulsively I had thrown up the window, to satisfy myself on this point. The. horses were drawn up with a jerk, so sudden and powerful that they were nearly thrown upon their haunches; and their driver called out, to know if the boy had been badly hurt; but the little fellow was screaming so vociferously, from the combined effects of pain and terror, that the question passed unheeded. Blood was slowly trickling down his blanched face, as his panic- stricken comrades were hurriedly dragging him towards the sidewalk. "What is to be done?" asked the driver, of the sole occu- pant of his vehicle, - a lady. "Shall I get out, and take the boy along with us to where he will be cared for? He seems rather badly done to." "Drive on," was the imperative command he received in reply, "to Madam Perabeau's bonnet saloon, for I'm in haste. He can't be seriously hurt, or he could not make such a din about it. Careless creature! Why did he not keep out of the way? 'T will be a good lesson to him for the future." Resuming their former rapid pace, they were quickly out of sight. As the lady raised her veil, in speaking, I had caught a transient glimpse of a haughty set of features, which seemed familiar to me, although when, or where, I had seen them I could not conjecture. I dismissed the subject   l from my thoughts,ion concluding it to be one of those casual *  t   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      263 resemblances which one often meets in a large city, and recalled my attention to the scene before me. Some laboring men were about lifting the still prostrate child, whose loud outcries had subsided into moans of pain, when a venerable, white-haired gentleman came up, in eager haste, and, snatching the little sufferer in his arms, gazed, with an expression of unspeakable agony, into the blood- stained face upturned to his. At his desire a cab was called by one of the bystanders, and entering it with his sobbing charge, all traces of the accident soon disappeared. Fresh occurrences drove the whole affair from my remembrance before the reappearance of Blanche, who was becomingly attired in a demi-toilet of azure mouseline. At her request, I accompanied her down stairs to meet her father, who had just come in. The drawing-room, which we entered, was a high, spacious apartment with gilded cornices, and paper-hangings of deli- cate crimson, which I had barely time to notice offered an admirable contrast to the ornate picture-frames hanging against them, before Mr. Glenmore got up from the lounge on which he had been reclining, and met me with a kindly greet ing. I might have been embarrassed by the unaccustomed splendor about me, had it not been for a certain air of con- descension, I had detected in its owner while addressing me, which, strange as it may seem, made me feel quite at ease, by arousing all that latent pride in my disposition, which I am not ordinarily conscious of possessing. After lunch, in a small breakfast parlor, we returned to the back drawing-room, where Blanche remarked on the dis- agreeable closeness of the air, whetr her father pulled the bell-rope, and, applying his lips to the amber mouth-piece of the speaking tube, gave an order, the purport of which I did not catch, and, as if by magic, the doors of stained glass, at the back of the room, were sheathed to the handles, and,     264        ISABEL CAROLLTON: through the satin and lace-curtained arches, floated the per- funed breath of roses and carnations, from an invisible con- servatory, beyond. We sat for a while, silently inhaling the mingled fragrance, while I gazed with delight upon the gorgeous paintings which covered the walls; until Blanche broke the spell, by remarking that we three seemed almost lost in the large apartment, and. proposed going to the library, which was much more cosey. This suggestion was immediately acted upon. "How much you two girls look alike!" observed Mr. Glen- more, as his daughter, standing beside one of the large book- cases, was displaying to my admiring inspection an old, illuminated missal of rare value. "Very much alike," I responded, " when you cannot see our faces." We were standing with our backs towards him. "I alluded to your figures," he returned. "Stand beside each other for a moment, if you please. There, that will do. There is not the difference of an inch in your respective heights." We might have resembled each other in form; but the idea a' :of any likeness between Blanche's delicately classical features, and my own large, deep-set eyes, prominent chin, and dispro- portionately long nose, was simply preposterous. ( Aml I really such a wise, staid-looking person as Bel, here?" asked Blanche, with an incredulous smile. - "Your actions would belie your looks sadly, if you were," retorted her father, playfully; ' but, honestly, I could decide  the question more easily, if you were robed more nearly alike; for no one knows betterSthan you-judging from the bright-hued plumage you deck yourself withal- that fine feathers make fine birds. There's Miss Dressmond,-- she would almost frighten one by her ,ugliness, in a morning undress; but, by the aid of a French modiste and friseurfl   A PERSONAL RETROSECT.       265 have known her burst upon your bewildered vision, with all the honors of full-blown belleship, at a brilliant soirEe, a: perfect chef-d'euvre of art. For my part, I 've very little faith in the old axiom concerning beauty unadorned. How many of our modern belles could stand'the test of a -homer-' made gown and checked apron, or even a high-necked, short- wasted, narrow-skirted dress of that odious pongee our mothers wore?" "With the hair drawn back from the temples, and bobbed up in a pug, at the back of the head?" queried Blanche. He nodded. "I would not be the one to make the venture, in a crowded- assembly, for a kingdom," she asserted, with a feigned shud- der. ( But, about our resemblance, you shall have a chance for a fair decision. I have two cachemires alike; you shall' find Bel and me arrayed in them, for dinner," and she glanced not very approvingly at the snuff-colored mering I wore, which had been manufactured from one of my mother's. "It is hardly worth while to be to so much trouble, for such a trifle; as I can assure you all the dress in the world: would fail to make me more like Blanche," said I, shyly averse to making any display, before the proud, fastidious . , Mr. Glenmore, who would, doubtless, despise the poor jack- daw for trying to ape the eagle, in borrowed plumes. Not another word," said Blanche, with a playful assump- tion of authority; " for my will is law here; so gie me nae naysays; I maun hae myi own way." "( In one little month," said her father, with a half-checked ; sigh, we shall be freed from her tyranny; till then, let us submit to her behests, however whimsical. I would have her last recollections of home so pleasant that she shall long to come back to it. I suppose she has told you that she-is soon to inflict upon me that abomination to widowers with an only daughter-a son-inlaw .  . -i..   .  23 .      -2"66       i SABEL CAROLLTON:  ' She has not breathed to me a syllable about it," said' Io in-surprise. ', Thy have you been so sly with an old friend , Blanche?"                  -  r"Because you never asked me about it, when I gave you the best of opportunities, by inquiring after your own lovers,. -though you had n't any to speak of,- -and I did not like to blurt it right out, as though it was of the greatest conse- quence for you to know it at once," rejoined she, with- a becoming pout of her full, red lips. "She need not have grudged me a few more years," said he, "-for twenty-five is quite young enough for any woman to assume all the responsibilities matrimony involves.;" "O, renegade to thy principles!" cried Blanche, with a mock-theatrical air; " this -sage counsellor of others, if un- mistakable sigps- are, to be trusted, will not longyremain deso- late. - And Miss H. (I'm not going to reveal her name, papa) lacks years of the prescribed quarter of a century." - "Pshaw, foolish child!" returned her father, reddening suspiciously, " you fancy everybody is in lov6 with some other body, just now;'" and, drawing out his watch, he pre- tended to recall a forgotten engagement, and abruptly left us. "Now, tell me his name, and all about it," said I, as we took possession of a crimson Heather fauteuil. -" -4Not his name, by any means," began she, " for he is to dine with us t0-day; and I -shall leave it to your Yankee shrewdness at guessing, to select him from the other gentle- men who will be here. I *Twill assist you by a few hints. Firstly, he is older than myself, and younger than papa;, and, in the next place, his looks are only passable. - I d dn't care -a straw for personal beauty in my chosen; though H could never fancy a weak, insignificant expression of counter: nanee, :denoting mental inferiority, or want of manly self.  reliance; but give me a brave, true-hearted gentleman and, though -he were uglier than the ugliest gorgon, he, would::          " - '   A PRSONAL RETOSPET.         267:  be fairer, in myeyes, than all the effeminate, self-conceited dandies of the realm. Come, let us awayto dress before papa's return."                  . : : With graceful- dignity she crossed the hall, maintaining perfect propriety of deportment until beyond the reach of: the servants' eyes, when she scampered up stairs, dragging me after her by the sleeve, in the old, hoidenish fashion we had practised long ago at my aunt's. "Laurie," said she to the trim waiting-maid, who sat twisting some bits of ribbon into a tasteful roseite, we arre to wear the white cachemire dresses, and you are to make us look as exactly alike as-possible." Mademoiselle looked from one to the other of us, hopelessly, as though this feat were impossible -of accomplishment.  , Can't you dress her hair in ringlets?" asked Blanche. "It is rather short, but I will do the best I can with it," was the respectful reply, accompanied by a dubious survey of the three-inch locks beplastere! upon my temples . I thought, upon my soul, that every bulb of hair would   a have been rooted- from its follicle-if I may be permitted this technical mode of expression -in the -process of curl? - ing; so tightly was it twisted about the dexterous fingers of the remorseless Laurie. "Don't stir till it is perfectly dry,"- said she, on completing the last row, 1" or you will shake them out of place." Accordingly, I sat bolt upright, finding an aid to the digestion of my inward impatience in watching Blanche's soft tresses, which were beasily twirled into spiral waves; and reflecting on the- thankfulness I ought to cherish at not having. lived -in the times of Marie Antoinette, whein head-dresses- attained an altitude so prodigious that artists consumed ani entire day in carrying out a single plan of construction ;and the fair-martyrs to fashionable extravagance were forced to spend the night in arm-chairs, in order to be in treadiness for     - . Ao       ISABEL COAROLLTON: the next day's entertainment. When permitted to consult the mirror, I was fully convinced of Mademoiselle's ability to make the most of an unpromising material. When arrayed in the white robe, looped up with camelias to display an under-skirt of blue satin, I entered a protest against appearing before mine host with uncovered shoulders, I in a corsage low beyond all precedent. Blanche, murmuring something about provincial prudishness, clasped a net-work of pearls about my neck, and I was forced therewith to be content.                *  Laurie was still arranging the sash of her mistress, when a servant came up to say his master awaited us in the drawing- room, Blanche gave me a Chinese fan, and we -hurried down. I expected to find -him alone, and had resolved to steal back before the arrival of the guests, and resume my own proper attire; What was my surprise, then, to be presented to a number -of- gentlemen already assembled! Taking a seat beside me, Mr. Glenmore took occasion to congratulate me, in a low tone,- on my improved appearance. ? "I would not have come down in this way upon any con- sideration," said I, " if I had not supposed you to be alone." "( You are a strange girl," said he, A" and will compel me to 4believe that there is one woman in the world totally devoid of vanity, and indifferent to personal appearance."  "Not quite that," said I; ,4 but I have no desire to deceive others by shining in borrowed splendor." "You shall not be obliged to do anything repugnant to your own good sense," he returned; "and, as- I placed- you inthe present dilemma bj forgetting Blanche's whim when I sent for you, it shall go hard with me but I will find -some means of extricating you from it." -             I Leaving me, he joined a small group of which his daugh, tier formed the centre of attraction. "*      .               .. ,    '    , - \ /       -   A PERSONAL BETROSPECT.'      26 "Dear Bel" said the latter, as soon a sshe found herself beside me, " do you wish to oblige me?  - Of course I do; only tell me-how," I replied, in an:under-: tone, similar to her own.  "I have often thought," pursued she," that I owe- yotr more gratitude than I can very well express for having wiled me out into the fields and woodlands, as you used to do when I was too much oppressed with languor to have gone of my. self. I might have been the -most miserable of invalids yet; if it had not been. for your dragging me about the highways and byways of E1lderbank."- I listened with a sort of stupid wonder as to what -this preamble was tending. "I have often thought," she went onto say, " that I should like to present you some little gift, as a reminder'of days * gone by, if that inveterate pride of yours would not talke the alarm, and tempt you to refuse it. Please consider the: robe you wear your own, and retain it for the sakesof:the giver; my thoughts will fly to you as often as I don my eachemire." In an instant it occurred to me that this was the means, Mr. Glenmore had taken to relieve me from the awkward- ness of appearing in borrowed finery. I should have liked to have thanked him; but he had intrenched himself behind his very grandest air, and I stood too much in awe of him to approach uninvited. Blanche, too, had left me the moment she ceased speaking, in order to receive Mr. and Mrs. Man. love, daughter and niece, who were just then annouficed. The "niece" riveted my undivided attention; she was no other than my old friend, Miss Howard, who, with a'majestic tread; swept into the room. She was richly attired in a dress of black velvet, which fell in ample folds about her tall, com- manding figure, and was faosteid at the bust by a cluster of brilliants; her fully rounded shoulders were of alabaster 28*     270        ISABEL eAROLLTON. whiteness, as seen through the dark, heavy ringlets that drooped over them i/ unrestrained luxuriance. I had seen her that day, once'-fore; but then her haughty features were not softened by the self-complacent smile which now played over her face. Mr. Glenmore, I remarked, was roused by her entrance. from the listlessness in which he had been indulging, and received her with unusual gallantry, while Blanche's manner expressed nothing more than that unfailing politeness she invariably extended to ordinary acquaintances. Her greet- ing was too ceremonious for perfect cordiality. When the  latter presented me to. Miss Howard, to my astonishment she gracefully acknowledged our former acquaintance, and ex- pressed pleasure at its renewal; not, I felt assured, after a minute's consideration, because I had risen in her estimation, but because she perceived me to be on terms of friendly intimacy with people whose friendship she was desirous of obtaining.  **                  to '         X    ?                t , s Z        CHAPTER XV. I MEET WITH AN OLD FRIEND, WHO FURNISHES ME WITH A - KEY TO THE CHARACTERS OF SEVERIAL NEW ACQUAINTANCES.  MY first inquiries were for Miss Mills.  Mrs. Gerould you must ask for now," rcjoined Miss Howard, drawing herself up rather stiffly; "she was in per- feet health at last advices."'  How long has she been married?"I asked, with interest. "A few days; I received a box of cake but yeterday." "Then you were not present at the wedding."  "I was not." This curt reply was given with an air so constrained, that I felt the subject was not a pleasant one for her to dwell upon. "One word about the doctor," I persisted; is he, too, - well " "Quite so; but no longer doctor," was the reply; , as he has given up the practice of dentistry, and gone into business for himself in the store formerly owned by Mr. Livingston, who sold out to him on remarkably liberal terms." At this mention of the never-to-be-forgotten name, the blood rushed hotly into my face, and, for an instant, the peo- ple in the room seemed like floating, fantastic figures, min- gling in strange confusion. By a strong effort I controlled myself, to listen to what she was saying. "If you had only remained at Mrs. Grant's a month longer," were the first words I comprehended, "you might     272       ISABEL CAROLLTON  have been able to have let us into the secret of his abrupt return to his southern home, with no intention of coming north again, I should judge, from his having disposed of all his property in Willowhridge. I should like to know who that splendid woman was who went away with him. He kept his own counsel pretty well; for all Mrs. Grant knew about it was that she was a married lady, - make me believe that if you can,--an old friend, who'came on very impor- tant business, which he returned with her to arrange. Mrs. Grant is too charitable to think ill of any one; but it looks  rather mysterious to me." I held my fan so as to hide my lips, which I felt to be quivering; every nerve was strained to preserve an appear- ance of outward composure. I made no attempt to speak; I could not havei done so without betraying the agitation I was striving to repress I was relieved by-Mr. Glenmore, who came up to say a gentleman had requested an introduction to me. Half-bewil- dered, yet glad to escape Miss Howard's searching glance, I suffered myself to be led across the room. "Courage," whispered my conductor; " he's not such a formidable personage as to cause all this trembling; a little caustic now and then, to be sure; but il a le cacur bien place." A fresh surprise awaited me; for, on raising my eyes as Mr. Manlove was named to me, I perceived him to be none other than the stranger who had so much befriended me that miserable day in the stage-coach. Again the past vividly uprose before my mental vision; but-he made not. the slight- est allusion to any former meeting, and I was soon at ease with him. "Are you acquainted with most of the people here?" he asked, kindly. 4"(   A PERSONAL mETROSPCT.       273 t  With none of the guests, excepting Miss Howard;"I said. ("Then I must give you a little insight into their respective merits, or demerits, possibly," he returned. "To begin: that gross, gouty, flabby-faced individual, whose dark; curling wig offers such a striking contrast to his faded complexion, and straggling whiskers dyed blue-black, is an' East Indian nabob, a millionaire; as illiterate and uninformed, save'in mone- tary affairs, as a wild Camanchee, and about as uncouth in his manners; see him consulting his watch, to ascertain if it is near the dinner hour. As an offset to his bad grammar and -general lack of intelligence, he gives frequent and ex- pensive- entertainments; on which occasionsk his wine-cellar 'furnishes forth a tempting display of bottles, draped in glorious old festoons of cobwebs. In reward for these pal- pable virtues, an entree is accorded him to the mansions of our most select circles. His name is Gruball. "Of that white-cravated, benevolent-looking gentleman at his right I have nothing to say; panegyric is not my forte. Mr. Mildmay's faults, if he have any, are' not so darkly shaded as to form a suitable background for' one of my sketches. ' Next in order comes Mr. Radnor; his pale, aristocratic features nearly buried in a profusion of moustache, imperial nmd whisker. His father, by plodding industriand unweary- ing diligence, succeeded in scraping together a large fortune. His children would fain forget that so near an ancestor'was ever guilty of severe manual labor, and are proud of never having degraded themselves by being of the least utility to anybody. Idiots! when the brightest stars in our glorious galaxy of orators and statesmen have been eniinently self- made men. "The young lady in the blue sash, with delicate features and a face very pretty, but with no more- expression than     274         ABE  CAROLLTON : that of a wax- doll, is one of Mr. Radnor's sisters; and that foppish-looking person in the satin broidered vest, to whom she is lisping suchedelectable nonsense, is Mr. Steenkirk  He has amassed a considerable fortune by his own exertions, -r a fact which he has not sufficient independence to openly avow. Iis family are in the lower ranks, - so much the more to his credit that he has been able to raise himself to a respectable position in society,--but he is evidently ashamed of his origin, and I have almost despised him when I have seen the flush of wounded pride mount to the, cheeks of his sister, as he passed her in the street, while walking with some fashion- able friend, without even a nod of recognition. At man who will thus cast off the ties of kindred is incapable of true friendship; and I do not see, for my part, what induces Glenmore to cultivate his acquaintance. Not feeling himself to be quite secure in his position as a man of fashion, Mr. Steenkirk is forced to be quite exclusive in his selection of ! acquaintances." "How does that follow . "I asked. "Why, he dares not choose companions for their congen. iality of-mind and character, neither for their mental and moral worth; but simply because they have received the stamp of fashion, and are, of course, of marketable value. For example, his intellectual capacities ranging above the ordinary level, it is positive martyrdom to him to seem tot  take an interest in the superlative twaddle with which the wax-doll at his side is boring him. Heigho! there 's suffering to be met and bravely endured by every individual, whatever his condition.- Trials breasted andc overborne are as necessary to--our moralwell-being as health-inspiring exercise to our physical organization. No afliction is too severefor the fash- i ionable aspirant, whose sole aim is to rise in the world. Why should he be spared the vexations incident to every station of life, more than another man?" r .- ^ .-  ^  .        ,  .   ^ ^  , ^.    A PERSONAL BOSPECT.       -275 "Then, if your sketches are true ones," said I,- "wealth and leisure do not always lead their possessor to employ himself in the relief of the unfortunate, in deeds of beneficence, as, well as in the gratification of the most refined and exalted tastes." ( Bless your unsophisticated heart! nothing of the kind; at all events, not when their time and talents-are spent in oust; ing rival aspirants from the slippery ascent eading to the  highest niche in the temple of fashion."      . Our conversation was terminated by a summons to the . dinner-table. My companion left me, in the general movement that folk- lowed, and I saw -him, a moment later, giving his arm to Blanche, while behind them came Mr. Glenmore escorting Miss Howard. I was beginning to feel :wkwardly nervous, from the fear of being left alone in the drawing-room, when Mr. Radnor, to whom I had been presented on my entrance, took mercy on my forlorn condition, and led me out to the large dining-hall; where my eyes were almost dazzled by the brilliant display of the extended oval table; a part of the dinner-service being composed--so it seemed to me-of crystal, inlaid with gold, which glistened in the gas-light- softened and subdued by the alabaster shades of the over. hanging chandelier. The: gentleman-like, black-coated sera- vants, with noiseless expedition, supplied the wants of-t'he guests, without any manifestations -of cringing servility.- In fact, there was an air of independent courtesy -about them, often noticeable in the better class of American servants, which seems to say, "We, too, boast the privileges of free- men, and may yet succeed in winning the means of raising' ourselves to a level with our employers, and sit beside them: on terms of equality."  "Have you listened to the meleefluous notes of Grisi, th  divine songstressl" asked Mr. Radnor, wiping his--' 6orled: -     276.       ISABEL CAROLLTON: moustache, which had just brushed the sides of his soup- spoon. My reply-was a simple negative, "Not heard Grisi! 'pen my soul, you've missed a rare treat; but, perhaps, you prefer the style of Mademoiselle Rosemonde, or some other premaw-donnaw. Am I right in my conjecture?" "I never had the pleasure of listening to any foreign spngstress, and, therefore, cmoud have no favorites amongst them," I returned. "Never went to the opera!" he exclaimed, aghast at the deplorable barbarism evinced by this declaration; and, deem- ing it unadvisable to waste more words on one so little worthy of them, he forthwith directed his remarks to Mr. Gruball, who sat on the other side of him, leaving me to my own devices.  I bore the slight with tolerable equa- nimity. "Do you know," he asked of the stolid millionaire, " that ny black Auster- paid three thousand, cash down, for him, last Christmas, and would n't take five- beat Sedley's Long. shanks, that has trotted his mile inside two forty, many's the time " " "Don't know nothia' about horseflesh; my groom attends to all them things," growled Mr. Grdball, .itently eying a delicate morsel of green turtle he held suspended on his fork. "The trial came off beautifully," persisted Mr. Radnor, heedless of the repulsive manner of the gormandizing nabob, "and Auster did lay to the work like a true Arabian djouad, as he is reputed to be. For a, considerable distance the horses were neck to neck, but Auster soon began to bestir himself, and put himself over the road in a free-and-easy sort of style, that took every kink out of him,'I can assure you, and brought him to the goal several seconds in advance of Longshanks, who came 'up dripping like a lather-box, while IPP    A PERSONAL RETROSPECT .      2T my peerless beauty had n't a wet hair on him. I could have found it in my heart to have treated him to a right royal banquet of gilded oats, if I had thought the stately creature would have enjoyed the repast better than his usual plain fare." :On concluding a description of this marvellous feat, its narrator, closing one eye, brought the other to bear upon a glass of wine, which he was holding up to the light, with a  pompously critical squint, which- seemed to say, - so Mr. Manlove afterwards declared, "Not such bad stuff for this country, though that delicious hockheimer one gets accus- tomed to, in the course of foreign travel, spoils his palate for anything of coarser flavor." "I hope you had a broad, unfrequented street for yout trial of speed, as I presume your father's sons would never so far forget the principles he instilled into them, as to become patrons of the race-course," suggested Mr. Mildmay, from the opposite side of the table. It was on the road to Brighton, sir," returned Mr. Rad- nor, stiffly, with a haughty look at his questioner, which seemed to demand the reason of his interference. "I think the practice of fast driving, along our crowded thoroughfares, so highly reprehensible that I would gladly see it suppressed by the most stringent legislation, if it can be done in no other way," subjoined Mr. Mildigay, with some warmth. "Has anybody run foul of your turn-out, neighbor?" asked Mr. Radnor, in a careless, lackadaisical sort of way. My only surviving child was run over by a sleigh, this morning, which was driven at a rapid pace up this very street," rejoined Mr. Mildmay, in a tone of deep feeling. -i "What, my favorite! poor little Georgey? How sad!" exclaimed Blanche. "    I hope he was not much-injured." : *   ' "Not seriously" returned Mr. Mildmay; "altlhoih:  24     278       ISABEL CARUOLLTON : i har a, severe contusion on the head, and is otherwise badly bruised. I left him asleep from the effects of an opiate, and I the nurse promised not to leave his bedside until my return." I How did the accident happen?" asked Mr. Radnor, who, on noting Blanche's solicitude, thought proper to wake up to a greater show of interest in the affair. "( You remember," said Mr. Mildmay, replying rather to Blanche's mute appeal than to the question addressed to him, "that he got a severe fall on the ice early in the winter, striking the back of his head, and injuring it so much that he has been partially deaf ever since; so that, he says, he found himself under the feet of the horses, before he heard the bells which should have warned him of their approach. This may account for his having been run over, without any peculiar carelessness on the part of the driver, who immedi- ately drews up, as I am told, to go to the boy's assistance, but was peremptorily ordered to drive on by the only person in the sleigh, - a lady, if you will believe me, I was shocked at this exhibition of inhumanity from one of my own coun- trywomen, as one of the bystanders assured me she was. Fortunately, I came up in time to prevent any bad conse. quences to poor Georgey, from remaining long in the chilling air with his wounds undressed."  Numerous were the remarks called up by this recital; and I was far from envying the emotion evinced by Miss How- ard's changing color, as she listened to the indignant com. ments of several present, on her own unfeeling conduct. I  fancied that she trembled lest some accidental disclosure should expose her identity, proving herself the object of their spirited animadversions; bat none such came, and an air of inexpressible relief came over her, as the subject was dropped, and conversation took a new turn. On returning with the ladies to the drawing-room, I secured a favorable position-in the shadow of a flower-wreathed   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT. '     279; pedestal, on which rested daintily an exquisitely sculptured- Psyche--for observing the entrance of the gentlemen;. amongst whom I was to detect le prete'du of Blanche. Mr. Gruball was the first to reappear; and, spying a vacant seat beside Miss Glenmore, he at once appropriated it, and they were soon engaged in a brisk conversation. Being at the opposite side of the spacious apartment, not a syllable was audible to me, although it must have been a pleasant subject on which they were chatting, judging from her smile, which was bright and frequent.  It cannot be possible, thought I, that this coarse, gross- looking man - he might have weighed three hundred - can have the audacity to aspire to the hand of the beautiful, accomplished Blanche? I was strongly reminded of a paint.. ing in her room, in which the fairy Titania was coying the amiable cheeks of Bottom, the weaver, made hideous by a beastly mask. She looked up at this instant, and, with a kindling smile, caught sight of my perturbed face as I peeped forth from my well-screened hiding-place. Was she trying to mystify me? I asked myself, without obtaining any satis-: factory reply. Soon Mr. Steenkirk led her to the piano, standing behind her to turn over the leaves of her music.- book, and bending over, as occasion warranted, to Ifur.- mur a few words in her ear, to which she gave but little attention. "Is this the way to enjoy society, hiding oneself in sly. corners, and speaking never a word to anybody?" askedMr. Manlove, who had stolen round behind me, I know not how: long before.  "Not always," I returned, a little startled by the suddeni ness of the address; " but I have a reason for keeping-in the shade and observing others, just now." "Strange anomaly," he laughed, with traces of a sneer on his lip; "awomitan capable of rendering a reason for her #          +   ,          ,  \     280        ISABL COAROLLTON:      1 actions. Do let us hear it that I may know if it deserves the name."  "I dare say you will think it silly enough, but it has power to keep me here, nevertheless," said I, too much bent on accomplishing an object of my own to resent the too obvi- ous contempt with which he had alluded to the sex feminine. "I am all curiosity to hear it," he asserted, putting his handkerchief to his face, and suppressing a yawn. "Well, you must know, firstly, that Miss Glenmore is en. gaged to some gentleman in this room,"--he gave me a quick flashing glance, in strong contrast with his former apathy, and nodded assent, -" and she has enjoined on me the task of discovering the favored individual by the exercise of my wits, which have proved rather dull so far, and give me little hope of succeeding without assistance. She is placed beyond the temptation of mercenary motives, and nothing else could induce her to accept that odious Mr. Gruball. You must know all about it; do just give me a hint to set me upon the right track." "Not I," he returned, decisively; " if Miss Blanche wishes you to find out her secret by your own penetration, you 'll do so for all the aid you 'll get from me." ie wasi as good as his word, parrying all my crossques- tionings with good-natured banter, and finally shirking the subject altogether, by proposing to add a few female'like- nesses to the rough sketches of persons present 'he had already given me. To begin," said he, " that lady, who is sweeping the ear- pet with a flowing train of Canton crape,- luckily it has been cleaned before (the carpet, not the dress) by a less expensive, but equally efficient besom, - rejoices in my own cognomen; she is Mrs. Manlove. -Do you admire the glossy flow of her smooth ringlets?- I am treading on slippery ground, I am aware, and perilling my reputation for 5gal-  '    t   A PERSONAI RaEROSPECT.       281 lantry; -but if you really do admire them, I can direct you to a fashionable perruquier, who will be enchanted to provide Mademoiselle with similar ones, at the usual price. I am glad to see you smile. Cheerfulness is a tonic you stand much in need of; and I hope you will give me all due credit for my unselfish benevolence, in devoting my remarkable powers of pleasing to your sole diversion, when it would give me so much more pleasure to converse with the charmingly intelli- gent Clara Radnor, who thinks her brother's moustache divine, and dotes on Mr. Steenkirk, he has such white hands, and wears such little loves of boots." I expressed my sense of obligation at the honor conferred on me, and recalled his attention to the work in hand, beg- ging him to complete one portrait before beginning another. "A most delicate carnation dyes the cheek of my lady," he resumed. "It is always stationary, ever the same,- that is, if not interfered with by perspiration, or a carelers brush of the mouchoir,--which shows it to be highly superior to the often evanescent flush called up by that old-fashioned dame, -Nature,-whose acquaintance is pretty generally cut by our modern beau mnonde. What are you shrugging your shoulders at, now?" "It seems so astonishing, doubtless owing to my-inexperi- ence," I returned, hesitatingly, fearing he-might deem jlhe avowal an impertinence on my part, ' to see a man levelling satirical shafts at his own wife."- "My wife! The deuce! Beg pardon. Ought to have said, you do me too much honor by the supposition. She is the widow of my elder brother, Gregory, whom she worried into the grave long years ago, through no fault of hers, that I am aware of. She might have made another man happy, but they were totally. unsuited to each other; not- foni- dEir parity of years, but from utter dissimilarity of tastes udS habits. In the first place, he was captivated by her WurpA* 24*     282        ISABEL CAROLLTON-: ing beauty. She was very like her niece, Miss Corinnai- when young. They were married after a three weeks' ac- quaintance, only to regret their precipitancy, when too late. I am wrong in speaking so decisively on a subject in regard to which he maintained the strictest reserve. Honly know that he was constitutionally quiet and retiring, shrinking sensi- tively from society in general. This natural love of retire- ment was increased, probably, by his h-aviilg spent the greater part of his life at the house of our paternal grandfather, in a secluded country town, where his principal pleasure was derived from literary pursuits. In this quiet retreat, which my, grandfather left to him at his decease, he would have 'much preferred spending his days,--so he told me, when I came on from the south, where I was engaged in business, for a flying visit,;-but seclusion, as he soon learned to his cost, was madam's abhorrence'; she was ambitious of shining in the ranks of fashion, and, with unconcealed reluctance, he relinquished the home of his childhood, and removed with her to the city. : cOrice there, she succeeded in coaxing him to attend several bridal parties, given in 'their honor. It would look so strange, she said, for her to go alone, as though her hus- band was ashamed to be seen accompanying her. - These over, nothing would do, but they must give a brilliant soiree in return. How artfully she contrived to bring it about! 'I dislike the trouble of entertaining guests as well as yourself,' she would assert; ( but will not people think us mean and parsimonious, if we go and enjoy/ourselves at their expense, and then decline the effort of entertaining them, in return?' -He declared that it had been no enjoyment to him to be jammed into hot, crowded rooms, and forced to swallow all sorts of indigestibles at midnight. Nevertheless,- his nice sense of honor was touched by this appeal, and he yielded to her suggestion; thus paving the way for fresh invitations,   A PERSONAL RTROSPECT.       288!? until he was hopelessly entangled in the snare so artfully - held out to entrap-him; and death, only, relieved him from, the round of gayety and dissipation in which he was inextri.- cably involved. "Poor fellow! he became paler and thinner, week by week, and, without -any complaints, sunk away under the influence of a nameless disease, brought about, in my humble opinion, by a course of life to which he was habitually and constitu- tionally averse." "You ought always to remain single," was my unpremedi-. tated remark, as he came to a pause.         - , Why do you think so?" he asked, with a slight start. "Because, with your wonderful powers of perception, youw will see through all feminine blandishments, and set them- ait naught; you would strip the -roses from the chain-matri-; monial, and, thus stripped, would not its links be gallingly; binding"       . 4l Nothing of the kind, most wise Minerva; for, as I ex- pect to be ruled by my wife, in one way or - another, I shall take good care to select one whose sway shall be kindly-and genial, who shall only seek to bind me in silken fetters; -then,s with eyes wide open, I will yield willing homage to her gentle; sovereignty." I was not sorry;to be spared the necessity of replyingto, this astonishingly gallant speech, from one so habitually cauns tie, by Blanche's approaching us with Mr. Steenkirk, whiof\ she presented to me, with a twinkling -glee in her dancing eyes, whose mischievous expression of mirth I did not com- prehend- until several months later. . I supposed that, after going through the usual formula ,on such occasions, he would have passed on-; but, to my surprise, he lingered beside'me, striving to make himself agreeable ,b a profusion of small talk on common-place topics, 'that sot of gossipping chit-chat with which-women are oftenarepriesented,     284I       ISABF CAROLLTON: - erroneously, let us in charity believe,--as entertaining each other; but which man more rarely stoops to adopt. I knew him to be capable of better things, and could but sur- mise he cherished no very exalted opinion of our sex's intel- lect, and was doing his best to bring down the tone of his observations to a level with the supposed capacity of his listener. Be that as it may, his respectful attention was doubly welcome from the contrast it offered to the supercili- ous airs assumed by Mr. Radnor. When the gueats began to drop away, my companion even went so far as to offer me a seat in his own vehicle, promising to set me down at any part of the city, where I might desire to be left. ' I cannot allow my friend Bel to avail herself of your kindness," interposed Blanche, who was passing at the moment, 4 for I despatched a servant, hours ago, to tell her cousin she would remain with me for the night."  I could but smile at the airy, peremptory grace with which  i the speaker-,decided the movements of all about her.  The party to which Miss Howard belonged was the last to leave. Mr. Gle/nmore, with looks of undisguised admiration, was leading the majestic Corinna to the carriage, in which her- aunt, and cousin were already seated. Mr. Manlove dashed back through the hall for a parting word with Blanche. Asche was speaking to her in an eager undertone, the idea struck me that his smile was unwontedly soft and genial; not a trace of its usual cynicism did his face retain. Sud- denly the, light of discovery broke in upon me, causing me to  scan his personal appearance more closely than I had hitherto done. He certainly looked-ten years younger than he had done, on that dark, -dismal day inthe stage-coach; and, as it Wos, looked older than his years warranted, owing to the tasteless arrangement of his hair, which was suffered to fall over -his forehead in a style which was, not in the least pic- turesque; :the parting -being in a half-perceptible zigzag,         *   A PBOSNXAL STR0OSPRCT.      2%f running in no particular direction, while his collar was worn Zla Byron, to the needless display of a long, muscular neck. Then his ill-trimmed, straggling whiskers, of reddishfbrown, offered such a marked contrast to the light, wavy tresses which they almost touched, that, for a moment, I did- wonder at the choice of my friend. "s Never mind," said I, to myself, " she does not care for beauty, and I ought to rejoice that she has been wise enouglh to prefer sterling worth to more showy qualities." My cheek burned, however, as I thought of -the subterfuges to which, by my questionings, he had been driven to avoid betraying their engagement. When we were alone (Blanche and myself), in my sleeping apartment; I told her of the pleasure I should experience oa being called upon to congratulate her as Mrs. Manlove. The conscious blush that rose to her face established tho truth of my conjecture. "What made you think it was him?" she asked, looking down. "The lover-like devotion of his manner when taking leave of you," I replied, promptly. A joyous light filled her eyes, as she murmured, "You give me so much pleasure, for he is so richly endowed with mental gifts, and is so keenly alive to the faults of others, -that I can hardly conceive how he can be satisfied with such an empty-headed chit as me, and sometimes I doubt-" - a She did not see fit to conclude the sentence, but, rising and turning away, asked if I liked him. ' Famously; quite like a brother," I said,. "All right. Good-night;" and, to the hum of a lixe measure, she began pirouetter -en cadence, whirling herself out of the- room. The Saturday succeeding my -return to Miss Melvilles, cousin Mary left for home, Oder DA eare of Charles-Meyritf;     286s        IABEL CAROLLTON: and, in compliance with a pressing invitation from Blanche,  seconded by her father, I consented to remain with them for the ensuing w eek. I was sitting in the library, the second  day after my arrival, listening dreamily to Blanche's clear tones, as she read aloud, when a servant appeared, bearing a small silver tray, from which the reader took a delicately enamelled card. "Bless me!" she ejaculated, "Mr. Steenkirk here again, so soon! Why, it's the second call he has given us since he dined here; and the last time he came, he hinted, pretty strongly, that he should consider it a favor if I would oblige him with your address, which I declined, thinking you might not care to receive a pall from him. Perhaps, you will not thank me for withholding it." "You did just right," said I, "for he is not particularly agreeable to me." "I am not sorry for that," she returned; "it will just serve him as it ought." "What will?"I asked, a little puzzled. "Youl shall know some day. We must not keep him wait- ing now," said she, hurrying me away to the drawing-room. Mr. Steenkirk looked, to adopt a common expression, as though he had just stepped out of a band-box; with his snowy linen ruffles, his immaculate gloves, and hair be-curled and be-perfumed. In his hand he carried a bunch of roses and forget-me-nots, of which, with some very pretty compliments, which I forget now, he begged my acceptance. Not wishing to wound his feelings by the refusal of so trifling a gift, I took them, with a secret wish that he had seen fit to have kept them to himself. Other callers dropped in, and Blanche's attention was  monopolized by them, As I could not change my seat without requesting Mr. Steenkirk to rise and let me pass, I felt my- self forced to remain and listen to a round of stereotyped   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      287 flattery, which was wholly inapplicable to- me, and flowed so glibly from his practised tongue, that I could not help wondering to how many others the same remarks had been addressed in the course of the season. I liked him even less than at our first interview. There was a want of ease, a constant effort at vivacity, about him, that fatigued me; and I soon caught myself suppressing yawns behind my pocket- handkerchief. He evidently thought himself irresistible, stealing covert glances at his own large but well-kept hands, whose delicate fairness he seemed to consider worthy of all admiration. When he thought proper to withdraw, I hastily thrust his flowers behind the bouquet in a vase, and forgot them, alike with their giver. He several times repeated his call during my stay; but it so happened that I was invariably out with Blanche for our daily drive, a circumstance I did not in the least regret.     CHAPTER XVI. HOME AGAIN -SURPRISES -AND COUNTER-SURPRISES.   MR. MANLOVE'was with us a part of nearly every evening, during my stay; and there was a curtained recess, temptingly rrovided with a luxurious tete-S-tete, which was tacitly re- signed to the lovers, whose subdued tones were not usually audible 'at the opposite side of the room. Thus I was left to entertain, or be entertained by, Mr. Glenmore, as the case might be. At first he took very little notice of me, unless I was with 'Blanche; then he had a full flow of talk for our amusement. Sketches of foreign character, of which he had been a close 'and disoriminating observer, in his travels, spicy anecdotes, and well-seasoned gossip of the old world denizens, kept us spell-bound listeners, until Blanche was called away, which was the immediate signal for his betaking himself to his favorite loungeand the evening papers. The first time he set aside this arrangement, was to challenge me to a game at backgammon. It required but little attention, on his part, to vanquish so weak an opponent; and, in the intervals of the game, he adroitly questioned me, relative to our/ mode of life at my uncle's. I unshrinkingly acknowledged the extreme poverty to which we had been reduced, and the straits to which we had' -een driven to make both ends of the year meet. He heard ime 'with seeming interest; perhaps, because having been   a;-   A PERSO0NALT *ETRO5'EBT.   289   accustomed from his cradle to all the costly appliances of wealth, the pinching economy of which I spoke presented to, his inquiring mind an aspect of life he was-little used to con- template. I cannot be certain of this, for his was not one of those transparent characters through which the motives o were detected at a glance; on the contrary, to me he seemed quite unapproachable. There was a cold, glittering polish of manner, which he could assume at will, that effectually COn- cealed his real feelings,- for I suppose he had them of somn kind, - and kept one at a distance. 'T was like an impene- trable coat of mail,'which resisted all attempts at piercing through it. I had thought myself a good physiognomist, possessed of an intuitive insight into the characters of others; but in one instance I had been egregiously mistaken in my estimate of worth, and my present study so completely balled my powers of discernment that I began to lose faith in ,the penetration I had once given myself credit for. His unvarying tenderness to Blanche showed his heart t-o be kind; but there was not the most remote danger of hai wearing it "pinned to his sleeve for daws to peck at." The air of condescension he at first assumed toward me had gradually worn away, and he no longer avoided me when Blanche was absent; sometimes conversing volubly on sub- jects disconnected with -himself, but remaining silent always in regard to his own opinions, prospects, or aspirations,- er tainly he was-no egotist. I could not even decide in what light he looked upon my self; at one time, I was led to the mortifying conclusion that it was as a supreme shallow-pate, whose follies diverted him; and, at another, the respect he evinced for my opinions led me to believe that he deemed me a prudent, sensible sort of. person for one of my years, .    -  .. Well, what mattered it? Nothing; only Blanche was fs der a friend, that I would fain have won for myself the good- 25   290        ISABEL mO*LLTON  will of her nearest relative, whose unbending reserve con- stantly repelled me. I suppose his manners would have been pronounced more finished and gentleman-like than those of his prospective son-in-law; and yet the genuine, straightfor- ward manliness of the latter, notwithstanding his brusque ways and unattractive exterior, was calculated, so I thought, to gain him more and warmer friends than all mine host's factitious polish, which is apt to harden one in the process of acquisition. One day, late in the week, Mr. Glenmore came in, evi- dently in high spirits, which was easily accounted for when he told us he had been enjoying a charming drive with Miss Howard. Blanche scarcely heeded this announcement, so busily was she flitting about the apartment; adding a few flowers of delicious fragrance to the already well-filled vases; rearrang- ing the window-draperies in folds of faultless elegance, sup- plying the portfolios with fresh prints, scattering newly- arrived magazines over the tables, and otherwise completing those little finishing touches which only a woman of refined taste can execute. Mr. Glenmore, seeing his daughter thus engaged, motioned me to a seat beside him. "Miss Howard," he began, "tells me you were friends together at Willowhridge. What an inestimable privilege it must have been to you to have secured the friendship of one in every aspect so rarely gifted! alone, as you were, among strangers, too, and thrown by circumstances among a very vulgar class ofpeople, as she informs me you chanced to have been. With your quick appreciation of the biensances of good society, to have associated with none but coarse, low- bred- persons must have been a serious trial; and, I repeat, you must have considered yourself truly fortunate to have made the acquaintance of one so every way charming." I was so. much astonished at this speech, that I was unable   a PERSONAXL-ETROSPECT.      291 at once to frame any suitable reply to it. I shrank from the meanness of depreciating the merits he attributed to her, and I could not givea cordial assent to his ardent rhapsodies. "Have you nothing to say?" he asked, with impatient warmth. "Can it be possible that you do not appreciate her uncommon personal loveliness; her enthusiastic admiration of everything good, true and exalted, in morals; her tender sympathies with suffering humanity; her unassuming modesty of deportment, notwithstanding the adulation that rises like incense about her, and would inevitably turn a weaker head; and withal her artless, guileless simplicity?" He waited for a reply.       ' "She is very beautiful," said I; indeed, I think her the most brilliant and showy womnan I ever saw." He still paused, as if expecting me to go on, and endorse all her perfections. Please not to make me say anything more about her; I would rather not," said I, half-frightened at the anger that gleamed in his eyes and flushed up in his face. "Your opinion of her, right or wrong, I will have," he returned, with cold determination. "Blanche has a high opinion of your discrimination in judging of character, whether with truth or not is more than I can say; therefore, reply to me with perfect candor, and allow that Miss How. ard's beauty is among the least ofier unrivalled charms. Be open, and speak exactly as you think." "Then I must confess," said I, driven to extremity by the calm decision of his manner, "( that I should not have recog. nized a single feature in the portrait you have drawn of her." "Because it falls so infinitely below the original, which deserves a brush dipped in sunbeams to do it justice. Is that your meaning?" , * .      v"       292        ISABEL C;ARBOLLTON ; "To be candid, as you bid me, it is not; but rather because your sketch is beyond her deserts."  "Miss Carollton," said he, in a low, stern tone, "I could not have supposed you capable of being so far misled by envy, as to detract from the virtues of a superior." This stinging rebuke brought the tears to my eyes, all the quicker. that I felt it to be totally unmerited. - Turning on his heel, he began pacing from one end to the other of the long apartment. In his self-absorption, I made my way unperceived to the conservatory, and cooled my burning tem- ples against a pilaster of marble. Mr. Glenmore soon put his head in at the arched entrance. I bent over the gorgeous blossom of a Mexican cactus to hide all traces of tears. O, here you are! I was looking for you," said he, coming in. "I wished to apologize for the unwarrantable harshness with which I spoke to you a few minutes ago. The fact is, that one who awakens a man from a delicious dream had need expect more kicks than thanks for his pains, however laudable his intentions may have been." "And even if the awakeningwere performied at the ex- press command of the enchanted sleeper," I subjoined. ".Might have the same effects," he added. "In honest truth, Blanche never could be brought to a just appreciation of Miss Howard's amiable qualities; but I had no expectation of finding you equally blind to them." "Do not attribute it to envy," pleaded I. "I had reasons for speaking as I did, which I have half a mind to explain to you to free myself from the charge; but you will perhaps think me ill-natured if I do so." "Let us have the reasons, by all means," he rejoined, hastily. -Well, you remember the circumstances related by Mr. Mildmay, in regard to his son's having been trampled under   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      298 the feet of a pair of horses, and run over by a sleigh in this street." "' Perfectly; bat what has that to do with Miss Howard?" d She it was who ordered the coachman to drive on, without stopping to inquire into the amount of injury inflicted on the little fellow. Knowing this, I could not, with truth, express my belief in her quick sympathy with suffering. This may have been a solitary instance," I added, as he remained silent, " and she may have been in haste to execute some important mission." "No valid excuse that," he returned, with a troubled look; "but are you quite sure you were not mistaken in the person; and, if so, why did you not mention the occurrence sooner? Excuse the abruptness of the question; but when once I have formed a high estimate of any one, I do not lightly change it s "No occasion for apologizing," said I; " and I could not have been mistaken in the glimpse I caught of her face from the chamber window. As to not having spoken of it before, I should not have done so mto  had it not been in my own justification."  "You were friends in the country," he asserted, doubt- fully. "We were not" (his eyes rested on me piercingly, as though he would have the truth, and the whole truth); "her friendly demonstrations towards me were limited to a distant nod of recognition, and a formal greeting. The people with whom I lived were not over-refined, perhaps; but they always treated me with kindness, and I did not suffer from want of society."  As he swayed a Chinese rose-tree back and forth in his absraction, showers of gay petals fluttered to the floor. His brow was drawn into thoughtful lines. What did he tAhibrE of me for having ventured to ignore the perfections of one 25*     294        ISABEL CAROUITON: whom he had looked upon as an-epitome of all the virtues? His abstraction embarrassed me beyond measure. "Nothing was further from my intentio'n than speaking in disparagement of one you esteem," resumed I, "( and it is barely possible I may be cherishing an erroneous opinion of her, which time will set right." "No hope of that," said he, with his usual grave impen- etrability, as he turned to go away. "You are not going to leave feeling angry with me," I found courage to say. "Angry with you! I have no cause. Bless my soul, what a sensitive creature it is!" He grasped my hand for a moment, with almost as much kindness as though it had been his daughter's. "Perhaps you have done me a greater ser- vice than you are aware of by your candor; and you have not fallen one whit in my estimation by your mode of doing it. There, is that explicit enough to satisfy you?" I was more than satisfied. The last five minutes had given me a clearer insight into his character than all the time in which I had previously known him. The day following, I received a letter from cousin Mary, urging my immediate return home. Blanche endeavored to induce me to remain by inviting me to officiate as bridesmaid at the coming ceremony, which would take place several weeks later, - an honor I thought it better to decline, not thinking it advisable to prolong my stay, in opposition to the expressed wishes of my uncle's family. On my arrival, I found various plans in agitation for the future, which Mary was eager to communicate. First in importance came the announcement of-her own intended mar- riage, at midsummer, when Charles Merrit, who had gone back to his western home, would return, with the unqualified approval of her parents, to fulfil their existing engagement. The house was filled with the busy hum of preparation for   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      295 the joyous event; and already was household linen, seen bleaching upon the patches of snow that still dotted the nar- row lawn.                      ' Furthermore, my uncle--who would be bound to -his native place by but slender ties after Mary's departure - had resolved to " pull up stakes," as the country phrase goes, and build up for himself a new home near her future abode at Elkton. Malgre the ominous croakings of the whole neigh- borhood, ringing changes on the time-honored saw, regarding the danger of transplanting old trees to a new soil, he stead- fastly adhered to his resolution; even acquiring something of his former equable cheerfulness in prospect of the removal. Adversity seemed to have weakened his. attachment to the scenes among which it had been encountered. His whitened locks and stooping shoulders would prevent his attaining that apparent rejuvenescence visible in my aunt's appearance, as she bustled about in the pale pink ribbons with which she had renovated her old lace caps, giving orders to our-single maid-of-all-work, and as often as any way executing them herself.'  In due time came to hand a silver-wreathed envelope, con- taining the cards of Mr. and Mrs. Manlove, with a single line in pencil from Blanche, saying, they wfere just starting for New York, on their way south, and she had not time for another word. By the same mail, in -a separate envelope, came a diamond ring, of chaste and elegant design, with the wards', Absent, but never forgotten" written on the -paper that enfolded it. "- From Blanche, without doubt," I remarked, slipping it on my finger. "How kind of her to remember poor me, when she must have so many claims upon her time!" "I am glad you have a friend who remembers you in absence," said Mary, with a smile so bright that I knew she was thinking of one far away, and not of me in the least.     296        ISAEL CAROLLTON: "I could wear Blanche's glove, so she knew what size to get the ring. See how accurately it fits," said I, laying the hand upon which rested the glittering circlet upon the arm of my cousin's chair. "It strikes me," she returned, holding up the paper in which it had been enclosed, ' that this hand-Writing is differs ent from that in the other note." "Merely because it is written with a backward slope," I subjoined, without examining it again; and the subject was allowed to drop. It was May-day; warm and stinny,-an exception to the general rule. I had been employed the greater part of the day in copying a manuscript embodying observations on medical science; they being the conclusions at which Dr. Smythe had arrived, after a thirty years' practice in the pro- fession. Towards evening, I put away the papers, and went out for a stroll. I was slowly sauntering along, when I met the son of our village post-master with a letter, which, he Psaid, his father had sent to me, after allowing it to lay in the office a week, in the hope that some of the family might call for it. Being but a short distance from our old home, and know. ing its occupants to be absent, I hurried down the shrubberied walk leading to the summer-house, where I might peruse the newly-received missive without fear of interruption. Warm with exercise, I removed my shawl, and threw it over the window-sill, without reflecting that it could be seen from the' road, and might guide some stroller to my retreat, and slowly1 turned the sealed epistle about in my hand, without being able to guess from whom it came. On unfolding it, it was- With more surprise than pleasure that, after glancing at the signature, Stacy Steenkirk, - Iperused the foo:ting ;:-- r,' ' at   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      297 "DEAREST BEL : - (Bel! what disgusting familiarity! I exclaimed.) "4 Pardon my presuming to address you without having pre- viously obtained the sanction of your permission, which I should most assuredly have done" (really, I beg leave to doubt, that assertion, I mentally interposed), "had I suc- ceeded in obtaining another interview with you while remain- ing in the city. This reminds me to say that I was present at Miss Glenmore's wedding. A sweet creature she is, and Manlove a deuced lucky fellow, the envy of half the coun- ty, though not of your humble servant, whose whole heart is engrossed by another, equally admirable in every respect." (I suppose he flatters himself that is a capital stroke of art, I muttered, in high disdain.) "Our mutual friend, -I lin' ger on the words so suggestive to fancy of the first link in the chain of circumstances which Fate is forging to bind in one two kindred spirits." (Pah! how sickening! I cried, with a will to toss the perfumed sheet out of the window.) "Most charming of women!" (most perjured of men! I am nothing of the kind, and he has sense enough to know it, I paused to remark to myself) " attribute to me none but the most honorable motives in seeking thus to enter into a corre- spondence with one whose friendship would be an honor to any man. To place them above suspicion, I make you a decisive offer of a heart and hand which were never spurned by mortal fair one. "As to our marriage, I would not hasten that " (had n't you better try, sir? I scornfully ejaculated), "for it is my rish that, for the next year, you should attend a thoroughly exclusive boarding-school; not so much for the purpose of mental improvement, -I have no taste for an intellectual blue-stocking, and, indeed, rather admire an amiable. gentle helplessness in the fair sex than otherwise; it is so enchant- ing to have their drooping loveliness solely dependent on us     298        ISABEL CAROLLTON: for support; we would have them owe to out love every blessing they enjoy, .-" (Is the man a fool, or does he only think .I am one? I seriously asked of myself)" as to fit yourself, by contact with the higher grades of society, for that station in life to which my position will exalt you. "I make no reflections on your present style of living. Knowing you to be possessed of no available fortune" (what does he mean now? I mentally inquired), "I have no expec- tation of finding you surrounded by all those luxurious appliances which will be indispensable to my future wife; with my ample fortune I shall have the pleasure of antici- pating her every wish. "I need not request a speedy answer; trusting you will not accuse me of vanity, if I confess to looking forward with the confidant anticipation of receiving a favorable reply, With best wishes, I remain," &c. I must confess to some compunctious visitings of conscience for the mocking spirit with which I had read the above, per- haps, well-meant epistle. Again I went over it, in a sadder  vein; and, in this soberer mood, it suggested to me a new train of thought. At least, I said to myself, I must give Mr. Steenkirk the credit of being perfectly disinterested in his proposals, which, in a worldly point of view, might be considered highly advantageous; consequently he must be less mercenary in his views than Mr. Manlove had led me to suppose. The latter might have been otherwise mistaken in his estimate of the former; and I felt confident that his let- ter would have met a very different reception, had I not been strongly prejudiced against its writer at the very onset of our acquaintance. I remembered his personal appearance to be prepossessing, with the exception of a certain insincerity of expression, which I might have failed to observe had it not been calledto notice by the pungent strictures of Blainche's   A PERSONAL RETRQOSPECT.      299 caustic adorer, who was no less liable to misconception of character than other people, I was going through a reac. tion of feeling, favorable to my new admirer in proportion to what I feared to be the injustice of my former ill opinion of him. I resolved to take time for consideration, before send- ing him a decided refusal; as it was not impossible that he might prove more worthy of regard on nearer acquaintance. By accepting him I should place myself in a way of doing much more good, as a dispenser of charitable aid to those afflicted, children of sorrow, who, in a great city, are ever ready to appeal to the sympathies of the fortunate;, acting as an antidote to those hardening influences of wealth and station, which would otherwise encrust the heart of the rich man with an impermeable shell of deadly selfishness. This was the most attractive side of the picture, - I have half a mind to pass over another thought that pre- sented itself to me;-but no, I will not extenuate my weak- ness; - and, in candid truth, I believe that the same thought, or something like it, has intruded itself upon many another woman, under similar circumstances. It was, that this might be my last chance matrimonial. "And what if it is?." I asked myself. "Am I afraid -of the stigma resting on the devoted heads of that much-maligned class - olcd maids? No ;" but I was conscious of my- own want of self-reliance:; I lacked the strength of purpose, the iron firmness of will, that would enable me, with ease and safety, to breast the rough billows of life, unaided and alone. I should need a stronger arm than my own to uphold. me when weak; a mind of greater vigor on which to rest when weary ; some one- on whom I might unrestrainedly lavish those spontaneous affec-, tions, Heaven-implanted in the human breast, which do, some- times, turn to gall and bitterness, from being constantly thrown back to. prey upon ,themselves. I thought of -is Mudgit, a torment to herself and everybody:elsead'hiered. /     300         ISABEL CAROLLTON: Then rushed to mind the life-long misery resulting from ill-assorted marriages, causing ar second revulsion of feeling. Better loneliness and isolation, I mentally exclaimed; yes, a thousand times better death, than a union of hands against which the heart rebels! I was startled from these unwonted cogitations by a slow, measured footfall upon the gravel-walk; and, hastily, crum- pling the letter, I thrust it into my reticule, and looked up to see -Mr. Livingston, pale and travel-stained, standing outside the doorway. Unconsciously to myself, all my former confi- dence in him revived, as I caught the open, truthful glance which fearlessly sought mine as of old; and my first impulse would have prompted me to spring forward, as his attitude invited me to do, with a right joyous welcome. Like a crushing weight came back the memory of that rounded shoulder, against which those dark locks had rested, when last I saw them; and I thought only how I might most quickly escape the dangerous fascinations of this unprinci- pled deceiver. "Do not shrink from me," he besought, in that voice of deep-toned music it was so hard for me to resist, "( until you have heard my own vindication; listen." I should have found it difficult to have resisted his earnest and reiterated entreaties for but a single interview, - a sin- gle chance for self-justification,- if a remembrance of his former duplicity had not steeled my heart against his seem- ingly subtle persuasiveness of tone and manner. Besides, had he no more respect for my sense of feminine delicacy than to suppose that, knowing him to be legally bound to an- other, I would still listen to an avowal of the love his face bespoke? This self-asked question sent an indignant flush to my face. I can not, I dare not I will not listen to you," I cried, attempting to dart past him.   A PERSONAL BEtOSPECT.       301 He grasped my wrist, as I tried to pass aim, with a vio- lence that nearly made me scream with pain, saying, in a tone of command, "Isabel, hearken to reason." "Of course, you have superior strength, and can detain an unwilling auditor as long as suits your purpose, whatever it may be," said I, with a derisive laugh. ( This is of a piece with the rest of your conduct; truly, it has been thiat of a gentleman."                     -  "This is torture; -go, but you will repent it some time," said he, in a husky tone, as he released me. I ran down to the roadside, whence I involuntarily glanced back at him. He remained as I still left him, with his face bent toward the ground, and his arms drooping listlessly beside him. His whole attitude was one of such forlorn hopelessness that I was tempted to go back and ask pardon for the taunting words I had spoken, and beg that our parting might be in peace, and - forever. Even as the thought presented itself he turned and plunged down the wooded side of the .dell Then I accused myself of the most pitiful folly, in having desired to seek, one whom I should avoid like a moral pesti- lence.  My excited fancy reverted to Mr. Steenkirk, less agreeable in manner than Mr. Livingston, but in unquestioned integrity how much his superior! United to the former I should' no longer be liable to that sort of persecution - this was the first term that presented itself-to which I had just been subjected. I could not but be sensible of a wide difference between the emotions called up by these two persons. Against the latter I felt obliged to constantly fortify myself into in- difference by memories of past falsehood; while I should be forced to overcome a vast amount of personal repugnance before I could learn to regard Mr. Steenkirk with feelings of ordinary friendship.  Fevered and fluttered by agitation, I wished to be a oe; 26                r     802        ISABEL CAROLLTOI: and, creeping up the narrow back staircase, on reaching home, I bolted myself into my chamber, to think, so I said to, myself. Easier said than done, for my thoughts were in a state of wild insubordination, flying hither and thither, spurn- ing control; it was a bootless endeavor, that of subduing them to order; and, when I went down to join the family, though externally calm and self-controlled, there was a voice- less tumult within, only audible to myself. Next day I resolved not to expose myself to the danger of a second rencontre, by going out for my accustomed-walk, and bent my entire energies to my task in writing; but the scene in the summer-house kept itself pertinaciously before my mental vision, causing the omission of words, and, occa- sionally, the misplacement of whole phrases, sadly to the mutilation of the good doctor's well-rounded periods. "What a bristling array of carets.! a terrible prospect for the poor printer's unnafiable familiar," said Mary, peeping over my shoulder. "Come, coz, you're tired, and we 'll away to the greenwood, for a ramble." I demurred, on the plea of fatigue. "That's' the very reason why you must come," she rejoined; " we will saunter as slowly as you like along that shady path that leads through the woods; 'twill rest you, aftdr sitting in the house all day." Putting my bonnet on my head, she hooked the end of her parasol beneath my belt, and dragged me half-resistingly Ilongr with her.  With what a keen zest did she enjoy everything about us, in the course of our stroll! Every starting spire of grass, every fluttering leaflet, and opening violet, possessed for her hidden beauties; and the occasional notes of a songster, in the foliage overhead, brought tears of delight to her eyes. She was the first to tire, and was glad to lean on me for sup- port. In this way we had nearly regained the road, when 4*   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      808 she startled me by asking who the gentleman coming to meet us might be. My heart bounded less violently when I perceived it to e Mr. Steenkirk, who joined us with a profusion of bows and gallantries. He had been at the house, so he said, and my aunt had been kind enough to tell him in what direction he would probably find us. Then he went into raptures about the umbrageous shades - those were his words - whose outer verge we had reached, expressing a strong desire that we should turn back and repeat our stroll with him. Mary's reply indicated that she had already walked as far as her limited strength warranted, and my usual amiability was not at all improved by his graciously excusing her from accompa. nying us; and, tucking my hand under his arm, he walked me away, as though the indisputable right of controlling my movements was vested in himself. Wt as not that a rare piece of diplomacy on our part?" he asked, with an insinuating smile, as soon as my cousin was out of hearing. "To what do you refer, sir?"I rejoined; freezingly enough, I dare say. "What charmingly affected coyness!" he returned, with a gleeful chuckle at his own astuteness. Your bewitching sex are natural coquettes,-is it not so --and know, intuitively, what line of conduct will most securely captivate us. Mod- esty and reserve are your trump cards, eh?-" I could with pleasure have boxed his ears; not that I seriously contemplated any such Amazonian assault, but the idea presented itself, in a tempting guise, as the speediest mode of getting rid of one whose presence was becoming unbearable.  "Here is a natural arbor," he subjoined, "screened by the tendrils of the wild grape vine; its ottomans cushioned witk mossy yelvet; it place for breathing a lover's vows, where     804       MSABEL CAROLLTON: none but wood-nymphs shall be cognizant of the tender appeal, and its whispered response." Heavens! how I longed to be impertinent, and order him out of my sight! In time to prevent this inexcusable rude- ness, came a conviction of its impropriety, as a return for his invariable kindlinessof demeanor towards myself. It mus come, some time, thought I, and the sooner, the quicker it will be over; so I sat down, as he proposed, with about the same emotions one experiences on submitting oneself to the hands of the dentist, in full anticipation of the terrible wrench, which is to free him from an offending molar. Throwing himself on one knee, in an attitude of studied grace, he asked, -with an air of confidence, as though a repulse had not been within the range of possibilities,-. that I would speak the few words, that would give him the liberty of announcing to his friends our formal engagement. "I beseech you to withhold them, until you have first given me a hearing." The words came from the other side of the large rock that upheld the grape vine, under which we were; and the tone I could have distinguished in a crowd, so thrillingly did it vibrate along the chords of memory. You had better wait until your opinion is asked, hoever you are," cried Mr. Steenkirk, breaking through the thick underwood, to get back of the rock, where he searched, -vainly, for the author of the interruption. Did you see any one?." he asked, on returning, with a crest-fallen look, and a badly-crushed hat, which, in his head. long rush through the bushes, had been knocked from his head, and trampled beneath his feet. I shook my head, not wishing to confess how much I knew of the author of the interruption. "Strange, when the voice sounded not many feet distant - It must have been some imp of a school-boy, who stumbled   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      305 upon us by chance, and thought the opportunity for a joke, too good to be lost. Perhaps, we had better return, befare- any worse prank is played off upon us."  I did not wait for himi to repeat the proposal. "Do not look s o pale," he resumed, consequentially, "for you need fear nothing while under my protection." Through our entire homeward walk, he confined himself, much to my satisfaction, to the most ordinary topics of re- mark; eying the very stone walls with suspicion, as if aware of the auricular appendages, which, from time immemorial, have been ascribed to them. He declined entering the house, intending, I suppose, to console me for the disappointment I might endure from this refusal, by proposing to call very frequently during his stay in town, which, he assured me, with pompous condescension, should be prolonged to the extent of my wishes. Early next morning, Dr. Smythe made his appearance, in quest of some linen lint for the child of our poor washer- woman, which had fallen into the fire, and been badly burned. Observing that I shut myself up too closely, he proposed my accompanying him, promising to set me down at our own door within an hour. The operation of dressing little Benny's wounds took a much longer time than had been anticipated, owing to the screaming resistance he offered to the doctor's touch; and it was hardly completed when he was hurried away, by a fresh summons, to a case of life and death, and I was left to get home as I could. By climbing a fence, and. following the woodland path before mentioned, the distance of the way by the high road would be shortened nearly half, which forms my reason for having returned through the forest. On near- ing the grape-vine, under which I sat the day before, I was almost certain some one was standing in the deep shadowWof its dark, swaying branches. I was about avoiding the place, 26*      ISABEL OAROLLTON: by leaving the path, and taking a circui around it, when a voice, which I could not mistake, pronounced my name, and Iremained rooted to the spot. Does he haunt these woods, or has an evil destiny forced me a second time into his un. weicome presence  was the first thought that suggested itself. I thank Providence for having directed me hither!" said tMr. ivingston. "I should have sought you at your uncle's, had it been otherwise; for I cavznot leave you with the terri. ble misapprehensions, regarding me, under which you are laboring. The last time I saw you, it was to beseech a hear- ing as a favor; now, justice to myself requires that I should demand it as a right, which I will maintain. Nothing could induce me to force you to listen to me, but a desire to prove to you that I am not the villain you, in your heart, hold me to be." The immdvable determination throned on his brow con. hinced me that altercation would be: useless; and, leading against the stem of a tall beech, I tremblingly signified my readiness to hear him. "' DO not fear me," he began; for when once you know the worst of which I have been guilty, it shall be at your option to dissolve our former acquaintane. I 'only wish you to understand, exactly, how far I have been culpable; not to force my attentions upon you. I need not recount to you the history of'my early years, which were spent under the watch- care of my excellent parents, at New Orleans. I was but a child when my father was killed by a steamboat explosion on the Mississippi. My mother had been a confirmed invalid for years, and was dependent on him for those numerous gen- tie offices, which are absolutely necessary'to the existence of one languishing from chronic ailments. I think his death hastened her own, which took place, but a few months later. I sometimes think she might have been spared to me till now,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      807 if I had been old enough to have supplied my father's loss, in a measure, by carrying her about the house, and contriving for her those limited enjoyments so fully appreciable by one in her delicate state, as he had been wont to do. But I was a careless boy, then, so little acquainted with the insidious approaches of mortal disease, that I did not perceive her danger until the very last. She never complained. How my boisterous mirth must have jarred upon the sensibilities of one who felt herself descending the shadowy way that leads to the realm of death! Her last words were a prayer and benediction on her only son." He paused to repress a certain huskiness of voice, occa- sioned by these reminiscences; and, in spite of myself, my heart warmed towards-the narrator, for this filial tribute to his mother's virtues. "I was too young, then, to conceive the magnitude of my loss," he resumed, sacuy. "I was unfortunately left to the guardianship of a bachelor uncle, who abhorred the charge of my education, which had so unexpectedly devolved upon him. He made gayety and dissipation the business of his life; and, shaking off care and responsibility on his own account, they filled him with positive loathing when they were to be en- countered for another; a mere lad, too, who would very likely turn out a monstrous bore. He did so far exert him- self in my behoof, however, as to assign me a suit of apart- ments, at his own princely mansion, where I was provided with a private tutor, and only caught sight of my beneficent relative at rare intervals, when we accidentally encountered each other. Mr. Melton, my tutor, had been highly recomb- mended by the faculty of a neighboring university; and he?" did administer to me stated intellectual doses, at given hours, each day; but, further than this, he intermeddled not, and the remaining time I was left unchecked in my eager search for amusement. Left thus, unfettered by the semblance of a     restraint, it is scarcely to be wondered at that my com- panions were chosen unwisely, or that, through their influ ence, 1 was introduced to scenes ill-suited to my years. and early training.           - "Among the most disreputable of my self-formed acquaint- ances was one Williar Hastings, a dark, swarthy, low-browed man, with a pair of the most piercingly brilliant and restless black eyes, peering f-om beneath his shaggy brows-- Never mind his description -it can be of no interest to you. Suf. flee it to say, that, under his rascally tuition, I became a pro- ficientat numerous games of chance. I must own myselfto have been no inapt pupil to this debasing tutelage. "Through Hastings' means I made the acquaintance of a precious set of young reprthates, many degrees worse than any I had hitherto consorted with. We met, at first, at each other's lodgings, for the purpose of play; but came, at length, through the wary manoeuvres of our leader, to be found nightly at the low gaming-houses that infest the city. I never risked large stakes, although repeatedly taunted for my parsimony, by Hastings, because I had still enough shame left to dread asking my uncle for large sums, lest he should suspect my mode of spending it, and his apathetic indifference be changed into fierce anger; for, once roused, his temper ship of some kind is a sort of necessity I picked up whatever associates chance threw in my way, and was insensibly led to adopt their evil practices. "Thus matters went on from bad to worse, until I became of age; and my uncle gladly resigned my patrimony to my sole care. It was a noble inheritance, and I was sobered by he responsibility it devolved on me. Added to this, a former Friend of my mother's, but few years my senior, but of high doral worth, which eminently qualified him for an adviser, f,..         took upon himself the task of pointing out the downward tendency of the course I had been pursuing; and, that I might be placed beyond the reach of temptation, by constant and regular employment, he induced me to become a junior partner in the mercantile house, of which he was at the head. I will not trouble you with business details. Of course, the title of renegade was the least opprobrious epithet hurled at me by my incensed associates. Finding this mode of pro- cedure unavailing, they employed every persuasive art to lure me back to my old haunts. This I found much harder to resist than the opprobrium they had heaped upon me. ( The most pertinacious, in his efforts to regain his influence over me, was William Hastings. JThis man had no ostensible means of gaining a livelihood, -notwithstanding which, he contrived to support himself and his showy sister, Cornelia, -whom I had sometimes met at his gem of a house,- in a style of expensive elegance, denoting a large income. You are growing pale with fatigue. Am I tediously prolix in dwelling so minutely upon the particulars of my early his- tory?" I shook my head, in hasty denial, begging him to omit nothing. I felt that I must know all, now; but the mention of that name gave me a thrill of pain, and made the life-cur- rent flow heavily back to my heart. V       CHAPTER XVII. A CHAPTER OP EXPLANATIONS. "ONE day," resumed Mr. Livingston, , I met Hastings in the street, and he, with unusual cordiality, requested me to meet halfa dozen friends at his house, that evening. I told him my business engagements were suh, that they alloed me but little time for social recreation. The very reason, he urged, why I should avail myself of it, whenever it came in my way. To be brief, he insisted so strongly on my com- ing, this once, and drinkins a glass for auld lang syne, politel assuring ,te that cards would be eschewed, out of compliment E to my rigid principles, that I reluctaitly allowed myself to be coaxed into an acceptance of the invitation. A weakness for which I had afterwards good reason to curse my yielding folly. "Well, at the appointed hour, I drove to the colonnaded mansion, occupied by Hastings, with many misgivings as to the wisdom of the course I was takings which should have kept me away from my place of destination, at all risks. I had not told Mr. Manlove where I was to spend the evening, not that he was so strict a moralist asto object to a convivial glass, on occasion, but for some unaccountable reason, of w   hich his known dislike and distrust of Hastings was at the "But, to return; a hot supper, comiposed of delicious viands. was soon announced to be in readiness Champagne   I A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.             3" stoppers flew about like hail; and, under the enlivening influence of the exhilarating beverage, toast after toast was proposed, and received with vociferous bursts of applause. Some one proposed a flowing bumper to the health of la belle maitresse du maison, which was quaffed standing. Hastings vowed that his sister should make her appearance, in return for the compliment; a resolve carried by acclamation of the whole bacchanalian crew. Let me skim over what follows as rapidly as may be; for the remembrance of that night is so intolerable to me that I would not dwell on it longer than is unavoidable." I looked assent; my interest in the narrative being too absorbing to permit my delaying it by a word, and he went on, hurriedly: "She came down in obedience to his summons, robed in floating white draperies, with roses of the same color gleam- ing in her black hair. She looked superbly handsome. A shout of admiration greeted her entrance. We left the din- ing-hall, and, with some difficulty, I gained a sofa in an adjoining apartment. Cornelia was sitting beside me, and, as I complained of a strange, bewildering sensation in my head, she playfully pressed one jewelled hand against my burning temples. There was fire in the touch. I must have been fast taking leave of my senses, for I knelt to her as to a divinity, vowing that she was an angel, and that death only should part us; with other confounded absurdities of the same stamp. Her brother came- up, fiercely demanding my inten- tions in making these declarations to his sister. Intentions! As though I was not long past making any reasonable ones! I made some reply, I can't tell what ; egregiously stupid, no doubt. All that occurred afterwards was as the confused vision of a dream. Would to Heaven it had been nothing more! I have a vague recollection of being lifted into a carriage     312        ISABEL CAROLLTON  by somebody, and of being madly parched and thirsty; after which, I was cooled by a refreshing draught of night air, while a soft hand kept my own, and a sweet voice was mur- muring in my ear. Then followed a dream of ravishing ecstasy, lasting I know not how long; but it was early morn- ing when I awoke to a dim consciousness. I was in a strange chamber. Beside the couch on which I was lying sat Cor- nelia, and she asked, tenderly, ' How is my own Arthur? The caress that accompanied the words nauseated me; a lurking foreboding of evil aroused me from my torpor. I turned away my head in intense disgust at the undesired familiarity of the fair apparition -I hardly believed it more -beside me. At the slight motion, everything in the room seemed to swim away from me, and a drowsy, slumberous insensibility crep t over me. "When I awoke again, it was to a clear perception of the degrading position in which a perverse fortune, or rather my own fool-hardy presumption, had placed me. How I linger along in dread of telling you the worst! The scene that fol- lowed, had I been in a mood to look at it in that light, was rich in the ludicrous. I angrily repudiated the title of hus- band, which she persisted in applying to me. Her wondrous beauty was powerless to counteract the extreme loathing which her unwomanly attempt to prove herself legally my wife excited; and I protested that, if she had inveigled me into any such unpremeditated rashness, I would sooner bury my- self for life in the Peruvian mines, or some other unapproach- able place, than allow her claims. Ungallant enough, truly! but I was in too serious a dilemma to weigh my words. I was calmed into despair by the entrance of Hastings, whose triumphantly malignant sneer taught me to expect the worst. "'Shall I call a carriage for yourself and your amiable lady?' he asked, with scarcely-concealed exultation; for, however much I may be charmed by their agreeable society,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       313 I am unable to do myself the honor of offering Mr. and Mrs. Livingston a free use of my apartments for an indefinite time, as, unfortunately, they are already bespoken for other pur- poses.' ' ' O, William! you shall not insult him so; it is more than I promised, to stand by, and hear that,' said Cornelia, grasping his arm. ' ( Minion, be quiet, or take the consequences!' he thun- dered, shaking her off savagely. "I felt a touch of pity for the. weeping girl, who might be only the powerless instrument of his vile purposes. His brutality roused me to livelier indignation, and I demanded the meaning of the foul conspiracy to which I had fallen a victim. "' You must be laboring under some misapprehension, sir,' said he, with a manner so provokingly cool and con- temptuous that I was reduced to a condition little better than frenzy. 'The fact is, that your solicitations for the hand of this sniveller- I wish you joy of the union--were made in s6 public a manner, that I, as the most affectionate of broth- ers, who would not see his sister's reputation stained by a breath of scandal, advised her, nay, compelled her, if you like it better, to prevent so heart-rending a result from her lover's ardor, by yielding to his prayers for an immediate union. If there are any other particulars concerning the' ceremony which your imperfect memory does not recall, mine- is quite at your service.'  "'You are a scoundrel!' I muttered. "'Hush! that is not a pretty name to be bandied by brothers,' he sneered.  "The man's insolence roused the stormiest passions of my nature, and I made a rush at him, with some idea of collar- ing and pitching him from the window.  This amicabe- intention he frustrated by placing a; table between us, across' 27     314        ISABEL CAROLLTON: which he tossed a folded paper, which he asserted to be my marriage certificate. In the cursory glance I gave it, I saw that it was formally attested, not only by George Ely, a suburban justice of the peace, but also by two witnesses, whose names I took care to remember. I comprehended the whole plan now. My wine must have been drugged;--in- deed, he has since acknowledged that this was the case; - for I had taken less than my companions, and thus I had been lured into the plot so carefully contrived for my ruin. Fool that I had been, to accept his treacherous invitation, when my better judgment had warned me against so doing! "' Who performed the farce?' I asked, with suppressed wrath. "He named the justice of an adjbining suburban village. I tore the offensive document into fragments, and threw them into the water-jug. "All right,' remarked Hastings, without any manifesta- tion of surprise; ' it is properly registered. I was n't such a noodle as to neglect that;' adding, as I took my hat to leave, 'is it your pleasure that Mrs. Livingston accompany you now?' "Not till I have first tried every practicable method for counteracting your infernal machinations,' replied I, with a look that must have been ferocious, for- he quailed beneath it, and made no objection to my immediate departure. "All this is a very miserable story to pour into the ears of one whose purity of thought, even, I would not for the world tarnish by so much as a breath." He paused, as if to collect his thoughts; and, trembling with the excitement of over-wrought feeling, I allowed my. self to sink down at the root of the tree against which I had been leaning. He pointed to a mossy stone beside him, and I quietly accepted the tacit invitation to a more comfortable seat; for his low, rapid utterance made it difficult to catch -   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      35 his meaning at the distance I had been from him. Besides, I had ceased to fear him, as his having been deceived and entrapped by others placed his conduct in a very different light from that in which I had previously viewed it. "I was not long," he resumed again, "(in making my way to our principal warehouse, where, as I had hoped, I found the senior partner already spoken of; and, heedless of his -exclamations at my disordered appearance, beckoned him up to the loft; and there, sitting upon a bale of merchandise, as succinctly as possible, made him acquainted with the unfor- tunate dilemma in which I had been involved. I was pre- pared, on concluding, for the keenest reproaches for having visited Hastings again; but none were forthcoming. "(An infamous plot, no doubt,' said he; '-but who wants the eclat of an expose?' It would make you the talk of the city, -a regular nine-days' wonder. No; our only chance of escape lies in the possibility of there having been some informality in the proceedings. Upon the whole, you were rather hasty in destroying that certificate; it might have been of use in our investigations. Who performed the- a-hem - the - what-do-you-call-it?' "On informing him, he requested me to remain where I was, alleging that it was better I should not move in the matter, while he went in search of justice Ely, to glean from him the needed particulars. After an hour or two, passed in devouring impatience on my part, Mr. Manlove returned" (the name gave me a start, but I did not care to interrupt the recital by questions), " with a countenance of blank is- may. Esquire Ely had been from home, but he had suc- ceeded in finding his son, a young medical student, who declared the marriage valid, as he had not only been present at the ceremony, but had seen the certificate of marriage duly registered. ' I see nothing for you but to leave the country,' said my     316        ISABEL CAROLLTON: friend; ' for, if you remain here, there is no knowing to what, persecutions that precious brother-in-law'- I winced at the assumed relationship between us --'will resort, in case of your refusing to acknowledge this deplorable marriage.' "I could not deny the justice of his conclusion, but I did shrink from the humiliation of absconding like a runaway criminal. While I revolved the pros and cons in my mind, his thoughts were not idle, as was proved by his next propo. sal, which was, to buy out my interest in the firm, with suggestions as to the most advisable mode of investing the proceeds in the manner best calculated to facilitate my leav- ing at once for parts unknown. Whether this was the best advice which could have been given, as the event proved, I am not clear; but certain I am that it was offered with the most self-sacrificing zeal in my bellalf; and I have not seen cause, all things considered, to make me regret accepting it as I did, and placing the management of my affairs at his disposal. "Hurrying home, somewhat relieved by this decision, but faint and giddy from excitement and abstinence from food, I ran against one of the witnesses, whose name I had seen affixed to the certificate. He would have avoided me, had I not grasped his arm with all the strength I could summon, and forced him to turn back with me.- He was sullen at first, doling out scant and evasive replies to my reiterated ques- tions; but, on my assuring him that I had no intention of reproaching him for his share in the transaction, my only motive being a desire to find out some way of extricating myself from the snare in which I had been caught, he was considerably mollified, and owned that he was sorry enough for having had any hand in so scandalous a piece of impo. sition, although, he declared, I had made strong professions of attachment to the lady in question. " What fiend could have possessed me?' I muttered.   '    A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       317 "t A bottle-imp, I should presume,' laughed he. "His wit was not appreciated, it being at my expense; and he went on more seriously to say that he never supposed Hastings intended it for. anything more than a capital joke; that he had no idea such a suddenly-contrived, informal cere- mony could be binding for life, or he would have been the last person to have stood by and seen a decent man throw himself away upon such a creature as Cornelia Hastings. The champagne fumes must have been overpowering to have prevented him from interfering in such a case. "When pressed for an explanation, he replied 'tlthat he had it from a reliable source, that Cornelia was not a relative of Hastings ;'-I may ,s well say now that this was a gross calumny, invented by a discarded lover of the former,--and he even hinted at a highly disreputable connection between them,-delicacy forbids my being more explicit,-stating that the brother was then paying his addresses to a woman of superior intellect, and highly respectable family; so that he not only rid himself of a troublesome incumbrance by palming off his so-called sister upon me, but, by the same blow, paid off an old grudge against his quondam pupil in vice, for having, as he said,' set himself up for a methodist and a wiseacre, to lecture people of twice his own age and abili- ties.' My blood boiled in my veins as this conviction grew upon me, and I was only the more determined thereby in my own mind to fly - anywhere, sooner than submit to the foul' imposition which I fully believed to have been practised upon me. '"In an incredibly short space of time, my business rela- tions with the firm of Manlove S Co. were dissolved; and, in the noble ship 4 Glen-Avon,' which my partner had pur- chased in my name, I was on my way to -I hardly knew' where, adrift in the wide' world, with no settled place of des- tination! The world was all before me where 'to choose. 27*     318        ISABEL CAROLLTON: Hastings had taken no measures to thwart my intention of leaving New Orleans; probably, because he never even sus- pected it. I left a letter directed to Miss Hastings,- nothing would have tempted me to have degraded my own patronymic by appropriating it to her service -in which I told her that, having been beguiled into a union with her when I was unconscious of my own acts, I did not deem my- self responsible for them, and no circumstances could ever induce me to ratify a deed, which, in my sober senses, I should never have sanctioned by my consent,. I was about leaving my native state, in search of some secluded spot where I might forget and repair the faults of earlier years. I agreed to allow her a comfortable maintenance, and named the banker at whose hands she might receive the same in quarterly instalments, on one simple condition, that she made no attempt to follow me. I besought her to leave her brother, if brother he was, and, by a life of blameless seclusion, live down the injurious reports in circulation against her. But I am wearying you by stretching out my story to such an un- conscionable length; in truth, I cannot leave out these minute details, without destroying your just appreciation of the whole."  On reflecting a momenit as to the probability of my aunt's becoming alarmed at my lengthened absence, I thought it likely she would conclude that I had accompanied the doctor, as I often did, in one of his long drives, to visit distant patients. Satisfied on this score, I rejoined that I was not weary, and was grateful for his entire confidence. "Truth generally carries conviction with it; and I had no fear of your doubting me, if you could but be induced to listen," he subjoined, before proceeding with his relation as follows: "On arriving at New York, where I made up my mind to stop for a while, I had time to consider where it would be advisable to take up my permanent. abode. Acci-   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      319 dent, or rather, Providence, determined my choice. I became slightly acquainted with Dr. Gerould, who came to pass the evening with some friends of his at the ' Astor,' where I hap- pened to be at the time. In the desponding, self-reproachful mood I was then indulging, the doctor's high spirits and genial manners were peculiarly attractive to me. He did not repel my advances, -he was too good-natured to repulse anybody, - and we were soon friends. With characteristic frankness, he communicated to me his past plans and future prospects. Although barely twenty-one, he had already served an apprenticeship in his uncle's counting-room; been out as supercargo in one of his barques; and acquired a practical knowledge of dentistry from a skilful operator. His mercantile information stands him in good stead now, - but I must no' get ahead of my story. It was by the last- named occupation he proposed gaining his livelihood; and he imparted to me his intention of ' setting up for himself' at Willowhridge, where he had a number of friends, who would exert their influence in his behalf. "(To be concise, on talking over the subject with him, I saw no insuperable objection to going into business in the same town, myself; it was sufficiently retired and obscure to suit my purpose. When he left New York I accompanied him, for the purpose of making my own observations on the place; which so far answered my expectations that, without more ado, I engaged a store that had been left vacant by the death of its recent proprietor, and metamorphosed myself into a village storekeeper. Well, I should have gone dis- trcdted without some kind of employment; but what would have been the horror of my aristocratic uncle, if he could have seen his hopeful relative putting up, with his own hands, a cent's worth of snuff, for some wrinkled crone; or furnish- ing some bluff farmer with a twist of pig-tail? ' These things did not trouble me much; I had too much pride to imagine     820        ISABEL OAROLLTONe that my dignity could be lowered by external circumstances; but there was one memory which was a lasting weariness and perplexity to me. Doubts as to the wisdom of the course I had taken, in thus precipitately leaving my native city, fre- quently tormented me. I almost believed that an unbiased jury would have declared a marriage, contracted under exist- ing circumstances, null and void, if the case had been sub- mitted to them for trial; and I sometimes thought the disgraceful publicity of such an exposure in a court of justice would be more tolerable than the galling bonds with which I felt myself to be evermore fettered, - only by death were they to be sundered. I was months in my new home before I gained anything like equanimity; which came to me grad- ually, not because my condition was in any way bettered, but because new associations partially covered the' waste places in memory, so that events of the past uprose less vividly to my introverted vision.--Pshaw! I am getting egotistical; think. ing aloud, as your indulgent mode of listening always tempted me to do. "I will be less prolix; I wrote to Mr. Manlove, from New York; and, as he had advised, for reasons that will be obvi- ous, that I  should open no correspondence with southern friends, I obeyed him to the letter, and let a year slip by before I despatched to him a second epistle, which remained unanswered. I learned, some time afterwards, from a southern paper, at a reading-room in the city, that he had retired from business, and gone on a European tour. "It might have been three years, later, when I met one of my old intimates, Ned Sherman, walking down Broadway, and ventured to beg from him the news at the south. After several items of minor importance, he gave me an indescrib- able shock, by asking if I had heard of the recent death of my old frind, Cornelia Hastings. I cannot tell you what a variety of contradictory feelings this question roused me to;   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       821 something like joy at my freedom, self-reproach at indulging any such emotion at the death of any human being; a half- regretful sorrow that one so young and beautiful should have been cut down in the midst of her days. ' When and where did it take place?' I asked, in a voice that must have sounded strangely to him, for he turned on me a look of vague surprise, as he specified the time, along with the street and number. The same house her brother was occupying when I left; then she must have remained with him to the very last, was the instantaneous conclusion to which I came. 'She has been a confirmed invalid a long time,' said he,i' and has borne it with great sweetness. Hastings treated her like a brute, as he is; it was horrible to let her remain with such a man. I, for one, was not sorry when death released her from the abominable thraldom in which she had been kept. She was glad and willing to go, young as she was.' Warm- ing with his subject, he bitterly reprobated the selfish indif- ference of FRIENDS, who had never striven to remove her from a fiend in human guise. "I took this as a covert attack upon my own conduct; and, as I was in no mood, then, to hear reproaches with calmness, however well-deserved, I contrived to detach my- self from my new-found acquaintance, and, once by myself, reasoning soon brought me composure. All this occurred the winter before-I made your acquaintance; so you must per- ceive that I was not intentionally .deceiving you in what followed." "I see it all now," said I, drawing a long inhalation, for I had hardly breathed, in the absorbing interest with which I had devoured every word of the narrative; more and more light breaking in upon me as it progressed. But I was not yet satisfied, and asked how it chanced that Miss Hastings was still alive, notwithstanding Mr. Sherman's circumstantial     322        ISABEL CAROLLTON:  account of her death. Was it possible she could have leit herself'to such a piece of deception? "All in good time; I was just coming to that," he rejoined. "After she found that I had deserted her, it seems that' she left her brother's house, and went to board in a private fam- ily of respectability; where she essentially reformed her mode of life, and gained a footing in a very different class of society from any to which she had, theretofore, been accustomed. This was, no doubt, partially owing to her removal from the  pernicious influence of her brother, of whom she stood in deadly fear; the sum I had appropriated for her yearly sup. port rendering he' in a manner independent of him. Two years ago she received the addresses of Capt. Gleason, of the ship Glen-Avon, and they were married." "Bigamy! with all the rest!" was my bewildered ejacula. tion. "Not so fast; I have tangled the threads of my narrative, I see, but will soon have all straight again. Cornelia's affec- tions were so deeply interested in favor of the handsome cap. tain, that she could not refrain from bitterly reproaching her brother for having compelled her union, when little more than a child, -she was but sixteen when I - left her, -with one for whom she had never cared; so that now she would be obliged to refuse an offer in every way desirable. He was not quite destitute of feeling, and put an end to her chagrin, by confessing, for the first time, that there was no legal impediment in the way of her marriage; as the former ceremony, which she had supposed binding, was performed by a feigned official, the son of the justice, and bearing the same name as his father, whose integrity was too well known for Hastings to think of tampering with him; but the son-being in his clutches, from the non-payment of some debts of honor, as they are called--was glad to compromise, by any low villany his creditor required at his hands. He it was who assured Mr.   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.       823 Manlove- the marriage was valid. If he had met the father instead of the son, the whole affair might have had a very different terminus; but so 't was not to be. " To go back in my story, and take up a dropped stitch, as you ladies would say; you recollect my being informed, before leaving New Orleans, of Hastings' engagement to a woman of Superior mental attainments. This information was cor- rect; she was no other than Cornelia Eckerman, whom I had known well in earlier years. Poor girl! brought up tenderly, as she had been, it was a sorry day for her, that in which she became the wife of an unprincipled debauchee. She died bf grief, and disappointment, at his inhuman conduct, more than a year and a half ago.- It was her death I very natu- rally mistook for that of her sister-in-law. Ned Sherman was a cousin of the former, which may account for his familiar mention of her, by her first name, without the cere- mony of prefixing the matronly title due her. " To return to Mrs. Gleason, as I may now call her, she would have written, to have informed me that the tie between us was but imaginary, as soon as convinced of the fact her- self; but, unfortunately, as matters now stood, she was igno. rant of my place of address. I had taken good care that' she should remain so. This line of conduct, I suspect, she was as strongly impelled to by selfish motives, as by a regard for my peace of mind; as her husband --as upright and honorable  a man as ever breathed-knew but little of her. earlier life; and she lived in constant terror - so she has since acknowledged- of forfeiting his respect, through some untoward revelation of the past. Last fall she accompanied her husband as far north as New York,- there to take leave of him for a long voyage, - where she learned, 6asu- ally, that he commanded the ship of which I was owner. This decided her how to act. She persuaded him to leave her in the city, instead of returning, as she had originally    324        ISABEL CAROLLTON: proposed, when he sailed for Europe; and, baving ascertained the name of the town in which I lived, from the unsuspecting captain, started off in search of me; with what success you already know. But the overwhelming agony of mind, caused by the unexpected appearance of one I had long supposed dead, you can never know. "The sudden shock to my unstrung nerves brought on a return of delirium; and, in my senseless ravings, Mrs. Gleason detected the unconquerable aversion I entertained towards her." "'I, too, have often heard the name of Cornelia trembling on your lips while unconscious," I averred. He turned towards me, with a start, saying, "And that had some weight in deciding you against me. Yes, I see, the chain of circumstantial evidence, proving me a criminal in your eyes, was quite complete. Let me unbind the few remaining links. Poor Mrs. Grant, as I was afterwards told, exposed herself so much, in her anxiety for me, that she was laid up with a rheumatic fever; and, had not Cornelia resolved to stand by me, until she could safely communicate the intelli- gence that induced her coming, I must have been handed over to the tender mercies of that cross-grained Miss Prim- lie. At the earliest practicable moment I was assured that the tie between us, never having been legally solemnized, was not binding, and initiated into the details with which you are already acquainted. My first act, on making this discovery, was, to write, or rather, dictate, a long letter' to yourself, - Cornelia acting the part of scribe, - containing the outlines of what I have been- relating. My feelings are hardly to be described, on receiving it back, unopened. It convinced me of the deep abhorrence with which my supposed perfidy had inspired you. On the spur of the moment I decided to go to New Orleans, and by some means. or other   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      825 to obtain affidavits, substantiating the truth of every par- tioular. "In this intention I was successful. Here is one, wrung from the pseudo-justice by threats of legal proceedings against him in case of refusal; a second from Hastings and his sis- ter; and a third from Ned Sherman. Read them, Bel, and you will be convinced that I have naught extenuated, nor aught set down in malice. " I put aside the documents he was handing me. "There is no need, Arthur; I trust you fully, as I used to do; it is a greater happiness than I dared hope for." I proceeded to demonstrate the same, in the very way that joy, too deep for words, is often expressed - by tears. He was beside me in an instant; drawing my head gently to his shoulder, as he murmured, "God bless you, Isabel. You wounded me to the quick, at our last meeting, but this moment atones for all; does it not, dearest?" In my heart I assented. "I, too," he went on, " have planted thorns in your pathway, - I, who promised to shield you from them; it is not yet too late to redeem my pledge." Such tears of rapture do not exhaust one; and mine soon gave place to a most delicious composure. At his request, I gave him a brief sketch of my own recent mode of life, in the course of which it became apparent that Blanche's husband was the same Mr. Manlove, who, in former years, had exercised so strong an influence, for good, over Mr. Liv- ingston. I had been too much preoccupied to notice the approach of a third party, until Mr. Steenkirk was quite near us. I had withdrawn myself a short distance from my companion; still, Mr. Steenkirk wore a frowning brow, as he uttered a cool, measured " good-morning." For an instant I was half indig- nant at his presuming to constitute -himself a spy upon my actions; the next moment I was conscious of my own folly; 28     326        ISABEL OAROLLTON: feeling sure that his mal-apropos arrival was as much an effect of accident; as my own encounter with Mr. Livingston. My position was an awkward one, to say the least of it, when the intruder, without seeming to be aware that I was not unattended, promptly offered his services to escort me home. But Arthur was not to be provoked into an imitation of this insolence; and, saying in an undertone, "Thus I prove my boundless trust in your prudence, Bel;" he passed between the parted boughs of the grape-vine; and the cranching underwood marked the direction in which he plunged into the forest. "I am ready to go," said I, coldly. ' Mr. Steenkirk officiously offered his arm. " I am obliged to you, but do not feel the need of its sup- port," said I, vexation at his overbearing manner overcoming my fear of wounding his feelings. "I trust you are not going to play off any coquettish airs upon me," he returned, in a severe tone. "It is to be hoped not, really," I responded curtly. "Do not trifle with me. I will not submit to be the slave of any woman's caprice." "If you, are making any allusion to myself, sir, I must beg you will be more explicit. At present I do not under- stand you." "I must request, for the future, Miss Carollton, that you will, on no occasion, so far lose command of yourself, as to speak in that haughty, sarcastic way; it is highly unbe- coming. One would think, from the curve of your nostril and the flash of your eyes, that you had, positively, lost your temper; a shocking exhibition in a lady, and one which, in my station in society, would not be tolerated. There, no dis- play of feeling is allowable; and every one is fashioned so exactly after the prevailing standard of manners that there is no danger- of any fair creature's doing anything to make ,   !   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      327  erself conspicuous, or pointed at, in society. But never  espair; the instructions I shall bestow on you, will, I doubt lot, have their intended effect of counteracting the evils pro- luced by the contamination of low society." "If my manners are disagreeable to you, as they are, your ;asiest way of escaping contamination will be to avoid the :ompany of their owner, for the future," I retorted. "This is worse than folly. I hope I am not ungallant enough to get into an altercation with a lady; but you can- lot suppose that your conduct is so much a matter of indif- ference to me that I could pass over, in silence, behavior which I should consider highly derogatory in the position you will one day hold as my wife." "This declaration gives me the first opportunity that has occurred, for declining the honor you intend me." "Do my ears deceive me; or has all the encouragement I have received been dictated by a mere wanton love of conquest?" "Your words are ill-considered, and I deem them wholly inapplicable; as I cannot reprove myself with having encour- aged you by a tone or a look." "I could not have believed you to have been so heartless as to have kept me in suspense for nearly a fortnight, only to refuse me in a fit of spleen at last." "Neither have I done so; your letter lay in the office for upwards of a week, so that I received it only the day pre- vious to your arrival. Is this the only foundation for the charge brought against me?" You did not object to accepting the brilliant that sparkles  on your finger; but when it comes to the hand of the giver, that's quite another thing." "I had not the remotest suspicion - indeed, I never once thought of you as the giver. It cannot be returned too soon, now the fact is made known to me. Pardon me, Mr. Steen-     328        ISABEL CAROLLTON: kirk, if I have shown you less kindness and gratitude than the occasion seemed to demand. I fear I have made but an ill return for the noble disinterestedness which led you to fix your choice on a penniless orphan, like myself." He eyed me with a bewildered stare. "I suppose you hardly mean that I should take your words in their literal sense." "Why not?" it was my turn for surprise now. "Why, I have been somewhere informed -- that is, I got the impression from somebody," he stammered, in confusion, "' that you were the prospective heiress to valuable family possessions; not that it is a matter of moment to me, by any means," he added, perceiving the inference I must naturally draw from his confession. "Your informant, whoever he might be," I quietly re- turned, "made a great blunder; for my father was a country minister, who supported his family comfortably on a moderate salary, and, at his decease, bequeathed them little more than an honest name. My mother accepted the generous offer of a home, for herself and child, from my uncle Otis, who was in affluent circumstances at the time, but has been since reduced to poverty." The glance of keen scrutiny which he fastened on my face evidently satisfied him as to the truth of my statements; for, with some civil, meaningless expressions of regret for my decis- ion, he took the ring, which I had been holding in my hand since first offering it to him, and slipped it upon his little finger. "A perfect gentleman, in appearance, the one with whom you were conversing when I came up so inopportunely," he remarked with his blandest air. I remembered that he had not seemed to perceive Mr. Liv- ingston, at the time to which he referred, and told him so. "Only a little jealousy of a favored rival," was the insin- uating reply. "Ah, blushing! I am right then. By the by,   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      329.     - would it be perfectly convenient for you to return the letter  you received from me, if it is not already destroyed?" I had preserved it, and promised to send it to him. With still more obsequiousness, he begged leave, if it would not trouble me too much, to wait at the door until I could hand it to him. I need not hurry myself, so he said, in searching for it, as it would be a pleasure for him to walk ' about the lawn for an indefinite time. When I gave him the anxiously awaited missive, his face lighted up with an expression of exhilaration, as unlike as possible to what one ordinarily meets on the features of a disappointed lover. My aunt was absent in the village when I reached home, and, Mary having been fully occupied in inditing an epistle for Elkton, my prolonged absence had scarcely provoked an inquiry. Half an hour later, I received a ceremonious wave of the hand from Mr. Steenkirk; he was inside the stage- coach, bound for the city. In a letter I received from Blanche, not long after, occurred the following passages, which sufficiently explained the enigmatical conduct of my quondam admirer. "Now, a word about that incarnation of selfishness, Mr. Steenkirk. I would have told you, before leaving, of a bit of quizzing I practised on your sapient adorer, had it not escaped my memory. His attention was attracted toward you, that first evening you spent with us, possibly by his sup- posing you to be a near relative of mine, from the similarity of our dress. However that may be, he contrived, after learning your name and place of abode, to insinuate an inquiry as to your being an heiress. I was looking at your face, at the moment, which was unusually animated, - you remember with whom you were talking; nobody could be stupid with him, - and the line, ' ten thousand diamonds sparkle in her eyes,' which I have read somewhere, popped 28*     330       ISABEL 4tAROLLTON.  into my head, and suggested the quick reply of ' O, yes, she  is the sole inheritress of the family jewels, of inestimable value to their possessor;' which was given without ' malice prepense.' "He seemed loath to resign the topic, wishing to know if they were unconditionally your own. ' Not quite so,' I told him, ' as it was impossible for you to dispose of them out of the family.' I supposed this would have opened his eyes to the fact that I was joking; and I was thinking of concluding the statement by assuring him that, on making any attempt at a transfer of the same, you would be struck blind for your temerity, still further to mystify him, when his eagerness for an introduction excited in me a curious desire to witness the effect of my communication on his behavior toward you. I watched you both, narrowly, and if I had perceived any signs of his intentions producing the desired effect, I should have let you into the mystery of them, without delay; but, as I did not, I thought it a capital chance for taking the con- ceit out of the man. I have thoroughly detested him, ever since he undertook to lower Mr. Manlove in my estimation, by speaking of him in the most disparaging terms. A Ro- land for your Oliver, Mr. Steenkirk, with your well-filled head, and heart of osseous formation. I love you not. "Hoping my foolish jest will cause you no annoyance, and trusting you will be disposed se preter a la plaisanterie, to your tender mercies I commit its author." I readily acquitted Blanche of all blameworthy intentions, although thinking, with a shudder, of what might have been the possible result of her penchant for quizzing.   CHAPTER XVIII. WEDDINGS, AND A GLIMPSE AT WEDDED LIFE. How far was I from imagining, when Mary had blushingly informed me of her anticipated marriage, at midsummer, that my own would have been solemnized at the same time  yet so- it was to be. So every-day an affair as a wedding gives little chance for description. Ours. was a very com- mon-place ceremonial, and, had it been otherwise, I could not particularize its occurrences; for I saw only the manly form at my side, as we stood reverently before the altar of the vil- lage church, - felt only the warm clasp of the hand which held my own, - while those solemn words, " for richer for' poorer, for better for worse, till death do you part," were ringing in my ear, to the exclusion of other sounds. Returned to my uncle's, old acquaintances gathered about us; but their light, carelessly-spoken congratulations, and wishes for our future happiness, I would willingly have dis-  pensed with; although some of them were, doubtless, sincere. It seemed like a dream, my receiving the last embraces of 'the nearest relations I had in the world, and speaking the last adieux, before leaving the home that was mine no longer. With calm tranquillity did I resign the helm of life's bark to an arm stronger than mine own. Boundless was the trust with which I surrendered my own guidance to a firmer hand; yet, what woman can go out from scenes familiar from child- hood, without being sensible of an under-current of deep     332       ISABEL CAROLLTON: sadness, beneath the sparkling flow of joyous hopes the occa- sion may inspire? The boundaries of profound joy and pro- found sadness meet in the human heart, and sometimes encroach on each other's domains. But I digress. Arthur had stipulated that I should make no inquiries regarding our future place of abode, --I mar. velled then, not conceiving what could be his motives for such a request; but, now that I have learned his fondness for giving me a pleasant surprise, they are quite clear to me, - so the carriage rolled rapidly on, I knew not whither. "You say you are leaving your nearest relatives," said Arthur, in reply to a remark I had made to that effect. "Not so, love; I am the nearest you have in the world, now. I alone am responsible for your comfort and happi- ness, and you for mine. I have no misgivings- for the future have you?" "' Not one, as regards yourself; many, in regard to my own fitness for the responsibility "  r I was interrupted, not by words, but by a caress. After that, we talked but little, although the drive was far from seeming long or tedious. Twilight was nearly past and was being superseded by the glimmer of the street lamps, when we crossed the bridge leading to the city. It was a broad, airy street, that in which we drew up to the curb-stone, after rat tling over pavements for a while. "Are we to stop at Mr. Glenmore's?"I asked, shrinking back, on catching a glimpse of his imposing residence. Arthur replied by a reassuring smile, as he led me up the broad flight of steps leading to the adjoining mansion. The servant who admitted us returned my conductor's kindly nod, by a curious stare at myself; and, in another instant, Blanche threw -her arms about me, crying " Welcome home, Bel!" adding, as she noted my bewilderment, " not to my home, but your own. We are to be neighbors, for papa will not hear of 'I   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      888 our leaving him, for the present; you would see him here, too, but he is away to a watering-place, for a little recrea- tion. Do you like the arrangement of your drawing-room  Mr. Livingston was kind enough to allow me to select almost every article in it; I was so confident I could suit your taste. Is n't that pretty French clock, on the ormolu table, with the three graces, in alabaster, so daintily poised above it, their arms tossed aloft in such a picturesque attitude, a perfect gem?"  "O, the astonishing length of woman's tongue " sighed Mr. Manlove, in affected desperation. "Am I never to be permitted a chance to salute the bride " "O, the black ingratitude of mankind, in general, and husbands in particular!" responded Blanche, laying her hand  upon her heart, with a gesture theatrically tragic, as she stepped aside, to make room for his approach. At the first look I perceived how much his personal appearance had changed for the better. A well-tied neck-cloth, and hair carefully brushed back from his white and lofty forehead, instead of hanging over it, in untrimmed locks, as of yore, gave quite a different aspect to his face. "You have my sincere congratulations, and I entirely approve your choice," were the low-toned words with which he greeted me. I knew he was little given to indiscriminate praise; there- fore, his present commendation of one so dear to me was doubly grateful; and, when he turned to Arthur,- with whom Blanche had been holding converse,--with the warmest expression of regard permissible between undemonstrative Anglo-Saxons, that is, a firm grasp of the hand, the quick- springing tears of joy were in my eyes. "Can I speak now, please?" asked Blanche, assuming an air of injured innocence. "You all perceive what a tyrant I am, by implication,"     834        ISABEL CAROLLTON: : her husband averred, with a smile, adding, "we are all lis. tening, Griselda."  t Thank you; I was merely going to propose an adjourn-. ment to the conservatory, where, it not being over-stocked, I have taken the liberty to have a number of shrubs trans- ferred from our own; and I am anxious to display them." "I, for one, will be excused from any such inspection," said Mr. Manlove, decisively; subjoining more gently, as his eyes rested on the sweet face of his girlish wife, "unless you really wish it, love; for the delicate, puny exotics, shut up, as they are, in that great cage of a conservatory, remind me, somehow, of a menagerie of sorry-looking brutes, wearying their lives away in close confinement, for the gratification of rabidly-curious sight-seers, or experimentalizing zoologists. I don't object to a flower, growing in its native wilds, but when it comes to the poor, shivering denizens of a hot-house, which droop beneath a rough blast, and pine at the slightest neg- lect, I 've no admiration for the pampered creatures." "Do hear him," laughed Blanche; " he does not object to all flowers; why, positively, he has no love for the beau. tiful." "You are a living illustration to the contrary," was his gallant rejoinder. A brighter hue tinted her fair face, as she said, "Come, Bel, we will examine the flowers by ourselves, if you would like to look at them." The large, thrifty plants, bending beneath the weight of their thick-clustering blossoms, by no means deserved the epithet "puny," which Mr. Manlove had .applied to them. Dick, the canary, perched on a tall, swaying cactus leaf, was amusing himself by his favorite song, if the harsh, grating sounds which were issuing from his tuneful throat, merit a name so musical, - in imitation of the wood-sawyer After lavishing upon him many attentions, which only resulted in ?   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      835 his making furious swoops at us, with distended beak, and claws projecting, we retreated' up stairs; where Blanche's favorite colors, pale-blue and rose, soothingly contrasted with the few neutral shades which had been allowed to creep in. "I am so glad you are to live near us!" reiterated my companion; "your husband will be a great acquisition to Grenville, who is rather fastidious in his selection of friends, He has long known Mr. Livingston; indeed, he was acquainted with his mother, whom he speaks of as one of the most re- fined and elegant beings he ever met with. She was deeply anxious at the thought of leaving her only surviving child to the guardianship of relatives whose principles she had never approved. This fatal necessity she often deplored, in Grenville's presence, declaring it to be the bitterest sting of death. Of course, this led him to take an unusual interest in the orphaned Arthur; and when he saw the latter going astray (excuse me, you know all about it, he tells me, or I would not venture to broach so delicate a subject), he used the same exertions to lead him back to the right path that he would have practised towards a younger brother, -the dif- ference between their ages is more in seeming than reality,- under similar circumstances. Grenville does not think he was so much led away by any inherent or acquired love of play, as through the influence of associates, he never ought to, and never would have known, had his parents been living; and, furthermore, that, although he was at one period of his life guilty of faults, grave ones, too, it was never 4in him to stoop to a meanness. He is fine-looking, too; not pretty (a man has no business with mere prettiness of any kind in my humble opinion), but wears a noble, open countenance, which one intuitively feels to be a true index to the mind looking dauntlessly through it. And then resolution speaks in every line of his face. Ah, Bel! if there is any conflict .of opinion L2     836        ISABEL CAROLLTON: between you, 't is easy to foresee who will, eventually, be forced to yield." "You do not suppose that I would set up my will, in opposition to his," said I, a little pained at her words. "Bless your gentle heart, no; you will love him all the better, I dare say, for an occasional assumption of authority; but it does not come natural to me to yield. Papa has so long deferred to my wishes, in everything; and then I never had a brother or sister to dispute any of my claims; so that, all things considered, I am afraid submission will never be my forte; and Grenville, bless him, will never think of requiring it of me. His indulgent kindness shall never tempt me to play the virago, either. But I must not keep you here, listening to all the nonsense I choose to inflict upon you, or Mr. Livingston will be out of all patience at your long absence. Grenville, too, has an engagement for the evening, and could only spare time for a short call; so I must take some other opportunity for recounting to you the adven- tures that befell us in our journey." It was early winter. The small silver chandelier was already lighted in my retiring-room,--so christened by Blanche, - where I was sitting alone. The heavy damask draperies, falling over the windows, gave an air of warmth and comfort, which was heightened, in idea, by the sweeping blasts that wailed about the corners of the streets, and rushed, moaning, into the house, through every possible place of ingress. I sat, I remember, beside a little brocatelle-covered work- table, within whose various receptacles were nicely ranged all those feminine implements, called into requisition by the arti- fices of the needle, with which I was wont to pleasantly wile away the hours of Arthur's absence. I was indulging, as I indolently wrought a roseleaf in colored silks, in one of my   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT. old dream-like vagaries, in which was mingled some of pai:, but more of pleasure. Self-absorbed, as I was, I heeded not the approach of stealthy footsteps, and the pressure of my husband's lips upon my cheek was the first intimation I received of his presence. " How bright and enjoyable everything seems here!" were his first words, as he glanced at the glowing coal in the grate. ,, How I pity the poor wretches who have no home to betake themselves to, on such a night as this! That reminds me, that I must send another load of wood to poor widow Hodg- son, before snow falls. What are you trying to hide there ? No secrets from me, recollect! " This question and protest were elicited by my quietly, but rather awkwardly, attempting to conceal the work on which I had been employed. With a gay laugh he darted to my side, and drew the cause of his remark from beneath the needle-case, under which I had placed it. " An embroidered slipper!" he exclaimed, twirling it on his finger, " and not too large for Titatia, or any of her fairy host, I'll venture to assert. What doll's foot is to be busked in the dainty article?" His tone was light and playful; I felt my face all a-glow, a new expression softened his eyes as they met mine, which were filled with tears. "Forgive me, Bel," said he, in a voice subdued to tender- ness. ," Enlivened by the music of little feeti will not our home become still brighter, happier? Courage, darling! Is it not possible that suffering may be rendered tolerable, by the warmest sympathy of one who has no interest in life half as dear to him as your own well-being? " I thought I could have endured the pangs of mortal anguish, sooner than have resigned the love that was so - cious to me; but my heart was too full for utterance. When my deeply aroused feelings had subsided to that 29     838        ISABEL CAROLLTON: usual calm level, he drew a letter from his coat, saying, "Look, we have news from Willowhridge. I have read but a few lines; enough, however, to learn that good Mrs. Lee is beyond the reach of earthly evil. Peace be with her. She was ready and waiting to go; why, then, should we speak, with saddened looks, of an event which she looked forward to with chastened hope rather than dread? The letter is from Dr. Aliput. Strange that Minna did not write; but I suppose the poor girl is overwhelmed by the bereavement." He was silent some minutes before resuming. "I am afraid the expenses of her mother's last illness must have left her quite destitute, and I ought to redeem my promise to make some suitable provision for the orphan. Would you not like to have her come to us? She will prevent your feel. ing lonely, when business necessarily calls me from home." "I am never lonely," returned I; "but I shall be glad - that is, we ought to offer her a home; so invite her to come, by all means." "But does not the proposition please you?" he persisted. "Will not her society be a comfort to you?" "I ought to rejoice at the idea of doing good in any way," said I; t but we have been so happy, here by ourselves, with frequent calls from Blanche and her friends, that I believe it has all made me selfish; and I dread any change, lest it should diminish our enjoyment of home." "Then my own society, with the visits of our small circle of acquaintance, satisfies you?" Fully, entirely." He rapidly glanced over the open missive he held in his hand, saying, as he concluded, "I might have saved myself all thought on the subject, if I had read this sooner; for Minna is already in an educational institute, where she pur- poses remaining a year, at the end of which time she is to become the bride of Dr. Aliput; who, it seems, has been   A PERSONAL RETROSPECT.      889 %harmed into an offer of hand and heart, by witnessing the mntiring patience and devotion with which she watched over ;he decline of one whose death left her friendless and unpro. sided for. I rejoice that she is no longer so." It was still later in the season, when, being at a concert with a party of friends, my attention was attracted by the 3ntrance of a superbly-attired, haughty-looking lady, who was leaning on the arm of Mr. Steenkirk. A nearer view disclosed to me the well-remembered features 'of Corinna Howard, but a shade paler and sadder than when I had last seen them. She seemed ill at ease, although she instantly assumed an air of vivacity, on becoming aware that we were observing her. I felt almost certain it was assumed, for, when the entire audience were hushed to almost breathless silence, and every ear was strained to drink in the entrancing harmony flowing from lips unrivalled in song, I stole a glance at Corinna, who had sunk back on her seat in an attitude of spiritless languor and abstraction. She removed her glove to push back the heavy curls which drooped over her face, and on her finger I detected the sparkle of the identical diamond ring which had once caused me so much disquiet. I could have found it in my heart to have pitied her; buti when I made a remark to that effect to Blanche, she rathei uncharitably whispered, in reply, "I consider it an admirable match; for, as neither of them has a heart to give, so neither in that respect can defraud the other." I can scarcely believe that I have been three years mar- ried, so rapidly have the hours and days glided past. With- out a doubt, I assert them to have been the happiest years of my life. Not that I have been entirely exempt from pain and sorrow, for all that time;--who that is mortal- sAi fereth not?--but my pathway has been constantly smoothed     340S IABEL CaAROLLTON.           .  by the hand of affection, and a strong arm has been ever ready to aid me in passing through life's unavoidable trials. Of my little Arthur--my dark-haired, bright-eyed boy - I will say nothing; for, if I should speak of him as my heart dictates, my laudations of the fine, noble spirit he already displays, would be smiled at, as the effusions of a mother's partiality for her only darling; and yet, I think they would not be entirely the result of that, for I have an equal appre. ciation of the bonny face and winsome ways of tiny Blanche Manlove, who is often brought, by her nurse, to visit Arthurls play-room; even as I write, the music of their childish laughter floats sweetly, cheerily, about me.  .  ,   Phillips, Sampson,   C Oo.'s Publications. ABBOTT. - THE R OLL O BOOKS, COM. PLETE IN   FOURTEEN   VOLUMES. By Rev. JACOB ABBOTT. 16mo., cloth. 50 centspervolume. ROLLO LERJRXIJXG TO TwLK. ROLLO'S IMUSEUM. ROLLO LEAJRJNIJNG TO REXD. ROLLO'S TRAcVELS. ROLLO AT WORK.       ROLLO'S CORRESPOJNDENCE. ROLLO J3T PLAY.       ROLLOI' PHLOSOPHY, Water. ROLLO aT SCHOOL.       ROLLO'S PHLOSOPHY, Fir, ROLLO'S IVzCATION.     ROLLO'$ PHLOSOPHY, Firs. ROLLO'S EXPERIMEJ/TS.    HOLLO'S PHLOSOPHY, Sky. "The most popular and best series of juvenile books ever published." rrrcuals mar  Wig 'A   s. GEMS OF BEAUTY; OR, LITERARY GIFT.         Edited by EMLY PERCIVAL. Embellished with 9 elegant engravings and colored illustrations. Splendidly bound, morocco extra, assorted colors, full gilt, $5.00; white calf, $5.50 ; muslin, $4.00. THE SOUVENIR GALLERY. An illustrated gift book for- all seasons. An elegant quarto volume, printed in superb style, and embellished with 13 elegant steel mezzotint engrav- ings. Morocco, gilt, $5.00. THE DIADEM. A Souvenir for the Drawing Room and Par- lor, and Gift Book for all seasons. Illustrated with 12 steel engravings by the first artists. Edited by EMLY PERCIVAL. One handsome quarto volume, muslin, gilt, extra, $5.00; mo- rocco, gilt, extra, $5.50. THE GIFT BOOK OF GEMS. A Literary Offering for all seasons, illustrated with 8 fine steel mezzotint engravings by the first artists. Edited by EMLY PERCIVAL. Bound in mo. rocco, full gilt, 8vo. $5.00. THE ROSARY OF ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE BIBLi 8vo., containing 6 fine new mezzotint engravings from cele- brated Scripture subjects. Edited by Rev. EDWARD E. HALB. Morocco, full gilt, $3.00; white calf, $4.00; muslin, full gilt, $2.50.     Philtips, Sampson, 4   Co.'s Publications. THE BOOK OF THE BOUDOIR; OR, MEMENTO OF FRIENDSHP. A Gift for all Seasons. Edited by ELLEN "OUISE. Illustrated with 6 engravings. One volume, quarto, elegantly bound. $5.00. THE AMARANTH; OR, TOKEN OF REMEIMBRANCE. A Christmas and New Year's Gift for 1855. Illustrated with fine steel engravings. 12mo., morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. THE GARLAND; OR, TOKEN OF FRIENDSHP. A Christmas and New Year's Gift Book for 1855. Embellished with steel engravings and colored plates. 12mo., bound in morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. GOLDEN GIFT. A Wreath of Gems from the prose and poet ical Writers of Europe and America. Prepared especially as a gift book for all seasons. Elegantly printed with ornamental pages,and illustrated with fine engravings. 12mo., morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. THE  LADY'S GIFT; OR, SOUVENIR       OF FRIEND. SHP. A beautiful gift book, without date, containing colored and steel illustrations, and bound in morocco,full gilt, extra Price $2.00.  THE TOKEN   OF FRIENDSHP. A gift book for all sea- sons, illustrated with fine steel engravings and illuminations. Bound in morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. KEEPSAKE   OF FRIENDSHP.    A Christmas and New Year's Annual for 1855. Edited by G. S. MUNROE. 12mo., embellished with 6 steel engravings and illuminations. Bound in morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. THE MAGNOLIA; OR, GIFT BOOK OF FRIENDSHP. Edited by CLARA ARNOLD. Illustrated with fine steel engrav- ings. 12mo., morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. THE CASKET.    A gift book for all seasons. One volume, duodecimo, illustrated with steel plates, and bound in morocco, gilt. Price $2.00. ' All of the above are great favorites with those purchasing appropriate gifts for the season. From the largest to the smallest, something may be found to gratify the most fastidious taste. They are brought out in splen- did style, both as regards fineness of paper, clearness of type, beauty of illustration and elegance of binding."-- Worcester Paladium. -   Phillips, Sampson, 4   Co.'s Publications. BEECHER.-TR UTH STRANGER T1HAN FICTION. A Narrative of recent Transactions, involving Inquiries in Regard to the Principles of Honor, Truth, and Justice which obtain in a distinguished American University. By CATHARINE E. BEECHER. 12mo., cloth. Price 75 cents. ," A noble defence of an injured lady, and a highly eloquent appeal to all true lovers of 'honor, truth, and justice.'" --    THE CONFLICTT OF AGES; OR, THE GREAT DEBATE ON THE MORAL RELATIONS OF GOD  AND  MAN.   By EDWARD BEECHER, D. D. 12mo., cloth. Price $1.25. "We calmly pronounce this volume to be the most important contribu- tion which has been made for years to our religious literature. It is an honest, manly, candid, and most able exposition of the workings of a-free and cultivated mind upon a theme second in solemnity and practical influ- ence to no other within the range of human thought." - Chris. Examiner. "Probably there has scarcely been so broad a work, in its reasonings, as this published during this generation. It will have its readers among the highest and noblest intellects of the land; and we venture to say, also, that no one will read it without becoming wiser and better."- Rev. Dr. Kip, Albany Transcript. THE CITY SIDE; OR, PASSACGES FROM1 A PASTOR'S PORTFOLIO. 18mo., cloth. Price 60 cts. CHLD. - THE REBELS; OR, BOSTON BEFORE TIE REVOLUTION. By L. MARIA CHLD. 12mo., cloth. Price 75 cents. "Many scenes are represented with true dramatic effect, and there are some passages of soaring eloquence which the accomplished authoress has never excelled." - Graham's J agazine. ( One of the finest historical romances written, giving a picture of the deep wisdom, the passive courage, and the unyielding firmness of those men who looked on the mighty torrent of English power, jealously watched its overflowing tide, and fearlessly exclaimed, ' Hitherto shalt thou come, but no farther.' It ably recounts the sounds of opposition which grew. louder and louder as the spirits of men were stirred within them, and their lips touched by a living coal from the altar of freedom. It cannot fail to interest every American heart." - Literary Review.    . .                        R.     Phillipg, Sampson, f Co.'s Publications. CR EYTON. - FA THER BRIGHTHOP 5S; OR, AN OLD CLERGYMAN IS VACA TION. By PAUL CREY- TON. 18mo., cloth, 50 cents; cloth full gilt, 75 cents. "Another book of the 'Sunny' and 'Shady' Side literature, and decid- edly the best one we have ever read."- Jorningr Star. "The object of this charming little story is to show the beautiful effect of piety in the family. The moral lesson is- pure and impressive." - . Herald, Detroit. "' There is a charm about this little volume which one does not easily forget." - Worcester Palladium. "We take particular pleasure in calling the attention of our readers to it." - Boston Post. 's A capital good story is this." - Traveller. C The hour you spend reading it will ever be remembered as among the pleasantest, and the lesson taught will ne'er be forgot." - C. Revielo. "A book unquestionablyinoral, profoundly religious, leaping alive with fin, bristling with sharpness of wit, never tedious even in its most sub- lime passages. "-- J. Y. Mirror. -----HEARTS AND FACES; OR, -HOME LIFE    UNVEILED. By PAUL CREYTON. Cloth, 50 cents; cloth full gilt, 75 cents. "A collection of home stories; their aim is social improvement, and they convey many a good lesson." - JVewarh advertiser. "Each of these tales is a delightful little domestic sketch, forcibly ap- pealing to our best feelings and principles, and fraught with a distinctive - and beneficial moral."- St. John's Observer. "These slight stories convey weighty morals, and some of them are amusingly told." -Phil. Recrister. ("Twelve of the freshest and healthiest stories of domestic life that we have seen for a long time are packed away in this compact little volume." - Phit. Bulletin. "S imple and natural." - Puritan Recorder. ---. BURR CLIFF, ITS SUNSHNE AND ITS CLOUDS. By PAUL CREYTON. 18mo., cloth, 50 cents; full gilt, 75 cents. 9"A bright and pithy little story." - Traveller. "It is witty, entertaining, and at times very beautiful and pathetic."- Baltimore True Union. "You will lalghl and weep all the way through."-Esser Co. Freeman. "Another effort to unfold a simple and earnest piety in giving sunshine to the affairs of common life."- Watchman and Observer. "Cannot fail to awaken and sustain the interest of the reader."- Troy Budget. "One of the books that must be read." - Life Boat. "Another ot those bright, sparkling gems from the pen of that always welcome author." -- Jewhuryport Union. "T' he most touching dedication we have ever read."-- C. Review.   Phillips, Sampson, Sy Co.'s Publications. GIFT STORY BOOK, or, F ort Tales written for Children by DAME TRUELOVE ana her Friends.   16mo., illustrated. Price 50 cents. "The stories are exceedingly interesting." -GOLDSMITH.-POEMS, PLAYS, AdND ES- SAYS, by OLIVER GOLDSMTH, M. B. With an Account of his Life and Writings; to which is added, a Critical Disserta- tion on his Poetry. By JoHN AIKEN, M. D. 12mo., cloth, $1.00; cloth gilt, $1.25; morocco, $1.50. GIBBONV.--THE HSTORY OF THE DE- CLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. By EDWARD GIBBON, Esq. With Notes by Rev. H. H. MLMAN. A new Edition. To which is added a complete Index of the whole Work. Six volumes, with portrait. 12mo., cloth, 40 cents per volume; half binding, or library style, 50 cents per volume; half calf, extra, $1.25. "We commend it as the best library edition extant." - Boston Transcr. "The publishers are now doing an essential service to the rising genera- tion in placing wuithin their reach a work of such acknowledged merit and so absolutely indispensable." -Baltimore American. "Such an edition of this English classic has long been wanted; it is at once convenient, economical, and elegant."- Home Journal. HUM-E. -THE HSTORY OF ENGLAND, FRO-M THE INVASION OF JULIUS C/ESAR TO THE ABDICATION     OF JAMES THE SECOND, 1688. By DAVID HUME, Esq. A new Edition, with the Author's last Corrections and Improvements; to which is prefixed a short Account of his Life, written by himself. Six volumes, with por- trait. Cloth, 40 cents per volume; half binding, or library style, 50 cents per volume; half calf, extra, $1.25 per volume. These standard histories are known as the Boston Library Edi- tion. For uniformity of style, and durability of binding, quality of paper and printing, they are the cheapest books ever offered to the American public, and the best and most convenient editions published in this country. 2*     Phillips, Sampson, c Co.'s Publications, HER? VE- MEDITA TIONS AND CONTEM- PLATIONS. By JAMES HEBVEY, A. M. To which is pre- fixed the Life of the Author. 12mo, cloth, $1.00; cloth gilt, $1.25; morocco, $1.60. HOWITT, COOKf, AND LAND ON. -THE POETICAL WORKS OF MARY HOWITT, ELIZA COOK, AND LETITIA E. LANDON. 12mo., cloth, $1.00;  cloth gilt, $1.25; morocco, $1.60. HEMANS.-- THE POETICAL WORKS OF FELWCIA  HEMANS. Complete in one volume. With a Memoir by Mrs. L. H. SIGOURNEY. A new edition, from the last London edition, with all the introductory notes. Ele- gantly illustrated from original designs. Bound in cloth, library, cloth gilt, morocco, half calf, Turkey gilt, and Turkey antique. Price $2.00 plain, $3.00 gilt, $5.00 Turkey. "The most elegant edition published in this country. Mrs. Sigourney's memoir is beautifully written."- L. Advertiser. ----THE POETICAL WORKS OF MRS. FELICIA   HEMANS. A new edition. Illustrated with steel engravings. 12mo., cloth, $1.00; cloth gilt, $1.25; morocco, HEROINES OF SHAKSPEARE. Comprising the principal Female Characters in the Plays of the great Poet. Engraved under the direction of D. L. Glover, from drawhigs by eminent artists. One volume, 8vo., 36 plates. Cloth, S3.00; cloth gilt, $4.00; morocco, $5.00; half calf, $5.00; Turkey full gilt, $6.00; Turkey antique, / TITGHCO CK.- OUTLINE OF THE GEOLO. GY OF THE-GLOBE, AND OF THE UNITED STATES IN   PARTICULAR. With two colored Geographical Maps, and Sketches of characteristic American Fossils. By EDWAna RITCHCOCK, D. D., LL. D. 8vo., cloth. Price $1.25. 4:   Phillips, Sampson, y Co.'s Publications. HSTORY OF THE PROTESTANT CHUR CTH IN HUNGARY, FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE REFORMA TION TO 1850. With Reference also to Transyl- vania. Translated by the Rev. J. CRAIG, D. D., Hamburg. With an Introduction by J. H. MERLE D'AUBIGNE; D. D., Pres- ident of the Theological School of Geneva. 650 pages. $1.25. "An invaluable history." - London Gazette. HEROES OF THE AMERICAN REVOLU- TION.  Comprising the Lives of Washington and his Gen- erals, and Officers who distinguished themselves in the War of Independence. 12mo., cloth, illustrated. Price $1.00. iUME AND SMOLLETT'S HSTORY OF ENGLAND. Continued to the accession of Queen Victoria. One volume, 12mo., abridged, with numerous illustrations. Cloth. Price $1.00. JOHNSON'S ENGLISH DICTIONARY. A new Edition, from the Folio Edition, with numerous Corrections and Additions; the whole constituting the most economical and valuable Dictionary of the English Language published in the United States. One volume, 8vo., sheep. Price $1.50. JUDD. - RICHARD EDNEY AND THE GOVERNOR'S FAMLY.      A rus-urban' tale, simple and popular, yet cultured and noble, of morals, sentiments, and life, practically treated and pleasantly illustrated; containing, also, hints on being good and doing good. By Rev. SYVESTER JUDD. 12mo., cloth. Price $1.25. "It gloriously pays for the reading."- Chronotype. "He has given'a piece of a young man's life in one of the lesser cities of New England; has described with marvellous accuracy the littleness and greatness of life in such a city; has drawn a manly character of his hero, simple, self-possessed, and dignified, most enviable, and not impose sible. The word painting with which he portrays the natural scenery of New England has a life and distinctness unattained, we believe, by any one beside who has attempted it with pen or pencil. The book is very interesting from the beginning; a story well wrought." - Daily J dvertis"e     Phillips, Sampson, ' GCo.'s Publications. HTCHCO GK. RELIGION OF GEOL O GY AND ITS CONNECTED SCIENCES. By EDWARD HTCHCOCK, D. D., LL. D., President of Amherst College. 12mo., cloth, with a colored section of the earth's surface. Ninth thousand. Price $1.25. "Very valuable, and no minister should be without it."- Cin. Star in the West. "We have not met with any other work that throws so0 much ligDb on this subject." -JM. Witness. "The style is divested of all those technicalities and other barriers to popularity which have existed in previous works of the kind; and we strongly commend and recommend it to the attentive perusal of every thinking man and woman."- C. Observer. "We recommend this work as the ablest exposition of the relations of geology to religion published."- Central C. advocate. "In this lucid, learned, and interesting volume the eloquent professor has succeeded in reconciling many of the apparent contradictions between revelation and nature. We commend it to all students, both of theology and geology, and to the general reader, as a volume of sound knowledge and attractiveness."- Home Journal. HALE. - MAR GARET PER CVAL IN AMER- ICA.  Being a Sequel to "Margaret Percival."   Edited by Rev. E. E. HALE. 12mo., cloth. Price 75 cents. "The volume is an interesting one, as unfolding the wide contrast be- tween the religious life of England and the United States. It is written in a style of exquisite beauty, exhibiting on every page the marks of gen- erous feeling and large scholarship. We have read it with great interest, and recognize its truthful portraits of New England life." - Phil. C. Chron. AIRE. - LITTLE BLOSSOM 'S REWARD; A CHRISTMAS BOOK FOR CHLDREN. By Mrs. EMLY HARE. 16mo., cloth, finely illustrated. Price 50 cents. "This is a little beauty of a book."- Salem Gazette. "These stories are beautifully written, and each carries with it a moral." - Newport .Mercury. "A charming little story for young children." -Augusta A'ge. HOLIDAYS AT CH;ESTNUT HLL. By COUSIN MARY. 16mo., cloth, beautifully illustrated. 60 cents. "A book that will brighten young faces, and make them forget all their petty troubles, by its curious descriptions and amusing stories."--Prov. T/bune.     
         
      
   
