
    ----CITATION----
        Duganne, A. J. H. (1823-1884). The Prince Corsair, or, The Three Brothers of Guzan .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6327 wright2-0797
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE PRINCE CORSAIR:
               OR, THE THREE BROTHERS OF GUZAN.
               A TALE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN.
            
            BY AUGUSTINE J. H. DUGANNE.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               PUBLISHED BY SAMUEL FRENCH, 
                     121 NASSAU STREET.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
            A Magnificent Pictorial and Literary Weekly Journal.
            GLEASON'S PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION.
            A RECORD OF THE BEAUTIFUL AND USEFUL IN ART.
            The object of this paper is to present, in the most elegant and available form, a weekly literary melange of notable events of the day. Its columns are devoted to original tales, sketches and poems, by the BEST AMERICAN AUTHORS, and the cream of the domestic and foreign news; the whole well spiced with wit and humor. Each paper is BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED with numerous accurate engravings, by eminent artists, of notable objects, current events in all parts of the world, and of men and manners, altogether making a paper entirely original in its design in this country. Its pages contain views of every populous city in the known world, of all buildings of note in the eastern or western hemisphere, of all the principal ships and steamers of the navy and merchant service, with fine portraits of every noted character in the world, male and female. Sketches of beautiful scenery, taken from life, are also given, with numerous specimens from the animal kingdom, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea. The Pictorial is now printed on the finest of paper, from a font of new and beautiful type, manufactured expressly for it,—presenting in its mechanical execution an elegant specimen of art. It contains fifteen hundred and sixty-four square inches, giving a great amount of reading matter and illustrations—a mammoth weekly paper of sixteen octavo pages. It forms THE BEST FAMILY PAPER, inasmuch as its aim is constantly, in connection with the fund of amusement it affords, and the rich array of original miscellany it presents, to inculcate the strictest and highest tone of morality, and to encourage virtue by holding up to view all that is good and pure, and avoiding all that is evil in its tendency. In short, the object is to make the paper loved, respected, and sought after for its combined excellences.
            
               TERMS:—INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
               1 Subscriber, one year $3 00
               4 Subscribers, " " 10 00
               10 " " " 20 00
            
            One copy of the FLAG OF OUR UNION, and one copy of the PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION, if taken together by one person, one year, for $4 00
            The PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION may be obtained at any of the periodical depots throughout the country, and of newsmen, at six cents per single copy.
            Published every SATURDAY, by F. GLEASON, Corner of Bromfield and Tremont Streets, Boston, Mass.
            
               WHOLESALE AGENTS.
               S. FRENCH, 121 Nassau, Street, New York.
               A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
               HENRY TAYLOR, 111 Baltimore Street, Baltimore.
               A. C. BAGLEY, corner of Fourth and Sycamore Streets, Cincinnati.
               J. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit.
               E. K. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Streets, St. Louis.
               THOMAS LUNN, 40 Exchange Place, New Orleans.
            
         
      
      
         
            The Prince Corsair, or, The three brothers of Guzan
            
               
               THE PRINCE CORSAIR.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  THE ASTROLOGER'S PREDICTION.
                  
                     
                  
                  A SMALL kingdom was once situated upon an island in the Indian Ocean, over which reigned a monarch who had three sons, Osmyn, Nadab, and Selim. The king their father loved these young princes with so equal an affection that he never could decide in his own mind which of them should be his successor to the throne of Guzan, the name of his kingdom; although, if any one of the youths merited the honor more than another, it was without doubt the youngest of all three, who was called Selim. This prince appeared to possess all the virtue requisite in a ruler who would govern well; and at the age of twelve years, he was far more advanced in learning and accomplishments than any of his brothers, besides being an especial favorite with the subjects of the old king. It is not much to be wondered at, then, that he soon became an object of jealousy and dislike in the eyes of his brothers.
                  Nevertheless, the envious young princes carefully concealed their uneasiness, and constantly displayed towards him much outward affection. They would often discourse with him, too, upon the difficulty it might involve to divide the sovereignty after their father's death; on which occasions Selim would remark:
                  "It must not be divided. One of us alone must reign."
                  "But what will then become of the others?" asked Osmyn, the elder, after hearing this, as usual, from his younger brother.
                  "Let them support the throne, as princes," answered Selim."
                  "That's very well said," cried Nadab, the second brother; "but I fear we shall dispute about the matter, unless we settle it beforehand. Now, brethren, listen to what I have to say. I have heard of an astrologer who dwells upon the mountain Caucasus, which as you well know is also the abode of the most powerful genii. This astrologer is possessed of such potent arts that he can rule the stars and the most subtle spirits, and moreover, his mind is stored with all the wisdom of the past and knowledge of the future. I propose pose, therefore, that we obtain permission of the king, our father, to depart upon a journey of pleasure, and that we then seek the astrologer in disguise, to inquire of him who is to succeed to the throne of Guzan, without revealing to him our name or station. He shall judge between us which is to reign, and I, for one, agree to receive his decision as the command of Heaven. The chosen one shall possess the crown at our father's death, and the two others, departing from Guzan, shall seek other fields of adventure, and strive, by their valor, to conquer kingdoms for themselves."
                  This scheme appeared to promise so much harmony and good understanding, that it found immediate favor in the mind of Selim; for the unsuspecting young prince did not for a moment suspect that his brothers had conceived any design further than that which Nadab communicated. So he yielded his consent at once, and the old king of Guzan was straightway petitioned to furnish his sons with a vessel, to proceed as they averred, upon a pilgrimage, in which pleasure might be combined with pious duty. It was not long before everything was arranged, and the three brothers, after tenderly embracing their father, and promising a speedy return, set out on their expedition to seek the astrologer.
                  They crossed the Indian Ocean without any adventure, except being upon one occasion chased by Ali Naro, a water pirate of those seas, from whose pursuit they escaped by the superior skill of their own ship. But as the desire to see the astrologer was uppermost in their minds, they stopped at none of the ports in any of the waters which they traversed, until they reached at last the harbor nearest to that mysterious mountain, which, from time immemorial, has been noted as the dwelling-place of genii, gries, afrits and other supernatural beings, subjects of the great Solomon. Here they disembarked, and prepared to continue their journey, first, however, disguising themselves as wandering dervishes, in order to test the astrologer's skill, without discovering to him their character.
                  After a toilsome march, and difficult ascent of the mountain, our three princes reached, at length, the entrance of a cavern wherein the powerful astrologer Rahbek lived the life of a hermit. The first object that met their eyes was a grated iron door, from within which they heard the voice of Rahbek raised in prayer. They knocked loudly, but received no answer. After pausing a little while, they redoubled their blows. Then the solemn voice from within was heard in reply to their summons.
                  "Sons of a king!" said the voice, "tarry a moment, and be not impatient. He whose hand created not only man, but all the heavens and the earth, claims my service before mere mortals. I shall be with you soon."
                  The sons of the king of Guzan were, as may be imagined, not a little startled at finding they were known to Rahbek, even before he had cast his eyes upon them. They waited respectfully till he had concluded his devotions. But when at last the astrologer opened the iron gate, how much was their wonder increased, to have each of them called by his own proper name, and the object of their journey immediately mentioned.
                  "It is not difficult, princes," said the aged magician, in a very solemn tone, "to satisfy your curiosity; nevertheless, the endeavor to penetrate the future is always a perilous undertaking. Let me warn you that he who shall be designated as the successor of the king your father will run the risk of losing his life before returning to Guzan, and that his brothers will one day become his most cruel enemies."
                  These words startled the princes exceedingly, and Selim the youngest endeavored to dissuade his brothers from pursuing the inquiry any further; but the elder princes, recovering from their alarm, opposed his wise counsel, and bidding him hold his peace, pressed the astrologer to declare at once their destiny.
                  "If nothing can deter you from your design," said Rahbek, "hearken then to me. Descend the mountain, as you came, and at the close of one day's journey, you will encounter a woman who will reveal to you which of the three is destined to wear the crown of Guzan. Peace be with you!"
                  The astrologer returned to his cave, and the three princes set out on their homeward journey. At the close of day, they reached a small plain, surrounded by mountains, in the centre of which a thick smoke arose out of a hole not larger than the mouth of a well. A female was sitting upon a rock, very near the opening.
                  "O," said Osmyn, "this is doubtless she whom Rahbek told us we should meet." So approaching the woman, this prince communicated to her the words of the old astrologer.
                  She appeared to listen attentively, and when Osmyn had finished, directed the three brothers to take off their slippers and throw them, one after the other, into the hole beside her. Osmyn was the first to obey; but scarcely had his slippers entered the aperture, when a frightful noise was heard, and immediately the shoes were vomited forth, and fell at the prince's feet, all black with smoke, and half burned. Nadab's turn followed, and he was treated in exactly the same manner; but when Selim, the last, threw his sandals in, no noise at all was heard, the smoke disappeared for an instant, and the slippers were cast out of the furnace, without a mark or stain.
                  "It is thou, then, my lord," said the old woman, making an obeisance to the young man, "who art destined to be king of Guzan. This is the sign by which thou art recognized! Put on thy slippers, O prince, and continue thy way!"
                  If Selim, as was very natural, felt satisfaction at the omen which revealed to him so high a destiny, it is not to be marvelled at, that the envy and haired of his brothers should be increased, nor that they should speedily conclude to put into execution a resolution which they had long before formed, to remove the unfortunate prince from their path as soon as possible. Concealing their wicked feelings, however, they pretended to be satisfied with the decrees of fate, and willing that their brother should be exalted. But on reaching the seashore, and re-embarking in the ship to return to the Isle of Guzan, they began to consult together, on all occasions, and to lay various plans for disposing of Selim, without drawing suspicion on themselves; and it was not a great while before they had decided upon a project by which to destroy the unfortunate favorite of destiny.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER II.
                  THE TRAITOR-BROTHERS.
                  SITUATED on the direct course necessary for the vessel of the princes of Guzan to pursue, was a small island known unto mariners as the "Isle of Death," insomuch as in the middle of it grew that frightful tree called the Upas, which is so very poisonous, and exudes so deadly a vapor, that no animal can exist upon the island, and no vegetation flourish save rank and venomous weeds. Now it was plotted between Osmyn and Nadab, that Selim should by some means be inveigled into this fearful place, and there left to fall a victim to the horrible effects of the Upas effluvia. So no sooner had the vessel arrived in sight of the "Isle of Death," than the two conspirators proposed to the captain that they should all disembark and approach as near to the poisonous tree as might be compatible with safety, in order (as they pretended) to witness the powerful effects of the miasm upon the face of the island. The captain assented to their desire—not, however, without warning them of the danger of penetrating too far into the interior, and instructing them, above all, to be sure and re-embark before sunset, because at nightfall the noxious vapors settled down and overspread the entire surface of the island.
                  Prince Selim, who was of a very adventurous spirit, and had no suspicion of any evil motives in his brother's request, gladly agreed to accompany the rest in their proposed exploration of the perilous place.
                  The captain accordingly anchored the ship near the island, and disembarking, left a few mariners in charge of the boat, whilst with the princes and a large party of attendants, he proceeded towards the interior. The wind, very fortunately, was blowing from the water, so that they were enabled to approach tolerably near the Upas without inconvenience from its poisonous atmosphere. Consequently they enjoyed a good opportunity of satisfying their curiosity, in viewing the desolate appearance of the soil, the stagnant pools, green with mould, and the dark, solemn tree itself. Little else was there in the gloomy place to attract their notice, and so, as twilight approached, they prepared to return to the boat. But when they reached the beach, and looked at one another, behold, Selim was missing.
                  Immediately a great outcry was raised by the Princes Osmyn and Nadab, about their unfortunate brother. "He must be lost! he must be lost!" cried the first; and, "O, poor Selim! poor Selim!" groaned the second.
                  "It is very singular," said the captain. "He was with us only a few moments ago. I myself conversed with him, as we were returning."
                  "Let us question the crew," cried Osmyn. So the mariners were interrogated, and all affirmed that the Prince Selim had accompanied them on their return.
                  "Perhaps, then, he has concealed himself, and is trying to frighten us by his absence," said Nadab.
                  "Or perhaps," remarked Osmyn, "he has merely lingered behind for a few moments."
                  "Let us return instantly, and search for him!" exclaimed the captain. "He would not surely play hide and seek in a place like this."
                  Saying this, the brave mariner turned about in the direction of the Upas tree, resolved to search for the young prince, though the sudden shifting of the wind, and a gathering mist in the centre of the island, warned his experienced mind that the poisonous exhalations were about to descend in deadly dews. Osmyn and Nadab followed though with pale faces and trembling limbs, and a few mariners and slaves ventured to bring up the rear. In this manner, the party proceeded for some distance inland, the dusk rapidly deepening around them, and their nostrils soon becoming sensible of an odor very acrid and disagreeable.
                  "Let us raise our voices together in a loud shout," said the ship's captain.
                  This direction was obeyed, and a great noise startled the deathly stillness. But no responding cry came to their listening ears. Not even an echo dwelt upon that stagnant island.
                  "This grows serious," cried Osmyn. "Alas! I fear our poor brother, in lingering behind, has lost his way, and is overpowered by this subtle vapor."
                  "Let us search while we have yet time," replied the captain. "Night is gathering about us, and not for all the wealth of Guzan would I remain here till the evening damps come on. But to save life, let us still linger a while. In the prophet's name, however, be quick, or we are all lost!"
                  Again they shouted, and farther on they marched, straining their ears to catch a sound upon the breeze which now began to blow strong from the land, bearing poison in every breath. But vain were their exertions. Selim was not to be found.
                  Then the two brothers, Osmyn and Nadab tore their hair, beat their breasts, and rent their garments. "O, woe! woe!" cried they. "Sad is the hour—luckless the day! Our brother is lost, and we must return without him. O, woe, woe! what can we say to the king our father?"
                  The captain endeavored to console the princes, but without effect. They continued to bemoan, and rend their garments; and when at last it became necessary to return to the ship, inasmuch as the venomous night clouds were settling down upon the island, they covered their faces with their mantles, and appeared to give themselves up to the most violent despair.
                  But all the while, instead of grieving, these wicked princes were laughing in secret over the success of their unnatural scheme; for it was through their artful contrivance that the unfortunate Selim had disappeared so mysteriously. And this was the manner in which their cruel plan had been put in practice.
                  Before setting out to reconnoitre the island, the three princes had provided themselves (pursuant to the captain's advice) with phials filled with a powerful antidote to poison, which they were to smell constantly, as they approached the Upas, in order to counteract the deleteriousness of the atmosphere. But in preparing Selim's phial, his treacherous brothers had infused into the antidote a strong narcotic powder, which being inhaled repeatedly, would produce sudden drowsiness, followed by a slumber of twelve hours' duration.
                  Selim, in his march toward the tree, had constantly kept the phial to his nose; and his brothers marked with concealed joy, that his steps at length became unsteady, and his head nodded to and fro. They had watched him closely, keeping near to him all the time, until, choosing the moment when the narcotic was about to overcome him, they had led him a little to one side, unperceived by any one, and suddenly pushed him over a precipice into a deep gully filled with green and stagnant water. Then, hurrying onward, and mingling with the rest, Osmyn engaged the captain's attention, and prevented his notice of Selim's absence till the party had reached the seashore.
                  Thus the atrocious design of these wretched youths had been successfully executed, and they managed entirely to deceive the captain by well-counterfeited sorrow for their brother's fate. The vessel immediately set sail from the "Isle of Death," and Osmyn and Nadab, shrouding their foreheads with blue turbans and wearing robes of the same hue, presented to all eyes a pious spectacle of the deepest mourning.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER III
                  "THE ISLE OF DEATH."
                  ABANDONED upon a desert island, exposed to the terrible miasma of the Upas, and moreover precipitated insensible into a ravine filled with stagnant water, apparently surcharged with all the pestilential dews and vapors of the place, it seemed utterly improbable that Prince Selim could survive an hour, or that he would ever recover from the unconsciousness produced by the drug which he had inhaled. But, as it is often through agencies which seem most detrimental to health and life, that nature effects a cure of some virulent disease, so in the present case it was ordered by divine wisdom that the measure which had appeared to secure the greatest success to the nefarious scheme of Selim's brothers, was in fact the one through which the prince's life was to be preserved, in the midst of the perils which surrounded him. The pool of stagnant liquid into which he had been thrown was not indeed, as Osmyn and Nadab conjectured, a collection of poisonous juices and drippings from the envenomed atmosphere, but was a reservoir of that powerful fluid called in commerce vitriol, which is well-known to accumulate in such quantities, often forming large lakes, to which adventurous traders resort for a supply of the market; and which in some countries, are leased by the governors to companies of merchants, who amass much profit from a traffic in the article. It was a pool or pond of this fluid which had exuded from the rocks and collected in the gully wherein Prince Selim had been treacherously pushed by his brothers, just as he was about yielding to the soporific influence of the drug contained in his phial.
                  How long the poor youth remained lying prostrate upon the margin of the pool, with a portion of his body actually exposed to the corrosive liquid, it is difficult to say; but he was at length awakened from his lethargy by a burning sensation pervading his whole frame; which arose from the action of the vitriol upon one hand and arm, and part of his left side, that had fallen in contact with it, as he lay stretched insensible. It might be that hours elapsed, during which the noxious vapors of the "Isle of Death" had settled like a great pall over the surface; but when Selim awoke, he remained for some time without being able to recall any former event in his life. The hot pain that he experienced made him instinctively withdraw his person from the liquid, which at the moment he could only fancy to be a pool of boiling water; while the thick darkness that surrounded him, and the consciousness of his being in a strange locality, without any recollection of the past, plunged his senses for a short period into a stupefaction almost as deep as that induced by the potion. He could only, by a mechanical movement, gather his limbs together, so as to avoid the vitreous water, and then slowly crawl away over what appeared a soil of greasy loam; after which he remained for many minutes in a dim, trance-like state, only cognizant of the burning feeling that pervaded his left arm and side.
                  At length, however, as the unfortunate prince lay thus immobile, he began to be sensible of a change in the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere. At first, the air to his slowly reviving perceptions was exceedingly heavy, heated and choking; but gradually, and proceeding as it seemed, from a current of air, a coolness succeeded to the oppressive warmth, and operating upon the prince's brain, began to dissipate the stupor which enthralled him. His eyes opened, though in the deep gloom they could distinguish no object, and his recollections, languidly returning, like the shadows of a half-remembered dream, began at last to assume shape and fixedness.
                  It may be fancied that in such a position the gradually-developing memory of the young prince must have opened a fearful field to his reflections. He did not indeed recall much of his experience in the "Isle of Death," inasmuch as every incident which had transpired after the landing of his party, and their setting out in search of the Upas, was now a blank in his mind; but he nevertheless divined that his present situation and locality were directly connected with his expedition toward the poisonous tree, and he conceived that he was now, in fact, under the influence of the malaria, and, moreover, abandoned upon the fatal island. But, though so melancholy a conviction was well calculated to appall his spirit, yet, so far from murmuring, the prince composed himself to his fate with a resignation natural to his disposition.
                  "I am in the hands of Allah," he said to himself. "He is powerful to save me; and that I am now alive, and conscious of my situation, is an omen of my preservation at last. Therefore, I will not despair, but trust in him whose wisdom overrules the lives of men."
                  Prince Selim then bowed his face, and prayed long and fervently to Heaven, for assistance and support in his perilous position; and in performing this act of devotion, he became at once aware of the great cause he had to be thankful for the beneficence which had preserved him. For, as his head approached the earth, he felt a rush of cold air, and presently discovered an aperture in the embankment, out of which proceeded a steady current, moist and saline, and evidently arising from some subterranean cavern, connected with the sea. He placed his mouth and nostrils at the small opening, and inhaling a long draught, became at once conscious of renewed strength and animation. "O, Allah!" he exclaimed aloud, his breast heaving with new life, and his heart pulsating rapidly; "O, Allah! how wonderful are thy ways! Here is a draught of delicious health, whilst all around is poison!"
                  But not then did the prince realize how the forces of nature had combined their various operations, obedient to the heavenly wisdom, which had watched over his helplessness. He did not know that the deadly venom of the Upas had been neutralized in its effects by the superior acid of the vitreous lake; how that acid, likewise, acting upon the surface of his arm and side, had, by means only of a slight pain, awakened him to consciousness; and how, finally, the sulphuric gas generated by the vitriol, that of itself had been dangerous to his life, was carried away from his person by the current of air which, through the subterranean passage, had borne the pure salt of the ocean to revive his palsied energies. All these necessities of nature had indeed united to produce the seeming miracle of his restoration.
                  But, though at the time unaware of the extent of his obligations to the great Source of all good things, Prince Selim neglected not, through the intervals of that tedious night which he passed near the pool of vitriol, to prostrate himself afterwards in prayer and thankfulness to Heaven. And when, at length, the first glimpses of daylight were discernible in the east, and he began to feel the fresh breeze blowing in strongly from the shore, and lifting the heavy vapors that hung over the whole island, and when, at last, inspiring a long draught of the cool current from the earth, he arose and hurried toward the beach, his first thought was to greet the coming of the full day, in a spot where he could feel the full extent of Heaven's mercy.
                  At the moment when Prince Selim reached the shore, the sun was giving beautiful warning of his approach, by the yellow haze that, at first blended with the gray clouds, gradually deepened and glowed, until at last it seemed to become an atmosphere of burning gold, mingled with a sea of rolling fire. From the low stretch of beach where he stood, the young man could behold the entire eastern horizon belted with crimson and orange, and other brilliant hues, changing every moment, like the shifting flashes of fairy vision, until finally, the glorious orb itself arose out of its flaming bed, even as the great-Solomon might ascend his throne, crowned with light, above the subject elements. Then all the dark shadows of the fearful night swiftly fled and lost themselves afar, and the vapors of the Upas shrank within the isle, to coil themselves in fear around their evil parent.
                  Prince Selim, after watching for a long time the radiant spectacle that filled his eyes, inspiring him more than ever before, with admiration of that mighty Allah on whose will hung all the suns and stars, as well as the children of men, prepared, as a devout Mussulman, to perform his ablutions, and offer a morning prayer to the Author and Preserver of his life. He walked a few paces down the shore, whose sands sparkled in the rich light like particles of silver, and, stooping beside the bright water that glided softly at his feet, laved his brow and face, and poured from the hollow of his hand a few drops of the clear element, at the same time turning in the direction of Mecca, whilst he bowed in reverence thrice, repeating the ritual enjoined upon followers of the prophet. As he did so, his eyes encountered an object that startled and terrified him.
                  Near the spot where he stood, and almost hidden from view by the sands which were heaped up around it, appeared the wreck of a ship's boat. The stern which was the only part distinctly visible, was of a sable hue, with a crimson crescent in the centre; and this, together with such portions of the sides as were not entirely covered, presented a shattered and beaten look, as if they had long suffered the assaults of storm and waves. But the object which affrighted Selim, and indeed one calculated at all times, to startle a beholder, was the white and ghastly skeleton of a human form, which lay on one of the seats of the boat, its ribs and breast pressed against the gunwale, and its long, fleshless arms hanging over to the sand beneath. A shudder thrilled through the prince's frame, and his heart seemed to grow faint and chill, as he contemplated the sad relic of humanity.
                  But Selim was not one to be mastered by any superstitious feeling, and his reason quickly enabled him to banish the sensation of fear which had transiently possessed him. He reflected that this was very likely the skeleton of some poor shipwrecked traveller, cast upon the poisoned isle, and fallen a victim to the miasma from whose deadly influence he himself had so miraculously been protected. The sight of the boat, too, could not but present to the prince's intelligence a sudden hope that, by means of even so frail a bark, he might escape from the island, and he resolved at once to ascertain if it could be got afloat and made capable of service. But, firstly, as soon as he could sufficiently recover his composure, the good Prince Selim knelt once more upon the sands, and offered up a prayer to Allah for the repose of that soul whose mortal remains lay now extended upon the barren beach. "And let me," he exclaimed, as he rose to his feet, "let me in the first place, proceed to perform the rites of sepulture to this shattered frame of what was once a fellow-being. Perhaps Heaven has directed this discovery for my deliverance, and I must not, on my part, be unmindful of the sacred duty incumbent upon all the faithful. I will without delay prepare a grave for this poor victim of the island."
                  Saying this, the prince, although much worn by his night of vigils, and moreover very faint, because of long abstinence from food, proceeded with his hands, and a shell which he found upon the shore, to remove the covering of sand that concealed the lower portion of the skeleton, and the greater part of the boat in which it lay. But as he proceeded in his labors, Selim, with much concern, discovered that all prospect of escape by the medium of the boat, must be at once abandoned; for it was so battered and crazy by long exposure to wind and waves as to be beyond the skill of hands to render seaworthy, even if material could be had wherewith to repair it; and to procure this latter was entirely an impossibility, since no wood of any sort, save that of the Upas tree, was to be met with in the whole island.
                  Therefore, Prince Selim abandoning all hope of escape by the boat, set himself vigorously to work in the burial-task which he had taken upon himself to perform. It was several hours, however, before, through the tedious process which the want of proper instruments of excavation compelled him to pursue, he could entirely disengage the bones from their shroud of sand, dispose them decently together, and prepare them for the final resting place in a grave which he scooped out near a low rock that he thought might shelter it from the dashing of waves. At length, however, all being made ready, the skeleton ton of the unknown was deposited in the ground by the hand of Prince Selim, who then placed upon its breast the shell with which he had hollowed out the sand, after first graving upon it with his dagger-point, a short and appropriate verse from the Koran. Finally, before closing up the simple sepulchre, the young man bowed beside it, offering a concluding prayer for the departed spirit.
                  So absorbed had Prince Selim been in his labor, and forgetful of aught save the pious duty which he felt bound to fulfil, that he was not at all conscious of the near approach of a vessel, which rounding an abrupt point of the island, had noiselessly dropped anchor, and lowered a boat, filled with men, which was now rapidly making for the shore. Indeed, it was not till his last prayer was over, and he arose to finish his task by covering the remains with sand, that the harsh grating of the boat's keel upon the beach very near, and a simultaneous shout from all the strangers on discovering him, apprised him of the presence of living human beings.
                  At first Selim was impressed with the thought that his brothers and their companions had returned to search for him, but a glance at the new-comers quickly undeceived him. They were men of swarthy countenances, fierce in expression, and all were clothed and armed with strange garbs and weapons. Both the prince and the strangers remained silent for a space, regarding one another with surprise; and then one who appeared, from his age and demeanor, to be the chief of the mariners, held up his hands and spoke a few words in the Arabic tongue, which Selim well understood, demanding of the latter how it had come to pass that a man could exist upon the "Isle of Death?"
                  The prince returned the questioner's scrutinizing gaze with the open glance which was natural to him, and replied in a firm voice:
                  "Allah is all-powerful, my friend, and man's life is in his hands at all times."
                  "But how came you here? where is the ship that landed you? for what crime were you doomed to perish?"
                  The interrogations were uttered hurriedly and in a commanding tone, to which Selim was about to reply, when a sudden outcry from the rest of the party attracted his attention as well as that of the stranger.
                  The alarm was occasioned by a discovery of the shattered debris of the boat, and an apparent recognition of the wreck by the band. The old chief slowly turned his head toward his men, but no sooner did his glance rest upon the dark stern and the crimson crescent in its centre, than he seemed to forget immediately the questions that he had just propounded, and abruptly starting away, he walked quickly to the boat, which was now nearly freed from the mass of sand that had concealed it. Arriving at the wreck, he stooped, and appeared for a short time to be attentively examining the planks; then, rising quickly, he rushed toward the prince again, gesticulating wildly, and apparently moved with strong emotion. At length his words became intelligible.
                  "The boat!" he cried—"what know you of that boat? Where is my son?"
                  Selim startled at the vehemence of the old man's manner, could at first hardly frame a reply to his abrupt questions. Nevertheless, preserving his calmness, as he saw that both grief and anxiety marked the stranger's features, he raised his hand, half unconscious of what he was doing, and pointed to the open grave, wherein lay the skeleton he had been about to cover.
                  This movement of Selim, and the sudden disclosure which it seemed to make to the old mariner's perceptions, caused a renewal of the latter's violent agitation. He clasped his hands together, covered his face with their united palms, and then sunk prostrate upon the sand beside the grave. His companions gathered near, but looked on in silence, as if apprehensive of disturbing their chief. Selim likewise remained quiet, beginning to suspect that some close relation had existed between the strange old man and the skeleton of the wrecked boat.
                  This impression was soon verified; for when the paroxysm of grief that had convulsed the mariner, became exhausted, and he lifted his bowed head from the ground, the first movement of his hand was to reach forth and take from one of the clasped fingers of the skeleton a small emerald ring, which had escaped the prince's notice till this moment, inasmuch as it was thickly crusted with the sand that clung to nearly all the bones. Gazing fixedly upon the jewel for a few moments, the old man appeared to be slowly recalling his calmness, and when at length he turned his eyes upon Selim, and spoke once more, his voice, instead of being quick and loud as before, was quite low, though very distinct.
                  "My son!" he murmured, lifting his eyes from the skeleton form that reposed upon its kindred earth, up to the heaven that now was bright with sunlight—"my son! may Allah rest thee!" Then making a sign to Selim that he should follow, the old mariner walked a few paces from the rest of the party. The young prince, hesitating not to obey the signal, speedily joined the stranger at the spot where he had halted.
                  "Young man!" was the first greeting of the mariner to Selim, who awaited his address in silence; "If my conduct has seemed strange to you, so likewise your presence unharmed upon this poisonous isle cannot but be marvellous to me. I ask you, therefore, who you are, and by what miracle you exist where all things die?"
                  "Why I have been permitted to exist," returned Prince Selim, "is known to Allah alone, since his care has preserved me through the perils of the place. What I am, is more easily explained. I am called Selim, and my father reigns over the kingdom of Guzan."
                  "And what manner of crime did you commit, that was deemed worthy of such terrible expiation?" asked the mariner.
                  "I know not what you would imply?" returned Selim.
                  "It is only the greatest criminals who have ever been exposed to the terrible death by Upas poison."
                  "I am conscious of no crime," said Selim. "It is but yesterday that, in company with my two brothers and the master of our ship, I landed upon this island, actuated by a curiosity to observe the effect of the poison-tree upon its vicinity. I remember our disembarking, and setting forth toward the Upas, but I can recall none of the circumstances which afterwards happened, nor do I know by what fatality I was left behind, unless—"
                  Selim paused in confusion, for a suspicion of his brothers' treachery, could not but obtrude upon his mind at the moment. He shuddered, and became deadly pale.
                  "How! were you abandoned by the princes your brothers upon this horrible place?"
                  Selim endeavored to regain his composure, for he saw that it was necessary he should explain what he himself knew in regard to his present situation. He proceeded, therefore to recount such incidents as had occurred to him, from the moment of his returning to consciousness near the mysterious pool, to the hour when, reaching the beach, he had discovered the wrecked boat. But when he related how, impelled by a sense of duty to the dead, he had hollowed out a resting-place for the bones which the boat contained, the agitation of the old mariner, who listened attentively, suddenly returned. He clasped the young prince's hands, drawing him close, and embracing him warmly, while, in broken accents he exclaimed:
                  "Pious youth! you have won my gratitude forever. Alas! these relics were the last of my only son, whose loss I have mourned for many months. Assuredly Heaven directed me to land this morning, in order that I might be instrumental in rescuing you, noble prince, from the dangers of this horrible island. Perhaps, indeed, I may be an agent of the reward which your pious conduct has merited."
                  "Allah be thanked! I have not for a moment despaired of relief," cried Selim.
                  "Prince, you are without doubt, preserved for some great purpose, and I, though men call me an outlaw and a man of crime, can recognize the hand of Heaven in this thing. But, return we to my men, and they shall unite with me in acknowledging the pious care which you have bestowed upon the remains of a comrade dear to all of them, as to me, his unhappy father."
                  Saying this, the mariner led the way to the beach, and presently acquainted his companions with the rank of Selim, and the occasion of his being found upon the "Isle of Death." And when, in conclusion, he informed them of the respect which the noble youth had exhibited toward the mortal remains of him who had been their comrade, the rough seamen pressed around the prince, uttering a thousand protestations of gratitude for the act which he had performed; so that the son of the king of Guzan hardly knew what return to offer to their singular devotion. Nevertheless, with natural dignity and goodness of heart, he received the embraces of the seamen, and then, at the request of their chief, finished his prayer for the departed, whilst they reverentially covering the skeleton with their garments, bore it to the boat, and there deposited it, for transportation to the ship, after having first marked the place which was to have been its sepulchre, with a rude-monument of stone and shells hastily gathered from the beach, and the shattered fragments of the wrecked boat that had so long been the victim's resting-place.
                  When the rite was over, the seamen, at a signal from their commander, marched away in the direction of the Upas tree, whilst Prince Selim with the old man entered the boat in which the latter had landed. For some moments both preserved silence, seemingly occupied with reflections upon the strange events which had happened. At length the mariner spoke, laying his hand upon the prince's arm:
                  "Mark," said he, "how mysterious are the ways in which destiny operates. Six months ago, yonder mouldering skeleton, clothed with healthy life, and animated by a daring spirit, stood beside me in battle and storm, promising support and strength to my declining years. Proud and high spirited, my son Ali was likewise unhappily rash and headstrong. His temper could not brook the stern discipline by means of which I have ever controlled the turbulent men whom I command. One fatal night, alas! that I survived it, the son boldly disputed his father's will. I sternly ordered his instant obedience, and with a taunt he turned away. My crew were witnesses to the insult, and I had no alternative but instant action. I struck the daring rebel to the deck of my ship, and left him bleeding and insensible, whilst I sought my cabin. It was the last time that I ever beheld him!"
                  The old mariner paused, overcome with his recollections, and for a few moments uttered no word. Then, recovering himself, he went on again:
                  "At daybreak next morning, when after a restless night, I ascended to the deck, and summoned Ali to my side, the unhappy boy was nowhere to be found. Whether my crew knew aught of his departure I know not, but he was gone, and the absence of a boat from the ship's side gave the only clew to the means by which he had escaped. In the darkness of night, burning with a sense of the indignity which he had suffered, and, perhaps, cursing his wretched father, my poor Ali abandoned his comrades and the ship, and trusted himself to the wide waters. Alas! he departed to his death, and I was left desolate. This is all that remains to me of my beloved Ali!"
                  The old man, as he said this, took from his bosom the emerald ring which he had discovered upon the skeleton's finger, and pressed it to his lips.
                  "This was his mother's, and now twice the dead have restored it to the living."
                  Selim ventured not to disturb the emotion which this thought seemed to awaken in the old mariner's heart; but awaited his renewal of the conversation, and it was not long before he resumed:
                  "Prince," he said, "pardon a father's agitation, and let me continue. This morning, as my vessel drew in sight of the 'Isle of Death,' the sudden thought occurred to me, to procure from the vicinity of the Upas some of the soil which is said to be so strongly saturated with poison, as to be capable of impregnating steel and iron with the deadly venom. I felt a desire to experiment, by coating some of our arrowheads and other offensive weapons with the venom, and for this reason alone landed with a few men. Judge of my astonishment at beholding a living man upon the shore."
                  "And to this accident alone, I am indebted for my escape perhaps from death."
                  "Prince!" returned the mariner. "It was no accident, though thus it seems to our eyes. Doubtless, all has been ruled for your good, even the death of my poor Ali. And this day, young man, you have gained a friend who may yet serve you essentially. I appreciate your goodness of heart, and moreover I cannot help believing that you are the victim of some great treachery. When I learn more of your history, I shall be able to decide with better judgment. But, ere you confide aught to me, it is proper that I should discover to you my name and character. You have doubtless heard of the corsair Ali-Naro. Prince, I am he!"
                  Selim could not restrain a sudden start at the mention of this name; for he remembered that the captain of his own ship had represented it as borne by an unscrupulous and desperate pirate, the scourge of the Indian Seas, whose hand was never free from the stain of human blood, and who delighted in deeds of cruelty. Yet, as he looked upon the grave features of the man beside him, he could scarcely realize that one of so evil a reputation should appear not only mild but even benignant.
                  "I know not what may be your past life, Ali-Naro," said the prince, after a short silence. "The actions of a man are to be judged by Allah at last. I know, however, that you have rescued me from a fate that is wretched to contemplate, and I must consequently look upon you with gratitude. Perhaps, likewise, it is Allah who impresses me that I can also confide in you as a friend."
                  "Thanks, noble Prince Selim!" cried the corsair. "Trust me when I say to you, that you will never regret your confidence in Ali-Naro."
                  The sailors were now seen returning from the Upas tree, and their chief rose to ask them questions concerning their success in procuring the soil; after which, in a few moments, the men took their stations in the boat, and in a very brief space Selim stood upon the deck of the vessel commanded by the corsair chieftain.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  ALI-NARO THE CORSAIR.
                  THE career of the Arabian adventurer, Ali-Naro, had been a wild and stormy one, and his name was a terror to the rich merchants of India and Persia, who voyaged in their well-freighted vessels, to trade with distant ports, and barter with caravans at points upon the shore which served as entrepots of inland merchandize. The corsair was always sure to know beforehand of the time of departure, the value of cargo, and capabilities of defence, of every ship which traversed the waters over which he claimed command; and not a few of the islands either through their princes, or by their chief merchants, chose rather to purchase the protection of the formidable freebooter, by a yearly payment of tribute, than to run the risk of losing thrice as much by his bold descents upon the shore, or attacks of their vessels of trade. Consequently Ali-Naro enjoyed a sort of sovereignty throughout the insular kingdoms around which his flag was borne triumphantly from the masts of three ships, the largest of which was commanded by the corsair himself, and was that in which Prince Selim now found himself—an honored guest.
                  The remaining two vessels comprising Ali-Naro's fleet, were signalled by the lookout from the "Green Bird," which was the name of the admiral's bark, in a very few hours after the embarkation of Ali-Naro and his new friend from the "Isle of Death." They appeared at first like small feluccas upon the horizon, and gradually approaching, were discerned by the prince to be much inferior in size and armament to the "Green Bird," on the quarter-deck of which he now stood, with her captain.
                  "The 'Green Bird' is my fighting vessel, prince!" said the old chief. "Many a Persian corvette has struck her flag to my pennon, and the Franks know me so well that they never fail to give sea-room in plenty for the 'Green Bird's' flight."
                  "And have you never been defeated, captain?" asked Selim.
                  "I have met my match, prince, and have been fain to sheer off, after a hot brush with a superior force, but never has the good Bird received more than she gave in return, in the matter of blows, my young friend. It is not many days since I fought two Persian ships of twice our size, at once, and so sure was I of victory, that yonder craft were ordered to keep within hail in order to take possession of the 'Green Bird's' prizes when the battle should be decided."
                  "And you captured both?"
                  "Two richly-laden barks from Cathay—with silks and spices, worth a king's jewels, my friend. The Bird's handmaidens yonder, as I call the other vessels, are even now returning from our free port, where the flag of Ali-Naro floats over three hundred brave men, the corsair subjects of a corsair-chief. So I may well call you cousin, noble prince, though my true throne is the deck of a battle-ship."
                  The smaller vessels now advanced, and answering the "Green Bird's" signals, ranged behind the latter, whilst she led the way over the bright waters which a brisk breeze was now agitating. Selim, as he glanced from the calm and grave countenance of the old chief, to the swarthy and determined crew, who moved back and forth over the well-ordered deck, trimming the sails, and making firm every line and rope, as the ship bounded on her way, could not help comparing his own situation, betrayed, as he doubted not, by his brothers, with the power and freedom enjoyed by the sea rover with whom he had been so strangely brought into connection. It was true that the gentle soul of the prince recoiled from sympathy with the lawless life of a pirate; nevertheless, he could not but reflect that, after all, the position of Ali-Naro was on a par with that of most of the monarchs of the earth, whose dominion was held, oftentimes, only by reason of their strength over weaker men, and whose possessions were generally increased by the same means employed by the corsair to swell his coffers—that is to say, by violence and aggression upon those who crossed his path.
                  "In what then, alas," said Selim, to himself, "are princes less freebooters, when, by force of arms, they seek to subjugate a neighboring state? And are not my brothers Osmyn and Nadab, more worthy of execration than this corsair-captain? He declares himself boldly a sovereign of the ocean, and demands tribute from all who cross his domain; but my unhappy brothers have sought, like ignoble assassins, to gain their objects by the most wicked treachery."
                  Doubtless the expressive countenance of the prince of Guzan revealed somewhat of the reflections occurring to his mind, to the keen eyes of Ali-Naro; for the latter, with a sympathizing look, addressed him once more:
                  "Prince!" said the captain. "Give not way to sad or gloomy thoughts. I have promised that I would be your friend, and believe me, I will prove that I can yet be of service to you. We are now directing our course to a small island which we shall reach before to-morrow morning. It is my citadel, storehouse and hospital. There I retire, when the season of traffic is over, and feel myself as much a monarch as when on my quarter-deck. There my brave companions have their wives and children like the soldiers of your island kings; but there, when wounded or disabled, the invalid subject of the corsair Ali-Naro finds shelter and support for life, whilst you land-princes leave the poor slave to shift for himself, when he is no longer serviceable to his master."
                  "And you are doubtless as happy as a monarch of Persia or Cathay?" said Prince Selim.
                  "If my poor Ali had been spared," cried the corsair, turning his head to hide the softening of his eyes which denoted how deeply the loss of his son had affected his stern nature; "if he had not rashly cast himself away, Ali-Naro would have ceased his wanderings, and dwelt among his people, a friend and father. This year had been the last of my outlaw life, prince!"
                  "Allah knows I pity you!" murmured Selim, taking the old mariner's hand, and looking in his face with an undisguised expression of deep commiseration.
                  "May Allah reward you, noble prince!" returned Ali-Naro. "But—let me not show this weakness, or my comrades will think me about to turn dervish. My son is gone—and my dream of a peaceful close to my stormy life is past also. But, you, prince, shall know me as a friend. We shall refresh our men by a brief sojourn at the 'Isle of Eagles,' as I have named my rocky home, and then, with all the force I ever command, you shall be conveyed to your father's kingdom. If the base men who abandoned you have returned before, they shall eat dirt in their father's presence."
                  "Nay, my friend, Ali-Naro!" cried Selim, "I bear no malice toward my brothers. They were blinded by ambitious desires, and—"
                  "Would have murdered you to attain them," rejoined the corsair. "No, prince, you have given me your confidence, and I feel that you have been wickedly betrayed. The prediction of the astrologer will doubtless be fulfilled, as is apparent from your preservation in the 'Isle of Death,' but the crime of your brothers is not lessened because of its lack of success. They triumph now, believing in your destruction. Let it be my task to deal with these treacherous princes."
                  "But my father will be distracted should he learn of their baseness."
                  "You are a good son!" cried Ali-Naro, his memory reverting to his unfortunate boy. "Well, let Allah, in whom you trust devoutly, direct us when we arrive at Guzan. Be it my pleasure to escort you thither, as becomes a prince."
                  Over the smooth Indian Ocean, the three vessels sped swiftly, and, when on the morning succeeding that in which he had awoke to find himself abandoned on the "Isle of Death," Selim arose from the couch which had been prepared for him on board the "Green Bird," and ascending to the crowded deck, he discovered that the vessel was rapidly nearing a wide, precipitous point of rocky land, beyond which extended a narrow opening of water, forming a channel of communication from the ocean to a secluded harbor completely imbedded in the grassy slopes of a lovely island, crowned by a succession of steep ramparts, on which waved a flag like that flying from the "Green Bird's" mast head. A multitude of women and children, dressed as if for a gala, crowded the heights, and a hundred or more armed men were drawn in array on the beach, whilst many others occupied various points along the shore, waving flags and beating drums, as the "Green Bird" entered the narrow inlet.
                  "These are my subjects—or rather children," said Ali-Naro. "Not a child among them all but has kissed me with its infant lips, and not a father but would die for me."
                  "This is to be a monarch indeed!" cried Selim. "O, that I could be so beloved by my people. It would be worthy of ambition!"
                  "Be just, and you cannot fail to win the hearts of your subjects, prince," replied Ali-Naro. "If a corsair, whose life is lawless, and whose hand has been against the whole world, can thus gain the affection and esteem of his rude companions, why may not an enlightened and generous prince learn to make himself the favorite of his countrymen?"
                  The ship had now threaded her way through the devious channel which conducted between overhanging bluffs to the green bank of shore, and, casting anchor abreast of the little town; saluted the inhabitants with a blast of martial music, and the display of a hundred gay flags of different nations. The multitude on the ramparts, and many who had put off in boats bedecked with silken streamers, now burst into a simultaneous cheer, and afar up in the precipices, a thousand echoes replied to the wild acclaim. Prince Selim, standing beside the captain, near the stern of the ship, could behold the entire population of the place, seemingly actuated by a single emotion of enthusiasm, and he began to forget that Ali-Naro was only a freebooter, and to fancy that he witnessed the greeting of a faithful city's inhabitants, to some victorious king who had brought succor to their distresses.
                  But, when, disembarking, the corsair-chief conducted his guest to a beautiful castle which was built upon a lofty eminence, back of the village, and from out of a screen of thick foliage, commanding a view of the ocean for miles on every side; and when, to the hall of audience where Ali-Naro sat, like a sultan at his divan, came hundreds of the happy islanders, thronging to bid their leader welcome; stern, swarthy men wreathing their fierce faces with smiles, and beautiful women kissing the old mariner's hands, and gentle children climbing around his seat—while, all the time, great shouts arose without, and the din of merry music shook the entire island—Prince Selim was well-nigh bewildered, and thought to himself, that such a welcome had never greeted his father on returning to Guzan. And, then, remembering Ali-Naro's words, the young prince said to himself:
                  "If a corsair is thus beloved and reverenced, why may not a prince be? I will be just to my people, and merit their affection—if, in his good time, Allah shall please to give to me the crown of Guzan."
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER V.
                  THE "ISLE OF EAGLES."
                  A SHORT stay at the "Isle of Eagles" was necessary to afford opportunity to Ali-Naro to refit his vessels completely, and to select from his entire force a number sufficient for his proposed expedition to the island of Guzan, whither he designed at once to escort the prince, his guest. During this time, Selim had leisure to examine the corsair's isle and its inhabitants, and he found much to claim his admiration. Possessed of boundless wealth, the accumulation of his predatory career; and, moreover, inspired by a rare taste, combined with an educated mind, Ali-Naro had taken delight in beautifying and enriching the little island which he claimed as his own. The hand of art had shaped the growth of nature, by refined cultivation, and embellished every portion of the domain with peculiar and appropriate graces. The luxuriance of woods afforded scope for all that could be achieved in forest architecture, and bosky dells, sylvan grots, arbors, caves, and labyrinthine walks, extended from the eminence on which Ali-Naro's castle was built, down to the green terraces that sloped to the transparent bay. Lovely white cottages dotted the landscape on either side, and fragrant gardens, encircling these, sent up continually a breath of perfume to the heights.
                  Nor had beauty alone been considered, in its sensuous aspect, by the planner of this corsair's paradise. Usefulness possessed its share in the adornment of the "Isle of Eagles." Not only were barracks, white-walled and neat, prepared for the mariners-on shore, but a large hospital, supplied with all the aids of the healing art, provided for the wants of those among the crews who might be wounded or sick. A mosque for prayer attested the reverence of the outlaws for the forms of their religion, if it did not answer for their observance of all the Koran's principles, and workshops, fisheries, and fields of corn, agreeably diversified the prospect, wherever, from his chamber in the castle, Prince Selim permitted his gaze to wander. Altogether, the "Isle of Eagles" was a habitation fit for great enjoyment, and all the luxury of peace. Strange passion of alternation is that which sways the heart of man. It transformed the rude and savage pirate chief into the calm architect of rural scenery—the destroyer into the beautifier.
                  But not to remain long in his island retreat was Ali-Naro's intention, though the prince would gladly have lingered. In truth, though surrounded by devoted comrades and friends, the corsair chief found little pleasure in the habitation which he had created and made lovely, for the enjoyment of another—that unfortunate son whose bones had so long lain upon the "Isle of Death," and now, bedewed with the tears of hundreds who loved the youth, were laid silently away in a sequestered grove beside a stream that murmured its gentle requiem as it rippled to the seashore. No display of grief had been permitted on the occasion of re interring poor Ali's remains—only a simple procession of rough men, and women leading their children by the hand, went out from the castle's porch, and proceeded silently and solemnly to the place of sepulture. Prince Selim once more offered up a prayer—the last, and all was over with the corsair's erring son.
                  But not with the father's sorrow. After the burial, though Ali-Naro spoke not of the dead, it was easy to perceive that his thoughts were busy. No more repose, no more of quiet existence for the pirate chieftain. Action—quick, energetic existence, the storm, the tumult of battle—these were the alternations craved for by the strong man's spirit. He hurried, therefore, all preparations necessary for the departure of his vessels, and bidding adieu to those who remained, under the lieutenant of the island, set sail once more from the beautiful isle, to try again the fortunes of his ocean career.
                  In the rude but disciplined community of outlaws, which formed the crews of Ali-Naro's little fleet, his departed son had held the post of lieutenant, and on taking their departure from the "Isle of Eagles," the captain signified to his comrades that, on this expedition, Prince Selim should be obeyed as second in command. The corsair directed this, at once as a mark of his esteem for the prince, and for the purpose of accustoming his men to regard the latter as one of their number, with authority to lead them, should aught befall their real commander. Selim at first objected to this distinction, but acceded to the request of Ali-Naro, who enforced it by many good reasons.
                  "We know not," said the old chief, "what may have occurred in the island of Guzan during your absence. It is probable that the king, your father, may be no more, and your brothers in possession of the throne; or, what is likelier still, engaged in civil war for the succession. No better conduct may be looked for than to disgrace their father's memory."
                  "Talk not of my dear father's death," cried Selim, with emotion. "He was in good health, when we left Guzan, and will I trust be spared to his country many a year."
                  "It is best to provide for emergences, nevertheless," rejoined Ali-Naro, "and for this reason, I desire you to follow my directions. Should such an event as your father's decease (which Allah forbid!) have taken place, there is no reason to suppose that your brothers will regard your sudden appearance with much pleasure. They may intrigue, in fact, they may attempt once more your assassination. I would have you prepared for this, with faithful followers, who will protect your life, and assist you in asserting whatever rights you may claim. Therefore, my dear prince, I would have you divide with me the authority of the expedition, undertaken for your interest, and let me announce you to my comrades, as my lieutenant."
                  "Be it so, then, Ali-Naro!" answered the prince. "I will endeavor to act as becomes a brave man."
                  "That will be but natural to you," said the corsair, as he turned away to communicate to his men the position in which the prince (already very popular with all) would henceforth stand to them. The announcement was received with a hearty response by all the swarthy rovers.
                  In accordance with his new responsibility Selim devoted himself assiduously to the performance of every duty incumbent upon the second in command. He shared with Ali-Naro the task of drilling and exercising the men, superintended their labors, adjusted their differences, and oftentimes participated in the rough sports with which they were accustomed to while away the tedium of a calm; and in a brief space there was not one of these sons of adventure, who would not have followed the prince through every peril, and stood by him to the death in any quarrel.
                  But the Indian Ocean was to be traversed for nearly its whole extent before the island of Guzan could be reached, and in order to replenish the supply of fresh water, the "Green Bird" cast anchor, one delightful evening, at the mouth of a clear river which flowed from a range of mountains that formed one of the sea-walls of an island called Divonduron. Here, with several boat's crews of the hardy mariners, Prince Selim disembarked, the men being all supplied with skins and other vessels for the conveyance of fresh water, which Ali-Naro knew could be obtained in great abundance at this place. And it is here that we shall take the liberty of preceding the arrival of the prince, and advert to another character, not yet introduced to the reader, but who will be hereafter involved in the fortunes of our story.
                  
                  The island of Divonduron was the seat of an extensive kingdom, which boasted several cities of great splendor, and many rich villages both inland and seaboard. It was governed by an old monarch, who, although rather rigid in his rule, was, nevertheless, quite popular with his people, and it possessed not only wealthy towns, brave citizens, and a good king, but moreover the most beautiful princess imaginable; in the person of the king's daughter, the charming Azna-Alwaz. With the loveliness of this wonderful maiden all the painters of the kingdom were in ecstasies, whilst all the priests prayed daily for her health, and every mother on the island wished devoutly for such a handsome daughter. When first born, the sagest counsellors of the king went into transports as they beheld her lying in her cradle, and prophesied all sorts of good fortune for the happy infant. The good king, her father, was, of course, almost beside himself, gazing continually upon the dear child, and decreed at once that she should be called Azna-Alwaz, which in the language of the country, signifies "Beautiful Diamond."
                  As the young princess grew up to maidenhood, she grew if possible more graceful and lovely in form and feature, whilst her mind became the abode of purity and her heart the temple of goodness. It was no wonder, then, that all the youths of her father's kingdom should adore her, or that the fame of her perfections should travel beyond the borders of Divonduron, and inspire the princes of neighboring countries with an intense desire to behold and possess the marvellous maiden. Notwithstanding this, however, nature had given to Azna-Alwaz so much good sense and discretion, that she became neither vain nor haughty, but preserved a modest demeanor that won all hearts to her service.
                  From kingdoms near and far arrived continually a succession of ambassadors, with portraits of young monarchs, who ardently wished to prove themselves worthy of espousing the fair Azna-Alwaz. These messengers extolled the virtue of their respective masters, and portrayed the felicity which any princess would be likely to enjoy in a union with such royal excellence. At the same time, with many genuflections, they threw themselves, one after another, before the maiden, and laid the portraits of young, old and middle-aged, short, tall and medium, dark, light, and dubious, suitors at her beautiful feet. But Azna-Alwaz merely glanced at them without manifesting, or even feeling any emotion of interest for the handsomest. Thus the years passed, till the princess had attained her sixteenth summer, at which time it became necessary, in accordance with an ancient law of the land, that the heir-apparent to the throne should select a partner. But Azna-Alwaz still exhibited no preference for any of her many admirers.
                  It was then that the king, her father, after kissing her tenderly, spoke to her in these words: "O, Azna-Alwaz, painful is it for me to compel you to think of marrying, for by so doing I must inevitably lose your sweet presence. Nevertheless, the custom of our land must be obeyed. It is time, therefore, my dear child, that you should prepare to unite yourself with some prince worthy of your hand. But of the many who solicit this honor, choose, then, O, my daughter, one whom you can love, and espouse him immediately; so shall the laws be obeyed, and the power and extent of our sovereignty enlarged."
                  "Sire," replied the beautiful princess, "I confess there is none among all these suitors who can awaken in my bosom the feeling of love; nevertheless, I cannot refuse to comply with the wishes of my kind father, and I will marry the prince whom your majesty's wisdom shall think fitting to be my husband."
                  The old king embraced his daughter with great affection. "Heaven will reward your obedience, my child," he cried. "And if you will abide by my choice, I think I can select a partner who is every way fitted to make my daughter happy. I mean the prince of Caranor."
                  Azna-Alwaz exhibited no emotion at hearing the name of this suitor mentioned by her father. The young prince had often visited her father's kingdom, and was now very shortly expected to arrive. Azna-Alwaz had seen and perhaps admired him, for the prince of Caranor was a man whom ninety-nine women out of a hundred would have fallen in love with at first sight, so favored was he by nature with a handsome form, an intelligent face, and amiable manners. Yet with all these advantages, he had failed to make an impression on the heart of our lovely princess.
                  However, it was no more customary for maidens to marry for love in those days than it is at present; so it made little difference to the old monarch of Divonduron whether Azna-Alwaz liked or disliked the person he had chosen, so long as she was contented to marry him. Consequently, the wedding preparations were immediately ordered, and the prince of Caranor was made acquainted with his sudden good fortune.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  THE PRINCESS ALNA-ALWAZ.
                  THE Princess Alna-Alwaz used often to wander alone, in the quiet summer time upon a pleasant silver-sanded beach that stretched far away to the sea-shore behind the gardens of her father's palace. Often, either in the early morning, or at the close of day, when the rays of the setting sun fell in a brilliant shower of crimson and gold upon the broad ocean surface and glittering sands of the shore, the young maiden would leave her bower, and, without a single attendant, traverse the royal gardens, and descending the green terraces that overlooked the beach, pass an hour or more in watching the ships gliding to and fro upon the distant horizon.
                  Sometimes Azna-Alwaz would seat herself upon a high rock, the base of which was laved by rolling waves, and there listen to the melancholy music of the wind, and the swell of the surf high up on the pebbly strand. At such times, it is true, the young maiden would have dreams in which her imagination pictured a brave and noble lover, daring all sorts of dangers, and undergoing every species of ill usage for the love of a peerless lady like herself; but in these visions none of the faces of her suitors, not even that of Prince Caranor, answered to the ideal of her fancy.
                  It was upon one of these occasions, and shortly after she had given her consent to wed the prince of Caranor, that Azna-Alwaz met with an adventure which entirely changed the current of her thoughts, and inspired her with a feeling that banished all the calmness of her former existence.
                  She was listlessly pacing the lowest garden terrace, and looking forth, as was her wont, from a thick grove that concealed it, into the depths of the great sea, when the sound of men's voices, in loud conversation, suddenly awakened her from her reveries. Glancing fearfully in the direction of the beach below her, the princess saw that several boats' crews had just effected a landing on the shore, and, climbing the bank, were advancing toward the spot where she stood. Her first thought was to fly toward the palace, but the next moment, perceiving by their manner, that the strangers had not discovered her, she moved quietly away from the terrace and concealed herself amid the dense thicket which bordered a cluster of trees that half surrounded a fountain upon the highest terrace, from which the water was conducted by several channels to moisten every part of the palace gardens. Scarcely had the maiden thus screened herself from observation, when she beheld the strange men ascend to within a very few yards of the fountain, and proceed to make preparations for drawing water out of a pool or reservoir into which the jet fell, before it was dispersed through the grounds. Azna-Alwaz then knew that the intruders were mariners who had doubtless landed from one of the vessels in sight, in order to obtain a supply of water. Shrinking back, therefore among the leaves, she watched them closely, waiting till they should fill their tubs and skins with the crystal element, and move toward the beach, when she could easily make good her flight to the palace.
                  But it was evident that the sailors were either totally unaware that the gardens upon which they had intruded were attached to the royal palace, or else the fellows were a most reckless and independent set; for they ceased not, during their work, to laugh and make merry, chasing one another about the pool, and splashing the water to and fro, with all the indifference conceivable. Azna-Alwaz indeed could not help being diverted by their uncouth motions and grimaces, as the water was dashed in their faces.
                  But suddenly the noisy gambols came to an end, and the mariners drew themselves quickly together, as the figure of a man approached from the beach. Every red cap was lifted at once from the sunburnt brows of the seamen; and a respectful salutation made to the new-comer; after which they resumed their task of replenishing the water vessels. Azna-Alwaz felt her eyes irresistibly drawn toward the stranger, who spoke in a clear, manly voice to the crew.
                  "Make haste!" cried he. "The wind is changing, and we must aboard immediately. Give way, my boys!"
                  The mariners, who had by this time filled all the skins and tubs, began to lift them upon each other's shoulders, and then, one by one, took their departure from the pool, whilst their chief, for such he appeared to be, folded his arms across his breast, and gazed around him with a glance that seemed to take in earth and sky with one wide sweep; so that the concealed princess almost feared that she was discovered, and shrank back trembling among the leaves that sheltered her.
                  But Azna-Alwaz had no cause for apprehension, inasmuch as the stranger was too much wrapt in his own reflections, whatever these might be, to take note of aught that might overlook his motions. Consequently the princess, securely hidden, had a good opportunity of studying his features.
                  But, perhaps it would have been better for the princess not to have regarded the young chief with so much attention; for she began at once to experience a sensation in her bosom quite new and perplexing. A feeling as if she had suddenly discovered something of which she had long been in quest took possession of her heart, and she trembled with anxiety lest she should as suddenly be deprived of it. It seemed to her, while her eyes dwelt upon the stranger's face, that she had never before beheld so perfect a picture of manly beauty; a white forehead, shaded by glossy, clustering ringlets, a finely-moulded nose, and full, rich lips, between which gleamed a set of teeth white as pearls. A majestic beard, closely curled around his throat, depended on his breast, and there was about his whole person an air inexpressibly noble.
                  It is little to be wondered at, then, that Azna-Alwaz should feel a growing interest in the young chief, or that she trembled lest he should turn away. She could, as it appeared to her, have gazed forever upon that noble face; and when, at length, the stranger descended from the terrace and followed the mariners to their boats, the poor princess felt as if a cloud had come across the sunlight of her life. She crept from her hiding-place, and watched the party until they had pushed off from the beach, and were tossing on the shining waves; and when, at length, she could no longer discern the boats, and beheld, too, that the evening was closing in, she slowly retraced her steps toward the palace, with tears filling her beautiful eyes, and the image of the stranger chief fixed in her memory forever.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  SELIM'S RETURN TO GUZAN.
                  OUR readers have doubtless already divined that the stranger with whom the Princess Azna-Alwaz had fallen so evidently in love, at the close of the last chapter, was no other than the Prince Selim, who had landed upon the island of Divonduron, in order to procure water supplies for the good ship "Green Bird." Doubtless, it would have been very flattering to the young man to have been aware that he had inspired so warm a feeling in the breast of such a lovely maiden as was Azna-Alwaz, and that, too, after she had been admired and sought by so many powerful and handsome princes; but he remained totally unconscious of the fact, and returned to the ship, with the mariners, without experiencing any of the strange emotions which at that time were agitating the princess of Divonduron. He found Ali-Naro awaiting him very impatiently.
                  "We must take advantage of this favorable breeze," said the old corsair. "Nothing need now delay our proceeding to Guzan, where I trust we shall arrive in a very few days."
                  "Yonder isle of Divonduron is a lovely spot, if one might judge by a portion of it," said Selim. "I stood on a lofty terrace near where we drew the water, and beheld a prospect that reminded me much of your own fair 'Isle of Eagles.'"
                  "Divonduron is noted as a country of great riches and beauty," returned Ali-Naro; "I have myself looked from the terrace where you stood, and remember well how fine a landscape lay beneath, True, prince, Divonduron from that spot, may resemble the 'Isle of Eagles.'"
                  Ali-Naro, saying this, turned abruptly away, for the mention of the isle which he had designed as a princely residence for his son, brought too vividly before him poor Ali's fate. Selim observed the old chief's uneasiness, and regretted that he had recalled the painful theme. But he knew that words of consolation would be useless, and so, walking to the stern of the ship, he leaned upon the high bulwark, and watched the receding shores of Divonduron till the shadows of evening gathered darkly in, and the face of the ocean became undistinguishable in the gloom.
                  After a pleasant and rapid run of several days, the "Green Bird" reached that portion of the sea in which the island of Guzan was situated, and soon after Selim beheld with delight the towers of his native city visible afar, for the capital of his kingdom lay some leagues inland, while the harbor and port was the residence of a large population of merchants and ocean-traders.
                  The "Green Bird" and her two smaller companions panions speedily cast anchor in the roadstead, and Ali-Naro, summoning the choicest of his followers, directed them to make all needful preparations for escorting Prince Selim to the capital. In a short time, the people of the port, who had collected in crowds upon the great pier, to view the armed vessels which had suddenly appeared, beheld a half-dozen boats advancing toward the shore filled with fierce-looking men, apparently armed to the teeth.
                  Ali-Naro had, however, before disembarking, taken the precaution to place a white flag at the prow of the foremost boat, in which he sat, beside Prince Selim; or very likely a panic might have been occasioned among the inhabitants whose peaceful harbor had been thus unceremoniously entered by vessels-of-war. As it was, the corsair beheld, on drawing near the landing-place, that quite a large body of soldiers were drawn up in martial array, to receive the visitors in such manner as their behaviour might warrant. Thus matters stood when the prince of Guzan, at the head of the crews, and accompanied by Ali-Naro, stepped on the wide pier.
                  The young man's noble features and stately form were immediately recognized by the people, and a shout of welcome rose at once, clearly demonstrating that Selim was quite as popular as ever. The military, clashing their arms, joined in the acclamation, and for several minutes nothing could be heard but the name of "Selim" uttered by hundreds, and mingled with all sorts of joyful cries.
                  At length, when the tumult had partially subsided, and Selim obtained a little respite from the gratulations of those who pressed eagerly forward to salute him, a deputation of the eldest merchants of the port advanced slowly toward the prince, and formally expressed their joy at beholding him return in safety, after having given up all hopes of ever seeing him again.
                  "Then my brothers—Osmyn and Nadab—they have returned?" cried Selim, eagerly.
                  "Many weeks since, and it was the sad intelligence brought by them, of your disappearance at the fatal island of the Upas tree, which so affected the good king your sire, that—"
                  The venerable merchant, who was the leader of the citizens, here paused, as if loth to proceed. Prince Selim at once comprehended that a great misfortune had befallen him.
                  "My father!—the king!—speak!" he cried, anxiously, clasping his hands together.
                  "Alas! he is with Allah! The news of your loss, brought by the princes your brothers, affected our beloved monarch so deeply, that he never recovered the shock. He died three days ago."
                  "O, Allah! Allah! sustain me with thy strength!" said the pious prince, as sinking upon the ground, he covered his face with his robe, hiding the tears that gushed fast from his eyes. Ali-Naro and the rough corsair-crew, as well as the merchants and populace of the place, felt their hearts stirred with pity for the noble prince, so stricken with grief. Many sobs and moans were now heard in place of the joyful exclamations that had so lately greeted the returned prince, and not a few of the spectators knelt upon the ground like Selim, and mingled their prayers with his.
                  "It would be well if the princes his brothers felt their father's loss so deeply as does our good Selim!" whispered one of the old merchants to another beside him. "It is said they have not even wept over his bier."
                  "I fear me those princes will yet cause trouble in Guzan!" answered the other. "For my part, were I to choose, Selim should be our next king, and his brothers have no part at all in the government."
                  "So say I," said the first merchant. "But that is for the council of the mosque to decide, and it is said the late king signified how the choice of his successor should be made."
                  "Ay, I have heard," replied the second old man. "But, see! Prince Selim rises! He will speak to us, I think!"
                  The crowd drew back respectfully as the prince, rising to his feet, looked around with a sad but calm countenance.
                  "Friends," he said, "it is not for us to murmur at the dispensations of Allah! He is wise, and orders all things for our good. Great joy would it have been to me, could I have seen my dear father ere he died, and received his parting blessing; but such was not to be. Now, my fellow-countrymen, let me perform another duty—to present to you my friend and preserver, Ali-Naro—here beside me—to whom I am indebted for my rescue from a dreadful fate. He is my friend, and will henceforth be the friend of my countrymen."
                  At the mention of the name of Ali-Naro, which had a terrible sound to the merchants—many of whom had in past days suffered from the corsair's sair's depredations, a general murmur pervaded all present. But when they looked upon the noble face of their young prince, and the grave features of him whom he called Ali-Naro, and when, with mercantile shrewdness, they quickly perceived how valuable would be the amity of so renowned a pirate, whose future friendship was here guarantied, and when, at the same time, they learned that to the corsair the prince of Guzan owed his life, it is not to be marvelled at that a loud shout should at once arise, and the names of Selim and Ali-Naro be vociferated with the greatest energy. The old corsair smiled-grimly, and lifted his cap of crimson silk in acknowledgment of the welcome, and then, marshalling his men in good order, prepared to accompany Prince Selim from the seaport to the capital, a distance of about a league.
                  A couple of fine horses were soon provided for the two leaders, and hundreds of the merchants, mounted likewise, followed by a great concourse of the people, with banners and instruments of music. Thus Prince Selim was escorted, in somewhat of the guise of a conqueror, to the seat of his late father's kingdom. The corsairs, to the number of three hundred men, formed his body-guard, and doubtless many thousands more could be found in the country, who, at his word, would defend his right and title to the throne above the claims of his brothers; though none knew, as yet, of the treacherous conduct of the latter toward the innocent Selim.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  THE TRIAL OF ARROWS.
                  IN the meantime, matters were going on apparently very much to the satisfaction of Osmyn and Nadab. These wicked princes, on their return to Guzan, had immediately presented themselves before the king their father, arrayed in garments of deep mourning, and wearing countenances of profound sorrow. Throwing themselves at the old monarch's feet, they had, with much affectation of violent grief, informed him of the loss of their dear brother Selim upon the "Isle of Death." Calling the captain of their vessel to corroborate the statement, they minutely detailed the sad incidents of their landing upon the Upas isle, and described their frantic search for the lost prince till the approach of night constrained them, through fear of their own lives, to give up the hope of rescuing him. They did not allude to aught that had previously occurred, never mentioning a syllable concerning their visit to the astrologer Rahbek, or of the prediction concerning Selim. These facts they chose rather to keep to themselves, lest their discovery should awaken some remark, if not suspicion.
                  The tidings of his favorite son's death was like a dagger stroke to the old king of Guzan. He never recovered from the blow, but began to droop immediately, and in a very few weeks was gathered to his fathers. But ere he died, he called around his bed the principal men of his kingdom, together with the priests, called the Council of the Mosque, and disclosed to them his wishes regarding the selection of a successor to the throne of Guzan.
                  "When I am dead," said the old monarch, "let my body be anointed, and clothed in my royal robes, with the crown upon my head. Then bear me forth to the plain beyond our city, and place me upon the ivory throne, with my face turned toward Mecca. Let the councillors and wise men surround me, as in life, and let the king's guard be drawn up in array. Then, let my two sons Osmyn and Nadab be summoned, and placed one hundred yards in front of the throne. Let them prepare their arrows and bows, and when the chief priest shall give the word, let them in succession shoot each an arrow at my heart. He who shall pierce nearest to the heart shall be my successor and reign over Guzan."
                  The wise men and priests marvelled greatly at this singular desire of the old king, but when, with a solemn voice, he had repeated it, and bidden the scribes to write it upon parchment, they conceived that in his strange command, the monarch was doubtless actuated by some higher direction; so they promised with one consent to fulfil the task enjoined upon them.
                  "Swear this to me, by Allah and the Prophet!" said the king.
                  And with one voice the wise men and priests answered—"We swear!"
                  In compliance, therefore, with the will, no sooner did the monarch breathe his last, than he was washed and anointed with oil and perfumes, and after being arrayed in fine linen and clad in his usual royal robes, was borne to the grand mosque, where prayers were offered for his soul's repose, and many ceremonies, suited to the rank of the departed, performed with great solemnity. Osmyn and Nadab the princes stood on either side of the body, while the priests chanted their prayers, and though, as was noticed by many, no tears flowed from the eyes of the two princes, yet their countenances wore an exceeding gloomy expression, and they beat their breasts, and threw ashes on their beards, as if they suffered the most poignant anguish. But, in truth, all the while, these hypocrites were conscious of no real sorrow for the loss of their good father, but were thinking, on the contrary, of the trial of skill which was to take place between them, in which the successful archer should win the crown of Guzan.
                  After the ceremonies in the mosque were ended, the will of the deceased king was read to the assembled people, and then lights were placed at the head and foot of the corpse, which was suffered to remain, well-guarded by the priests, for one night in the sacred edifice.
                  Next morning, in slow procession, to the sound of solemn music, the body was borne from the mosque to the great plain beyond the city, and there placed, as in life, upon the royal throne of ivory and gold, with its heart exposed, and its face turned toward the east. And there, while thousands of the people, came hourly forth, to gaze upon the features of their dead monarch, the immovable king remained till the third day, on which was to take place the trial of skill that was to award the sovereignty of Guzan to the son who should pierce nearest to his father's heart.
                  All these things, Prince Selim learned while on his way from the seaport to the capital, and when at length he neared the city, and came in sight of the immense assemblage which covered the plain on which his royal father sat in death, he could no longer restrain his feelings, but breaking away from the merchants, people, Ali-Naro and all, he set spurs to his steed, and galloped swiftly in advance, impatient-to look upon his parent's face.
                  As he rode thus wildly forward, many of the people recognized the features of their young prince, and shouted his name, which was communicated from one to another; so that, almost as soon as his arrival near the throne, the vast multitude who filled the plain, had become aware of the return of him whom they had believed lost forever. And, when, at last, the hurrying crowds beheld the horseman leap from his saddle at the foot of the royal chair, and ascending its ivory steps, cast himself prostrate at the dead monarch's feet, and grasping his cold hands, covered them with kisses, the assemblage with spontaneous sympathy, set up a shout that shook the very skies, and rolled along the wide plain to the city walls like a roar of continuous thunder.
                  Osmyn and Nadab, too, seated among the priests and councillors, near the throne, beheld the form of their brother, appearing before them like one arisen from the grave, and at first their superstitious terror almost overcome them. It seemed as though Heaven had permitted the spirit of the murdered prince to return and convict them of their perfidy. But when, in a few moments, they became convinced that it was no other than the living form of Selim, their hardihood returned to them, and they resolved at once to make the best of the matter. Rising, therefore, with the priests, they advanced hurriedly to the throne, and, as Selim rose from his embrace of the dead, presented themselves with outstretched arms as if to welcome him.
                  By this time Ali-Naro and his three hundred corsairs, together with the multitude who had accompanied Selim from the seaport, arrived in front of the ivory throne. The old captain beheld the two young men, whom he recognized by their dress as the princes, approach and proffer their hands to the prince whom they had so basely abandoned to almost certain destruction; but what was his surprise, likewise, to see Selim accept the embrace and return their hollow salutation. He could scarcely restrain his indignation from venting itself in an accusation of the two princes before all the people, until Selim, turning from his brothers after the greeting, said in a low tone:
                  "Ali-Naro, wonder not that I make peace with these. In presence of a dead father, it is not fitting that brothers should quarrel."
                  
                  Ali-Naro admired the noble spirit which dictated this conduct of Selim, though for his own part, he would have chosen to brand the princes with their unnatural crime without further delay. But, the priests now approaching, no further remark was possible, and he listened in silence, therefore, whilst the chief councillor welcomed back the young prince, and with much ceremony read to him his father's last commands.
                  "For this ceremony," concluded the councillor, "we are now met together—that a successor may be chosen to our departed sovereign, it is ordained that his sons shall essay their skill with the bow—the time-honored weapon of the brave soldiers of Guzan. It is the third day from our good king's death, and you are come in time, prince, to perform your part. Let the trumpet sound, and the ground be prepared."
                  Saying this, the chief-councillor waved his hand, and straightway a blast of trumpets was heard, followed by strains of melancholy music, during which the soldiers marched from behind the throne, and advancing in close column, cleared a space of several hundred yards in front; the multitudes crowding each other, and rushing to obtain good positions where they could view the trial of archery about to take place.
                  Osmyn and Nadab, tormented with uneasiness at their brother's unlooked for return, not only because they knew him to be at least their equal with the bow, but lest he should be aware of their nefarious treatment of him at the "Isle of Death," nevertheless managed to conceal their annoyance, and proceeded to choose their bows and arrows with much deliberation from a large heap which the soldiers brought to their feet. Apparently, they found much difficulty in suiting themselves with the weapons, for they snapped in pieces many of the bows and arrows as soon as they had handled them. In truth, the importance of the prize for which they were to shoot, rendered them both extremely anxious, and as each prince was regarded as equal to the other in the practice of archery, they knew very well that a slight superiority in bow or arrow might turn the scale of victory. At length, however, the preparations were completed, and Osmyn and Nadab, standing a hundred yards in front of the throne, prepared to discharge their arrows at the dead monarch's undefended heart.
                  During all this time, Prince Selim had remained near the throne, leaning upon Ali-Naro's arm, and gazing fixedly upon his father's placid countenance, which seemed indeed to smile upon the youth even in death. It was not till the chief-councillor again approached him, that he perceived how far the preparations had progressed, and that his two brothers stood ready, Osmyn bending his bow, and fixing the arrow.
                  "It is necessary, Prince Selim," said the aged councillor, "that you choose your weapons in like manner with your brothers. We have sworn to carry out the will of your departed father!"
                  "I do not like this means of chance," said Selim.
                  "What fear you?" demanded the councillor. "Is it not well-known to us all that you are quite as good an archer as is either of your brothers? It is then in your power to win the throne, and that certainly is likewise the popular wish."
                  "Let me reflect," cried Selim, abruptly turning from the councillor, and retiring, with Ali-Naro to the place where the latter's followers were drawn up. And there, while Osmyn and Nadab began the trial, the young prince bowed his head upon his breast, and communed silently with Allah, asking direction from Heaven concerning the part which he was to act in this crisis of his fortunes.
                  Osmyn advanced several paces before his brother, and in sight of all the multitude that covered the plain. He drew his arrow to its head, and stood a moment, poised, and resting on his right foot, a model of strength and daring.
                  Osmyn was, as we have said, the eldest of the princes. He possessed a tall and muscular figure, with vigorous limbs, and broad shoulders. His features were beauty-moulded, and his eye black and piercing; but he lacked the symmetry and beauty which were apparent in Selim's form and face; and his appearance, though at times imposing, was not majestic like the latter's. Nevertheless, as he now stood, with his bow bent, and his eye flashing, there was much that was striking in his appearance.
                  The bow twanged—the arrow clove the air, and sped swiftly toward the throne. But either the wonted skill of Osmyn had failed him at this moment, or some secret agitation had unnerved his arm, for the shaft, instead of striking the body, rung with a loud sound against the royal crown and struck a diamond from its jewelled circlet.
                  The multitude raised a loud cry, apparently well pleased at the ill success of Osmyn, who turned away, with his face pale, and his teeth compressing his discolored lips. It was easy to perceive that the prince was writhing inwardly at his failure.
                  Nadab now approached the stand, with a confident smile upon his features. Nadab, the second son, was different in stature from his elder brother, being neither so tall nor vigorous. His demeanor was not so bold, nor his carriage so resolute; but he wore a self-satisfied and cunning look, which marked him to be the equal of Osmyn, if not in force, at least in artifice. He took a long and steady look at the form of his royal father, and then slowly drew back the arrow.
                  This time there appeared no possibility of a bad shot. The shaft winged its straight course, as many thought, straight for the dead king's heart, and a general shudder ran through all the people, as if the impiety of the act first made itself apparent to their minds. Nadab stood expectant, his bow firmly grasped in his left hand, whilst his eye followed the arrow's flight. Osmyn looked up likewise, a gloomy frown wrinkling his forehead.
                  But the force of the bow had been miscalculated. The shaft, after speeding straight forward at first, began to slacken in speed, and at length fell at the foot of the ivory throne, without having reached its mark.
                  Again a shout like thunder rolled up from the excited spectators, and Nadab turned toward his elder brother, muttering savagely:
                  "There's magic in it. That boy will ruin us!"
                  "He shall not live to do it," returned Osmyn, morosely, casting a meaning look upon his brother.
                  But the attention of both was now immediately directed to him of whom they spoke. Selim, wrapped in his meditations, had not witnessed Osmyn's shot, though made aware of its result by the exclamations of those around him. He had, however, beheld the apparently sure flight of Nadab's arrow, and experienced in his own frame the shudder that simultaneously pervaded the other spectators. But when he saw the weapon, instead of striking his sire, fall spent at the monarch's feet, he could not but feel that the hand of Heaven was directing this seemingly unnatural trial of skill. The reflection gave him new confidence in the providence which had thus far preserved him.
                  But no sooner was the fortune of Nadab ascertained, than a murmur among the populace called loudly for the appearance of the third prince, and Selim's name was once more heard resounding from a thousand throats. The priests, councillors and sages, now surrounded the young prince, and adjured him at once to prepare himself for taking part in the trial.
                  "Here," said an aged noble, pressing forward. "Here, my prince, is a bow, and here a sheaf of arrows, the truest in the land. Heaven, doubtless, designs that you alone should be our king."
                  Selim mechanically clasped the bow which was presented to him, and taking at random an arrow from the bundle, walked slowly toward the stand, followed by all the priests and nobles, and led by Ali-Naro. Here in view of all the throng, he lifted his arms toward heaven, and invoked its protection. Then, fitting the shaft, he drew the bow to his shoulder, and took sight, while the people held their breaths in anxious expectation.
                  But when Prince Selim, glancing from his arrow's level, beheld the object at which he was aiming his weapon—that brow so kingly even in death, that face which had ever smiled upon him—that breast which had been his pillow in infancy and youth, the young man's affection asserted its superiority to all considerations of policy. He contemplated a moment the throned monarch before him, then raising the bow and arrow in his hands, he dashed them suddenly to the ground, and sinking on his knees, cried aloud:
                  "No, no! I cannot do so impious a thing. I cannot aim my weapon at a father's heart. Let my brothers enjoy the throne! I am content, and will yield my claim!"
                  These words were spoken clearly, so that the multitude heard them on every side, and their effect was instantaneous. A low murmur, which gradually swelled into loud acclamations, attested the people's recognition of their young prince's filial piety. From a thousand lips arose the shout:
                  "Selim shall be our king! Selim is the choice of Guzan! We will have no other prince but Selim!"
                  And the populace pressed forward to cast themselves before him.
                  "He shall shoot! He fears to try his skill!" cried Osmyn, almost beside himself with rage, as he witnessed the excitement of the people. He was answered by those around with a clamor of:
                  
                  "No, Osmyn! No Nadab—Selim is our choice."
                  "That I fear not to essay my skill shall be proved," said Selim, calmly, as he stooped, and took up the bow and arrow. "Not at my father's bosom will I shoot—but at yonder hawk."
                  Saying this, Prince Selim fitted his shaft, and directed it toward a large hawk, which at the utmost stretch of an arrow's flight was circling above the heads of the people. It seemed almost impossible to drive a weapon to so great a height, and the elder princes laughed at what they deemed would be a signal failure on the part of their brother. Not so the populace, they waited eagerly till the arrow left its rest, and winged toward the bird of prey, and then another loud shout broke spontaneously from their lips. Ere it had died away, the skill of Selim was no longer to be questioned. The hawk was seen falling swiftly from the lofty flight it had been making, while the arrow, after piercing the bird's neck, was descending at a slower rate through the air.
                  And, O, miracle as it seemed—that shaft, sinking gently, swayed by the wind, dropped upon the breeze and was carried slowly over the ivory throne, whence, descending, it lodged in the bosom of the dead king of Guzan; whilst the hawk fell upon the plain beyond.
                  Prince Selim sank upon his knees, with the bow clasped between his united hands. The people shouted not, for they recognized a power in this, above all human providence. But the priests and nobles advanced to the throne, and the chief councillor, lifting up the arrow, still wet with the hawk's blood, cried in a loud voice:
                  "This is a sign from Allah! The arrow of Prince Selim is nearest to his father's heart! I proclaim therefore Prince Selim as the king of Guzan! Let all hear and obey!"
                  The chief councillor's voice was drowned in the glad response of the multitude, who crowded around their new monarch, whilst Osmyn and Nadab, mounting their horses, rode swiftly away from the plain. Ali-Naro and his corsairs then surrounded Selim, and formed a body-guard, supported on either side by all the Guzan soldiery and populace. And thus the pious prince was escorted to the ivory throne, where, after once more offering thanks for the protection of Heaven, he directed that his royal father's remains should be reverentially placed upon the bier, and carried back to the mosque, thence to be borne to the tombs of the kings of Guzan.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  THE INVASION OF GUZAN.
                  SELIM began his reign over Guzan with all the popularity that could well be enjoyed by a monarch. Nevertheless, the conduct of the elder princes threatened to disturb the tranquillity of the kingdom, unless wise precautions should avert such an evil. The wicked brothers, immediately after the choice of Selim as king by the council and people, took their departure in one of the royal ships from the island, and setting sail at once for the dominions of a neighboring potentate who had always been the enemy of Guzan, threw themselves upon his protection, asserting that they had been driven from their inheritance by an usurper, and promising him a share in the kingdom if he would aid them in re-establishing their rights.
                  The king of Xanda, the name of the country to which the princes fled, was quite willing to receive the two brothers, but at that time he was engaged in warfare with another power, and could not promise them immediate assistance. He, however, tendered them posts in his army, which Osmyn and Nadab at once accepted, hoping to influence the king of Xanda to espouse their cause, as soon as he should be successful in the war he was prosecuting.
                  Selim, on first learning of the absence of his brothers, conjectured that, aware of his knowledge of their former treachery, they feared his vengeance now that he could wield the power of Guzan. He therefore sent, messengers to assure them of his friendly feeling toward them both, and his forgetfulness of all the past, inviting them at the same time to return to their country, and, indeed, offering them posts of honor in the government. To these overtures they replied, that they were very well content to remain at Xanda, and when they desired to return to Guzan, they should not consult his pleasure. This answer put a stop to all further efforts on the part of Selim, though he cherished no ill feeling towards his brothers, and in fact would willingly have contributed to their good in any proper way.
                  But the affairs of his kingdom soon began to occupy the attention of the young monarch more than could the concerns of such ingrates as Osmyn and Nadab, and he called around him his father's ablest councillors, in order to fully understand the requirements of his people. He found great assistance, likewise, in the experience and decision of the old corsair-chief, who could not only give instruction in points of nautical and military discipline, but likewise in diplomatic action; for the pirate in his earlier days had seen much of both camp and court. It was therefore with deep regret that Selim heard the latter announce, one morning, his intention of leaving Guzan, and resuming his wild life upon the Indian Ocean.
                  
                  "I cannot remain, my young prince," said the corsair. "This inactive life on shore eats into my soul. My thoughts continually dwell upon that unfortunate boy, and vainly do I strive to banish his image. On the broad ocean, and perhaps in conflict alone, can I hope to find respite from bitter memories."
                  "Alas, my friend, I sympathize with you," replied the king. "I have perceived that for some time past, your mind has been overcharged. Yet, I had hoped that I could find honorable occupation for you in forming a navy for the defence of Guzan. Should my brothers obtain means to invade their native country, I shall miss your counsel and support."
                  "You shall have both, prince!" cried the corsair, earnestly. "Wherever I may be, should war threaten you, I will return and defend your kingdom. But, war to this realm is, I trust, distant, and perhaps will never come."
                  "But where shall I seek you, should there be urgent need of your services?" asked Selim.
                  "I will leave with you one of my most devoted followers, who is equally attached to yourself. Moussa is a true man, and will serve you faithfully—and should danger threaten, despatch him at once to the 'Isle of Eagles,' and there he will learn of my whereabouts."
                  "And will nought induce you to remain with me, Ali-Naro?" inquired the young monarch.
                  "If aught could retain me, it would be my friendship for you, noble prince," answered the corsair. "But I feel that the land is not my place. The wild tempest, the mountain-wave, the shock of battle—these are my true life, and in these I must seek refuge from oppressive thoughts."
                  Selim saw that it would be vain to urge the subject, and therefore reluctantly consented to the departure of his outlaw friend, who shortly after set sail from Guzan, leaving his follower Moussa in the service of the king.
                  But the apprehensions expressed by Selim regarding the designs of his brothers, were not without foundation, as became manifest in a very short time after Ali-Naro's vessels had left the island. Osmyn and Nadab from the day of their arrival in Xanda, had not ceased to represent to the king of that country the position of Guzan, and the facility with which he might make an attack upon their brother, whom they charged with every sort of crime. The monarch of Xanda at length resolved to fit out an expedition against his ancient enemies the inhabitants of Guzan.
                  His measures were well taken, and cunningly concealed for a long time; so that nearly the first intimation that king Selim had of the peril which threatened him was the intelligence brought in by a fisherman that a large fleet was manœuvering not three days' sail from the entrance of the port.
                  At once the monarch made vigorous preparations for defence. Calling to him the trusty Moussa, on whose judgment he could rely, he bade him at once proceed in a small armed vessel to the mouth of the harbor, for the purpose of reconnoitering the enemy's force. "If they present a formidable appearance," was his instruction to the corsair, "delay not to make all sail for the 'Isle of Eagles.' Arriving there, you will inform Ali-Naro of my straits, and return with him as speedily as possible to Guzan. I, in the meantime, will defend my kingdom against the invader, who I doubt not is conducted hither by my unnatural brothers."
                  Moussa took leave of the monarch, with assurances of his devoted service, and, embarking in a small vessel belonging to the government, immediately proceeded to fulfil the duty imposed upon him; whilst Selim, convoking the councillors of his kingdom, laid before them the intelligence he had received of the approaching enemy, and called upon them to assist him to take proper measures for repelling the invasion. Much alarm was manifested by the worthy dignitaries, so that their advice became of little importance; whereupon Selim ordered his military officers to muster at once all the able-bodied men of the kingdom, and directed his treasurer to provide the means of arming and equipping the soldiers that should be levied.
                  In a much shorter period of time than Selim anticipated, he found himself at the head of quite a respectable army, and set himself to the work of disciplining it with great vigor. At the same time he took measures to strengthen the seaport of Guzan, by erecting new defences and posting large bodies in positions where they could survey any advancing ship. He likewise collected all the vessels that could be of service, which he manned and armed, and placed at the mouth of the harbor. Thus prepared, Selim awaited the appearance of the foe.
                  Nor was he compelled to wait long. The king of Xanda was an old soldier, and knew very well that too much notice should never be given of an enemy's approach. He soon showed himself, with a large force of ships, and made active preparations for a landing on the very day in which he reached the island.
                  At first the defenders of the seaport conducted themselves with great resolution, bravely attacking the invaders, wherever they endeavored to effect a descent, and driving many of them to their ships. At the same time, the small armed vessels of Guzan engaged some of the Xanda fleet, and succeeded in capturing two, which they burned in sight of the assailants.
                  During this defence, which lasted for a whole day, the young king Selim directed the operations with skill and coolness, and on several occasions led the attack against his enemies; so that when the approach of night occasioned a cessation of hostilities, the old councillors of Guzan began to feel less tremulous, and ventured to hope that the invaders would be successfully resisted.
                  But, though the assault had been discontinued, Selim did not neglect throughout the entire night, to make every possible disposition of his strength for a renewal of the defence on the following morning. He visited every post, encouraged the citizen soldiers, and exhorted them, by all they held dear, to continue the brave conduct which they had thus far exhibited. Besides this, he took steps for strengthening the approaches to his capital, in order, if compelled to fall back from the seaport, to be enabled to dispute the passage of the king of Xanda to the interior.
                  The morning dawned, and at the first gleam of light, the young monarch was on the field. The enemy was equally alert, and had already directed a large force upon a point below the town which had not been attacked on the preceding day. Thither Selim despatched a body of his men, whilst he himself directed the main defence of the town.
                  The assailants met with quite as warm a reception on this as on their previous attempt. The defenders of the place, principally merchants, fishermen and mariners, fought under their prince's eye with unbated ardor, and steadfastly resisted the most strenuous efforts of the foe to land upon the shore. Several of the Xanda vessels were fired during the morning, and their crews forced to abandon them; and when the sun began to sink in the evening sky, scarcely a single advantage had been achieved by the assailing army. The shore was strewn with arms, and dead and dying men, and many wrecks of the dismantled vessels drifted high upon the beach, and were speedily made use of as intrenchments for the brave islanders.
                  "If my gallant people fight thus to-morrow," said Selim, "we shall teach these marauders a lesson they will never forget. As it is, I doubt if they venture against our capital, after 
                        these, vere
                        the severe
                      treatment they experience at the seaport."
                  "Our brave citizens fight well indeed," said the officer to whom the king spoke. "And I doubt not we shall be able to beat off the enemy. But another assault is approaching, even now it is here."
                  This assault, as it soon appeared was led by the king of Xanda in person, who, enraged at the constant repulses which his troops had received, during the greater portion of two days, was now resolved to retrieve his disasters by leading a final attack that he doubted not would carry everything before it. For this purpose he had gathered all his choicest soldiers and mariners, a reserved force, and inspiring them with the promise of unchecked pillage, advanced in a semi-circle of boats, in order to concentrate his assault upon the very centre of the town.
                  King Selim on his part collected all his veterans of the previous conflicts, together with such forces as he could withdraw from the roads leading toward his capital, and marshalling them behind the defences of the port, prepared to lead them against the king of Xanda. He did not seek to inflame their courage by an harangue, for he could see in their determined looks the resolution which they felt to beat off the foemen, or perish before their young monarch's eye. Staying therefore only till the Xandians had begun to disembark, he waved his sword above his head, and led the way towards them.
                  The presence and example of both monarchs produced a great effect upon the action of their troops. They rushed to the conflict with such determination and energy, that very soon the battle became bloody and desperate. The two kings met in the first shock, and for a long time their swords mingled in contest. At length, a fortunate stroke of Selim, who was an accomplished swordsman, disabled the king of Xanda's arm, and he was forced backward immediately by the impetuous young prince. His followers perceiving their leader giving way, began to slacken their blows, so that the men of Guzan soon obliged them to take once more to their boats and draw off for some distance into the stream.
                  Selim, almost exhausted by his exertions in the combat, now retired also from the beach, and drew up his followers in good order at the entrance of the town. But scarcely had he removed his armor for a moment's repose, when a tumult was heard among his guard, and the next instant a man, half-robed and dripping with water, rushed into his presence, pursued by a dozen soldiers with drawn weapons.
                  "Sire! prince! it is you I seek!" cried the fugitive, as he sank overpowered at the king's feet. "Look on me! I am Moussa!"
                  Selim in astonishment recognized the voice and features of the faithful corsair, whom he believed at this time to be far away on his mission to the "Isle of Eagles." He saw at once that all hope of succor from Ali-Naro must now be abandoned, as it was evident that his messenger had been intercepted.
                  "How! why are you here?" cried the young king, in a tone of surprise and concern.
                  "Alas, my prince! it is fate which has done this," answered the corsair, bowing his head. "I have done all that mortal could, but it was of no avail."
                  "Speak, then, and let me know how you are here, instead of at the 'Isle of Eagles?'"
                  "Prince! I was attacked, and my small vessel was forced to yield. Three ships against a craft like mine were not to be beaten away. They made prisoners of all of us, and—"
                  "How then did you escape? Why are you pursued by my soldiers?"
                  "We found him climbing the beach, and thought him a spy," here interposed the leader of those who had pursued Moussa into the king's presence.
                  "It is true," rejoined the corsair; "and I had just escaped from the enemy's shipping, by swimming ashore during the conflict. Nor have I arrived without a wound," continued Moussa, placing his hand upon his breast, whilst his fade began to grow deadly pale.
                  "Wounded!" cried Selim. "My faithful Moussa!"
                  "I would speak to you—alone—my prince!" said the corsair, in a faint voice, as he rose slowly from the ground. "'Twas—for that—I risked my life."
                  The king made a signal for those around him to retire, and then extended his hand to the almost fainting corsair.
                  "Moussa!" he said—"my friend! are you hurt seriously?"
                  "No matter, my prince?" answered the follower of Ali-Naro. "I am here—in your presence—it is enough! Listen, O my king—I have much to say—in a few moments."
                  "Lean upon me!" cried Selim, supporting the frame of Moussa, which grew weaker every moment. "Speak, my friend."
                  "You are—betrayed!" murmured Moussa, speaking with great difficulty. "There are traitors in your capital, who meditate your overthrow this very night."
                  "Moussa! what say you?"
                  "It is true, my prince! Before this last assault, while I lay a prisoner in the king of Xanna's ship, I overheard the plot. Your brothers, Osmyn and Nadab, landing secretly, have already reached the city, and stand ready, with many traitors there, to turn the inhabitants against their king. This last assault, had it been successful, would have forced your army back from the seaport, in which case the traitors were to close the capital against your retreat."
                  "Is that their plot—wretched men!" cried Selim, indignantly. "Have they no pity for their countrymen? But we shall yet foil them. I will ride at once to my capital, and—"
                  "Do not, if you value your life, my dear prince," cried Moussa. "Alas, you know not how far the treachery has gone. The princes have gained thousands to their cause, and even now they hold the city in their possession! There! behold, my prince! there is the traitors' signal!"
                  As he spoke, Moussa pointed in the direction of the capital, and Selim looking thitherward beheld a column of flame and smoke shoot up from the city, and cast a lurid gleam over all the plain. At the same instant lights were discovered ascending to the mast-heads of all the enemy's vessels lying before the town.
                  "This was to be the signal that Osmyn and Nadab had succeeded in tampering with those left in defence of the city," continued Moussa. "And, look! the king of Xanda is about to recommence the battle—his boats are making for the shore!"
                  "It is true! But we will meet them!" cried Selim, in an undaunted voice. "We can at least die in defence of our country. Come, my brave friend! come, Moussa! you shall be nearest to me in the fight."
                  "Alas! my prince!" gasped the corsair. "It is too—late! My battles are—ended." With these words, he fell suddenly to the ground, the crimson blood gushing from his mouth in a rapid stream.
                  "Farewell—my—dear prince!" murmured the dying corsair, who had, by the force of his will sustained his failing energies to this moment, though an arrow-wound in his breast had been draining his life-blood for some time—"tell the captain—I died—doing my duty."
                  These were the last words of poor Moussa. The next instant his body lay motionless in death.
                  The young monarch, summoned away to meet the new assault, could cast only one look backward as he said:
                  "May Allah rest thee, faithful follower of Ali-Naro. I go to avenge thy death!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER X.
                  FLIGHT AND SHIPWRECK OF SELIM.
                  TREACHERY is more fatal than open war. Selim had hardly gained the shore, where his enemies were again trying to effect a lodgement, than he saw that symptoms of fear had become wrought for the first time among the islanders, and though they advanced at his word, and presented apparently as bold a front as on former occasions, it was evident to his mind that there was not the same alacrity in their movements as before. Nevertheless, the first brunt of the contest was sustained gallantly. The foe were obliged to retreat, and their old spirit began to animate the defenders, when a sudden alarm in the direction of the capital, awakened all the worst apprehensions of the young king. A trumpet-blast was heard at a great distance, and shortly after a troop of horsemen, who had been stationed on the inland highway, appeared riding at full speed, as if pursued by an enemy. They clattered into the fort, their steeds white with foam, and their garments covered with dust. The leader, throwing himself from his horse at Selim's feet, cried out in trembling accents:
                  "My king—all is lost!"
                  "Speak!—what has occurred?"
                  "The city is in possession of insurgents, who are making sorties in all directions. We have been driven from our post by a troop of rebels, headed by Prince Osmyn, who proclaims himself king of Guzan!"
                  Scarcely were these ill-omened words uttered, than a new disturbance was noticeable at the outskirts of the town, and a straggling throng of soldiers and citizens appeared, making with great speed for the fort. The defenders, who surrounded Selim, were seized with a panic at beholding this sight, and hearing the news from the capital; and then terror became soon communicated to all who occupied the shore. In a few moments the cry ran through the ranks that all resistance would be useless.
                  Selim in vain strove to arrest the progress of fear among his people. The tidings of treachery and rebellion seemed to paralyze at once all their previous resolution, and it became no longer doubtful that the fall of Guzan was inevitable. The king saw that all hope of defence must be abandoned; but his prudence and self-possession did not desert him. He called to him a few of the bravest men who still clustered near their monarch, and exclaimed:
                  "If Guzan must yield to traitors, let us seek a country elsewhere. We must preserve our lives for future struggles! Who will follow me through yonder hostile fleet?"
                  A hundred of the brave islanders sprang forward at the words of their prince, and declared their willingness to die for him. Hastily arraying them in close order, Selim then announced his project of escape.
                  "We will make an onset upon the invaders as they attempt to land, and as soon as they gain the shore, seize upon their boats, and push off. We shall then be enabled to assault and carry the king of Guzan's ship, which is nearest the shore, and in that vessel force our way to sea."
                  The proposal was seconded with a loud shout, and Selim lost no time in carrying his plan into execution. The besiegers were about to make their final attempt at a landing, while from the parties of flying villagers, who could be seen entering the inland side of the fort, it was evident that the insurgents were approaching rapidly from the capital. The crisis was at hand, and Selim gave the signal for battle by waving his sword and rushing to the head of his devoted followers.
                  Whatever had been the determined energy of previous engagements, this last struggle of the islanders was the most desperate. Following their prince, they bore down upon the Xandians with terrific impetuosity, and drove many who had landed backward into the water. But they wasted not their strength in hand-to-hand conflict. Their object was escape, and gallantly did they achieve it. Almost before the invaders could recover from the fury of the islanders' onset, they beheld their boats in the latter's possession, and far beyond the possibility of re-capture.
                  Too late the king of Xanda became aware of the stratagem by which his prey was about to escape, and though a thousand spears and arrows were hurled from the shores against the boats, no stop could be put to their progress against the ships, to which they were evidently shaping their course.
                  The large force which had landed, under the command of the king of Xanda, in order to make the powerful attack upon Guzan, had left the monarch's fleet almost defenceless, and had Selim a sufficient force, he might have captured the entire fleet, without a possibility of the latter's receiving succor from the shore. But his hundred gallant followers had been reduced nearly one half in the desperate melee upon the beach, and therefore he directed the attack upon the king of Xanda's ship, without attempting aught against the rest. It was not a difficult task to carry the vessel, for scarcely a dozen men had been left on board, and in a brief space King Selim had exchanged his sovereignty of Guzan for the command of an armed bark, which, through the midst of her late consorts, was steered safely from the harbor, and ere morning had sailed far away from the conquered island of Guzan.
                  The first intention of the dethroned prince was to shape his voyage for the Isle of Eagles, the bearings of which he remembered, in hopes of falling in with one of Ali-Naro's vessels, or, perhaps, the corsair himself. But though man may propose to himself a course, it is Heaven above which can determine the event; and the misfortunes of Selim were not yet to have a close.
                  Scarcely had the expatriated defenders of Guzan recovered sufficiently from the excitement of their escape to take counsel concerning their future movements, when a new danger began to threaten them. The weather grew boisterous, the skies began to lower, and everything betokened the coming of one of the terrible tempests which are so fatal in the Indian Ocean. At the same time a violent fever broke out among the people, occasioned by the crowded state of the vessel, and in consequence of there being many wounded men among those who had escaped from Guzan. Storm and disease thus added their horrors to the exile, into which the brave followers of Selim had thrown themselves, after their noble but unavailing defence of their invaded country.
                  It would be painful to detail all the trials of that wretched company on board the storm tossed ship, or to depict the grief of Prince Selim in witnessing the sufferings and death of his people. One by one the survivors of battle fell before the insidious attacks of disease, until at length but a third remained of all who had escaped from Guzan.
                  In this condition of affairs, when the vessel, deprived of her able-bodied seamen, became often completely unmanageable during heavy gales, a violent tempest suddenly arose, and filled the breast of Selim with the direst apprehensions. The waves rolled mountain high in the ship's path—lightnings and thunders made fearful the skies, and in the intervals of the red flashes, a thick darkness settled upon the ocean's face.
                  The few mariners who could sustain the hardships of the watch, were unable to control the helm, and in fact lost all reckoning of their course; and at last the forlorn prince of Guzan beheld the inevitable destruction of his ship—she struck upon a reef of sharp rocks, and the billows dashed in fury upon her decks, carrying away masts and cordage, and sweeping nearly all the crew to a watery doom.
                  Prince Selim had only time to offer what he deemed a dying prayer to Allah, when the wreck, parting in two, was whirled high upon the shoals, and the few men who yet lived were swept away upon the greedy waves. The young monarch closed his eyes, and became insensible, while the fierce waters hurling him forward upon their crests, cast him high upon a ledge of rocks, and returning, left him apparently bereft of life.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  THE ISLAND OF VASHNOR.
                  THE shore on which Prince Selim and his companions were wrecked, in which fearful catastrophe all perished but the young monarch himself, was in the neighborhood of the Indian city, called Vashnor, of no great size or wealth, the inhabitants of which subsisted by trading spices and fruits, which their country produced in great abundance, for other products brought from various lands. In the interior, among the valleys, many people were employed in cultivating the soil, in order to raise the above-mentioned articles of commerce, while the borders of the island, for such it was, were nothing but wide stretches of barren beach, or steep precipices, beyond which extended sunken reefs, very dangerous to navigation. On one of these reefs, as we have seen, the ship of Selim had been broken to pieces, and when that unfortunate prince opened his eyes once more to the light of day, it was to discover that he alone had been preserved of all the company. The waves, lashed to fury, had cast him safely beyond the reach of their return, and thus, during the remainder of a tempestuous night, he had lain, out of immediate peril, but exposed to all the violence of the winds and rain.
                  The morning was dull and gloomy, after the storm, and the ocean had not yet subsided into calmness, when the prince, recalled to his senses, looked downward from the rocks upon which he had been thrown. The shore was strewn with fragments of the wreck, interspersed with the mangled bodies of his late companions, and Selim, appalled at the sad spectacle, turned away his eyes, and rising with great difficulty, for his limbs were stiffened with cold, and bruised by the rocks, he essayed to ascend the cliffs in order to ascertain if any habitation of man was in sight.
                  But that portion of the island of Vashnor, on which the shipwreck had taken place, was several miles distant from the city, from which it was also separated by high mountains, that looked down upon the cultivated valleys. Consequently, though the prince ascended to a great height above the shore, so that he could command an extended view of the ocean, he yet was unable to discern any trace of human dwelling; so that he began to conclude that either the island was uninhabited, or only occupied by savages in the interior.
                  But the hardships he had endured, united with the pangs of hunger which now began to assail him—for he had eaten nothing for two days previous to the wreck,—urged Prince Selim to attempt the discovery of some road by which he might reach a less barren and inhospitable part of the country. Ascending still further the mountainous barrier, and penetrating through a narrow and perilous defile, which led from the outer cliffs, he was gratified to find that the vegetation became less stunted and irregular as he advanced, and that, here and there, wild berries began to appear, clinging to the crevices of the rocky pathway. These he plucked and ate as he journeyed, and found them very palatable and nutritious.
                  At length, after many mountings and descendings of the narrow and crooked defile, which at times conducted around the summits of steep precipices, and again clove, as it appeared, through the very centre of the mountains, Prince Selim reached a small valley, through the centre of which ran a clear stream of water, apparently gushing from the mouth of a cavern in the rocky wall. In this valley were quantities of the berries that he had before seen, and likewise several trees, loaded with a rich Indian fruit that Selim recognized at once to be the tamarind.
                  This discovery filled him with gratitude to Heaven, inasmuch as it assured him against the fear of famine, should he be forced to inhabit the island for any length of time. He knelt beside the running water, and after laving his face and hands, and praying fervently, took a copious draught of the pure element, and then treated himself to some of the rich fruit that clustered just above his head. Shortly after this, weary with his travel since morn to noon, the young prince fell asleep beside the stream.
                  His slumber lasted for a long term, for when he awoke the moon was shining down upon the valley, shimmering through the trees, and sparkling upon the water beside him. But Selim's throat and lips were parched with fever, and a heavy pain throbbed through his temples. He strove to rise, but his limbs were stiff and sore, and refused to obey his will, while strange colors began to dance before his sight, and ringing noises to sound in his ears.
                  Selim know that the fever, which had proved fatal to so many of his companions on board the ship, had now attacked himself in this desolate place, far away from all earthly succor. He made one more effort to rise, but in vain, and then, yielding to delirium, sank with a wild cry upon the ground.
                  But Heaven had not deserted the young prince. It happened that the small valley into which Selim had penetrated, was at this very time the abode of a dervish, or hermit, who resorted hither at certain seasons to practise his devotions, and who had made a rude habitation in the cavern from which issued the clear mountain rivulet of which the prince had drank. At the same moment in which the youth, overcome with fever, uttered a despairing moan as he sank prostrate, the good dervish was returning from a long journey which had called him away from the valley during all the day. The moon's rays falling upon the figure of the prince, acquainted him at once whence had proceeded the cry what he had heard, and hastening forward, he knelt quickly beside the stranger, and raised his head to the light.
                  Selim was quite unconscious of everything, though his eyes remained open, and his pulse beat rapidly. The fever, which had for a long time, doubtless, been secretly gaining strength, was now completely victorious over all his energies—mind and body being alike prostrated before its subtle power. Incoherent sounds fell from the young man's lips, and powerful spasms agitated his whole frame, so that the dervish saw that immediate action was requisite in order to save his life. He lifted him at once from the earth, and bearing him to the cave, laid him upon his own humble pallet, and then proceeded to apply such remedies as he could immediately provide.
                  The dervish, like most of his wandering profession, was somewhat skilled in herbs, and understood the preparation of simple medicaments suited to sudden attacks like that now requiring his aid. Besides this, he was a man of much experience, and of a kindly nature, and therefore he exerted himself to the utmost in rendering all the service of which he was capable to the suffering stranger, who had been cast literally at his door. And under the skilful and gentle treatment which he speedily brought to bear upon his patient, the virulence of the fever was soon allayed, and Selim sank into a slumber which promised much for his restoration.
                  The good dervish, who had travelled in many lands, and encountered all kinds of people, recognized, as soon as he had leisure to observe his guest, that the latter was no common personage. He judged not alone by the rich robes of the prince, or the jewels and richly decorated sword which had escaped being torn from their owner in his conflict with the waves, but likewise from the noble, distinguished countenance of Selim, and his majestic figure. These signs of high birth and station satisfied the hermit that whatever might be his misfortunes, the stranger was undoubtedly a prince, or of royal connections tions, and he pondered deeply as he watched the sleeping youth, upon what strange vicissitudes our life is composed, when one who, doubtless, very lately had been invested with rank and power, was now dependent upon a wandering dervish for the care necessary to the preservation of his life.
                  "We are all in the hands of God!" murmured the dervish, as he turned to his devotions.
                  Prince Selim lingered long beneath the shadow of death's portals, but the kindly attentions of his host, and a naturally vigorous constitution, at last enabled him to throw off the disease which had prostrated his faculties. Weeks, it is true, passed away before he was able to relate to the dervish the incidents which had led to his present situation; but when, after proper rest and nourishing diet, which the hermit prepared from the fruits that grew abundantly in the neighborhood, and from the milk of two mountain goats, which had been tamed, the prince began to feel his old strength and health returning, it was to cherish in his soul deeper feelings of gratitude toward the bounteous Father who had preserved him through every trial.
                  But at least two months elapsed before Selim could venture to ascend above the rocky heights he had before traversed, and look forth upon the ocean once more. It was a bright sunlight day when he essayed the journey, and the waters, gambolling peacefully upon the yellow sands, flashed back the noonday rays in laughing brilliancy. How different from the scene which Selim had last witnessed upon this shore! Not a trace of wreck was visible—no unburied bodies nor bleaching skeletons. All had been swept by some new tempest to the caves of ocean, and now nothing but sunlight, and glancing waves, and glittering sands, could be seen from the towering cliff.
                  "And where are my friends—my companions—my people?" cried the prince, clasping his hands, and lifting his eyes to heaven. "O, Allah! let thy rest be vouchsafed to them and to all suffering mortals!"
                  Prince Selim, after a long survey of the spot so fraught with sad associations, prepared to retrace his steps to the hermit's valley. He had learned from his host that the mountains in which they dwelt were situated about three or four leagues' distance from the town of Vashnor, and he proposed ere long to journey to the latter place, in company with the benevolent dervish, and there make himself known to the governor, who was reported to be a man of great goodness, and noted for his strict administration of justice throughout the island.
                  But another misfortune was about to try the faith and endurance of the prince of Gazan. Following the road which he had travelled, faint and weary, from the shipwreck, the young man arrived near the dusk of evening at the entrance of the valley in which he had for over two months dwelt beneath the hospitable shelter of the dervish's cave. The old hermit contemplated passing that day in prayer, and Selim expected on his return to find him engaged in his devotions at the month of the cavern, or beside the streamlet. What, then, was his surprise, just as he passed the gorge which opened on the vale, to hear the noise of struggling and the sound of imprecations, mingled with the voice of the hermit, apparently in supplication. The prince darted quickly down the sloping path, and entering the valley beheld a scene of horror.
                  Two men, in rough garments, were dragging the dervish from his cave, whilst the body of another man, covered with blood, lay close beside the little brook. The hermit struggled wildly, and murmured his prayers, whilst the ruffians cursed him and beat him with their swords.
                  Selim was armed with the sword he had worn in the defence of Guzan, and which, with a few jewels, was all that he had preserved from the wreck of either kingdom or ship. The blade was dented with the blows of the last struggle which he had made, but it was still a noble weapon in the hand of a gallant man. The young monarch drew it from its sheath, and commending himself to the protection of Heaven, rushed upon the villains who were assaulting the dervish. A fierce blow made at the foremost, who had turned quickly to defend himself, struck the weapon which he held to the ground, at the same time severing a finger from the ruffian's right hand. Selim then rushed at the other, who had released his hold of the hermit, and would have assuredly cloven him in sunder had not the man sprang aside and avoided the blow. In so doing, his face became exposed in the rays of the declining sun, and what was the astonishment of the prince to behold the features of his brother Nadab!
                  The sword of Selim almost fell from his grasp at this recognition, but he recovered himself immediately, and stood firm as a rock before the trembling hermit, who had fallen to the ground. Nadab, on his part, seemed shaken with mortal fear; his face grew pale, and shrinking from the angry eyes of Selim, he sprang away, and darted down the rocky pathway that descended from the cavern. His comrade, who had been disarmed and wounded, fled also, in the track of the felon prince, leaving the young king of Guzan master of the field.
                  Selim's first care was to attend to the fainting dervish, who was bleeding from a deep wound which he had received upon the head. The old man's pulse was low, and his breath short, while his eyes appeared glazed and filmy.
                  "My kind friend, are you much hurt? Shall I assist you to the cave?" cried the prince, in agitation, as he took the hermit's hand.
                  "Nay, my son. I can as well die here, in the pure air, and with the sun's light on my countenance!"
                  "Speak not of dying, father! Your hurt, Heaven grant, is not dangerous! Let me at once apply some healing herb."
                  "My son, I feel that I am dying. It is time! Those unhappy men have slain one who never injured mortal!"
                  "O, my friend, how did this dreadful thing occur? Why should you be attacked, my good father?"
                  "Alas, son! I sought to save the life of yonder wretched victim, who was falling beneath the blows of the other two, when, disturbed in my devotions, I rushed from the cavern, and beheld the conflict."
                  "And they turned upon you, my friend?"
                  "I was too late to succor him whom they were assailing, for he had already received a fatal wound. I reached the spot only in time to hear his last fearful words: "Brother, I curse you!"
                  "Brother!" cried Selim, a sudden suspicion flashing through his brain. Then leaving the hermit's side, he ran quickly to the rivulet side, where lay the body of the murdered man. He raised the cold form in his arms, turning the face toward the western sky.
                  "Just Allah!—it is Osmyn!"
                  A deadly faintness came over the young prince's heart; he gasped for breath, and buried his face in his hands. Then mastering his emotions with a great effort, he returned to the hermit.
                  "Pray for me! I am going!"
                  These words were uttered feebly by the old man, as Selim knelt once more at his side, and raised his drooping head. The beaded sweat had gathered upon his brow, and his hands were cold and clammy. The prince saw that all mortal assistance would be of no avail, for Azrael awaited the departing spirit of the dervish.
                  Then in that lonely valley, with the last beams of day glimmering through the leaves above, Selim poured forth his prayer for the dying man, who had been the preserver of his own life. And when the ancient hermit's eyes closed gently on the world, and his limbs grew straight in death, the prince of Guzan prayed likewise for another who lay dead in that dim valley—for Osmyn, the brother who had been his foe in life.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  THE KING OF XANDA.
                  IT may be fancied that the prince of Guzan did not pass a very quiet night, after the incidents which had occurred—the recognition of his brother Nadab, the death of his old friend the dervish, and the discovery of his brother Osmyn's body, were events well calculated to banish repose from his mind. A thousand disordered thoughts oppressed him; the strangeness of the two princes being present like himself in Vashnor, when he had left them only a few months since apparently in full possession of the conquered island of Guzan; the fearful knowledge he had obtained that one brother had fallen by the other's hand; and lastly, the uncertainty which seemed to surround himself, bringing misfortunes continually upon his path—all these reflections effectually prevented sleep from visiting his wearied senses; and at the earliest dawn he started from his pallet, and sought the open air, with the intention of offering his morning prayers in presence of the dead who lay before the cave.
                  His devotions concluded, Selim contemplated the silent forms of those who the day previous had been active with life.
                  "O, Allah!" he cried, "how inscrutable are all thy ways! My brother Osmyn triumphed in my defeat, and here he lies slain by him with whom he conspired my overthrow, whilst I have been preserved from every form of death."
                  Then, as he turned toward the dervish, with the tears rushing to his eyes, the young prince exclaimed:
                  "And you, kind preserver of my life—alas! how gladly would I have given it back that you might be preserved to usefulness! But it was not thus to be; and now nought is left me but to perform the last offices for the dervish who loved—the brother who hated me."
                  Saying this, Selim brought from the cave a mattock, which the poor hermit had often used in the simple husbandry which had helped to supply his few material wants, and prepared to hollow out a grave not far from the little streamlet, which glided still as clear and silently as if no deed of violence had disturbed the quiet of the scene around. But the prince had scarcely struck the rude implement into the soil, when he heard a sudden noise behind him, and the next instant found himself in the grasp of a dozen soldiers, headed by an officer with a drawn sword.
                  "Bind him, and bring him quietly away, if he attempts not to resist."
                  "Who does this outrage? What ruffians are ye?" demanded the prince of Guzan, struggling to free himself.
                  "We are no ruffians, but officers of the law," answered the man with the sword.
                  "Of what do you accuse me?" cried Selim.
                  
                  "Let your victims answer, wretched man," replied the officer, pointing with his weapon at the bodies upon the ground. Then, motioning to his followers, he directed them to secure the prince safely, and in a few moments the latter found himself pinioned and gagged, and carried a prisoner from the quiet valley.
                  And while he is borne to the city of Vashnor, there to be judged by the inflexible governor, we will ask the reader's company back to the island of Guzan, in order to learn the cause of Osmyn and Nadab having reached the island on which Selim had been shipwrecked.
                  The daring escape of the prince of Guzan in his enemy's ship, though it filled the king of Xanda with intense rage, did not prevent him, of course, from pursuing his advantage over the islanders. In fact, after the flight of Selim, the invaders found little to oppose their progress, and that very night the victorious monarch reposed in the royal palace of the capital.
                  Osmyn and Nadab, whose treachery had been the means of changing the fortunes of the day, set no limits to their arrogance when they found the island securely, as they deemed, in their possession. Organizing a sort of council, ministry and body guard, out of the traitors with whom they had tampered for the overthrow of their country, the two princes gave full rein to all the promptings of revenge or hatred. Singling out, in the first place, every citizen who had distinguished himself in the defence of the island, and likewise those who, on the occasion of the trial at archery, had appeared to favor their younger brother, these wicked men began to perpetrate outrages upon all classes of the people. Venerable councillors, nobles of the former court, and grave citizens were dragged from the bosoms of their families, and after being condemned by corrupt judges, creatures of the two princes, were hurried away to instant execution. Property was confiscated, families outlawed and exiled, and a reign of terror commenced, which threatened to plunge Guzan into greater trouble than ever.
                  The king of Xanda, intent only on plundering the coffers of the conquered kingdom, did not at first give much heed to the course of the two princes; but so soon as he perceived that their enormities were so flagrant that the people were nearly excited to rebellion, he interposed his power at once, and ordered Osmyn and Nadab to discontinue their excesses.
                  "And why shall we do so?" demanded Osmyn, insolently. "Guzan is our sovereignty, and we are but punishing the rebels who disputed our rights."
                  "Whether Guzan be your sovereignty or not," answered the king of Xanda, "it is very evident that I conquered it, and that it is now under my authority."
                  "We are willing to allow you a share in the government," said Osmyn, "or to pay all the expenses of the war, and account to you liberally for your assistance."
                  "As for the expenses," answered the old king, "I shall take care that the country pays that, and for a share in the government, I need not stipulate, since I intend to govern alone!"
                  "Alone!" echoed both the princes.
                  "Will your majesty explain your meaning?" asked Nadab.
                  "I do not understand such language," cried Osmyn.
                  "I shall make myself well understood shortly," said the king of Xanda. "The plain truth of the matter is, that I have conquered this island, and intend to keep it. It has long been an eyesore to me, and occasioned me much trouble. Now that I am in possession, I do not mean to give up my rights to any nonsensical claims which may be urged on your part, my dear princes."
                  "But this is unjust—you do not keep faith with us!"
                  "I keep quite as good faith as my neighbors," replied the monarch; "and if your consciences, my good princes, do not trouble you, be so kind as to let mine alone. Treachery admitted me to Guzan, and one traitor is more than equal to two, in this case."
                  The baffled princes looked at one another in dismay, while the king of Xanda turned leisurely away, saying:
                  "Anything I can do to advance your fortunes, my young friends, will be cheerfully performed. There are posts in the army—or navy."
                  Saying this, the monarch left them to their reflections.
                  Osmyn and Nadab stormed and swore, but to no purpose. The king of Xanda had them completely in his power, for Xandian officers commanded all the posts, and Xandian soldiers garrisoned the city. Besides, the treachery and subsequent cruelties of the two princes had embittered most of the native population against them, and, in truth, they possessed no friends in their own land, save the wretches who had been their instruments or dupes. In this state of affairs, they could only quarrel with one another in regard to the past.
                  "Had it not been for you, Osmyn, we need not have broken with Selim," said Nadab. "Your violence ruined all my plans."
                  "And what is your cunning worth against the power of this Xandian?" cried Osmyn, angrily. "Had I been left to myself, I would have made him give me the command of the army. I could then have defied him."
                  "He would never have trusted it to you," retorted Nadab. "No! The course I first advised was the true one. Had we temporized with Selim, his good nature would have very soon put him in our power. You might have had command of the port of Guzan, while I could have managed the council, till an opportunity offered to rid ourselves of the boy. But you—you spoiled all with your hot-headedness," he added, in anger.
                  "Have a care, Nadab, or my hot head may burn your cool one!" cried Osmyn, in a threatening tone.
                  "I doubt not you would be rid of me," muttered Nadab; "but we shall see!"
                  Thus these wretched brothers continued to quarrel with one another, losing day by day their ground, both with the king of Xanda and the few of their countrymen who continued to follow them. But they abated neither their pretensions nor their insolence, and to such an extent did they carry the latter, that the despotic monarch of Xanda resolved at length to bear with them no longer. Without any preliminaries they were one morning summoned to the royal presence.
                  "Princes, I am tired of you both!" said the old king. "I therefore give you the choice—to leave the island of Guzan at once, or to be imprisoned forthwith. If you go, you shall have a ship fitted out, and all attendance and means suited to your condition. If you stay, you will need neither ship nor attendants. Choose!"
                  Osmyn and Nadab were quite taken aback, but they dared not murmur, and could not resist. Consequently, in less than three months from the capture of Guzan by the Xandians, the two princes, who had brought the invasion upon their country, were exiled from it forever, and condemned to wander in foreign climes.
                  However, as they were furnished with a stout ship, and permitted to take all their personal treasures, and as many reckless spirits were found who were quite willing to follow them in any adventure, the desperate princes consoled themselves with the hope of being able to pursue some scheme of plunder which would enable them to acquire wealth and strength in the future. The life of a pirate was just suited to Osmyn's temperament, and Nadab was full as unscrupulous as his brother regarding what might be their career, so long as it might lead to power. In this view of the case, the princes pretended to be very grateful to the old king of Xanda, and accepting his offer, they gathered together a band of reckless followers, collected their treasures, and bade adieu to their native land, without any one regretting their sudden departure.
                  Having thus related the events which led to the appearance of Osmyn and Nadab at the island of Vashnor, which was one of the first places at which their ship touched, after leaving Guzan, we will now, gentle reader, return to our unfortunate Prince Selim, whom we left in the hands of strange officers, and, though totally innocent, accused of a terrible crime.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  THE GOVERNOR OF VASHNOR.
                  CONCERNING the governor of Vashnor, as before noticed, he was reported to be a ruler of great integrity, who administered justice with the most impartial strictness, causing the laws to bear equally on high and low. From one of the agents of his police, he had early in the morning received intelligence of a murder having been committed in the mountains, at some distance from the city. How the information had reached Vashnor, was not known, but on hearing the news, the governor immediately despatched a force of soldiers to the place indicated, which action resulted, as we have seen, in the 
                        disovery
                        discovery
                      and arrest of Selim.
                  The bodies of Osmyn and the hermit, with every article which could be found in the cave, were likewise conveyed to the city, and with the prisoner, deposited in a guard-house, till such time as the governor should arrive to dispose of the case. Selim endeavored to sustain himself under this new dispensation of Providence, with all the faith he could summon. He doubted not that his arrest had been caused through some secret machinations of Nadab, as he was aware that the wicked prince had recognized him before his flight. But he had been preserved through so many trials and dangers thus far, that he retained a lively trust in the protection of Heaven, and therefore resigned himself cheerfully to whatever destiny might be in store for him.
                  A few hours only elapsed before the accused was summoned before the stern governor of Vashnor. There the testimony of those who had apprehended Selim was taken by the judge, and the body of Osmyn identified as that of one of the foreign princes whose vessel now lay in the harbor. Nadab, the brother of the murdered man, was produced as a witness of this fact, and confronted his injured brother with all the assurance imaginable. He affected the most heartfelt grief for the loss of his brother, and invoked the governor of Vashnor to visit the murderer with a just punishment.
                  Prince Selim was so thunderstruck at the audacity of Nadab, that for some moments he was unable to speak. At length, however, composing his faculties, he fixed upon his unworthy brother a look of mingled anger and sorrow.
                  "Nadab!" he exclaimed, "why do you still dare the judgments of Allah upon your impiety? Does not your conscience appall you when you thus endeavor to fix a crime upon the innocent?"
                  "My lord governor!" said Nadab, looking at the magistrate without returning a reply to Selim, "who is this criminal? He seems to know my name, though I am a 
                        strauger
                        stranger
                      in Vashnor."
                  "Great Heaven!" cried the accused prince of Guzan. "How is this wicked man permitted to utter such falsehoods, even to pretend ignorance of his own brother?"
                  "What is that he says?" demanded the governor.
                  "The man surely raves!" rejoined Nadab.
                  But Selim turned toward the magistrate, and drawing up his majestic figure to its full height, stretched forth his arm with a gesture of dignity, and spoke in a calm voice:
                  "Governor of Vashnor I have heard of your integrity and impartiality in justice. Hear me now, and judge if I be guilty of the crime imputed to me. And in the first place, let me inform you that I am a prince, and the rightful monarch of Guzan, whence I was lately driven by the invading king of Xanda. This unfortunate man," continued Selim, pointing to the body of Osmyn which with that of the hermit had been brought to the court—"was my brother, as is this other prince, who would now deny all knowledge of one whom he has so deeply injured."
                  Selim paused a moment, glancing at the wicked Nadab, who pretended to be greatly astonished at the words of his brother. But, at a signal from the governor, the prince continued:
                  "Cast ashore by shipwreck upon this island of Vashnor, I have dwelt for two months amid yonder quiet mountains, nursed during a severe illness, by the good dervish whose mortal remains now lie before us. Yesterday, returning from a short journey, I beheld my venerable host attacked by ruffians. I flew to his relief, but not in time to prevent his receiving a fatal wound. The villain, however, fled from our valley, leaving upon the ground a man whom they had slain before the eyes of the dervish. That man I recognized with horror, to be my brother Osmyn. Governor of Vashnor! this is all that I have to relate!"
                  Nadab who believed that Selim would accuse him at once of the murder, had already prepared his answer. Perceiving, however, that the prince paused, without revealing anything further concerning the crime, he smiled triumphantly, and remained silent, till the magistrate should have spoken.
                  "Prince!" said the governor. "You have heard this prisoner's defence, and his assertion that yourself and brother are of the same mother as himself—that he, like you, is a prince of Guzan. What say you to this?"
                  "Governor!" cried Nadab, apparently with much agitation of feeling; "I ask justice at your hands upon the assassin of my dear brother Osmyn. The daring of this man, in asserting himself our brother, satisfies me of his guilt."
                  Saying this, Nadab covered his face with his robe, and knelt at the feet of the governor, who regarding Selim with a terrible look, cried in a loud voice:
                  "Wretched youth! what defence can you make? What you have said is capable of no proof. The prince of Guzan knows you not, and there is no doubt of your criminality."
                  "Am I then to be condemned without proof?" asked Selim. "Listen! I again declare that I am the prince of Guzan, and that this man is my unworthy brother. Heaven will yet prove the truth of my words."
                  "Let him be conducted back to prison!" said the governor. "Prince Nadab, to your care I commit your brother's body. This poor dervish must likewise be buried."
                  "And the murderer!" cried Nadab, eagerly.
                  "We will have justice done," answered the magistrate, "and the guilty man shall die!"
                  Thereupon the council was broken up, and Nadab, taking charge of his brother's remains, left the court, followed by the sympathizing spectators, while Selim was conducted once more to his dungeon, and the corpse of the dervish was taken away for burial.
                  But, though the governor of Vashnor was resolved that justice should have her dues, his mind was not altogether satisfied regarding the guilt of the accused. Selim's unswerving declaration of his relationship to Nadab, and the account he had given of the dervish's death, were calculated to make the cautious judge pause ere he decided upon so important a matter. He had therefore remanded the prince to prison, in order to examine him there without witnesses, and form his own judgment of his guilt or innocence. Accordingly, the magistrate soon presented himself in the dungeon where Selim was confined.
                  "Young man," he said, in a severe tone, as the prince advanced to meet him, "I come to hear your story in private, that no wrong may be done, and that you may have every opportunity to clear yourself of the grave charges against you."
                  "Allah! I thank thee!" cried Selim, sinking on his knees, and raising his eyes to Heaven—"thou hast heard my prayer, and wilt deliver me!"
                  The governor looked with surprise upon the young man, whose countenance was illumined with confidence and hope; but he was cautious, and knew very well that piety could be counterfeited as well as innocence. He therefore said nothing, but waited for the accused to speak.
                  "I am grateful to Allah," said Selim, rising, and looking earnestly at the magistrate; "because he is ever my friend in adversity."
                  "But, have you nought further to reveal concerning this crime of which you are accused?"
                  "I am innocent, and what I have stated is the simple truth. Returning yesterday from a visit to the seashore, I found my friend the hermit, struggling with two men, whilst the body of another lay at their feet. I attacked the assailants who fled, after I had disarmed the foremost, maiming his hand, as I believe, by the blow."
                  "Maiming his hand and disarming him? What say you?" demanded the magistrate.
                  "His sword fell upon the ground, and if my eyes deceived me not, a finger of his right hand was severed."
                  "What is this you tell me, young man?" cried the governor, sternly. "You say that you disarmed an assailant and maimed him severely? Where, then, is the weapon? where the finger which was severed? my soldiers have brought from the scene of murder every object which they could find—and neither sword nor maimed finger are among them."
                  "And yet I myself beheld the weapon of which I disarmed the murderer, taken from the ground by one of my captors."
                  The governor, on hearing this, looked steadfastly at Selim, as if to detect him in falsehood. But the young prince's countenance was clear and open.
                  "Could you recognize the soldier?" asked he.
                  "Of that I have no doubt."
                  The governor clapped his hands, and a guard appeared at the door of the dungeon.
                  "Bring immediately before me," commanded the magistrate, "all the soldiers who took part in the arrest of this prisoner."
                  The guard disappeared, and the governor, folding his arms, began to pace the dungeon-floor, whilst Selim remained standing, silent and composed. In a few moments, the soldiers, with their leader, were brought in, and ranged against the wall.
                  "Now, point out the man!" said the magistrate, quickly.
                  Selim fixed his eye upon a sinister-looking fellow in the rank, and at once identified him as the one in whose possession he had that morning beheld the missing weapon.
                  "Where is the sword you have stolen?" cried the governor, turning to this man, and speaking in a voice of thunder. The soldier immediately threw himself upon his knees at the magistrate's feet.
                  "Pardon! pardon!" he cried—"I have it not!"
                  "Where then is it?"
                  "The—captain," ejaculated the wretch, looking at his officer, who was trembling violently. "I gave to him both the ring and sword, and he bade me say nothing concerning them."
                  "Ha!" cried the governor. "Is there such villany as this in Vashnor? Wretch, where are the sword and ring?" he demanded, fixing his eyes upon the terrified officer.
                  "Spare me!" gasped the latter. "I will restore them. The weapon is at my dwelling—but here—here is the ring!"
                  And casting himself upon the ground, the wretched man presented a glittering jewel to the magistrate.
                  But a sudden change had come upon the governor. His forehead, a moment before dark with anger, now grew deadly pale. His lips were compressed, his eyes seemed starting from their sockets, as they gazed at the ring which he received from the soldier's hand.
                  "O, just Heaven! this is fearful!" he cried, and his limbs shook, so that he must have fallen, had not Selim sprang forward to support him. But, apparently with a great exertion, he seemed to recover himself, and waved his hand to the guard.
                  "Take them away—let the robbers be imprisoned! Go," he cried, and then as the soldiers were marched away, he leaned heavily upon Selim's arm.
                  "O, young man! Heaven's judgments are terrible. I now know that you are innocent!"
                  Saying this, the governor recalling his strength and resolution, took the arm of the prince and led him from the prison.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  SELIM AND ABNER.
                  THE next morning all the inhabitants of Vashnor heard strange news. The son of the governor had been arrested on the previous night, and thrown into prison, accused by his own father of the crime of murder. It was reported that a sword and ring found near the murdered bodies had been identified as belonging to Abner, the magistrate's son, and that on being charged with the crime he had confessed it to his father, and submitted at once to arrest, at the same time revealing the name of his accomplice.
                  It was rumored likewise that the strange prince Nadab, brother to one of the murdered men, had been implicated in the crime, but on being sought, was found to have escaped, his vessel taking advantage of the night to sail from the port of Vashnor.
                  All these stories were soon ascertained to be true, and when the governor appeared in his court of judgment, at the usual hour, an immense concourse of the citizens had gathered to behold him. It was not difficult to perceive what must have been the sufferings of the stern magistrate during the night he had passed since the discovery of the ring which revealed to him the real murderers of Osmyn and the hermit. His face, it is true, exhibited, as it was turned upon the citizens, the same calm and inflexible appearance as usual, and he proceeded to the transaction of business as was his wont, without outward symptoms of emotion. But to those who watched him closely, it was evident that the governor's heart was filled with agony, for the son whom he loved, his first-born, was guilty of an awful crime, and the stern judge must forget in his duty the feelings of a father.
                  Abner, the son, had been long known in Vashnor as a wild and reckless youth, too much addicted to dissipation, and consorting oftentimes with persons in no good repute. But though liable to the charge of much irregularity and looseness of life, he had never until now, been deemed capable of the commission of violent deeds. It was evident that bad associations and long habits of disorder had led the youth at last to this step of wickedness which now threatened him with punishment.
                  The prince of Guzan, who had been hospitably entertained during the night at the palace of the governor, was now present in the court, though, in consequence of the full acknowledgment made by the unhappy Abner, his testimony in the case was unnecessary to the trial. From the confession, it appeared that the governor's son had been one of the first to make the acquaintance of the two exiled princes on their arrival at Vashnor. Finding him of easy and reckless character, with but little principle, they soon obtained an ascendency over him, which was doubtless designed to serve their purposes in the future. Abner on his part was flattered by attentions from persons of the rank of Osmyn and Nadab, and entered at once into their way of life, which was akin to his own, giving full rein to all kinds of folly and dissipation. For a week or two back, he had been continually in their company, and was a participant of the unfortunate expedition to the mountains, on which Osmyn lost his life by the hand of his brother. Abner stated that the two brothers were in the habit of wrangling constantly between themselves, and that on the occasion of their visit to the hills they had all disputed and quarrelled so fiercely as to lose control of their tempers, so that drawing their swords against one another, an unlucky stroke had pierced Osmyn to the heart, at the very moment when, alarmed by the conflict, an aged hermit had rushed from his cave to separate the combatants.
                  Nadab at first was paralyzed with what he had done, but perceiving that the hermit had witnessed all, he at once proposed to Abner that they should kill the old man, and then charge him with the homicide; declaring it was the only method of clearing themselves, and promising to the governor's son, that, as he, Nadab, was now the only prince of Guzan (for the brothers had represented themselves as the sovereigns of that island), Abner should be raised to great dignity under the government.
                  The weak young man assented to this nefarious proposal, whereupon they laid hands upon the dervish, and in the struggle with him, dealt blows that afterwards proved fatal; but they had not accomplished their purpose before the appearance and assault of Selim caused them to take to flight, not, however, till the governor's son had been disarmed, and deprived of a finger, together with the ring which so soon after became the means of discovering the whole wickedness.
                  And behold how Heaven had disposed these cruel young men to become the instruments of their own detection! In order to render their plot completely successful, as they thought, Nadab and Abner took steps, as soon as they returned to the city, to give secret information to the police that a murder had been committed on the hills, and thus, by a measure which they deemed very cunning, the arrest of Selim was brought about, and the subsequent disclosures produced which developed all the transaction. Short-sighted indeed are the shrewdest, when crime is on their consciences!
                  The wretched Abner, as he stood shuddering before the spectators, who had most of them known him from infancy, and as, looking up to his father, he beheld the stern countenance that met his, presented a picture of horror and despair. Unlike the gay and reckless deportment which he usually wore, the manner of the young man now was dejected and crushed, as by fear and remorse. His right hand was muffled with a scarf, to conceal the loss of his forefinger, and he leaned against a pillar of the hall, with pallid features and trembling limbs.
                  And reason enough had Abner for terror and despair. The judge who was to decide his fate, was, it is true, his father; but there was no stranger in the assemblage, to whose mercy he could appeal with less hope than to the just governor of Vashnor. A great struggle was taking place in the magistrate's breast, but to those who knew him best, it was manifest that his mind was settled in regard to duty. His son Abner—his first-born—must die!
                  The judgment fell like a thunderbolt upon the wretched criminal. He uttered a piercing shriek, and threw himself at his father's feet, imploring mercy in the most piteous accents. Selim, too, knelt before the judgment-seat, and many of the councillors and citizens of Vashnor pressed forward to add their supplications. But the governor was inexorable. The doom of Abner had been pronounced.
                  The prince of Guzan, shocked at the stern necessity of justice, which seemed to compel the action of the magistrate, could not but sympathize deeply with the evident sorrow that bowed the father's heart. And when, in obedience to the governor's command, a couple of guards drew near, and prepared to bind the hands of Abner, the good Selim could not refrain from tears.
                  "Ah, you weep, my friend!" said the governor. "Would that tears might flow for my relief!"
                  Then, descending from his chair, the magistrate approached poor Abner who stretched out his pinioned hands to embrace him. For a moment the father and son remained locked in each other's arms, and then, releasing himself, the governor drew back, and making a signal to the guards, Abner was led forth to execution.
                  That evening, while Selim was meditating upon the strange events which had taken place, and marvelling at the mysterious providence which appeared to watch over his wanderings, the old governor of Vashnor suddenly appeared before him.
                  "Prince!" said the magistrate. "Deem me not inhospitable if I entreat you to tarry no longer upon this island. I am a heart-broken father, though my duty to my countrymen makes me seem a harsh ruler! The form of my unhappy and misguided boy never leaves my sight, and your presence heightens continually my misery, besides occasioning murmurs among the citizens."
                  "Governor of Vashnor!" replied Selim. "Believe me, when I assure you of my deepest pity and sympathy. I will at once obey your wishes, and depart from this place."
                  "I know that you are not to blame in this matter," resumed the magistrate; "nevertheless, the populace seem unable to attribute my poor boy's fate to his own crime, but charge it upon the prince of Guzan."
                  "Say no more," replied Selim. "I will leave Vashnor, as soon as a passage can be obtained in some vessel."
                  "A ship is about to weight anchor," said the governor. "Prince, do not condemn me for my apparent inhospitality, but pity the wretched parent. Here is gold, for I know you are not prepared with means to travel—take it, and thus confer upon me a favor."
                  Saying this, the magistrate pressed upon Selim a well-filled bag of zechins. And then, hurriedly pressing the prince's hand, he left the apartment, after summoning a slave to attend the prince to the ship which was about to sail. That night, the prince disguised as a merchant laid his head to rest in the cabin of a vessel, and ere morning, was far away from the island of Vashnor.
                  But hardly had the sun risen above the horizon, when a new evil seemed preparing for the wandering prince of Guzan. A sail appeared in sight, which, after a while, was discovered to be a large armed vessel filled with men, and as, evidently in full chase of the merchantman, it drew rapidly nearer, the terror-stricken captain avowed his belief that it was a pirate.
                  "Pirate!" cried the second in command, who was examining the movements of the pursuing vessel. "I believe it is no other but the ship which lay a few days since in Vashnor harbor—that belonging to the stranger princes—"
                  "The princes of Guzan—ah, say you so? It relieves me greatly!" exclaimed the captain, in a less alarmed tone of voice.
                  But the information was far from relieving Selim. He knew very well, that, if the strange bark should prove to be what the second officer asserted, a danger threatened himself of the most serious nature. Nadab on board that vessel was doubtless lord paramount, with many reckless followers at his command. And Selim knew that from his wicked brother's hatred he had everything to dread.
                  Nevertheless, the prince's courage did not forsake him, though he perceived that every moment was lessening the distance between the two ships. He spoke calmly to the merchant captain, who now appeared quite at his ease.
                  "What think you, are the intentions of those who man yonder vessel?" asked he, of the skipper.
                  "O, doubtless, to inquire the news from Vashnor," answered the man carelessly. But the next instant a cry from his second officer brought a return of all his previous trepidation. Selim turned and beheld the mate pointing toward the strange ship, which had suddenly run a black flag up to her topmast.
                  "Pirates! pirates!" The cry ran from mouth to mouth of the merchant-crew, and the captain wringing his hands, rushed wildly to the mate.
                  "You said it was the vessel of the Guzan prince!" he cried, in a trembling voice.
                  "And I say so still," answered the officer. "I can swear to the rigging and hull of that craft out of a thousand."
                  "What are we to do?" cried the captain.
                  "Fight or give up!" replied the mate, bluntly.
                  "But, we cannot fight—we have no arms, and that ship is full of men."
                  "Then we must either submit, or scuttle the ship," said the second officer. "I see no way of escape!"
                  All farther doubt concerning the character or identity of the strange vessel was now at an end, for as she came looming up behind the slow-sailing merchantman, with the black flag of piracy streaming from her topmast, Selim beheld upon her deck the well-known form of Nadab his brother.
                  The captain and crew of the trader, powerless to resist so formidable an enemy, slackened sail and brought the vessel to at once, whilst the pirate, ranging alongside, poured a fierce gang over the decks of his prize. Selim, on the first attack, had drawn his sword, and placed himself on the defensive, resolved to sell his life dearly, rather than yield to the marauders. Perceiving his resolute attitude, the foremost plunderers avoided him, but growing bolder, as their numbers increased, a dozen speedily rushed upon the prince, endeavoring to despatch him at once, while a score or more scoured the ship, killing without mercy the captain and every mariner who would not at the dagger's point swear to join their band.
                  Selim made good use of his weapon, for two fell to the deck with the first sweep which he made of his gleaming blade. But the pirates pressed vigorously forward, to avenge their comrades, and the prince would inevitably have fallen beneath their combined attack, had not his situation at that instant caught the eyes of Nadab, who stood at the bows of the other ship. The felon prince recognized immediately the features of Selim, and a cry of triumphal hatred escaped his lips.
                  "Kill him not, men! on your lives slay him not!" he exclaimed, fearful lest the weapons of his followers should anticipate his own revenge. "A hundred pieces of gold, if he is taken alive!"
                  The pirates, hearing these words from their leader's voice, paused a moment, and then, stooping to avoid Selim's blows, darted at his feet, and grasping them, threw the prince upon his back; then, calling for ropes, they bound his hands, and took away his sword.
                  This operation, witnessed by Nadab from his secure position on the other deck, penetrated that wicked young man with the keenest emotions of joy. He beheld the brother whom he had pursued with so much virulence, and over whose safety Heaven had appeared especially to watch, now lying powerless upon the deck of the prize, and completely, as it seemed, at his mercy. He could not forbear the exultation of his gratification, by calling out to the defenceless Selim in insolent tones:
                  "How now, dog; who is master now? What power can release you from Nadab, my pious Selim?"
                  "The power that ever overrules the intentions of the wicked," answered Selim, quietly.
                  "Ha, ha! we shall see presently!" cried Nadab, laughing triumphantly. "I am king here, you will find, my sweet brother."
                  Thus the unworthy prince continued to taunt the noble Selim, but the latter, satisfied with his own trust in God, replied no more to his malicious words. In the meantime the pirate crew had slain many of the poor merchant sailors, and dispersed themselves about the ship, plundering her valuables and destroying her cargo.
                  The merchant vessel was laden with great stores of spices and fruits, but the object of the marauders was money or jewels, and having possessed themselves of all such that they could lay their hands upon, the signal for recall was made, and they returned to their own vessel, after first setting fire to the prize. Selim, pinioned and helpless, was conveyed over the vessel's side, and carried to the pirate's deck, where stood his brother, in all arrogance and authority; and the lashings which had connected the two barks being presently cast off, a wide gap of water soon separated them. The pirate shot ahead, and the merchantman, wreathed in smoke and flame, fell far astern.
                  It was now noonday, and the high sun poured its vertical rays down on the unsheltered head of Selim, who was left tied upon the burning planks, whilst Nadab retired to his cabin to carouse with his comrades over this their first entire success in the piratical course on which they had entered. Very soon the prince could hear the sound of uproarous laughter, mingled with blasphemous words and ribald songs, and he knew that the captain and crew were revelling below.
                  "O, my father!" murmured Selim; "O, venerable sire! how is thy memory dishonored in the conduct of my wretched brother! Merciful Allah, harden not his heart so terribly! O, may he repent of his crimes!"
                  But little hope of repentance on his brother's part could Selim cherish, when he remembered the long-pursued schemes of wickedness in which Nadab had been engaged. He called to the few mariners who had been left above as a guard to him, to bring him a draught of water; but these men had sought the sheltered hatchways, and were eagerly listening to the songs of the revellers below.
                  Selim, gasping for breath, began to fear that he must shortly perish from the dreadful heat and thirst which tortured him.
                  But first he resolved to make an effort to release himself from the cords which confined his wrists behind his back. They had been tightly drawn and secured, but the prince's struggles soon loosened them sufficiently to admit of his using his fingers, when, exerting his utmost strength, he succeeded in untwisting several strands of the rope, so that with a sudden wrench they parted, and he found himself free.
                  But scarcely had this been effected, when a sudden shout from the helmsman, who was the only man attentive to his duty, announced that a sail was heaving in sight, and the cry being passed below, was answered by a yell of drunken mirth from the carousing pirates. Then a rush was heard, and Nadab, followed by a score of revellers, appeared upon the deck.
                  Nadab's eyes were bloodshot, his face inflamed and his whole appearance denoted the debauch in which he had engaged. He flourished a sword in his hand, and staggered toward his prostrate brother, uttering frenzied exclamations.
                  "Ha! caitiff! dog! slave!" he cried, making passes as if he would cut Selim in pieces. "Now I shall have my reckoning with you! Get up, slave, and beg your life. Ho, one of you, bring a whip that I may lash this dog of mine!"
                  Selim listened to the raving of his wicked brother with unmoved calmness, but he moved his fingers nervously behind his back, so as to be sure that nothing should impede his hands in the struggle which he feared must come. But another warning from the lookout arrested the fury of the drunken prince.
                  "A sail on our larboard—two sails on our weather bow," was the cry.
                  "What do they look like?" cried a dark, fierce-looking man, who now advanced and took his station near Nadab. This person was the captain who commanded the ship of the pirate prince, and who seemed comparatively sober.
                  "One large, and two small vessels—armed, I think," answered the mariner.
                  "Let us crowd sail," cried the captain. "Away, men, to your stations!" he continued, waving a trumpet which he carried, whilst Nadab, who had been silent a few moments, began once more his threats.
                  "Ho, Selim! Selim the prince!" he muttered savagely. "Bring me the whip—hear ye not?"
                  A man at this instant brought forward a long goad, which the drunken Nadab snatched away immediately, exclaiming:
                  "Now, dog, beg for your life."
                  But ere the lash could descend, the prostrate Selim sprang to his feet, and leaping forward, grasped his wicked brother, and hurled him to the deck. Then, snatching the heavy sword from his hand, the brave prince fell back against the vessel's side, and prepared to defend himself.
                  The sudden overthrow of Nadab, and Selim's threatening attitude, intimidated for a moment the entire piratical crew. But as the baffled Nadab rose foaming to his feet, and called upon them to slay the prince, they made ready to rush together, and pin him to the bulwark.
                  Selim commended himself to Heaven, and cast one look around, as if to bid adieu to ocean and sky. As he did so, a cry of joy trembled on his lips; for as he stood he could plainly behold the ships which the helmsman had descried, and in the foremost he recognized the well-remembered "Green Bird" of the corsair, Ali-Naro.
                  The next moment, the pirates attacked him, and he struck the first who neared him to the deck. But his object was not now to sell his life. The sight of Ali-Naro's vessel had inspired him with a sudden hope of escape; and watching his opportunity, he swept the sword which he held with furious strength upon a second of his assailants and then, dropping his blade, sprang over the ship's side into the sea.
                  Nadab shrieked with rage as he beheld his brother's daring act, and called for spearmen and archers to hurl their weapons upon the prince. But the ship was at her speed, and before an arrow could be fitted, or a dart poised, Selim was far astern, breasting manfully the rolling waves.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER. XV.
                  ABDUCTION OF AZNA-ALWAZ.
                  THE Princess Azna-Alwaz, after the evening when she had witnessed from her hiding-place at the fountain, the landing of the mariners for water, did not wear the same quiet and indifferent look as she had in previous days exhibited. A thoughtful expression took possession of the maiden's features, and her deep, lustrous eyes seemed to grow sad in their abstracted gaze. She smiled not now as formerly, and many who prided themselves on their wisdom, said, on hearing of her approaching nuptials with the prince of Coranor, "It is a love-match. One can see plainly that the princess is dying for him."
                  But, indeed, so far from dying for the prince of Coranor, Azna-Alwaz began to conceive for this lover a sort of aversion which she could not surmount. The attentions, which in right of his position the prince felt himself privileged to pay to his affianced bride, became repugnant to her feelings, and she avoided his presence as much as possible. The king of Divonduron could not but remark the change that had taken place in his daughter, which grieved him the more because he could attribute no cause for it. Azna-Alwaz had consented to his proposed matrimonial arrangement with so little apparent reluctance, and the prince of Coranor was in truth so eligible a husband for almost any princess, that the old king was at his wits' end to account for the maiden's singular dejection, which all the court had begun by this time to notice.
                  "Beloved Azna-Alwaz," he said to her one day, "I have observed with great concern that of late you seem not to be so happy as formerly. You sigh often, and appear to court solitude. Your eyes, my dear child, are not so brilliant as they were, and the roses on your cheeks are becoming paled. Tell me, Azna-Alwaz, what has troubled you?"
                  "My dear sire," answered the princess, "I am a foolish girl, and I should not give way to oppressive thoughts."
                  "Oppressive thoughts! What, my dear child, can oppress your tender mind?"
                  "In truth, nothing, my father. You are kind and indulgent beyond my desert. I have really nothing to trouble me."
                  "Banish, then, these gloomy fits," said the old king. "They are unbecoming one who is soon to be united to a noble husband."
                  Azna-Alwaz, on hearing this, burst into a flood of tears, and covered her lovely face in the folds of her veil. Her father was surprised and alarmed at this singular manifestation, and drew her at once to his side, at the same time speaking in a gentle tone:
                  "Strange, girl," he said; "is, then, this marriage riage distasteful to you? Why did you not tell me so when I first proposed the prince of Coranor for your acceptance? But I swear to you, even now, if there is another prince more agreeable to your choice, I will find means to break my engagement with Coranor."
                  "O, no—no, dear father!" cried Azna-Alwaz, in a broken voice. "It shall be as you command. I may as well marry the prince of Coranor as any of my suitors, who are all alike repugnant to me."
                  "This is but wilfulness, child," cried the king of Divonduron. "You would trifle with me, I fear, and I must not submit to it."
                  Poor Azna-Alwaz knew not what to say. Her father's displeasure terrified her, and she could only hide her eyes and weep. At length the king grew really angry, and said to her harshly:
                  "Retire, now, and endeavor to wear a more cheerful demeanor when we meet again. And prepare, I command you, to become the wife of the prince within ten days."
                  The princess bowed her head, and withdrew to her solitary walk in the garden of the palace, her bosom filled with a variety of emotions, among which the memory of that majestic stranger whom she had seen upon the terrace was ever uppermost.
                  It was evening again, and the sunset splendors of sky and water fixed the maiden's gaze, and for a time cheated her of desponding reflections. Away beyond the garden terraces the great ocean stretched, as far as the eye could reach, its surface crimson with the beams of parting day. Here and there a white sail could be descried, relieved against the horizon; and Azna-Alwaz, recalled to her silent recollections, wondered whither, upon the great deep, the bark of him whose image still occupied her heart, was now directing its course, and whether, in the future which was to come, another orison so bright would ever visit her as that which had spelled her senses near the terrace fountain.
                  Wrapped in these fancies, Alna-Alwaz gave no heed to aught around her, nor knew that she was observed by strangers near. In fact, from the first appearance of the princess in the garden, on this evening, she had been the unconscious object of attention to a party of men who approached from a distant part of the sea-shore, where they had landed in a small boat from a ship which was hidden by a jutting point of beach from the view of any one upon the garden terraces.
                  These men were all heavily armed, and their appearance betokened a lawless course of life, for their countenances bore the unmistakeable traces of vice and dissipation. They were commanded by a young man, who was distinguished by ornaments and by a finer garb, but whose features were not less unpleasant than those whom he led, a mixture of cunning and brutality making repulsive what had originally been a face of some pretension to beauty.
                  Azna-Alwaz, awakened from her reverie by voices near at hand, turned her alarmed gaze toward the strangers, and met the glance of their leader fixed upon her with an expression that greatly terrified her. She rose immediately from her seat, and endeavored to gain the path which conducted to the palace gardens, but ere she could do so, a rude hand was laid upon her garments.
                  "Not so fast, beautiful lady," said a loud and confident voice; "good company must not part so soon."
                  Azna-Alwaz attempted to cry out, but fright prevented her uttering an audible sound. She could only struggle violently, and gasp for breath.
                  "Why so fluttering, pretty dove?" cried the man who had caught her garments, and who now, confining her delicate hands, drew her nearer to him, and gazed with bold admiration upon her lovely features. "You have nothing to fear, beautiful one."
                  O, release me!—let me depart," murmured Azna Alwaz, in a faint voice, still struggling to free herself.
                  "Not yet—not yet, I promise you," answered the ruffian who detained her. "Come, let us be friends. Whither would you fly?"
                  "I pray you to release me!" cried the maiden. "My father will punish you severely."
                  "Your father is not here, pretty one."
                  "But he is near. Unhand me, sir! I am a princess, and unused to such violence," cried Azna-Alwaz, regaining somewhat of her courage, and speaking in a resolute tone.
                  "O, you are a princess. Well, sweet lady, I am a prince; so you perceive we are on equal terms. Come, let your father alone, my beauty, and go with me!"
                  Saying this, the villain attempted to lift the princess in his arms, but she eluded his grasp, and shrieking violently, fled toward the gardens.
                  "By Eblis, she shall not escape me!" cried the ruffian, as he darted in pursuit, followed by his comrades, and quickly reaching the flying maiden, caught her once more in his arms. But her cries, resounding through the gardens, had by this time aroused the people of the palace, and lights began to glimmer amid the trees now enveloped in the dusk of evening.
                  "Quick to the shore! Let us gain the boat!" cried the villain, as he turned from the garden path, firmly grasping the now silent and fainting princess. And as the torch-lights began to multiply around the grounds, and cries of alarm sounded from the gloom, the daring abductors rapidly descended the terraces, and with their prize soon succeeded in reaching the boat.
                  The sun had now entirely disappeared, and the waterside was hidden by a thick mist, through which the boat was pushed off, and rowed swiftly toward a large vessel which lay at anchor near the extremity of the sandy promontory. Azna-Alwaz, muffled in the mantle of her captor, and deprived of consciousness, was lifted without difficulty on the deck of the ship, and thence borne to a cabin, where she awoke to life only to behold herself completely in the power of the daring wretches who had kidnapped her.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  "THE GREEN BIRD."
                  WHEN Prince Selim, after his last blow against the marauding followers of Nadab, had flung himself into the sea, trusting to Heaven for his preservation, it was not without a calculation as to his chances of escape. He had recognized the ship of Ali-Naro, and knew that the speed of the corsair bark would soon bring her near enough to serve him, could he succeed in sustaining himself in the wake of the other vessel. The sea, it is true, was rather rough, but the prince was an excellent swimmer, and felt confident that, as it was in the broad light of day, he could soon make signals which might be seen from the pursuing ship. Animated with this hope, he at first struck boldly out, and then, husbanding his strength, only endeavored to keep himself above the water, whilst he tore away a portion of his dress and waved it to and fro above his head.
                  Nadab's vessel, in the meantime, had been kept on her course, for her captain was apprehensive that the ships which followed him might not be very agreeable consorts, so Selim even had the satisfaction of beholding the dark craft from which he had escaped gradually disappearing upon the waters, whilst with equal joy he perceived the advance of the "Green Bird" directly towards him. It soon became apparent, likewise, that Ali-Naro's people observed his signals, for as the vessel approached, he could perceive a kind of tumult upon her decks, and, presently beheld her rounded to, and a boat leaving her sides. His heart was so elated at this sight that the prince almost lost his senses, and when, at length, the boat neared him, and he recognized many well-remembered faces among the rowers, he had barely strength to make a grasp at the prow, and then lapsed into a death-like swoon.
                  But he had been seized opportunely by the strong-handed mariners, and lifted safely into the boat, which was immediately rowed with all speed toward the ship. And when, under the restoring attentions of his old friends, Prince Selim awoke again to animation, it was to behold the grave face of Ali-Naro bending over him, and hear the corsair's manly voice welcome him with all the affection of a father.
                  Tenderly nursed by the old captain, Selim soon regained his strength and spirits, and was able to relate to his host the various fortunes which had befallen him since they parted. Ali-Naro was shocked to hear of the treachery of Osmyn and Nadab, which had admitted an enemy into their native country, but when the prince proceeded in his narrative to recount his shipwreck, and sojourn with the dervish, and the particulars of Osmyn's, death and the subsequent accusation which had been made against himself by the wicked Nadab, the indignation of Ali-Naro knew no limits.
                  "Villain!" he cried. "He deserves not to exist upon the earth. What place is now infested with his presence?"
                  "Hear me to the end," cried Selim, and went on to explain the providential circumstances by which he had been cleared of the charge against him, and the crime fixed upon its real authors. He depicted the agony of the governor of Vashnor, on discovering his son to be a murderer, and related with tears how the magistrate had condemned his first born to death, while the guilty Nadab had escaped from the port.
                  "And he yet curses these seas?" interrupted Ali-Naro. "Would that I might encounter him!"
                  "You have been very near it," remarked Selim. "It was from his ship that I leaped into the sea!" and he concluded his recital by an account of the destruction of the merchantman, his capture by the pirate Nadab, and the cruel treatment which he had afterwards received, up to the moment of his desperate attempt at escape, which had happily been successful.
                  "O, this evil brother of yours—he must be pursued!" exclaimed Ali-Naro, as his friend finished his story. "But you are saved, thanks be to Heaven! Great must be the love of Allah to you, my son, since he has so especially manifested his power for your constant protection. Perhaps the many sins of Ali-Naro may be forgiven through your prayers, my prince."
                  "Say rather through your own, my friend," answered Selim, solemnly. "Allah never is deaf to earnest supplication."
                  "I have sought to pray much of late," said the corsair, leaning his forehead upon his hand, and fixing his eyes upon the deck. As he thus sat, Selim had an opportunity of observing the captain's features, and saw that a great change had taken place since he had last beheld them. The old man's cheek was sunken, his hair which had been black, was silvered, and there was an air of deep melancholy in all his manner, as though a weight pressed continually on his spirits. The prince of Guzan was much affected on noticing this, and clasping his friend's hand, he said:
                  "Ali-Naro! I perceive that you dwell too much on the past! Let me counsel you to turn your hopes to the future—to an existence better and nobler than your previous life. Do I offend you, my friend?"
                  "No, go on, prince! Let me listen to you!" cried Ali-Naro. "I have need of your counsel and sympathy!"
                  The prince of Guzan saw that the corsair's heart was altered greatly from its former state of despairing indifference or recklessness. The blow which had deprived him of his son had, at first hardened his feelings and rendered him desperate of the future, but time and thought, joined to his intimacy with Selim, had awakened-softer emotions in his bosom, and he was now prepared to profit by the gentle monitions of his young friend. The prince did not fail to draw a parallel between the case of Ali-Naro and that of the governor of Vashnor, in both of which a beloved son was lost to a devoted father; and perhaps, the most quiet slumber which the corsair had ever experienced, visited his wearied senses when he sought his pillow that night, after listening to the story, and being soothed by the counsels of the pious prince of Guzan.
                  The ship of Nadab, owing to the delay which was necessary in rescuing Selim, had, in the meanwhile, succeeded in gaining such an advance, that, at the setting in of night, no glimpse of her was to be seen in all the line of horizon; so that Ali-Naro was forced very reluctantly to give up the pursuit, and recall his two smaller vessels to alter their course, and proceed, with the "Green Bird" to the Isle of Eagles.
                  The next morning the old captain announced to his crew the death of their comrade Moussa, and Prince Selim, at the same time, paid a tribute to the poor fellow's memory, which gained him new favor with all his old friends the corsairs. Soon afterwards, they reached the well-known island, in which the prince of Guzan had sojourned so pleasantly after his former preservation by Ali-Naro. Everything here remained as before; the castle crowned its wood-encircled hill, the streamlets danced in beauty to the plain, and the radiant flowers greeted Selim with their former luxuriousness and fragrance. The prince welcomed the rest and peace of the quiet isle with a gladness which is only felt by those who have experienced the trials and perils which, had been his lot since his previous visit.
                  Ali-Naro also seemed to share in the satisfaction of his friend. His countenance wore a cheerful look, and he replied with animation to the warm greetings of his friends upon the isle. Selim was rejoiced at these signs of his friend's returning peace of mind, as they argued happiness yet in store for the old corsair.
                  A few weeks' stay at the Isle of Eagles sufficed to recruit the health of the adventurers, and Ali-Naro then avowed his intention of setting forth once more in pursuit of the pirate Nadab.
                  "In my youthful days," said the corsair, "I allowed no murderous villains to infest these seas. An open freebooter myself, with a sovereignty of my own in this rocky isle, I made war and exacted tribute in my own way, but no one can say that Ali-Naro ever shed blood wantonly, or disturbed the peaceful trader who paid tithes in recognition of his claims as ocean-king. It shall not be said that, in my age, I permit a marauder to disturb those whom I protect in these seas. Therefore I am resolved to pursue this pirate-brother of yours."
                  "But, my friend, Ali-Naro," said Selim. "You will not pursue this unhappy man to avenge my injuries? Much as Nadab has wronged me, I cannot forget that he is my father's son."
                  "He deserves no mercy at your hands," cried Ali-Naro, something of his ancient spirit gleaming in his eye. "And were I to judge him, the death of Moussa might make me relentless. I will leave him to you, prince, should he fall into our hands."
                  The "Green Bird" left the Isle of Eagles, with a fair breeze, and all her crew in the best of spirits. Ali-Naro seemed to have recovered the life and vigor of youth, and passed much of his time in relating to Selim the various adventures that had marked his eventful career, both on sea and land. In this manner many days were agreeably passed whilst cruising up and down the Indian Ocean, until at last, one day, the mariner stationed at the topmast announced a strange sail, resembling the vessel he had before pursued.
                  Ali-Naro immediately crowded all the canvass that his ship could carry, and in a brief space of time hauled closely into the track of the other craft, which, with great exultation, he soon decided to be the very bark which had before escaped him.
                  Selim, too, recognized the vessel as the one which had captured the merchantman, and his assurance of the fact stimulated the "Green Bird's" company to still greater exertion in order to overtake the chase, which was almost as swift a sailer as the corsair's ship itself. Every shred of canvass was bent upon the masts, and the great oar-sweeps, used to assist the speed of vessels in those seas, were manned by the corsairs with alacrity. The result was that about midday, the "Green Bird" ran alongside and cast her grapnels upon the ship of Nadab, which had run up the black flag, and seemed resolved to resist an attempt at capture.
                  Ali-Naro rejoiced at this, for he had feared that Nadab was too cowardly to make a stand, and that the pirates would therefore fall too easy a prize, in which case he might find it necessary to deal out that vengeance in cool blood which he would rather should be wreaked in the heat of conflict; for the corsair was determined that an example should be made of these his pirate-rivals, which should effectually deter others from following their example of plunder in the Indian Seas. The old captain considered himself not only paramount, but, inasmuch as his power had long been recognized, and the tribute which he claimed cheerfully paid by most of the Indian merchants, he felt it his duty to protect their commerce from the attacks of new marauders.
                  It was, therefore, with much of his ancient fiery spirit, that he shouted the war-cry to his crew, and rushed at their head to board the pirate vessel. The corsairs, eager for the conflict, climbed in a moment over the ship's sides, and engaged in battle with their enemies. In vain did the captain of Nadab's bark, and even the pirate-prince himself, fight at the head of their followers, and dispute the deck with unexpected determination. The corsairs not only outnumbered them, but were men who had never known defeat, and they speedily swept like a torrent along the main decks of the vessel, cutting down and trampling over the pirates in every direction. Ali-Naro saw presently that the fight was decided, and the victory his own. Dozens of the foemen were lying dead and wounded on the planks, whilst others, disarmed and bound implored mercy, and others, escaping to the hold, sought only to delay their destruction by a despairing resistance. The captain of the pirates lay at the old corsair's feet, struck down by the first blow which Ali-Naro had dealt, and of all the ferocious followers of Nadab, none could now avert the fate which threatened the wicked prince.
                  Selim looked around, to discover his wretched brother, but the latter was not to be seen; and it was not till all the pirate-crew, who survived the combat, had been safely secured in the ship's hold, that the felon-prince was at last recognized, garbed as a slave, in which disguise he had been dragged from a hiding-place in the cabin.
                  But his disguise availed not the treacherous Nadab. Dragged to the deck of the "Green Bird" he lifted up his eyes only to encounter the bright glance of Selim fixed sternly on his pallid face.
                  Ali-Naro, standing beside his friend, while the fierce corsairs stood ready to obey the slightest motion of either, looked frowningly upon the defeated pirate, and then, turning to Selim, said:
                  "Prince, I have promised you that this man's fate should be decided by yourself. He is in your hands, and you know that my followers are likewise yours!" Saying this the corsair folded his arms, and awaited the action of Selim.
                  Nadab heard the words of the old chief which informed him that his doom was to be decided by the brother whom he had so greatly injured, and whose life he had lately attempted to take. But this cunning prince knew the magnanimous nature of Selim, and he did not despair of moving his compassion. Pausing but a moment to meditate his course, he clasped his hands together, and then threw himself at the feet of the prince of Guzan.
                  "O, forgive—forgive me, Selim!" he cried, in accents of terror. "Forget not we are sons of the same father—that the same mother gave us nourishment from her breasts."
                  "Wretch!" cried Selim, as he heard these words of his unnatural brother. "How have you remembered your relationship to me! Degraded prince! by what right do you invoke the memory of our noble father!"
                  "But, we are yet of the same blood!" cried the ingrate, as he grovelled upon the deck at his brother's feet. "You will not doom me to death unprepared. I promise to be your slave, Selim—to serve you faithfully!"
                  "I cannot trust a traitor to his country," returned the prince.
                  "Alas, the deeds of Osmyn were not mine!" cried Nadab. "It was his treachery that—"
                  "O, wretch! would you then blacken the memory of him you slew!" cried Selim.
                  "But I am wretched—I am agonized!" murmured Nadab. "My poor brother's death has almost crazed me—I would repent—I would repent."
                  On hearing these words, uttered wildly by the unhappy man at his feet, Selim was moved with compassion. He believed that Nadab was indeed penetrated with remorse for his crimes, and the conviction made him desirous of casing the wretched brother's terror.
                  "Do you then swear, Nadab, to amend your life, and seek to make reparation for the misery you have inflicted upon others? Answer me this."
                  "I do! I do!" gasped Nabab. "I swear to change my course of life, and seek to repent of my manifold crimes."
                  "Rise, then, and be faithful to your oath!" said Selim, extending his hand to his brother, who crouched upon the dock. "Rise, I pardon you!"
                  Hardly had this scene been thus concluded, when a commotion on board the pirate-bark, which yet remained fast to the "Green Bird," announced that something important was taking place. Ali-Naro immediately advanced toward the other vessel, whilst Prince Selim gave the trembling Nadab in charge of one of the crew, with orders to treat him well.
                  The tumult which Ali-Naro had heard now subsided into low murmurs, and, the mariners making way for their commander as he approached, opened a way to the cabin of Nadab's ship, where, in a curtained recess that had been concealed from view during the first search, throughout the vessel, reclined upon a pile of silken cushions a maiden, beautiful as an angel, who, with closed eyes, seemed either wrapped in sleep or death. The old corsair pressed forward, and tenderly approaching the unconscious lady, raised her white hand from the bosom which it pressed, and discovered that the pulse yet throbbed with life.
                  "Hasten! bring cordials hither!" cried the chief, "and bid the Prince Selim to come!"
                  A mariner immediately sprang to obey his captain's orders, and at the same moment Selim made his appearance on the deck of Nadab's ship. A short consultation was held regarding the lovely female who it was evident, had been plunged into a deadly swoon, doubtless terrified by the fierce conflict which had raged above. Selim, on his part, could scarcely withdraw his glance from the lady's countenance, which, though pale, was yet transcendently lovely. She lay before him, half-buried in the silken pillows, like a vision of some houri asleep in the halls of Paradise; and, as with trembling fingers, he sprinkled upon her forehead some perfumed water brought by the mariner, and applied to her beautiful lips a few drops of cordial, he almost feared lest, on opening her eyes, she should vanish at once from his enraptured sight.
                  Thus the prince of Guzan knelt beside the fair unknown, watching anxiously for some sign of returning animation, and holding closely within his own her delicate right hand; and thus he gazed upon her face, when the princess of Divonduron, for it was she, opened her lustrous eyes and turned them upon a countenance whose majestic features she well-remembered. The sight accomplished more than cordials or restoratives to recall her scattered senses. She uttered a low cry, and pressed her eyes with her white fingers, as if fearful that their vision deceived her. Then, starting suddenly from the cushions, she clasped her hands together, and threw herself at Selim's feet.
                  "O, leave me not! O, protect me from these cruel men!" she murmured. "O do not go from me!" And she gazed up into the prince's face with a look so earnest and pleading, that Selim felt the tears rush to his eyes with the sudden emotion that thrilled his heart.
                  "Leave you?" he cried, as he clasped the gentle hands which were twined supplicatingly together. "Beautiful being—I will never leave you!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  SELIM AND AZNA-ALWAZ.
                  How short had been the lawless career of the wicked Nadab after his expulsion from the island which he had betrayed into the power of a foreign tyrant; yet, in the brief space during which he sailed upon the ocean, he had become an instrument in the hands of Providence to bring good fortune to the very person whom, of all others, he would have injured—his innocent brother Selim; for had it not been for the abduction of the fair Azna-Alwaz by the pirate-prince, she would probably never have again looked upon the stranger who had so greatly interested her heart, and Selim would have remained ignorant of the very existence of the princess of Divonduron, for whom he now conceived the most devoted passion.
                  These two young people indeed seemed formed for one another. Both were eminently handsome, amiable, and possessed of noble souls, and it is no wonder that they should become inspired with mutual affection, or that their meeting on board of Nadab's ship should lead to an intimacy sweet and holy to their gentle hearts. Very soon their confidence in one another was as unbounded as if years had cemented their attachment, and Ali-Naro saw with delight, that his young friend was destined to the enjoyment of the greatest happiness in the possession of the love of such an adorable maiden as Azna-Alwaz.
                  The princess related to her lover how she had seen him on his visit to the island of Divonduron, and how a hopeless passion had thenceforward sprung up in her heart, which robbed her of health and tranquillity, until the period when, wandering, as we have narrated, in the palace gardens, she had been seized and carried away by Nadab, on the night preceding the very day Ali-Naro pursued and captured the pirate.
                  "You were not then long in the power of the wicked man?" cried Selim, eagerly.
                  "O, do not call him wicked," said Azna-Alwaz, with a sweet smile, "since through his means I was brought to my beloved. But, O, Heaven be thanked, that you rescued me so soon, for fearful had been my fate on board that dreadful vessel!"
                  "O, my Azna-Alwaz!" cried the prince, "Allah has indeed blessed me beyond all my sufferings!"
                  But when Selim recounted to his princess all the strange vicissitudes of his life since setting out with his brothers upon their expedition to the astrologer Rahbek, Azna-Alwaz folded her beautiful arms about his neck, and said in her tender voice, which sounded like music to him.
                  "Dearly-loved Selim! Heaven has sent an angel to me in the form of my glorious prince! O, may we nevermore be parted."
                  "Never—never!" cried Selim, drawing her to his bosom, and pressing her pure forehead with a kiss of love.
                  But, if the happiness of Selim was thus perfect, it may well be fancied that the malicious Nadab was tormented with envy and chagrin. After the pardon that had been extended to him by his magnanimous brother, the felon prince was allowed his liberty, having been deprived of his arms, and, though Ali-Naro was strongly opposed to it, was permitted by Selim to enter sometimes into the principal cabin of the ship. He appeared very much oppressed and dejected, and in his interviews with his brother, wrought powerfully upon the generous mind of that good youth, by an affectation of sincere sorrow for his past life of wickedness. But the old corsair, though he admired Selim for his noble confidence, did not share at all in the belief as to Nadab's contrition. He could not help feeling that the defeated pirate was still bad in heart, and cherished still the same hatred against his brother. But, as Selim had promised the prisoner that he should be set on shore at some convenient port, and furnished with sufficient means to begin a better course of living, the captain thought best to keep his suspicious to himself, and await the dismissal of Nadab, which he resolved, however, should take place at the first inhabited island which could be reached.
                  "And yet," he said one day to Selim, "I very much fear that no good will come of your lenity to this man."
                  "Let us hope for the best," answered the prince. "Nadab appears truly repentant, and it may be that his heart will yet be changed."
                  Ali-Naro shook his head and turned away, and Azna-Alwaz, to whom Selim had revealed the relationship of her abductor to himself, looked at the young prince with a sweet smile, and murmured:
                  "How is it possible not to love my Selim, who believes that good is in every one?"
                  "And yet my brothers loved me not," said her friend.
                  "Ah, they were unnatural brothers," replied the princess.
                  "But should I not have forgiven Nadab?" asked the prince of Guzan.
                  "Whatever you do is right, beloved Selim," cried Azna-Alwaz, hiding her beautiful face in his bosom. "Allah directs the actions of my prince!"
                  Thus these two gentle natures communed with one another, and grew hourly more attached by the tender chain of sympathy and affection. But a cloud was about to come over the heaven of their happiness.
                  Ali Naro, after his second meeting with Selim, appeared, as we said, to have regained more tranquillity of mind and resignation than he had previously known. Nevertheless, his thoughts often dwelt upon the fate of his only son, and he could not banish from his memory the incidents of his last quarrel with the young Ali, and the discovery afterwards of the poor youth's skeleton on the "Isle of Death"—the latter sad spectacle being constantly brought to his recollection by the presence of his friend, the prince of Guzan. It was after indulging one night, as he sought his couch, in a train of reflections upon the subject, that the corsair was visited by a dream or apparition which impressed itself so vividly on his mind that he sprang from his cot in fearful agitation.
                  Ali Naro thought that he beheld his lost son suddenly present himself at the side of his bed, and pronouncing his name, point solemnly with his finger in the direction of the cabin which the prince of Guzan occupied. The phantom's features were grave and composed, and there was a calm smile upon his lips, though his eyes seemed filled with serious import. So real did the presence appear to Ali-Naro, it was with much emotion that he could recover from his trepidation or calm his nerves sufficiently to permit of his seeking slumber once more.
                  But scarcely had he again closed his eyes, when the word "father," seemed uttered close to his ear, and the form of Ali seemed bending over him, with the same strange look of meaning, and hand extended toward Selim's cabin.
                  Again he opened his eyes and half-rose from his pillow, and again disposed himself to slumber, though the sweat stood in beaded drops upon his forehead, and his heart throbbed with violent emotions. And now for a third time that supernatural whisper thrilled upon his ear, seeming to say:
                  "Ali-Naro—father—hasten!"
                  The corsair hesitated no longer to obey the strange summons whencesoever it might come. He sprang hurriedly from the couch, grasped his sword, and advanced through the darkness to the cabin of his guest.
                  All was still, and Ali-Naro, as he reached the curtained pallet on which the prince lay, could hear his regular breathing, as if in peaceful slumber. Almost ashamed of his terror, he was about to return to his own bed, when a sudden impulse led him just to approach the sleeper, and lay his hand upon his forehead. But nought was there to alarm him—the pulse was gentle and the flesh cool, and Ali-Naro smiled at his own causeless fear.
                  But, at this instant, a muffled footstep sounded close by she bed, and the curtains were grasped by a cautions hand. Ali-Naro became aware that another figure was standing beside him, and a moment afterwards he felt an upraised arm brush his own. He started suddenly forward, bending over Selim, and seized the intruder with a fair hold. But it was too late—the blow of a dagger fell, and the corsair sank upon the bed, pierced through the bosom by the sharp steel, yet still retaining his clasp of the midnight assassin.
                  The prince of Guzan, aroused by the noise and struggle, started from his couch, uttering a loud cry, which was answered by the appearance of a dozen of the crew, who rushed from the deck, with weapons and lights.
                  But what a spectacle was presented! Ali-Naro stabbed in the breast, leaned against the bedside, grasping by his robe the villain Nadab, whose hand still clutched the dagger with which he had struck the murderous blow. At the sight, a yell of fury broke from the corsair crew, and with one movement they rushed upon the assassin, and with their swords pierced him in a dozen places. The wretch fell to the floor, muttering a last curse as his breath fled the body.
                  But who can picture the anguish of Selim at beholding his friend Ali-Naro perishing by the stroke which had been intended for his own bosom. He threw himself on his knees beside the corsair, and clasped his hands.
                  "Ali-Naro! my friend!" he cried, in accents of the deepest sorrow. "O, my preserver! how do I behold thee—slain for me!"
                  "It is better thus!" murmured the old chief, in a feeble voice. "My life was well-nigh spent, and I go to join my lost Ali! He beckons me! He calls—"
                  And Ali-Naro stretched forth his arms, as if to a phantom-form before his gaze. Then, clasping Selim's hand, he raised himself from the bed, and stood erect.
                  "Comrades!" he cried, addressing the crew, who now crowded from all parts of the vessel to look upon their loved commander—"companions of my wanderings, I must leave you. But I leave you a new chief. Promise me to obey the Prince Selim!"
                  The brave corsairs raised their swords, and said with one accord—"We promise, Ali-Naro."
                  "Farewell, my men! farewell, prince! Ali—my boy—I come to thee!"
                  With these words, Ali-Naro the corsair-chieftain sank gently back, and closed his eyes forever. Selim, turned with a sorrowing look, from the murdered captain, and met the tearful gaze of Azna-Alwaz fixed upon his countenance.
                  "O, my princess," he cried, "we have lost our friend!"
                  "But he has gained many friends!" murmured Azna-Alwaz, raising her lovely eyes to heaven.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  THE PRINCE-CORSAIR.
                  THE body of the wicked Nadab was thrown by the enraged corsairs into the ocean, whilst that of their venerated captain was embalmed and wrapped in fine linen to be conveyed to his peaceful Isle of Eagles, whither the "Green Bird" now pursued her course. Arrived there, the simple obsequies of the old corsair were participated in by all the inhabitants of the place, whilst Selim offered a prayer over the father, as he had before done over the son's remains. Ali-Naro was laid beside his boy, and the women and children of the Isle of Eagles planted flowers and green trees to mark the spot, and hallow it to the recollections of their descendants.
                  This duty performed, Selim permitted all of the crew who wished to remain upon the island, to receive their dismissal from his chief officer, and then acquainted the rest with his desire to proceed immediately to the kingdom of Divonduron, there to demand the Princess Azna-Alwaz in marriage from her father. The mariners gladly expressed their willingness to follow the prince of Guzan as they had their former chief, and shortly after, Selim set sail with the three vessels, and shaped his course for the country of his beloved. But yet another change was to take place in the prince's checkered fortunes.
                  In pursuing his voyage from the Isle of Eagles to Divonduron, it became necessary to pass within a few leagues of the island of Guzan, and Selim could not resist the desire to show to Azna-Alwaz the distant mountains of his native land. For this purpose he ordered the helmsman to steer as close as possible to the entrance of the port, that a view might be obtained of the kingdom which had been lost to him through the treachery of his brothers—now punished finally for their many crimes.
                  The "Green Bird" soon arrived in sight of Guzan, and Selim pointed out to his princess the passage whence he had escaped by breaking through the king of Xanda's fleet. Azna-Alwaz gazed with moist eyes, and trembled as she clung to her hero-lover.
                  "But, see," she cried, "yonder is a small vessel, coming from the harbor."
                  "It is a fishing vessel," answered the prince; "but, if my eyes deceive me not, it is making signals to us. What say you?" he continued, addressing his chief officer, who stood near.
                  "I have noticed their signals. But we have nothing to fear, my prince, from a craft like that."
                  "Let us slacken sail, then, and learn their wishes," said Selim; and at his order, the vessel's speed was decreased, and the fishing-vessel permitted to come within hail. She appeared filled with mariners.
                  
                  "What is your business?" demanded the chief officer, of one of the fisher's crew, and Selim listened anxiously for a response.
                  "Our island is in insurrection against the tyranny of a foreign usurper!" replied the person addressed, whose voice was instantly recognized by the prince as that of one of the brave nobles who with him had defended the port of Guzan, bravely.
                  "And what would you of us?" asked the corsair officer.
                  "Are not these the ships of Ali-Naro, the renowned corsair?" asked the islander in reply. "If so, we would speak with that brave chief. He loved our lost king Selim, and will gladly assist us for his sake!"
                  The prince of Guzan, on hearing these words, could resist his feelings no longer. Tears gushed from his eyes, and leaving the side of Azna-Alwaz, he rushed to the bulwarks of the vessel, and showed himself in full view of the fisherman's people.
                  "I am here, my countrymen!" he cried. "Behold your king is before you!"
                  A shout of wild joy rung from all on board the fishers' bark, many of whom were the patriots who had fought under Selim in his defence of Guzan. They crowded to the deck of the "Green Bird," which they had approached closely, and threw themselves at the feet of their recovered prince, covering his hands with kisses, and pronouncing his name with every manifestation of delight. Azna-Alwaz, on beholding these marks of the love borne to her prince by his people, wept with renewed happiness.
                  "Arise, my friends, and tell me what has occurred!" cried Selim, to the powerful noble whom he recognized.
                  "The people of Guzan are in insurrection, and have shut up the usurper in the capital!" answered the noble, hurriedly. "We hold possession of the port and harbor, and recognizing these ships at a distance, as the vessels of Ali-Naro, set out at once to implore his aid!"
                  "And my brave people are fighting for their country!" cried Selim, enthusiastically. "O, let me fly to lead them on!"
                  "Your presence, noble prince, will animate their souls to dare everything!" answered the nobleman. "And if Ali-Naro will—"
                  "Ali-Naro is no more!" said Selim, mournfully. "I command these ships now, and my brave followers will not refuse to strike a blow for Guzan. What say you?" he cried, to the corsairs who clustered around—"will you follow me to regain my throne and kingdom?"
                  A shout of enthusiasm rose from all the crew, and the chief officer exclaimed:
                  "We will die for you, Prince Selim!"
                  "Then let us lose no time!" cried the prince of Guzan; and giving the signal, all the ships ranged closely for entering the harbor,
                  Selim-conducted Azna-Alwaz to a secure cabin of the "Green Bird," and setting a strong guard to protect her, imprinted a kiss upon her lips, and uttered a hasty 
                        farwell
                        farewell
                     .
                  "I go," he cried—"I go, my Azna-Alwaz, to win a kingdom for my bride!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  SELIM WINS HIS KINGDOM.
                  THE joy of the people of Guzan when they became assured, not only of succor from Ali-Naro's ships, but of the return and presence of their long-lost king was without bounds. They crowded the beach to greet the landing boats, and made the air resound with their shouts of joy. Selim with difficulty managed to calm the exuberance of their feeling, and, mounting a horse, rode up and down the ranks of citizens and mariners.
                  "Men of Guzan!" he cried, "are you resolved to free your country from the tyrant? Will you follow your prince to victory?"
                  A thousand voices responded with enthusiasm—"We will!"
                  "Then let us advance at once!" cried the young monarch, waving his sword, and then, surrounded by his body-guard of corsairs, and by the multitude of armed islanders, he led the way from the port to the capital in which the king of Xanda had fortified himself.
                  The old tyrant, who had witnessed with dismay the increased numbers of the insurgents, and recognized the flag of the corsair Ali-Naro waving beside the banner of Guzan, began to fear that his position was becoming hazardous, and he therefore sent out messengers to meet the advancing army, with proposals for a parley.
                  "Go back," said Selim to your master, "and tell him that the king of Guzan demands his crown and kingdom."
                  The messengers returned to the tyrant, and informed him of Selim's reply.
                  "Then," cried the old Xandian, "he must fight for them." And he prepared to resist the insurgents.
                  But the tyrant had much better have sought to make terms, for scarcely had the messengers been dismissed from his presence, than he heard the tumult of assault upon the capital. Hastily placing himself at the head of his troops, he led them to meet the enemy, and the battle speedily began.
                  Selim, surrounded by his gallant corsairs, was the first object that met the gaze of the Xandian king, and he recognized immediately the hero who had so determinedly defended Guzan against his invasion. He remembered well the prince's prowess, and felt that there was no hope of gaining the day unless the death of the young king could be effected. Resolved, therefore, to set the victory upon a hazard, he spurred his horse at once toward Prince Selim.
                  The battle had in the meantime become general, and Xandians and islanders were mingled in close conflict, so that the tyrant found no difficulty in reaching the spot where Selim rode, and daring him to single combat.
                  
                  "If you demand your crown," he roared, in a contemptuous voice—"come and take it! It is on my head!"
                  The prince of Guzan heard, and at once spurred to meet his antagonist. Their weapons crossed immediately, flashing fire, and for a few moments the combat raged without advantage on either side. But Selim fought for his country, and relied on Heaven to aid him in the strife, whilst the king of Xanda, conscious of the injustice of his cause, and only intent on maintaining a desperate conflict, soon gave way before the impetuosity of his assailant. Almost at the same instant when a mighty shout from the islanders announced that they were driving the defeated Xandians through the streets of the capital, a terrible blow from Selim's sword fell upon the usurper's head, and crushing the crown which he wore, dashed him to the earth, whilst his steed, flying wildly away, dragged the lifeless body of the tyrant across the plain.
                  The victory was gained, and Selim was once more king of Guzan.
                  Anxious had been the hours passed by Azna-Alwaz in the lonely cabin of the "Green Bird," whence she could hear the tumult of the troops departing for the capital of Guzan. After that, however, all remained silent, and the heart of the poor princess throbbed with apprehension lest aught of evil should befall her hero prince. A thousand times, during the long hours that followed the army's march, did she wish herself at the side of her lord, to shield him, if possible, with her arms, or if he should fall, to die beside him. But at length the suspense was over—a courier came riding to the beach, and leaping into a boat, rowed rapidly toward the "Green Bird."
                  "The battle is decided—our people are triumphant!" cried the messenger, on coming within hail.
                  "And the king—my prince?" cried Azna-Alwaz.
                  "Safe and unwounded! He will be here to-night!" answered the courier; and Azna-Alwaz sank back upon her couch, overpowered with thankfulness and joy.
                  The restoration of the prince of Guzan to the throne of his ancestors, to which he was doubly entitled by his own prowess, removed all difficulty which might have been experienced by the crownless Selim in obtaining the consent of the king of Divonduron to his espousal of Azna-Alwaz. The chief obstacle had already been removed in the death of the prince of Caranor, who had taken the loss of his betrothed so deeply to heart, as to have survived but a few months after her abduction. Consequently when the ambassadors of the young king of Guzan informed the father of Azna-Alwaz, not only of his daughter's safety, but of the wonderful train of circumstances which had united her to Selim, the old king of Divonduron was disposed to recognize the hand of Heaven in the whole affair, and accorded cheerfully his consent to the marriage. The nuptials accordingly took place immediately, and Azna-Alwaz became the cherished partner of her hero-husband, the king of Guzan, and chief of the Isle of Eagles.
                  And if the early youth of Selim was tried by Heaven in the furnace of affliction, his maturity and age were rewarded by all the smiles of an indulgent Providence. He lived in blissful union with his beloved, and reigned long over Guzan and Divonduron revered by his people and beloved by his friends—a bright example of the reward which Allah bestows upon those who trust in his mercies and obey his will without murmuring or discontent.
               
               THE END.
            
            
               [FROM "THE FLAG OF OUR UNION."]
               BLANCHETTE ROSO.
               BY H. N. HATHAWAY.
               SWEET Blanchette, beautiful Blanchette Roso; how many admiring eyes followed her as she tripped lightly along the pavings of Myrtle Street, clad in a cheap but delicate print, with a coarse muslin mantle falling from her shoulders, and her wide brimmed straw hat tied with broad green ribbons. After promenading Broadway, and seeing the crowd of fashionables, it was really refreshing to look upon a child of nature, and I felt loth to lose sight of her, as she entered the extensive millinery establishment of the well-known Miss Fanny Hooper.
               "Miss Hooper," said one of the girls, "there is the new apprentice waiting at the counter."
               "Please miss, step into the lobby and lay off your things," said the lady addressed, in a shrill voice; "and be quick, for we're in a great drive."
               The color on Blanchette's cheek brightened, as she obeyed this imperious command.
               Some twenty girls were busily employed in the sewing-room, and as she entered, they involuntarily paused, and gazed upon the young and beautiful stranger.
               "Come girls," said Miss Hooper, tartly, "we've no time for dallying—the work promised must be done, if you don't leave it till morning. Here," she continued, motioning Blanchette to a seat near her, "is a piece of work, and now let's see what sort of hand you are with a needle, miss what's your name?"
               "Blanchette," was the timid reply.
               "Blanchette! what a horrid name. I must think of some way to shorten it, child."
               "They sometimes call me Blanche, at home," said Blanchette, raising her eyes for the first time to Miss Hooper's face.
               "O dear, worse yet. That's altogether too sickening! Now I have it. I'll call you 'Chette. Mind, now, don't forget that's your shop name. You hear it girls, do you?"
               "I say it is too mean," whispered Susan Emery to her companion, "to call her by that ugly name, when Blanchette or Blanche are both so beautiful."
               "What's that, Susan?" queried Miss Hooper.
               "I said it seemed a pity to call her by so disagreeable a name, when her own was so sweet."
               "Silence," said Miss Hooper, striking her foot peremptorily upon the floor.
               "A pretty pass is this, that you should attempt to dictate me. I'm mistress here, and intend to be, at least for the present, and it's my will that you all call her 'Chette while in the shop. Out of it you're at liberty to use as many pet names as you please."
               Poor, poor little Blanchette! Down drooped her long, silken lashes until they rested on her burning cheek, while tear after tear coursed their way from beneath them. She had long been looking forward with delight to the time when she should enter upon her new employment, and now, alas, a rough hand had razed her gilded air castles to the ground. Ah, Blanchette, this is but one of the bitter lessons thou hast yet to learn.
               An aristocratic customer now came in, and Miss Hooper paused for a moment before the mirror to arrange her curls, then with a face covered in smiles, entered the front shop and greeted Mrs. L. in blandest tones.
               "Let me assist you a little," said Ellen Brooks, a meek-eyed, fair-haired girl. "There, put your needle through the tarleton in that way, and you will find that the tucks will look much nicer."
               "O thank you," said Blanchette, smiling through tears. "I'm so very awkward, I should not have wondered, had you been tempted to laugh at me."
               "We would not be guilty of such a meanness," replied the impulsive, warm-hearted Susan Emery. "We've been through the mill ourselves, and know how to feel for the embarrassment of a new apprentice. I suppose you think Miss Hooper rather over-bearing," she continued, in a lower tone, "but you'll get used to it after a time. I thought when I first came here, I could not stay a week, but she gives extra wages, and I knew it was my duty to earn what I could on account of the assistance it would be to my poor sick mother. So I get along in the best way I can with her whims and oddities."
               "Then you have a sick mother, too," replied Blanchette, with a commiserating glance. "Four years ago my dear father died, and since that time, with my assistance, mother has supported herself and my younger brother and sister—Francois and Gabriella—by embroidering. But of late her eyes have become so poorly she has not been able to work, and I shall be only too happy to assist her. I've never been out among strangers much, and I suppose I must not look for the same treatment as at home."
               The conversation was now interrupted by Miss Hooper's approaching footsteps. A few words of kindness and encouragement had done their work upon Blanchette, for her face wore its usual sunny expression, while her small dimpled fingers were rapidly flying over the blue tarleton lining. And now it was finished and handed to Miss Hooper for inspection.
               "That will do very well," said the lady, after scrutinizing it closely. "Now see what you will do with this crape one."
               "She likes her work first rate," whispered Susan Emery, "or she would not trust her with that rich, rose-colored crape. Why don't she tell her so, and encourage the child? I don't believe she's a day over sixteen."
               Most of the girls lived so far from home that they took their dinners to the shop, and during their employer's absence, the following conversation took place.
               "Well, I should think Miss Hooper staid well this noon," said Ellen Brooks. "It's nearly two hours since she left."
               "She's expecting the new minister this afternoon, I rather think," replied one of the girls.
               "Then, Blanchette," said Susan Emery, "you'll have an opportunity to see Miss Hooper with her Sunday face on. She'll be so good and gentle! It's fun to watch her. ''Tis look here, dear,' and 'look there, dear—please to do thus and so—this work does not quite suit me,—pray be a little more careful, next time,' etc., etc. I wish to my heart Mr. Manson would take up his abode with us, his presence has such a wonderful effect upon her. I'd like first rate to tell him how she plans to tend the social circle, and the young ladies' prayer-meeting, and everything of that sort; wouldn't I! I guess his next discourse would be headed with, 'Charity begins at home.'"
               "I suppose he little thinks when commending Miss Hooper's self-denying zeal, that owing to it, we girls have to stay till near midnight, to finish promised work, and then go home alone through the streets of this large city," said Janet Wood. "But there she is."
               "Come girls, we must bend on now, but when Mr. Manson comes we'll 'soger' a little," remarked Susan Emery, with a comical smile.
               "O, no use in that," replied a pale, sickly looking girl, "we'll only have to stay the later."
               "See, she has on her white muslin and rosebuds in her hair," said Ellen Brooks. "I never saw her look so prettily."
               "Well girls," said Miss Hooper, as with one glance she took in the several pieces of work, "seems to me you've not made much progress since I left. Here Chette," she continued, "you'll just put the shop to rights. I want it done in good shape, and quickly too."
               Blanchette obeyed with evident embarrassment, but the girls now and then ventured a suggestion, and with their assistance, she succeeded better than her expectations. Already had she learned to look upon her shopmates in a friendly light. Miss Hooper's distant and forbidding manners had knit their hearts together as a band of sisters. There was one exception however, to this rule. Helen Hastings had seemed ever since her entrance into the shop, to have more sympathy with her employer than with her companions, and the girls had become convinced that she was artful and designing; and that this conjecture was well founded was afterwards proved.
               Blanchette had but just finished her task and resumed her sewing when Mr. Manson entered. Miss Hooper with her own hands placed her elegant stuffed rocker by the shadiest window and drew the ottoman before it.
               "Well, really this is very comfortable, Miss Hooper," said the young pastor, as he seated himself with a satisfied air. "I hardly know how I shall repay you, for so many kindnesses."
               "O don't mention such a thing, Mr. Manson," said Miss Hooper, coloring slightly. "I think you have been more successful in your studies than usual," she continued, glancing at her gold repeater, "for you're an hour earlier than usual."
               Mr. Manson did not choose to tell how large a portion of unwritten manuscript he had left on his table, nor how, as he stood at his window that morning, he had caught a glimpse of Blanchette's sunny face, and during the duties of the day ever and anon it had flitted before him. We will not pretend to say how much curiosity to look upon the young stranger had influenced him to hasten the time for his call, but this we do know, that since his entrance, his eye had rested upon her with so unmistakable a look of admiration, as to attract Miss Hooper's notice and that of the girls. Blanchette was the only one who seemed unconscious of the fact.
               "Come, Mr. Manson," said Miss Hooper, "I'm just in the mood to listen to some of Milton's sublime words. Will you not read to us?"
               "With pleasure," was the reply of Mr. Manson, as he took the proffered volume, and opening it commenced reading Eve's relation to Adam of her troublesome dream, of his striving to comfort her, and of his success, then of their pausing in the door of their bower to offer their morning hymn of praise before going forth to their labors.
               Miss Hooper's theatrical looks and expression were quite in accordance with the scene, but one glance at Blanchette's face was worth them all. During the early part of the reading, the warm color came and went over her cheek, and her bosom heaved with suppressed emotion. But when he commenced the morning prayer, forgetful of all around her, she let fall her work and with her small hands clasped and eyes devoutly raised to heaven, she sat the beautiful personification of purity—a fit type of the divine Madonna. The falling of her work recalled her wandering mind, and with a look of distressed embarrassment she recommenced her task. Poor Blanchette, child of Nature that thou art, hadst thou known the malignant hatred that that one simple, unstudied act called forth, perchance thou wouldst have schooled thy young heart to shut up the gushing fount of feeling in its secret chambers.
               Mr. Manson's calls became more and more frequent, but somehow Miss Hooper usually planned to send Blanchette on some errand, or keep her busy, in waiting on customers, or something of the sort during his visits, and though she would fain have enjoyed his society in company with the rest, she thought not in her simplicity of anything intentional in her being debarred this privilege.
               One evening Miss Hooper had detained the girls until a later hour than usual. Blanchette was hastening homeward with trembling footsteps, when she was arrested by two young men in a state of partial intoxication, who declared their intention of accompanying her. In vain the poor girl assured them she did not need, or wish their services. They still persisted, and finally the one, bolder, drew her arm within his, and was hurrying along with her, when a stout arm arrested his progress, and a manly voice bade him begone. Blanche turned to look upon her protector, and beheld Mr. Manson. The grateful girl was so overcome with this unlooked for relief, that for a time she could do nothing but weep her thanks. Mr. Manson with brotherly kindness strove to reassure her, and she became at length sufficiently composed to converse. In answer to his inquiry, as to where she attended church, she informed him that of late they had become so straitened in their circumstances, they had not been, but that her mother and herself had passed the Sabbath in reading books of a serious nature, repeating Bible stories to Gabriella and Francois, and teaching them to sing. The young pastor on hearing this, kindly offered to supply them with a seat in the church where he officiated, and the next Sabbath found the grateful family there.
               This was a fortunate meeting for Blanchette, for after it Mr. Manson befriended her in many ways. Often would he call of an evening when she was not in the shop, and assist her in her studies, accompanying her voice while she sung, play a game at romps with the sprightly Gabriella and the high-spirited Francois. Then when she and her mother were busy with their needles, he would read to them, and at last his name came to be a household word with them all, and his coming a prospect to be hailed with delight. Though Blanchette had learned to feel perfect freedom with him when at home, in Miss Hooper's presence she seemed embarrassed and reserved, and one would have thought them almost strangers. Miss Hooper was all kindness to Blanchette during Mr. Manson's presence, but at other times she was very exacting, and though the poor girl strove in every way to satisfy, it was seldom she had the pleasure of knowing she had succeeded. Her employer seldom mentioned Mr. Manson to her, yet it was evident that many of the circumstances of his befriending her were known. Often was the sensitive girl made to shrink by the coarse jokes of Helen Hastings, with which Miss Hooper seemed but too well pleased.
               Time wore on without any important changes, save that Blanchette had completed her trade. As she was more than commonly expert with her needle, she received extra wages, and had the happiness of being more assistance to her mother than ever before. Gabriella and Francois both attended an excellent day school, and as Blanchette watched their happy faces and listened to their earnest voices as they pursued their studies of an evening at home, she felt doubly repaid for all her self-denying labor. But a cloud was about to overshadow their peaceful home. Heaven help them!
               One afternoon during one of Mr. Manson's calls, Miss Hooper took out her watch to look at the time, when she discovered that the key was missing. With a look of great consternation she commenced searching for it, exclaiming.
               "Where is my key? Can any one tell me anything about it?"
               "I suppose I might if I chose to do so, but I cannot bear to expose any one more especially my companions," said Helen Hastings.
               "In such a case as this," replied Miss Hooper, "I think it your duty to do so. The key has a diamond of value in it, and besides it was a present from a dearly loved uncle. Mr. Manson, is it right for her to refuse?"
               "I should think not, under existing circumstances," he replied. "Remember, Miss Hastings, by the simple remark you made, you implicated all your companions, and justice to them if nothing more demands an explanation."
               "O Mr. Manson, how can I bear to bring such a charge against one whom we have all thought so pure and innocent. But if you urge it, I must, but—"
               "Don't hesitate Helen, in kindness to all present, for at such a time every moment seems an hour," said Miss Hooper.
               "Well, then, Miss Hooper," said Helen, with evident unwillingness, "you see this morning when you were waiting upon Mrs. Ray, I saw something glistening fall upon the counter on some silk that lay there, and before I had time to be quite sure what it was, I saw—O Miss Hooper, how can I say it? I cannot!"
               "Go on, Helen; you must now," said Miss Hooper.
               "Well then, I saw Blanchette Roso take it from the silk while placing it in the drawer, and slide it into the pocket of her dress."
               "Impossible, Helen, utterly impossible!" exclaimed Miss Hooper. "Blanchette, child, speak, and deny the frightful charge."
               The color which had at first flushed Blanchette's neck and brow to a painful degree, had now given place to a deathly pallor, and though her white lips essayed to speak, no word escaped.
               "Speak, Blanchette, for the love of heaven, speak!" said Mr. Manson, unable longer to calmly endure the scene. "Come, we are all willing to believe you innocent. I'd stake my life on it, if necessary."
               But Blanchette spoke not, and Mr. Manson going towards her laid his hand upon her head, and said entreatingly:
               "Well, Blanchette, if you cannot speak, just empty your pocket of the articles it contains. I know it seems humiliating, but not a hundredth part so humiliating as this dreadful suspicion."
               At these words Blanchette drew herself up proudly, but when she met Mr. Manson's soul speaking look, her face softened, and tears came to her relief.
               "Dearest Blanchette," said Susan Emery, in a voice choked with sobs, "just listen to Mr. Manson. We are all so anxious to see your innocence proved, though I for one need no proof."
               Although Blanchette shrank painfully from the suggestion, she now suffered Susan to remove the things from her pocket.
               "There, I told you so," exclaimed Susan, exultingly, as she laid the last article upon the table.
               "I am perfectly satisfied of her innocence," said Miss Hooper, "but that the rest may be so, had you not better turn the pocket, as the key is but small."
               Susan hastened to obey this last request, when lo, the key dropped from it, and lay flashing and sparkling on the floor in the bright sunlight.
               One wild shriek escaped Blanchette's pallid lips, and she sank fainting into the arms of Susan, whose tears fell like raindrops upon the upturned, death-like face of the poor girl. There was scarcely a dry eye in the room, and Mr. Manson was so overcome by the touching scene, that he would fain have joined his tears with theirs, but he felt that something must be done to restore the smitten one to consciousness. So with a dark shadow upon his face, and a still darker one upon his heart, he proceeded to apply the usual restoratives. After a time Blanchette opened her eyes, but there was a world of anguish in her tone, as she exclaimed:
               "O why did you not let me die! it were far better so, than to live a despised, lonely outcast. O my poor, poor mother! Gabriella and Francois too! what will they say when they hear of their sister's downfall!"
               "May God forgive you as freely as I do," said Miss Hooper. "I cannot of course continue you in my employ, but the secret of your guilt shall never escape my lips, and I know the girls will heed this earnest request of mine, that they too will remain silent."
               When Mr. Manson arose to go, he did not trust himself to speak to Blanchette, but pressed her hand in silence. Miss Hooper followed him into the front shop, and requested him to advise her. He declared his utter incompetence, but recommended her to be merciful, and commended her for the course she had pursued thus far.
               It was late at night and yet Blanchette had not returned. Gabriella and Francois had become weary with waiting for her, and hours had elapsed since their heads pressed their pillows, and the sweet dreams of childhood flitted over their fancy. Mrs. Roso had borne the suspense as long as it was endurable, and rising, she hastily threw about 
                     her her
                     her
                   shawl, and taking her bonnet she left the house. All was still and she saw nothing worthy of observation until she came to an old chapel which stood in an unfrequented enclosure. She hurriedly entered and there upon the decayed steps sat Blanchette with her face upturned to the starry heavens above her, while the moon's light served but to enhance its death-like paleness.
               "Blanchette, my child!" exclaimed the half-distracted mother, "speak to me, look at me!"
               But there was no sound, no movement. Mrs. Roso now threw her arms wildly about her, and raising her up once more, entreated her to speak.
               "Let us go home," was the whispered reply, "and then I will tell you all, mother. You will believe me, and heaven will bear witness to the truth of your child. Let us hasten, I'm so chilly. I don't know how long I've been sitting here, but it seems a long time, for O I've had so many bitter, bitter thoughts!"
               Alone in that silent hour, in the solitude of their humble chamber, did Blanchette pour forth her mournful tale into the ear of her mother, and into that of her Maker. It was a trying ordeal for both mother and child. Heaven comfort them!
               In one week from that time, when Mr. Manson went to call upon them, he found the tenement occupied by another family, and though he inquired earnestly, no tidings could he gain as to their whereabouts. Two or three months later there was a current report that an engagement had taken place between the young pastor and Miss Fanny Hooper. This report was not quite true, but so skilfully had the fascinating young lady played her card that Mr. Manson's mind was fully decided to entreat her to become the sharer of his joys and sorrows, when an unforeseen event occurred.
               Death was abroad in the land! It seemed to delight in arresting the young and fair, and among its earliest victims was Helen Hastings. Mr. Manson received an urgent request to visit her dying bedside. Scarce would he have recognized in the pale, attenuated girl, the former blooming Helen. As he approached her, the poor girl grasped his hand convulsively, and then motioned all from the room.
               "O Mr. Manson!" she exclaimed, when they were left by themselves, "it was very, very kind in you to hasten to me. God will reward you. You see I am dying, and O, I could not die in peace, until I had told you all. You will despise my memory—you cannot fail to, but I could not dare hope for heaven, while I held the happiness of one so pure and innocent, so deeply wronged, in my power. I placed the diamond key in Blanchette Roso's pocket, at the instigation of Miss Hooper, and the poor girl was innocent of the crime as a babe. Should you ever see her, tell her my dying prayer was for her happiness, and my dying request was that she might extend to me a portion of that forgiveness which I have received from my heavenly Father, through the merits of a suffering Saviour. I have written a long letter to Miss Hooper, begging her to confess the part she took in the unhappy affair, and urging her to seek Blanchette, and endeavor if possible, to make atonement for the past. I would not have mentioned her name to you in connection with this unhappy affair, had not a sense of duty impelled me. I felt it was wrong for you to stake the well-being of a life-time, by uniting your fate to one so utterly unworthy of your affection. Heaven forgive me if I have erred! These things I have told you in confidence, and I feel you will not betray me."
               In two short hours after Mr. Manson entered that dying chamber, Helen Hastings lay clad in the habiliments of the grave, with a smile borrowed from heaven resting upon her face, which was now colorless as the pillow upon which it rested. Like the dying thief, she found mercy with her latest breath. O what a Saviour is ours!
               Fanny Hooper had so long looked upon Mr. Manson as her future husband, that it was long before she would be convinced otherwise, nor was she fairly undeceived until she received a letter from him requesting her to regard him henceforth as a friend. It was a heavy blow to the poor girl, for deeply had she loved the young pastor. Remorse too was as work at her heart. What would she not have given to have recalled the past! Scarce a night was there, but in her dreams Blanchette Roso stood by her bedside, gazing into her face with the same soul-stirring expression of anguish which she cast upon her as she turned to leave the shop. Her constitution, never strong, gave way under such an accumulating weight of sorrow. Day by day her step grew weaker, and her cheek paler, and at last she was entirely confined to her room. So true is it that sin brings with it its own sting. But adversity wrought for her what prosperity had failed to do. In the solitude of her darkened chamber she communed with her chastened heart. She read and re-read Helen Hastings's letter, and she recalled the touching earnestness of her expression, as she employed her failing breath in urging her to confess all to Mr. Manson. After a long struggle between duty and inclination, she decided to so. It was a painful meeting for both, and while she poured forth her humiliating confession, Mr. Manson felt deeply for the now penitent girl. He could esteem her, but he could never love her again, nor did she ask it.
               Miss Hooper, now that she was a sufferer herself, learned to feel for others. She sent for Susan Emery, and they talked over the past. She expressed her sorrow that ever she had been unreasonable with them, and requested her to inform the girls of this, and give them her best wishes. 'Tis mysterious how one word of kindness will banish the petty animosities of years. Scarce was there a day after that, but Miss Hooper was the recipient of a choice bouquet, a tempting dainty, or an interesting book from the hands of those very girls over whom she had once tyrannized. Warm was the greeting that met her when she again resumed her duties. Mr. Manson became charmed with the exemplary character of her conduct, and gradually his old interest in part returned. But when he solicited her hand, she refused, urging as her reason, that she dared not trust her own heart; besides the one thought that she had so lowered herself in her own and his estimation, would be sufficient to render such a union far from agreeable or desirable. Mr. Manson upon reflection, concluded that she was right, and silently acquiesced.
               A few months after he received from his society leave for a year's absence, and bent his course to the village of Ashdale in another and distant State. At the urgent request of a friend he decided to supply his place for a few Sabbaths.
               On a lovely Sabbath morning he entered the sacred desk. He had not been long there, when he was attracted by the entrance of a young lady. His eye followed her closely until she was seated. He waited in vain for her to raise the heavy veil which screened her from observation, but she did not until he commenced reading the hymn. The pale, sorrowful face bent so devoutly over the hymn book was that of the once light-hearted Blanchette Roso. He saw he was as yet unrecognized, as she had not once since her entrance glanced towards him. As he looked upon her and remembered her former sprightliness and beauty, he bowed his head and wept. Poor Blanchette! The first glance at the stranger as she had premised him to be, brought back the past, with all its fond associations tions and hallowed memories. That face was one never to be forgotten by her. From the moment she first saw him at Miss Hooper's, she had retained a vivid recollection of its every feature and expression. Like the sensitive plate of the daguerrean artist, her memory had received a lasting and life-like impression. Hastily drawing her veil about her so as to screen herself from observation, she remained thus until the close of the service, and then hurriedly left the house, not aware that Mr. Manson was following her, until he exclaimed:
               "Blanchette, dear innocent Blanchette, you surely will not refuse to speak to one who for long months has been seeking to obtain some clue of you!"
               "Innocent!" said Blanchette, raising her eyes to the face bent so confidingly towards her, "innocent—how strangely that sounds!"
               "Yes, innocent," said Mr. Manson, pressing the little trembling hand that rested in his, to his lips with a brotherly tenderness.
               "Now God be praised!" ejaculated Blanchette, fervently, as she raised her pure face to heaven. "I have prayed—how earnestly He only knows, that I might live to see this day. O Mr. Manson, Mr. Manson, I am too happy!"
               The spirit-broken prayer that had so long ascended from the widowed mother's heart, was now turned into a song of praise.
               At the expiration of the weeks appointed, Mr. Manson left the quiet village of Ashdale. Again the rose-tint of health sat upon Blanchette's cheek, and the smile of hope irradiated her countenance, while her blithesome song sounded through their humble home.
               In a few months Frederic Manson returned, and in the still quietude of a Sabbath morning he stood before the altar in the village church of Ashdale, in company with Blanchette, and there in that holy place they plighted their marriage vows. The next morning there was a tearful, but not a sad parting from the family circle, and Frederic Manton and his bride were on their way home.
               It was late on Saturday night when they arrived, so that their coming was scarcely known. Much surprise was manifested when the young pastor entered the church on Sabbath morning in company with a lady, but greater still when the discovery was made that the minister's beautiful bride was the once humble Blanchette Roso. Warm was the meeting between Blanchette and her former companions, but it could not equal the warmth of that between herself and the now amiable Miss Fanny Hooper.
            
            
               
               [FROM "THE FLAG OF OUR UNION."]
               THE CHEVALIER TREMLET.
               BY CHARLES E. WAITE.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  THE FETE.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Behold the brand of beauty tossed!
                              See how the motion does dilate the flame!
                              Delighted love his spoils does boast,
                              And triumph, in this game.
                           
                        
                        —WALLER.
                     
                  
                  BRILLIANTLY glittered the magnificent halls of the Louvre, as high festival was held therein, by the effeminate Henry III. of France, and his voluptuous court. The long suite of gilded saloons, festooned with flowers and adorned with arabesques and golden fleur-de-lys, was redolent with perfumes exhaled from a thousand aromatic lamps and sweets breathed forth from fragrant exotics, that would have vied with the odors of the luxurious gardens of the Alhambra. Music from invisible minstrels floated through the halls—tall plumes waved to the cadences of the melody—little elastic feet twinkled in the complicated movements of the figure, as the liveliest and most noble damsels of the land whirled in the giddy bransle, or in the more graceful Spanish pavanne, or in the majestic and dignified Italian pazzameno. All the grace, wit, beauty and distinction of a court that vied in the loveliness of its dances, and the gallantry of its cavaliers with that of the voluptuous Charles II, were assembled.
                  The fete was a masked one. The costumes were of endless variety, suited to the taste of the wearer and adapted to display the person to the best advantage. Bright eyes peeped from the little loop-holes of the favorite touret de nez, a sort of mask, at that time in high vogue at the French court. It gave additional piquancy to the smoothly polished chin, and ripe, bewitching lips of the wearer, and many were the amours to which these little velvet vizards lent mystery and interest.
                  Throughout the gorgeous rooms the noble company dispersed, some listening to the exquisite melody of the royal musicians, others watching with the interest of the gamesters themselves, the tables where immense sums were staked at tric-trac or primerd—while others reclined on luxurious silken couches within the deep embrasures of tapestried windows, listening to the impassioned words of plumed gallants, and uttering soft and faint responses. Innumerable lackeys, and pages in sumptuous liveries, emblazoned with the escutcheons of their lords, were in attendance, and flitted about on tender errands.
                  In the grand saloon stood Henri Trois himself, supported on the arm of his chief valet. He was of slight figure, and his countenance wore an habitual sneer. His features were not regular, but his complexion was exceedingly fair, and would have vied in delicacy and freshness with that of many of the voluptuous demoiselles who graced his princely court. Particularly did he pride himself upon his hand, which was small and beautiful, a grace of person which was enjoyed in common by nearly all the Medicis family. Around him were arrayed the chivalry and gallantry of the capital. All his retinue were unmasked but one cavalier, who wore a dark vizard covering his entire face, and who appeared studiously to keep in the background. He was attired in a pourpoint exquisitely worked and slashed with velvet, and over his shoulders was carelessly cast a crimson mantle, edged with silver lace and adorned with orders. Mingling with the king's suite was Catharine de Medicis, his mother, accompanied by a fair young dame, whose features Praxitiles would have sighed for as a model for his Venus. Her eyes were of dark blue, swimming with chastened tenderness. Above her mouth there was a charming expression, partly scornful and partly voluptuous,—both blended so harmoniously as to give that feature peculiar piquancy and loveliness. Her rich auburn hair was raised from her smooth and polished brow, and gathered in plaits at the top of her head. The alabaster throat was encircled with a muslin collar edged with pointed lace, and her form was closely fitted by a boddice of Florence velvet, which rather revealed than hid the splendid contour of the waist and bosom. Such was Louise de L'Estoile, the handsomest, most virtuous, and highly accomplished of the petite bande des dames de la cour, which attended the haughty Catharine de Medicis, as maids of honor.
                  Henri was evidently paying his devoirs to the splendid Louise, and judging from the lady's manner his attentions, if not unpleasant, were, to say the least, a matter of indifference to her. Her beautiful face was bent in a fixed and earnest gaze upon a pair of dancers who were bounding down the grand hall in a graceful Navarroise waltz. An expression of intense pain crossed her features as the waltzers approached nearer, and she observed the look of passionate tenderness which the lady, careless of observation, bestowed upon her partner.
                  "How glorious Marguerite dances to-night," observed the king.
                  "Venus must have smiled upon her partner's nativity," said the courtier of the mask and slashed pourpoints, stepping forward; "observe, sire, how he is basking in the sunshine of the queen of Navarre's favors."
                  Louise de L'Estoile grew deadly pale and averted her face. Marguerite de Valois, Queen of Navarre—for she was the fair dancer—as the waltz was concluded, was led panting by her partner to a lounge, amid the thundering vivats and bravas of the illustrious host.
                  It was at a period when the charms of the beautiful queen were at their height, and she never looked more lovely than when as at present engaged in her favorite amusement. Her eyes were dark and lustrous, and their moist, full orbs could beam with the most voluptuous tenderness, or flash fire and indignant fury, as her passionate soul was moved by love, or roused by resentment. Her features were faultlessly regular, and while they were majestic, there was yet a softness and grace about them which made their expression irresistibly fascinating. Her skin was dazzlingly fair, and her hair, which when loose fell in magnificent raven tresses almost to her feet, was now secured by ribands to the back of her head, and adorned profusely with pearls and brilliants. Her form was round and faultless—the glowing bust swelling from a throat and neck as white as alabaster, and the waist small and slender—worthy of being spanned by the cestus of Venus. Her hands were small and white, and the little foot which peeped from her splendid robe, could have worn Cinderilla's slipper. Her attire was of the most magnificent order, Far be it from us to attempt a description of the velvet and brocade, the ruffs and laces, the necklaces of cameos and diamonds, and an infinite variety of other precious stones with which she had adorned her unparalleled person.
                  The cavalier who sat by her side, and who was now enjoying her capricious smiles, was one worthy to be the companion of the royal beauty. He wore no mask, and his features were exposed in all their classic and beautiful proportions. The forehead was ample and majestic, and shaded by thick curls of dark, brown hair, which having been displaced during the whirling waltz, now flowed carelessly about a face which would have formed a study for the great Athenian sculptor. The nose was Grecian and faultlessly regular—the nostrils thin and haughty; the mouth was firm and full—and its expression fraught with sensibility. He wore a slight moustache curled upwards from the chin, according to the prevailing fashion of the period. The attire of the gallant was not gaudy nor assumed for the purpose of masquerade. It consisted of a pink satin doublet, slashed with azure, and ornamented at the bottom with golden lace. Upon his knee rested a toque or cap, surmounted by a tuft of gaily colored feathers. Had Vandyck been there, he would have sighed to transfer the group to canvass.
                  "They look excessively lover like," observed the dark mask in the king's suite, coming up behind Louise de L'Estoile, and uttering the remark in a low tone, as if purposely for her ear alone. The lady turned haughtily towards the king, as if to indicate that, however unpleasant his marked favors might be, they were infinitely less so than the officious observations of the disguised cavalier.
                  "Methinks our fair sister of Navarre is carrying it rather too far with that handsome gallant," said Henri.
                  "See how their hands caress each other. By Cupidon! See, he is about to kiss her," said the dark mask, interposing between Louise and the king.
                  The expression of haughtiness entirely vanished from the face of the lovely demoiselle, and was succeeded by one of the deepest anguish. She besought his majesty to conduct her away to a seat.
                  As Marguerite's companion leaned over to pick up her fan which had fallen—the act which had been so maliciously misconstrued by the masked courtier—he observed to the queen with considerable interest:
                  "The chevalier of the purple vizard appears to be annoying the demoiselle de L'Estoile. Do you note the pained expression of her features? Ha, I believe he has insulted her!"
                  Marguerite of Valois was as intensely jealous in disposition, as she was transcendantly lovely in person.
                  "You honor me, Chevalier Tremlet, by the interest you exhibit in the other ladies of the court!" said she, satirically, and fixing upon him a searching look.
                  "I would not stand by and see your tire woman gratuitously affronted by a man whose only authority for the insult was a doublet glittering with orders."
                  "That is a rare sentiment to be heard at this gay court, mon beau chevalier!" exclaimed Marguerite, appeased, and fixing her beautiful eyes fondly upon his face.
                  "Know you the purple mask?" inquired her companion.
                  "He is Bussy D'Amboise, a rejected lover of mine, and an unsuccessful suitor for the hand of Louise de L'Estoile. He is brave, and was handsome and generous; but frequent disappointment has wrinkled his brow and soured his temper."
                  "I have heard of his feats at arms, and of his prowess in the tournament. But the chagrin of a rejected suitor would never warrant such discourtesies as he has just evinced towards a noble dame. It declares him void of chivalry and true nobility."
                  "Tremlet, hear me! If you would not rouse my jealous nature, do not thus be ever evincing your concern for the belle Louise. Passionately as I love you, I could hate as fervently. If I felt that I had a rival in your bosom, I would spurn you. I might—but away the dreadful thought! Come, mon chevalier!" continued the passionate queen of Navarre, suddenly changing her tone and manner; while all are looking on us, as if we were cooing like foolish doves, we were upon the point of a quarrel; but it was my fault. Your pardon! I see they are about to proceed to the banquet-hall. Let us follow."
                  She offered him that small, white Medicis hand, and its little taper fingers gave a soft pressure, as they were received within the palm of the handsome and graceful cavalier.
                  The grand banqueting saloon was separated from the main hall by magnificent curtains of crimson velvet, figured with fleur-de-lys of gold. At the signal of the major-domo, the splendid folds were withdrawn, and a scene was presented that would have drawn tears from the eyes of Epicurus.
                  Far as the eye could reach was a maze of glittering chandeliers, whose light reflected from the golden cornices and arabesques, making the walls and ceiling look as if besprent with brilliants. Sunk in niches were hundreds of mirrors which multiplied the objects of magnificence around, and added indescribable splendor to the scene. Wreaths of roses from Provence, and vases of flowers from the royal conservatories, were dispersed throughout the saloon, and exhaled a fragrance almost suffocating.
                  In the middle and extending the whole length of the banquet-hall, was the royal board. It was raised several feet from the floor, and ascended by low steps, thickly carpeted with a rich Turkish fabric, so as to muffle a hundred foot-falls. The mighty table itself groaned with viands. Massive salvers, golden vases, crystal goblets, urns and cups of the rare workmanship of Benevenuto Cellini, were arrayed in long and glittering lines upon a cloth of white damask, ornamented with fanciful figures. Pyramids of confectionary, piles of frosted cakes, and urns of the rarest fruits were heaped upon the groaning table. Around were stationed chamberlains with their wands, and butlers bearing embossed flagons, while countless valets and pages stood ready to attend the slightest signal. At intervals, down the whole length of the hall, on either side, were massive side-boards with goblets and urns steaming with the rich wines of Cyprus and Syracuse, and loaded with coreens containing piquant viands, ready to be brought on in order.
                  About half way down the saloon was a magnificent throne, raised several feet above the ordinary seats of the table and formed of azure silk, adorned, as was almost everything about the Louvre, with golden fleur-de-lys, and powdered with gems of price.
                  Amidst exhilarating strains of music, Henri III., accompanied by Louise de L'Estoile, led the way towards the gorgeous festive preparation. Immediately behind them proceeded Catharine de Medicis, accompanied by the purple mask, or, as we shall denominate him in future, Bussy D'Amboise—and they were in their turn followed by Marguerite of Valois and the Chevalier Tremlet. Behind these came the whole of the glittering train which comprised the court.
                  Henri proceeded to occupy the throne at the middle of the saloon, and around him were disposed the members of the royal family, those nearest to his person and his peculiar favorites. If the scene was grand at first, how inconceivably more so was it when the splendors of that brilliant throng were added to it? The servitors began the attack upon the viands wish their huge knives, and soon the carouse was at its height. Merry jests went round, and sometimes pretty broad ones too, for that court was not over-scrupulous—dark eyes flashed with unwonted lustre under the influence of the generous wines, and soft cheeks flushed, as tender speeches were uttered by amorous gallants.
                  Around the king's throne, amid the royal retinue, the laughter was loudest, the jests broadest, and the gaiety highest, for Henri loved the revel above all things, and was more captivated by a merry song at the festive board, than by the noblest deeds of chivalry, or the wildest adventures of the chase. While the feast was at its height and the grand saloon resounded with the shouts of the wassailers, suddenly there arose confusion amidst the royal company.
                  "Hold!" shouted the king, "drink not another drop on peril of your lives! The wine in my goblet is poisoned!" and holding up his cup, foaming with the glorious grape of Syracuse, he dipped into it a dark green bezoar set in gold, which he had just removed from his finger, and on taking it out the stone had become perfectly white. The faces of all around who could see the effect of the king's experiment became deadly pale. Venetian glass was brought, and the wine in the flagons was first tested, then that in the goblets of several of the guests, and finally that in the king's goblet was tried again. They all bore the test until the glass was dipped into Henri's cup, when the wine bubbled and shivered it into fragments.
                  "I charge Louise de L'Estoile with drugging thy wine, sire!" exclaimed Bussy D'Amboise, rising and uttering the words with unparalleled boldness and effrontery.
                  The Chevalier Tremlet bounded to his feet.
                  "The charge which that pusillanimous caitiff brings against the noble lady is as false as his heart, and that the tale is a malicious and wilful fabrication, I will approve upon him by mortal combat! There is my defiance!" he shouted, hurling his glove at the feet of the insolent D'Amboise "as champion of the Lady Louise de L'Estoile, I challenge you, Bussy D'Amboise, to maintain your infamous assertion in deadly combat!"
                  "I accept your challenge," said the cavalier, placing the glove which was handed him by a page within his girdle. Tremlet's valet stepped forward and receiving Bussy's gauntlet bore it back to his master.
                  "These are strange proceedings in our presence!" exclaimed Henri; "were not the charge so evidently malicious and unprovoked, I would bid you both give back the gloves until some explanation were made, or at least until our permission were asked for the duel. But as it is, we give our sanction and approval, although you have not had the courtesy to ask it of us. Let the combat take place to-morrow in the lists; we bid you break a lance together, and if the contest be not fatal on the issue of the third course, let it be renewed with swords!"
                  Having uttered this, amid the fanfares of trumpets and the notes of hautboys, the monarch withdrew from the supper hall, accompanied by Catharine de Medicis and Marguerite of Valois, with their immediate trains.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  THE JOUST.
                  
                     
                        
                           "Their visors closed, their lances in the rest,
                           Or at the helmet pointed, or at the crest,
                           They vanish from the barrier, speed the race,
                           And spurring, see decrease the middle space."
                        
                     
                  
                  Within the gardens of the Louvre, the lists had been quickly erected, and as the hour appointed for the tilting upon the succeeding day drew nigh, the avenues of approach to the palace courts were thronged with crowds of eager people. Barriers of half a dozen feet in height extended from an angle of the palace walls for a distance of eighty feet, enclosing an arena perfectly smooth, and eminently adapted in every respect for the chivalrous exercises of the tourney. Around, were erected galleries and balconies hung with magnificent drapery, and fluttering with banners and streamers emblazoned with escutcheons and fleur-de-lys. At the right were the pavilions of the king, his royal mother and sister. They glowed with splendid hangings of tapestry, and were each surmounted by silken banners gleaming with the royal arms. At the entrance were canopies for the king-at-arms, the marshals and the other officers of the field.
                  Long before the appointed hour the galleries were crowded with the nobility, chivalry and beauty of the capital. Tier above tier they rose, densely packed with high-born dames and cavaliers, whose rich attire was rendered more dazzling and brilliant by the effect of the sunbeams which poured down into the arena and threw a glorious halo of light upon the whole magnificent spectacle.
                  Within the grand pavilions reclined the three members of the royal family. Louise de L'Estoile was in Catharine's retinue. Her face was pale, but her manner was composed, and she looked irresistingly lovely. Marguerite of Valois looked the queen to perfection. Her stomacher flamed with stars and brilliants, and she sat haughtily in the midst of her proud suite. There could be discerned a sad and disappointed expression upon her haughty features, and she east hasty and displeased glances now and then towards the Demoiselle de L'Estoile.
                  All was animation and excitement—thousands of voices floated in low murmurs through the arena, like the muffled roar of the ocean; silken dresses rustled in the breezes, and jewels flashed from fair round arms and raven tresses. Suddenly trumpets brayed, cymbals clashed, the lists were opened, and the combatants accompanied by their seconds bounded into the ring—their horses caracolling and demivaulting, and their pennons fluttering from their lances.
                  The Chevalier Tremlet was arrayed in a polished suit of dark Milan steel, the corselet encrusted with figures in gold, and the casque surmounted by a long flowing plume of crimson feathers. His visor was open, disclosing to view the manly beauty and classic symmetry of his features. The housings of his charger were of the most gorgeous description, consisting of cloth of gold curiously wrought and bordered with minever. The bridle and martingale were studded with diamonds, and the head-piece was of stout mail, from which projected a sharp steel pike, over which waved a plume of ostrich feathers stuck between the ears of the charger.
                  Bussy D'Amboise was equipped quite as splendidly as his antagonist, although the plume in his morion and the caparisons of his charger were different, being those of another house. His surcoat was blazoned with armorial insignia, and his shield embossed with golden devices.
                  After the knights had ridden curvetting about the arena, they took their stations at opposite posts of the tilt yard, and awaited by the side of their seconds the king's signal for the commencement of the combat. Henri presently waved his hand and amid the fanfares of trumpets and the resounding of clarions, the king-at-arms advanced to the middle of the field and hurling a gauntlet upon the sand proclaimed the rank, and cause of quarrel of the combatants, and shouted for them to leave the barriers.
                  Levelling their lances and firmly fixing them in rest, the cavaliers shut down their visors, and plunging forward, were in an instant running the course in mad career. They met in rude shock in the middle of the field; their steeds recoiled upon their haunches, and their lances shivered, truncheons and all, into a thousand splinters. Going back to their posts they received fresh lances from their attendants, and returned to the tilt. In this second course, the lance-point of the Chevalier Tremlet split the beaver of D'Amboise, but neither wounded nor unhorsed him. They were again returning for new weapons when the king made a signal to the marshal-at-arms who commanded, in a thundering tone, silence, and a cessation of hostilities. After conferring briefly with Henri, the marshal proceeded with two heralds to the middle of the field, and after a flourish of cornets and clarions, proclaimed that it was the wish of his most royal highness, that, since the two illustrious champions were so nearly matched with the lance, the fight should be decided with the sword.
                  Silence was again commanded, and the combatants rode out with rapiers drawn. Both plunged their spears into their horses' flanks as they approached, and rushing upon each other made rapid and skilful passes. Steel clashed against steel, sparks of fire flashed from their mail, and plumes hewn in fragments floated in the air and strewed the arena. Both knights displayed exquisite skill in the fence as they discharged blows right and left with inconceivable rapidity. The galleries rang with applause as either cavalier made a successful pass—fair hands waved "an Amboise!" or "a Tremlet!" which made the welkin ring. The anxious multitude were kept long in suspense, for seldom had two knights so equally matched, met in the tournament, and the struggle was protracted beyond all bounds. But human strength has limits, and Bussy D'Amboise now began to exhibit evidences of declining energy. His haute-piece—which had been substituted for the morion, riven by Tremlet's lance—was fearfully wrecked, and the plume shaven to an inglorious stump; the brilliant harness and trappings of his steed were stained with gore, and there was a huge gap in his corselet cleft by the sword of his powerful opponent.
                  The champion of Louise de L'Estoile had not been utterly unscathed during this deadly struggle. The feather of his casque was in scarcely a better condition than that of Bussy D'Amboise. His armor was yet entire, although there were many places where huge chips had been hewn from the gorgeous mail by his antagonist's vigorous strokes, and the glittering housings were torn and gashed in many places.
                  It was evident that the combat must soon cease on the part of D'Amboise, for his armor was so bent and broken as to furnish scarcely any defence. Gathering all his vigor therefore into one tremendous blow, the sword of the Chevalier Tremlet came crashing down upon the bars of his antagonist's visor, rent them in twain as if they were the filaments of a spider's web, and inflicted a ghastly wound upon his cheek. The blood spirted from the crevice made by the descending steel, the uplifted sword-arm fell by his side, and Bussy D'Amboise toppling in his saddle, fell to the earth and bit the dust—conquered in fair field while defending an unjust cause.
                  Heralds and men-at-arms rushed into the ring, and unclasping the helm of the conquered knight, endeavored to restore him. But it was in vain—he had drawn his last breath, and his attendants sadly bore him off the field.
                  The king-at-arms once more stood in the middle of the tilt yard and announced that the character of the Lady Louise de L'Estoile was entirely vindicated from the foul aspersion which had been cast upon it by the knight Bussy D'Amboise, and in the name of the king requested the company to withdraw.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  THE FLIGHT.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              You sun that sits upon the sea,
                              We follow in his flight;
                              Farewell awhile, to him and thee,
                              My native land good night!
                           
                        
                        —CHILDE HAROLD.
                     
                  
                  The sudden order for the dispersion of the company which had assembled to witness the tournament, was a stroke of policy on the part of Henri to enable him to avoid the chagrin of beholding the Demoiselle Louise, on whom he looked with special grace, publicly bestow the favors which the laws of chivalry authorized, upon the champion who had put lance in rest in her behalf. What was usually a most interesting part of the knightly sport was thus entirely dispensed with on this occasion, and the jealous monarch immediately adjourned to the halls of the Louvre whither he had ordered Tremlet to hasten soon as he could effect a change of apparel, and receive his royal congratulations and those of the beautiful Louise.
                  It was early in the evening, twilight had just begun to "let her curtain down"—two persons sat within a bower of the gardens of the Louvre. Around them were statues of fawns and nymphs, and fountains gushing water as clear as the purest crystal.
                  "Louise, you are mine, and not Henri III, nor all the royal family shall rob me of you, while my brow can bear a casque, or my hand wield a sword!"
                  The Demoiselle de L'Estoile gazed tenderly upon her lover, and there was sadness and perplexity upon her fair brow, as she answered:
                  "I am yours, Tremlet, but were the suspicion of the relation in which we stand to each other but breathed into Henri's ear, his Medicis hand would press a poisoned chalice to your lips. I would abandon life, rank, everything, sooner than my love. May that licentious monarch never bring me to so dread an alternative!"
                  "And were Marguerite of Valois but cognizant of half what I feel for you, my beautiful Louise, she too would empty the drug into my goblet! Indeed, she has intimated as much already! O what a detestable court! where chivalry is sunk in sensuality, and wrongs are redressed by the midnight assassin. Let us leave it, my Louise. I have a home in England—I have ancestors there! Come with me—let us abandon this effeminate and unworthy kingdom—let us breathe an air pure and untainted by vice!"
                  "I would joyfully abandon my estates to follow you, mon cher chevalier; but how could we leave the kingdom undiscovered?" replied she, gazing fondly into his face, and threading with her snowy and tender fingers the curls of his dark brown hair. "Valiant as you have shown yourself at the jousting to day, you could not, I fear, nor would it be in the power of any cavalier to elude the wiles by which this palace and its environs are beset!"
                  Tremlet's face assumed an expression of deep thought for a moment, he kept his looks bent on the ground; then raising his eyes, he exclaimed:
                  "I have it! In the grand hall there is a fauteuil of the king, at the farther extremity, canopied with brocade and fretted with gold. In a niche behind is a bust of Pallas resting on a marble pedestal, its face directed towards the arch which conducts into the dining-saloon. Turning the bust so as to face in an opposite direction, the pedestal is made instantly to revolve and the back of the royal seat swings slowly open, disclosing a flight of stone steps leading to a dark subterranean passage. This once secret corridor is now so well known that it is rarely used in the stratagems of the royal family. It was employed last by Cosmo de Medicis, when Bernardo Girolamo so mysteriously disappeared. Make all the necessary preparation, and I will meet you there to-morrow night, when the chapel bell strikes two. The passage conducts, after many a weary turn, under the palace walls and moat, directly to the banks of the Seine, where there shall be a boat with trusty oarsmen to row us down the river to a vessel which shall bear us from this land to the shores of England."
                  "Tremlet, you have splintered a lance in defending my honor, and rather than lose your love, I would brave every danger. I will be there!"
                  He seized her snowy, jewelled fingers and pressed them passionately to his lips.
                  "You have a brave heart, Louise!"
                  "It is my affection for you that gives it courage."
                  The lovers remained conversing in the gardens of the Louvre as long as it was prudent and even longer, for their absence had been noticed by the wary Henry, and as they returned, they were met by youthful pages and valets in the royal liveries, who had been sent by the king in search of them.
                  The hour appointed by the Chevalier Tremlet for the meeting at the bust of Pallas, on the succeeding night drew nigh. The moon streamed through the casements, pouring a flood of silver light on the thousand objects of magnificence, strewn in profusion about the grand saloon, as with stealthy tread and drawn rapier, the knight trod lightly over the thickly piled Turkey carpets. As he drew near to the kingly chair, he saw reclining in it a figure arrayed in a robe of white damask, ornamented profusely with silver lace that glittered in the moonbeams.
                  "Louise, bien-aime!"
                  The lady rose to her feet, and Marguerite de Valois stood before him!
                  "The Queen of Navarre?"
                  "The Chevalier Tremlet! You have come to meet your minion, have you?" Marguerite began bitterly, but her voice and manner softened as she proceeded. "But I forgive you. From my heart I pardon you. Your magnanimity has subdued all the Medicis within me!"
                  "Magnanimity, my queen?"
                  "Yes. You saw me when I emptied the fatal powder into the goblet of my royal brother, mistaking it for that of Louise de L'Estoile. I felt while I did it that your eyes were bent on me, and when I looked up, I met your strange, earnest, pained gaze. I saw you follow the cup with your eyes, and ready to spring to your feet, at the moment Henri spoke. All this you knew, yet not by word, or glance, or gesture, have you intimated it to me, nor to any one, as I believe."
                  "I confess I saw the act," said Tremlet.
                  "And you perilled your life besides, to avert the consequences of my deed from another. Chevalier Tremlet, if Marguerite of Valois be jealous and revengeful, she can yet appreciate true honor in another. I now do what I have never before done—I pardon a faithless lover!"
                  Tremlet bent his knee before her, and pressed gratefully the small, fair hand he held. At that moment Louise de L'Estoile, arrayed in a travelling dress of russet-colored velvet, with a candle in her hand flickering in its socket, appeared through an adjoining portal of the saloon. She started at what she beheld—her lover kneeling and affectionately caressing the slender digits of the queen of Navarre!
                  "Delay not! Come forward!" said Marguerite, in a soft, low tone, beckoning to her; "did you think a meeting like this, within this palace, could be private? The very walls have ears!"
                  Louise advanced timorously, not knowing the mood of her majesty, and at a loss to explain the scene she had just witnessed.
                  "Give me your hand," said Marguerite, and taking the fairy palm, she placed it within that of the chevalier, uttering in a tone not entirely free from emotion:
                  "The queen of Navarre sanctions your union, and bestows her blessing upon it. Go, and God be with you!"
                  She again extended her hand for Tremlet to kiss, and tenderly embracing the lady Louise, turned and slowly left the room. Marguerite had gained a great and unusual victory over herself; it was seldom that her better feelings thus prevailed. For a few days afterwards she was sad, and a soft melancholy prevailed in her glorious eyes, but she soon learned to forget her transient passion, and consoled herself as she always did, with a new lover, from the handsome train of gallants who surrounded the king.
                  When the queen of Navarre had left them, Tremlet, after forcing up a clasp with the point of his dagger, turned round the marble image of Minerva, and the pedestal began slowly to revolve. After waiting for a few moments, the velvet back of the fauteuil appeared suddenly endowed with motion and swung gradually open, upon hinges that creaked from long disuse. Throwing his arm around Louise, he hastily descended the slippery steps, and leaving the door to shut of its own accord by means of its hidden machinery, he pursued his devious way through the tortuous labyrinth of passages which presented themselves. His course appeared to be perfectly familiar to him, and he advanced with a certainty that immediately disarmed his companion of all the terrors the place was calculated to awaken. After passing underneath the foss, which enveloped the palace walls on every side, and which was indicated by the water dripping through the masonry, their course was short to the outlet of the passage, near the banks of the Seine. As they reached the open air, Tremlet conveyed the lovely demoiselle to a boat in waiting and in silence they rowed in the direction of the mouth of the Seine. When the morning dawned they were miles away from Paris, and a short distance before them was a small vessel riding at anchor. They embarked, and before Henri III of France had thought of rising from his piles of cushions, or had dreamed of sending a valet for his shaving water, Louise de L'Estoile, already the betrothed of the Chevalier Tremlet, was crossing the English Channel on her way to Dover.
               
            
            
               
               [FROM "THE FLAG OF OUR UNION."]
               COUNT VON LUNDSTEIN.
               BY HARRIET A. DAVISON.
               ONE pleasant morning in July, the Count Von Lundstein was pacing to and fro in his own apartment. Evidently, something was troubling him. A gentle tap at the door aroused him, and he impatiently exclaimed: "Come in;" but his frown relaxed when his wife Blenda entered, and drawing a chair close to the open window, he motioned her to be seated, saying at the same time:
               "Just in time, Blenda, for I am sorely perplexed by my son Freiderich."
               "Perplexed by Freiderich?" asked his wife, turning half round to see her husband.
               "Yes, about my son. I have noticed of late that he is very abstracted and seems rather sad."
               "Depend upon it, my dear, it is only because he devotes so much time to his studies. I am sure you never see him without a book," replied his wife, smilingly.
               "That is just it," answered the count, quickly. "That is just it. He starts off every morning with a book or drawing materials to study in the fields, as he says, and he don't draw a line, or read a page. He goes to old Carl Verder's, the peasant across the valley, and spends his time making love to his daughter, the pretty Catherine."
               Blenda Von Lundstein now rose from her chair and seemed as much perturbed as the count.
               "Now, Wilhelm, you must have been mistaken; for the son of count Von Lundstein would not so far forget himself as to make love to a peasant girl."
               "I tell you I am not mistaken," exclaimed the count.
               "What are the grounds for your assertions, your proofs?" asked his wife, in a quiet tone.
               "Listen, and I will tell you. For a long time I have noticed the abstraction of my son, and at first imputed it to his interest in literature and art, and accordingly made myself perfectly easy; but this morning, returning from a long ride, I took a road which I never recollect having seen before, and lost my way. I concluded the best thing to be done was to follow the road and maybe come across somebody who would be able to point out the right way home. I had ridden but a short distance, when I saw the glimmer of a house through the trees, and discovered a little foot-path which I naturally thought must lead me to the house. I alighted, and tying my horse to a tree, followed the path. I had gone but a short distance when I heard talking, and discovered that I was close upon the garden. The shrubbery was thick, and I paused to take a look at the speakers before I discovered myself. Imagine my amazement, when I beheld my son Freiderich standing talking to a young girl. The girl was tying up a rose-bush, and my son was very complacently watching her, holding her hat and a little watering pot. He was saying something very interesting, doubtless, for the girl laughed and blushed, and replied in such a tone that I was able to distinguish the words.
               "'I do not doubt you, Freiderich; and I am very happy.'
               "Freiderich then said: 'Dearest Catherine, I know there will come a time of happiness for us both; but everything must be kept secret as yet from my father. Now give me my flowers.'
               "She handed him a beautiful bunch of flowers which he kissed very tenderly and again said something in a whisper which made the girl blush. I did not wait to see or hear any more, but making a crackling of the bushes, I found my way to the gate. When I got there, the girl only was to be seen, Freiderich having made his escape. Wishing to prove if I had heard aright, I said in a cold tone:
               "I am the Count Von Lundstein, and have lost my way. Can you point out to me a way to reach the castle?"
               "She turned very pale as I announced myself, but upon my stating the cause of my being there, she recovered her self-possession, and answered me very clearly."
               "Well?" queried the countess, "and that is all? Is the girl very handsome?"
               "No, I see nothing very beautiful about her; though her face is a pleasant one. No, no, I saw nothing about her which could possibly account for the infatuation of my son. He will have to give her up."
               "Pause one moment, Wilhelm. If Freiderich's heart is irrecoverably lost; if his happiness depends upon his marriage with this peasant girl, had—."
               "Tut! I know what you would say. You, in your gentleness, would forget the immense distance between our son and a peasant, and for the sake of his happiness permit him to unite himself with the girl. Is not that it?"
               "Yes," she answered, "I thought—"
               "I will hear no more. I had hoped you would see the matter in the same light as I do and assist me in forming some plan to pat an end to the affair. But I see I must act alone."
               "Don't have recourse to any severe measures," she pleaded.
               "Let me alone. I will act for myself. No, wife," he added, seeing she looked sad, "no, I will do nothing harshly if it can be avoided. Don't let Freiderich suspect for an instant that we know aught of his folly. There he comes now, and I will join him." So saying he left, and as he goes to meet his son, we will say a few words which may not be amiss.
               Count Von Lundstein is a handsome man, with military bearing, but his features have a harshness about them which invariably impresses the beholder unpleasantly.
               Almost twenty years previous to the opening of my story, the world of Munich was startled by the report of a duel fought by the Counts Von Lundstein and Wieldman. The Count Von Lundstein fell mortally wounded, it was then thought, and his adversary, Count Wieldman, permitting himself only one look at his friends, was forced to fly. The report of the duel was the first intimation of any quarrel the friends or acquaintances of either had. The cause of the duel was unknown. Some said a lady was at the bottom of it; others loss at play, and the rest shook their heads sorrowfully and gravely, agreeing that some terrible insult had been given, to cause the Count Wieldman and Von Lundstein to take the field against each other. Von Lundstein was carried to his young wife and child, for he had been married scarcely three years, and all his friends mourned for him as one already dead, for the surgeon had shaken his head when asked if there was hope. For a long time he lingered in the same almost hopeless state, then slowly recovered. It was a joyful day for the young Countess Blenda Von Lundstein, when he left his room. The count recovered his health, but not his spirits. Upon his recovery he instituted inquiries everywhere for the missing Count Wieldman. When every effort proved unavailing, he became morose and retired to his castle, a few miles from Munich, and kept aloof from all society. To his wife and child only was he the same kind friend. Twenty years have passed but he still refuses to mix with the world, still mourns for his wandering friend, Count Wieldman.
               Some days after the conversation with her husband Blenda was called to his library, and the count there explained to her that, to prevent any marriage between his son Freiderich and the pretty Catherine, he intended to give her in marriage to his gardener, young Ludwig Schenkendorf, and that forthwith.
               The countess pleaded as only a mother can plead for an only son. All her efforts were unavailing, and she had the sorrow of knowing that in this her husband would have his way. Blenda Von Lundstein was proud, but her affection for her son was greater than her pride, and to that she yielded. She went from her husband's presence with the determination to acquaint Freiderich with his father's plan, that he might be on his guard. She made no effort to gain a private interview with her son for fear of exciting her husband's suspicions. Before long an opportunity presented itself, which she did not fail to take advantage of.
               One fine morning the count announced his intention of riding to Munich, a ride of an hour. When the sound of his horse's feet were no longer heard, the countess, motioning her son to follow, led the way to her apartment. When there, after carefully closing the door, she turned to her son, who was respectfully awaiting her to speak, and said:
               "Freiderich, your father has learned of your love affair, and will do everything to prevent you from attaining your wishes."
               Freiderich, upon being thus abruptly addressed, started, and perceptibly changed color, but feigning a nonchalance he did not feel, he walked to the window, and began to tap slowly upon the window as he said:
               "Why couldn't my father have informed me of his plans himself?"
               The countess came to his side and laying her hand upon his arm, said earnestly:
               "My dear Freiderich, it was farthest from his wishes that you should know his plans, and great would be his wrath if he knew I had been the one to warn you."
               "Dear mother," said Freiderich, raising his hand to his lips.
               "Listen to me one moment, my son, and you shall know all you have to fear, and can then tell what is best to be done. To warn you is all I can do. I must say, though it pain you, that I was sorry to hear that my son should so far forget what is due to himself and his parents as to wish to unite himself with one so much beneath him. Your father has declared that he will prevent the union, and to do so he intends to marry Catherine Verder to his gardener Ludwig Schenkendorf immediately, and—"
               "But, mother, I—"
               "Nay, do not interrupt me. He will give Ludwig the cottage by the stream, and increase his salary that he may be able to live in comfort." As she finished speaking, she looked timidly up in her son's face, as if fearing to see there the pain she was causing. There were no signs of any intense emotion on her son's face, and the mother's heart grew lighter. Freiderich left his station by the window, and took a seat by his mother's side, and began to tell her something earnestly, which caused her to open her eyes in astonishment. At length she exclaimed:
               "Then you do not love Catherine? Your father was wrong?"
               "Yes, mother, entirely wrong. What I said to Catherine, which made her blush and look so pleased, was, that when my day of happiness came hers would come too. She has been a kind friend to me, and Ludwig, whom she dearly loves, has often done me a good turn. Now, listen to me, mother; father must not know this, for if he does he will abandon his present scheme and may be ruin the happiness of both.
               "Let him believe as he does now and act accordingly. He will thereby unwittingly secure the happiness of two people, and not mar that of two others. I must away instantly to put Catherine and Ludwig on their guard, and instruct them in the part they have to perform. Should my father return, you are ignorant of my whereabouts. Now, adieu, dearest mother," and kissing her tenderly he withdrew. Springing upon his horse, Freiderich Von Lundstein was soon out of sight.
               There were bright tears in Blenda's blue eyes as she gazed after the fast disappearing form of her son, and the sigh that escaped her was one of relief and thankfulness.
               Before long her husband returned and divulged to her that the business which led him to Munich was nothing more or less than to arrange for the marriage of Catherine and Ludwig, which he had determined should be in one week from that day, it being Thursday then.
               The next day, as the count was crossing the hall he met his son, who was on the point of leaving for his customary walk, with his book under his arm. His father bade him follow and silently led the way to the library. There was an air of hesitation about Freiderich as he entered the room, which did not pass unnoticed by his father, who motioned him to a chair, and at the same time seated himself in another.
               "My son," began the count, striving to appear perfectly indifferent, yet watching Freiderich closely, to observe the effect of his words, "I have been to Munich this morning to arrange a marriage between Catherine Verder and—"
               "And who, father?" eagerly asked Freiderich.
               "Don't interrupt me and I will tell you. To arrange," he repeated, slowly, as if observing the effect of each word, "a marriage between Catherine Verder and Ludwig Schenkendorf." Having said it he rose and walked up and down the room with his hands clasped before him. After a pause of a few moments, having passed his hand slowly across his brow, as if to collect his thoughts, Freiderich asked in a low tone:
               "Did I hear aright, sir? Did you say a marriage between Catherine Verder and—"
               "And Ludwig? Yes, yes, my son, I said so. Have you any objections?"
               "Did I say objections, father?" asked Freiderich, looking up with a bewildered air. I—I—I know of but one, sir, that is—I mean I don't know of any. Have you found out, father, whether this sacrifice—I mean marriage, is agreeable to both parties?"
               "It must be agreeable, for it is my will," haughtily replied Count Lundstein; and he walked with a determined step up and down the room.
               Again Freiderich spoke and he seemed to be intently engaged in looking at an engraving which was laying on the table as he did so:
               "Did it never occur to you, sir, that Catherine may love another?
               "Upon my word, Freiderich, you appear very curious and careful of the feelings of a peasant girl."
               "As careful as of my own," he replied, in a low voice.
               "No, it did not occur to me, and if it had, it would have made no difference, for I have willed that she marry Ludwig, and Ludwig only shall she marry."
               A few more strides up and down the apartment, then dismissing his son, he rang the bell for a servant whom he sent with a message to Catherine and Ludwig, desiring their attendance the next morning.
               At an early hour the next day, Catherine made her appearance. She stood timidly before the count, who, trying to assume a benign expression, said to her in his blandest tones:
               "I have sent for you, Catherine, that I might inform you of my wish that you should marry Ludwig Schenkendorf the coming Thursday."
               Hearing these words Catherine sank, where she stood upon her knees, and covered her face with her hands.
               The count shaking off any unpleasant feelings he might have at the sight of this innocent girl so overcome with grief, and pretending to misunderstand the cause of her emotion, came forward and taking hold of one hand he said, in an encouraging tone:
               "Nay, be not so grieved at the thought of leaving thy father. You will not be so far away from him, for 1 intend on your wedding to Ludwig, the little cottage by the stream as a reward for his faithful services. Does not that make you more content?"
               "O, sir count!" sobbed the girl, "I cannot—cannot— mar—ry Lud—wig Schenkendorf."
               "Do not take it so hard. Go home now, and when to-morrow comes you will thank the count who takes such an interest in you both." So saying, he led her to the door. When there she turned and said to the count, as if driven to it by desperation:
               "Thank you, that you are making an unwilling bride of me? compelling me to leave a happy home? No, no, no." Again she covered her face with her hands. Count Von Lundstein smiled grimly, and going back into the room resumed his seat and waited impatiently for Ludwig to appear. After a few moments the door opened and Ludwig entered. He was a handsome, sun-browned athletic young man, about twenty, with a frank expression on his face, you could not help liking him. He made an embarrassed but not an awkward obeisance, and stood hat in hand, waiting for his master to speak. The count looked at him steadily for a moment then spoke in this way:
               "You know Catherine Verder?"
               "Yes, sir count," and his eyes smiled, though his lips moved not.
               "It is my command that you marry her Thursday. Be ready," said the count, haughtily.
               Again Ludwig answered, "yes, sir," and a wave of his master's hand dismissed him. The count then slowly rose to join his wife.
               "It is all over with," he exclaimed, as he entered her room. "Freiderich seemed struck dumb; Catherine dissolved in tears, and Ludwig, the only sensible one, assented quietly."
               Blenda only sighed and continued stitching on her embroidery.
               
               The dreaded day came and passed. Freiderich seemed overwhelmed with despair, and as soon as the ceremony was over, was seen to spring upon his horse and ride furiously away. The young bride was wonderfully calm till she was irrevocably bound to Ludwig, then sank at the foot of the altar and was carried out by her husband. Count Von Lundstein looked on, smiling grimly to himself, as if highly pleased with the part he had taken in causing this general misery. For three days Freiderich was absent from home; at the end of that time he came back looking calm, and having no desire to recur to the scene. His father smiled as he saw him day after day take his book and start off towards Verder's cottage.
               "He revisits his old trysting places," said his father, and laughed.
               For a long time everything went on calmly; but a day of sorrow came for the count himself. That day was the one appointed for the sale of the estate belonging to the Count Wieldman. Count Von Lundstein had hoped, wildly though it seemed, that his friend would come back, but now the place must be sold. Count Von Lundstein determined to buy it, and return it to the Count Wieldman should he ever return. The estate was to be sold to the highest bidder. A great many were there who wished to have the estate. Before long the count and a stranger was left to bid against each other. The count made his last bid, but the stranger offered a higher sum and the place was his.
               "I would know thy name?" said the count.
               "In one week from to-day, come to the castle and you shall know my name," replied the stranger, and walked hastily away.
               The intervening days passed slowly to the count, who was very desirous to know who was the man who had so thwarted his dearest wish. The longest day will have an end, and so did the week, and the count found himself in the hall which he had not entered since the flight of his friend. An almost magical change had come over the place, which on the day of the sale looked gloomy and deserted; it was bright and fair, with every vestige of neglect gone. Count Von Lundstein followed the servant through the hall into the library. Standing almost in the centre of the room was the stranger, who stretched out his hands, exclaiming:
               "Forgive me, Wilhelm, for I have suffered."
               Hearing the sounds and seeing the action, the Count Von Lundstein grew deadly pale, but caught the outstretched hands, almost shouting in his eagerness: "O, God! have you come back, Henri? Can you forgive me?"
               "I forgive?" answered the other sadly. "I have nothing to forgive. It is you who must do that. You cannot tell, Wilhelm, what I have suffered, though justly, for my rashness."
               "Dearest Henri," said the count, embracing him, "I am happy. But you who have never seen your home because of my hasty temper, have much more to forgive than I."
               "It has been many years since I visited my home, though not so long as you think, and it has been harder than you have any idea of, for I had a year previous to that dreadful time, secretly married a young and lovely girl, who with her baby daughter, I had to leave."
               "You married! Ah, why did you not come back sooner?"
               "Because I heard you cherished a deadly hatred for me, and would do all in your power to persecute me!"
               "A base slander!" exclaimed the count, furiously, then added, sadly, "Ah, Henri, did you not know that I would gladly receive you back? But your wife and daughter, I would see them, and ask of then forgiveness for the misery I have caused."
               The Count Wieldman, for he it is, as the reader must know, led the way to the drawing-room, where his lovely wife and still more lovely daughter were seated. It is needless to recount what passed. Before the count left, he was astounded by the entrance of his son Freiderich, who seemed to be perfectly well acquainted with all parties. Taking the daughter by the hand, he led her to his father, saying:
               "Father, I love this young lady, and she returns my affection. Have I your approval?"
               His father embraced him, and gave him his unqualified consent. Having obtained which, he explained to his father that this same young lady and mother had resided for a long time at the cottage of old Carl Verder, and she it was whom he loved, and not Catherine. His father seemed to be overwhelmed with despair, but his son hastened to relieve him, by informing him of all with which the reader is already acquainted.
               A few days and another wedding was celebrated in the little chapel, where nothing but happy faces were seen. Count Von Lundstein became a changed and a happier man, and has never been known to fight another duel or make a match.
            
            
               [FROM "THE FLAG OF OUR UNION."]
               THE CONCERT.
               BY MISS ANNE T. WILBUR.
               YOU, my friend, who were intimately acquainted with her, know that we shall never find her equal. She lives in our memories, as one of the most charming beings of modern times. She had genius, beauty, youth, combined with grace and goodness. She passed away like a meteor, but left a luminous trace. Since you love to dwell upon her virtues, and everything connected with her has for you an attraction always pleasant and always new, I will relate to you in what manner I was privileged to see her for the first time.
               It was some years since. I was young and knew little beyond my native village. A friend of the family, who was much attached to me, having spoken of taking me with him to the south of France, whither he had been summoned on business, it was thought desirable to let me see a little of the world. I, therefore, set out on a beautiful morning in April, in company with friend Jacques, in a little carriole which answered instead of a post-chaise, with a little mare harnessed to it, which her master called Bergere. Judge what an enchanting journey! Spring everywhere, within me, around me: all flourishing, rustling, blossoming, in my heart as on earth, and my sixteen years mingling their song with the warbling of the forest birds.
               We travelled by short stages, after the manner of the vetturini, setting out in the morning at sunrise, taking our meals at random and sleeping wherever night chanced to overtake us. My friend Jacques spoke little. Between sunrise and sunset, he smoked from fifteen to twenty pipes, and slept the rest of the time. Bergere travelled from eight to ten leagues per day more or less, according to the stops. Everything was new and delightful to me except the cities we passed through, which seemed frightful. I asked myself if it were possible for beings organized like my friend Jacques and myself to consent freely to drag out their lives in these hideous places, to which I compared with pride the natal spot where I had grown up. Charm of country I Power of the places where our childhood rolled away! Magic of the corner of earth where our eyes opened to the light of heaven! Have not you, my dear Augustus, beneath the blue sky of Italy, amid the the orange-trees of the river of Genoa, sometimes regretted your blossoming apple-trees ple-trees, your house beside the Seine, the alleys of your orchard?
               Meanwhile, the farther we travelled towards the south, the more coquettish, elegant and neat became the aspect of the cities. About the end of April, on an evening warm and golden as summer, Bergere, the carriole, friend Jacques, his pipe and myself, triumphantly entered Carpentras, which, at the foot of Mt. Venton, surrounded with bristling ramparts, like a partridge in a crust of pastry, is one of the most poetic cities of France. We alighted at the hotel of "The Three Mewing Cats." On the swinging sign, an artist of the place had painted three cats in a state of exaltation difficult to describe, who seemed to be executing the most infernal trio imaginable.
               Scarcely had we alighted from our carriage, when we noticed around us an unusual agitation. Animated groups were stationed before the hotel and on the square of the theatre. There was, with the air of spring, a festival air in the atmosphere. Carriages were coming from all parts and meeting in every direction. Something joyous and strange must be in preparation, of which we were ignorant: for Bergere, my friend Jacques and myself, were too unknown and too modest to attribute this movement and concourse of the citizens to our passage through their walls. It was clear that some celebrated actor or prince of the blood was expected.
               The dinner bell suddenly interrupted our commentaries. At the table d'hote we were informed there was to be given, this evening, a concert in the hall of the theatre, for the benefit of the poor. A concert! At this word I blushed with pleasure, which seeing, my friend Jacques turned pale with fear; for there were in the world two things which he profoundly hated: first, his wife, and second, music. Music was the only point on which we differed in sentiment.
               A concert was then a rare thing in the provinces. At this period, the musical education of France hardly commenced, and, for my port, I had never heard any other concerts than those of the birds among the branches. Concerts are at present an amusement common enough. But at the time when I travelled with my friend Jacques, in the carriole drawn by Bergere, a concert was an event, something unusual and solemn. It was talked of three months beforehand, and when the great day arrived, there was an influx from all parts like that which encumbered Carpentras at this hour. We must tell all; at this concert for the poor were to be heard several amateurs, celebrated in the department and the neighborhood, among others a flageolet from Tarascon, of whom marvels were related. But the most lively attraction, the most alluring bait, the true charm of this fete, was the Countess de R—, who had promised to assist with her grace, her beauty, her voice and her talent.
               Now there was a history about this Countess de R—, which was related in various ways. What I heard piqued my curiosity to the utmost. I learned that she had been some years before, a celebrated cantatrice; her name, which has not passed into oblivion, resounds still to-day like an Eolian harp, between those of Pasta and Catalani. Having-been unable to make the prima-donna his mistress, the Count de R— made her his wife. It was added, that a jealous lover as well as severe husband, he kept her shut up in his chateau, where the unfortunate victim was dying with regret, sadness and ennui.
               Perhaps these were only fables. Certain it is that during the three years in which the countess had inhabited the neighborhood, she had scarcely been seen. If some praised her youth and beauty, others insisted that she had neither. Others still asserted that she had lost her voice. With the sole object of satisfying themselves on all these points, the people of the neighborhood who disliked Count R—, because of his great fortune, great-name, his rare mind and elegant manners (all of which I learned afterwards), those people had, I say, resolved to give a concert for the benefit of the poor, and to ask the Countess de R— to assist in this charitable object. This was simply a pretext to get access to the mysterious chatelaine, a snare extended for her by the idle curiosity of fools, who were not sorry to remind the count that he had married a chanteuse, and prove to him that they were in the secret of his mesalliance. A deputation of the notables, therefore, repaired to the chateau. To their great disappointment, they were not admitted to the presence of the countess, but the count had received them politely, and readily promised the concurrence of his wife in this charitable object. The news was quickly diffused throughout the neighborhood, and it was this which had brought a crowd from all parts to the entertainment.
               To decide friend Jacques to take a concert ticket was not to be thought of. The very idea that there was to be music at Carpentras, would have made him harness Bergere and flee in haste. I had difficulty to dissuade him from it. At eight o'clock he went to bed, and I, guided by the crowd, took, joyous and free, the road to the theatre. The hall was already full. The orchestra and their instruments occupied the stage, ornamented with flowers and garlands of foliage. A piano, destined for the Countess de R—, was placed near the foot-lights, facing the assembly. Everybody was at their post; no one was absent but the countess. Already people looked anxiously at each other; their glasses wandered here and there; the Countess de R— did not appear. After an hour of vain expectation, as murmurs of impatience began to circulate around the hall, the orchestra resolved to commence.
               They played at first the overture to "The Caravan." I thought the execution perfect and the effect magical; I had not suspected that twelve men could make all this music. Flutes, violins, base-viols and clarionets rivalled each other in energy and good-will. It is unnecessary to add that the piece was received with frantic applause: the mothers, sisters, wives and cousins of the performers were enraptured. The last measure finished, all eyes sought the Countess de R—; there was no countess.
               At the expiration of a few minutes' respite, a short and fat gentleman, with a black coat and white cravat, advanced to the front of the stage, bowed graciously, drew from his pocket three or four pieces of wood; then, after having adjusted them together, announced that by the aid of this light instrument, he would imitate the song of all birds, from the chant of the nightingale to the croaking of the raven. At these words, a murmur of flattering approbation ran around the assembly, followed almost immediately by a profound and religious silence. The fat and short gentleman was the flageolet-player from Tarascon.
               First, he imitated the warbling of the nightingale, the chirping of the titmouse and the linnet, the whistle of the blackbird, the hooting of the owl, the cooing of the dove, the clacking of the hen, the shrill note of the cock, and, as he had promised the croaking of the raven. This flageolet was at once an aviary and a poultry yard. After an hour of this agreeable exercise, which seemed to be much to the taste of the public of Carpentras, the gentleman took his precious instrument to pieces, put it in his pocket, and withdrew amid the applause of the crowd. My neighbor on the right, who could not believe the marvels he had just heard, insisted that there were birds concealed behind the scenes. My left hand neighbor, an amiable and delicate wit, was of opinion that the gentleman should send his flageolet to M. Dupont, the naturalist, to be stuffed.
               To the short and fat gentleman, succeeded another gentleman, tall and thin. The latter was from Avignon. He announced that he was about, with the aid of a single violin, to imitate all instruments from the flute to the drum, which he did in fact with the best intentions in the world. He played all instruments except the violin. As I reflected upon this, I thought afterwards that there are many artists in whom a talent for assimilation has destroyed individuality, skilful in reproducing all but their own nature, echoes of everybody but themselves.
               To the tall and thin gentleman, succeeded a third, long-haired, bearded, frizzled, powdered, with canary-colored gloves, and cuffs turned up at the wrists; a bean, a dandy. He had the stature of a drum-major, fists large enough to knock down an ox, shoulders which Hercules might have coveted. He seated himself at the piano, and sang "Fleure du Tage," in an amorous voice which delighted us all. Thenceforth, I have always professed a profound admiration for the valorous youth who thus charms the evenings of the fashionable world. To go upon the ground; to brave, without turning pale, the fire of an adversary; to assist valiantly in a battle; to charge the enemy with a firm foot; to walk unfalteringly to execution; all this does not astonish me. But, in presence of two or three hundred persons, to encamp bravely before a piano, and sing, My Normandy, or some other kindred plaint, is the highest point of heroism to which man can arrive. These gentlemen have proved their courage and have a right to refuse a duel. The ladies are of my opinion in this, and as, in general, they love heroes, it is very rare that singers of romances do not bear with them the reputation of men of mind.
               Meanwhile, the countess did not arrive. It was nearly ten o'clock, we had no reason to expect her longer. Nevertheless, we still waited, and hoped, when a fourth gentleman, of Carpentras, the leader of the orchestra, the giver of the entertainment, approached the foot lights, and after three stiff bows, communicated to the assembly a note which he had just received. It was a charming little note, in which Madame de R— apologized for not being able to appear at the concert, and entreating the managers to accept her offering with her regrets. This letter was accompanied by a bill of a thousand livres.
               It may he imagined that this was a cruel disappointment for the inquisitive, the foolish and the malicious. There was a general confusion, some said the countess was old and ugly, since she refused to appear; that she had lost her voice, since she refused to let it be heard. But it was the sending of the bill for a thousand livres which especially excited the indignation of these honest people. It was becoming indeed for a street singer to give herself the airs of a princess! Did the indigent of Carpentras need the munificence of the Chateau de R—? Could not the city support its own poor. They were of opinion that this bill of a thousand livres should immediately be returned to the proud donor. At the same time, as the greater number had only paid to see the countess, people declared in every direction that they had been cheated, and imperiously demanded their money: so that from this concert, given for the benefit of the poor, the poor ran a great risk of deriving no benefit but that of not having been present. The indignation was increasing, the exasperation was at its height. Vainly did the orchestra, to appease unchained passions and drown the noise of the storm, attack with unusual vigor, the overture to Lodoiska; the storm drowned the noise of the orchestra. Since that remarkable evening I have been present at many concerts, but I never heard such a tumult. They shouted, they hissed; half a dozen dogs, who had accompanied their masters, uttered plaintive howls, to which some jesters among the audience responded by lamentable mewings. The children whispered, the women cried, the mob threatened to throw the benches upon the stage, and, amid all this tempest, the overture to Lodoiska kept on its way.
               It was difficult to foresee how this scene of confusion would terminate, when suddenly the furious waves fell back, silent and immovable, as if the finger of God had commanded them to be still.
               A young stranger had, with a light foot, unperceived in the general disturbance, ascended the steps which separated the parquet from the stage, and was suddenly seen to appear, seated before the piano destined for Madame de R—, like an angel descended from heaven. Was she not indeed an angel! She had scarcely reached the earliest period of youth; the simple graces of childhood still adorned her charming countenance; but the fire of genius illuminated her brow and her glance. She sat there, simple and grave, without embarrassment and without boldness, her lips half smiling. At this apparition, all was silence. Who was this woman? No one could tell. All eyes were rivetted upon her: calm and serene, she seemed scarcely to notice the crowd who contemplated her. She untied the ribbons of a white hood, which she carelessly deposited at her feet. Her coiffure was low; her tresses, parted on her forehead, descended along her temples, glossy and black as a raven's wing. She took off her gloves, and her little hand ran over the key board. At last, after having preluded a few moments the young stranger sang.
               Angels and seraphim with tremulous wings, who hold on high the harps of gold, and sing in chorus at the feet of the Eternal, how then do you sing, harmonious phalanxes, if such music can be heard on earth! I listened, bewildered, breathless, immovable, and all listened with me. What I heard, none can express. She sang in that sweet tongue which women and children warble on the banks of the Arno. There were at first gentle undulations which spread out like beautiful sheets of water beneath cool shades, to lose themselves quickly in graceful meanderings like a river in its slow and peaceful course between fragrant shores. For an instant, I thought I saw the melodious waves escape her lips, I felt myself lifted up by them and borne to celestial regions. O, magic of song! Power of the voice! In this smoky hall, by the light of oily argand lamps, on a dusty bench, it seemed to me as if I were present for the first time at the splendors of creation. She sang in a sweet and grave tone, the charm of serene nights, of mutual tenderness by the light of the silver stars, of the bark furrowing in silence the mirror of the glassy lake, and I, with my head buried in my bands, saw, as in a dream, the azure mountains through the rosy vapors of sunset; I breathed the perfumes of evening, I heard the breezes awake, and amorous sighs mingle with the murmur of the wave and the rustling of the foliage.
               This first song finished, the assembly remained silent, motionless; not a sound, not a tremor, not a movement in the hall, all were suspended on the lips of the enchantress. They listened again. The young woman had placed her fingers on the ivory keys. After having wandered over them at random, and with an absent air, she abandoned herself anew to the inspiration of her remembrances. What shall I say? How shall I express the effects of that voice, which, by turns light and lively, tender and sonorous, grave and profound, sparkled, broke into cascades of a thousand crystalline notes, flowed in harmonious waves, gushed like a torrent into an abyss? There was in it the grace of young love and the energy of terrible passions. So the beautiful unknown expressed by turns simple joys, playful coquetry, jealous transports, burning love, despairing grief; I saw for the first time the impersonation of those poetic heroines, whose names were not yet revealed to me, Rosini, Anna, Juliet, Elvira. She sang the romance of Saule as I had heard my godmother sing it; this time I heard the Desdemona of Shakspeare, melancholy as the night which seemed to sigh with her, foreseeing her terrible destiny, predicting it in every accent, revealing it in every look, Desdemona about to die. How beautiful and touching it was! Then she sang the song of the Tyrol, agile and bounding like the chamois on the snow of Alpine heights: for this voice which knew how to descend so deeply into hearts, knew also how to sport in brilliant fantasies.
               After having kept us for nearly an hour in a state of intoxication, which I will not attempt to describe, she rose, calm and smiling. At this instant, the audience broke out in applause which seemed as though it would take off the roof. I have since believed in what has been related to us of the influence of Orpheus on the animals of his country. All hearts were moved, all eyes moistened with tears. I have since been present at many triumphs of this kind. I have seen epileptic pianists excite frenzied admiration: I have seen roses and camellias thrown at the heads of portly tenors; but I have never seen equalled the emotions of this evening, so grotesque in its opening, ending in a manner so unexpected and so affecting. No one thought even of asking who this unknown young woman was; enthusiasm had swallowed up curiosity. Meanwhile, still calm and serene, her lips parted with a half-smile, she appeared not to suspect what was passing around her. The flageolet from Tarascon having advanced to congratulate her, she laughed at him gaily; the genius which we had just heard was now only that of a spoiled child. In the midst of the applause, under the fire of all glasses, she tranquilly put on her gloves and travelling hood; then opening a little bag of green velvet which she had until then kept suspended to her arm by a silver cord and gilt tassels, she folded it like a purse, and presenting it to the people who surrounded her, said, in that voice which knew so well the road to hearts:
               "Gentlemen, for the poor of your city."
               Think whether the applause was redoubled, and whether each hastened to put his hand in his pocket. The poor of Carpentras reaped a bountiful harvest. A shower of silver fell from every direction into the purse of the fair solicitor. I saw an elegantly adorned lady, still trembling with emotion, detach from her arm a rich bracelet, slip it into the purse, then kiss the hand which presented it. I saw a young girl, simply clad, who doubtless had nothing else to give, deposit there, blushingly, a bunch of violets which she held in her hand and had moistened with her tears. What rain of flowers was ever as valuable as this humble offering? The collection finished, the stranger, after having poured out the proceeds on the piano, took the bunch of violets and having placed it in her girdle, presented the young girl her little green bag in exchange.
               I need not tell you that the concert went no farther; the violins and clarionets were returned to their cases. Leaning on the arm of her maid, the beautiful unknown withdrew through the eager waves which opened to allow her to pass. The musicians had already planned a serenade, and the young people of Carpentras were proposing to offer her a patriotic banquet. Unfortunately a post-chaise, drawn by four horses, awaited her at the door of the theatre: the postilions were in the saddle. She entered the carriage, and at the moment the major advanced to compliment her, the whips snapped, the horses started into a gallop, and the chaise disappeared amid the shouts and benedictions of the crowd.
               Was it a dream? I know not. I was intoxicated with delight. It was a magnificent night; I escaped from the city, and did not return until daylight. My friend Jacques was still asleep. I hastily awoke him, and sprang on his neck; but he, seeing that music was the subject in question, sent me to all the devils, laid his head again on the pillow and began to snore with all his might.
               The year following I was let loose in Paris. I haunted the opera, the concerts; but nowhere heard the voice I sought except in dreams, where I heard it always. The most admired talents awakened only a smile; the songs most applauded found me absent and indifferent; the idols of the boxes and the parterre appeared to me unworthy of the ovations decreed them. Nothwithstanding withstanding their pomp and splendor, all these representations to which I hurried with the crowd, left me sad and disenchanted. I had then a little comrade, a great lover of music, passionately fond of fine singing and beautiful voices. We went together to the lyric theatres, and returned together, by night along the quays, arm in arm, he joyous and full of enthusiasm, I sorrowful and with downcast brow. When he asked me why I was thus, I replied by this sentence which had become proverbial between us: "Ah, if you had been present, last year, at a concert for the poor given at Carpentras." And he would interrupt me and laugh at thy name, O, city eternally dear, where I heard for the first time the music of that melodious soul which remained on earth, as within thy walls, only long enough to charm the world.
               Discouraged I had resolved to keep my remembrances to myself, and for some months declined to accompany my little comrade in his excursions. Winter arrived; it was the first I had spent in Paris. One day my little friend entered my room, radiant and triumphant as Christopher Columbus after the discovery of America. He also, no later than the evening before, had discovered a new world; the theatre Italien. The child related to me its marvels, and assured me that one might venture there, even after having been present at the concert for the poor at Carpentras. I shook my head with an air of incredulity. He persisted, but in vain; I had no taste for new experiments; besides I was occupied with other cares; in fine, must I confess it? I was jealous for the voice which sang in my heart, jealous as a lover for the beauty of his mistress, and I felt that I should suffer if I encountered its rival.
               Thenceforth, few days passed away without my little dilettante returning to the charge. More than once I was tempted to treat him as my friend Jacques had treated me at Carpentras. I must confess, however, that he had at last piqued my curiosity and re-awakened my musical tastes. He spoke especially of two rival queens of song; I turned and trembled at the same time to hear them.
               One evening (I shall remember it all my life) I had seen Othello on the bill; in one of those dense fogs which envelope Paris like a shroud, I joined the file besieging the doors of the theatre Italien. After waiting an hour, in this fine and icy fog which pierced me to the bone, the file undulated slowly, like the rings of a serpent about to uncoil. I was one of the last to penetrate the sanctuary; to tell the truth I did not penetrate it. I found the temple filled, and it was not without difficulty that I obtained the favor of a taboret in the lobby. As the clock struck eight, if seemed as if a tremor passed over us all. The curtain rose, and such was the religious silence, that I could hear the vibration of the last chorus of the orchestra, which rose light as a cloud, hovered over the motionless multitude, and broke against the ceiling, as the wave against the stone basin which encloses it. I saw nothing but every sound reached me. I listened with delight, I seemed to be listening at the gates of heaven, and was forgetting Carpentras, when suddenly a movement took place in the hall, and a triple round of applause saluted the appearance of Desdemona. I sought the young Venetian with a look, but a living wall concealed from me the theatre and the stage. The crowd had again become mute. Desdemona sang. At the first accents of that clear voice, I started. Was it true?—was I not deceived?—was I not the sport of an illusion?—was it indeed the voice of my dreams? I attempted to break the rampart which closed to me the entrance to the hall; I attempted it in vain, and fell back upon my seat. I hesitated, I doubted still; but when I heard the romance of the Saule I doubted no more, it was she! After the fall of the curtain, I threw myself by a desperate effort into the orchestra. Soon the curtain rose again amid the acclamations of the assembly, who recalled Desdemona on the stage; Desdemona appeared. The rays of the lamps oscillated at the sound of the prolonged shouts of enthusiasm; flowers rained, the boxes sparkled with jewels, white and rosy scarfs waved in the fragrant air. Simple and naive amid her triumph, I recognized her plainly: it was she, it was the angel traveller, who, sometimes on her route, amused herself by singing for the poor.
               "Sir," asked I of my neighbor, "what is the name of the cantatrice who has just sang in the role of Desdemona?"
               My neighbor looked at me with an inquisitive air, as if I had arrived from Congo, "Marie Malibran," said he.
               Alas! nothing could soften inexorable death, neither genius, grace, the love of the public, nor the splendor of fame and beauty!
               THE END.
            
         
      
   
